Innovation
 Improving Lives2014 Sustainability Report
4   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
CEO LETTER ..................................................... 5
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ........................ 9
Our Strategy  .................................................................. 9
Sustainability Progress  .................................................. 7
Key Global Sustainability Challenges  ............................ 10 
Who We Are  .................................................................. 16
STAKEHOLDERS & SUSTAINABILITY 
MATERIALITY .................................................. 17
Engaging Our Stakeholders  .......................................... 17 
Sustainability Materiality Process & Outcomes  ........... 20
Overview .................................................................... 20
Materiality Matrix ........................................................ 22 
ABOUT 3M ....................................................... 23
Global Operations   ....................................................... 23
Our Products ....... ........................................................ 24
Governance, Values & Ethics  ....................................... 26
Corporate Governance .................................................. 27
Board of Directors ....................................................... 28
Sustainability Governance ........................................... 29
Shareholder & Stakeholder Input ............................... 31 
Managing Enterprise Risk & Opportunities ..................... 34
Corporate Code of Conduct ......................................... 35
Respecting Human Rights ............................................ 39 
Public Policy & Engagement  ......................................... 43
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 
SUMMARY ....................................................... 45
Key Metrics  .................................................................. 45
BUSINESS GROWTH & PERFORMANCE ............ 55
Financial Summary  ...................................................... 55
Accelerating Innovation  ................................................ 58
Driving Growth Through Sustainable Product 
Stewardship  ................................................................. 59
Achieving Customer Loyalty  ......................................... 63
ACCELERATING GROWTH THROUGH PEOPLE .... 65
Globally Diverse Workforce  .......................................... 65
Investing in Our People  ................................................ 71
Total Rewards  ............................................................... 71
Education & Career Growth ........................................... 74Health & Wellness ........................................................ 76
Employee Engagement & Recognition  ........................ 78
Global Safety & Health  ............................................... 81
OPTIMIZING OUR 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT .......................... 91
Environmental Management & Compliance  .............. 93
Energy & Climate  ....................................................... 97
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  ....................................... 102
Energy Usage ............................................................ 110
Raw Material Scarcity  ................................................ 111
Waste & Recycling ................................................... 115
Air Emissions ........................................................... 117
Packaging ................................................................ 117
Water Quality & Availability  ........................................ 118
ENGAGING OUR SUPPLIERS .......................... 121
Responsible Sourcing  ............................................... 121
Assessing Supplier Performance  ............................... 122
Supplier Initiatives & Partnerships  ............................ 124
COLLABORATING WITH 
OUR COMMUNITIES ..................................... 125
Impacting Lives Through 3M Gives   .......................... 125
Global Results  .......................................................... 129
Our Collaboration Impact  ........................................ 130
SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS ............................ 135
ABOUT THIS REPORT .................................... 137
Report Scope & Boundaries  ...................................... 137
Reporting Schedule & Period ..................................... 137
Organization Boundaries  .......................................... 137
Data Collection, Adjustments & Verification  ............... 137
Global Principles & Guidelines  .................................. 139
Statement on GRI & Application Level  ...................... 139
Assurance Statement  ............................................... 167
Contact Information  ................................................. 139
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) AND 
UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON 
PROGRESS CONTENT INDEX ........................ 140
APPENDIX  A ................................................ 167
Table of
Contents
6   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   5
A Message From Our CEO
Since 1902, 3M has been improving lives. Social and environmental 
stewardship is central to who we are and is embedded throughout our 
vision:
• 3M Technology Advancing Every Company
• 3M Products Enhancing Every Home
• 3M Innovation Improving Every Life
With operations in more than 70 countries — and 55,000 products sold 
across nearly 200 countries — we are intricately woven into the global 
economy and deeply invested in humanity. No one is ever far from a 3M 
product, which empowers us to make a difference city by city, village by 
village and person by person. 
Rapid communication advances are quickly merging our world into a 
global community with shared values. Together, we face uncertainties 
surrounding energy availability and climate change, water quality and 
availability, raw material scarcity, education, employment, and human 
health and safety. 
It’s clear that these global dynamics are challenging the sustainable 
growth of future generations, which is why 3M is using its greatest 
assets — ideas and innovation — to address these challenges.
With industries ranging from healthcare to electronics to automotive, 
we invent technologies that make daily life easier, safer and more 
fulfilling. Some of the recent ways in which we’ve applied our ideas and 
innovation for a more sustainable future include the following:
• In 2014, for our worldwide energy-conservation efforts, we 
earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY 
STAR® award. This was the 10th consecutive year 3M received 
the honor, an industry first. We were also, again, listed on the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index – a credit we’ve had since its inception 
in 1999.
“As we celebrate our 
accomplishments, 
we recognize the 
magnitude of the 
global challenges 
we are all looking to 
address.” • We have developed and launched an increasing number of sustainability-focused products, including energy-efficient films 
for tablets, Post-it® Greener Notes, air-barrier building solutions, Envision® graphics films, 360 Encompass™ health 
information system, and an energy-saving, award-winning LED technology.
• The continued success of our Pollution Prevention Pays program, which has prevented nearly 2 million tons of air, water 
and waste pollution, and the reduction of our global greenhouse gas emissions by 57% from 2002-2013 on an absolute 
basis (even as the company sales grew 30 percent over the same period of time).
• Ongoing support to protect and restore vital ecosystems around the world. By working with partners such as The Nature 
Conservancy, the 3M Foundation has provided more than $21 million to preserve more than 1 million acres. 
• More than $61.6 million in global cash and in-kind product donations in 2013.
• In early 2014, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. While 3M has always acted in accordance with the core values 
represented by the Compact, we are proud to formalize our commitment to its 10 principles in the areas of human rights, 
labor, environmental and anti-corruption and to grow our partnership with the organization. 
As we celebrate our accomplishments, we recognize the magnitude of the global challenges we are all looking to address. This 
will not be easy, and it will require shifts in how we operate, how we make long-term decisions and how we collaborate. But we 
firmly believe that, by working with our customers and partners, and by empowering people to exercise their own creativity and 
passion, we can drive the transformational changes necessary for the success of both business and society. 
3Mers are a committed team, 89,500 strong, poised to help create a more sustainable future. We intend to do this by designing 
products that support our customers’ sustainability efforts, embedding sustainable practices across our supply chain, and, 
perhaps most importantly, joining together with a shared purpose.
I am proud to be a 3Mer committed to this effort and excited about the role 3M can play in helping everyone, everywhere, live a 
better life.
Inge G. Thulin
Chairman, President and CEO3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   7 8   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   9 10   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
   Health & Safety
   Education & EmploymentWhile we have been a leader in environmental stewardship for decades, we recently sharpened our focus and began a 
transformational shift in how we balance these three pillars toward overcoming the global challenges we all face.
Every day, 3M innovation aims to tackle the world’s most pressing areas of concern:
   Raw Material Scarcity
   Water 
   Energy & Climate Our Sustainability Strategy 
At 3M, we look at sustainability in terms of shared global 
needs and the future of our business. As the population 
grows, particularly in emerging economies, challenges 
like energy availability and security, raw material scarcity, 
human health and safety, education, and employment 
must be addressed to ensure people across the globe can 
lead healthy, fulfilling lives. 
With this in mind, social and environmental stewardship 
is core to the sustainability of our business and our vision 
for growth:
• 3M Technology Advancing Every Company
• 3M Products Enhancing Every Home
• 3M Innovation Improving Every Life
Starting with technology and culminating with the 
improvement of every life on the planet, we are committed 
to driving a growing business while supporting the 
personal growth of everyone on the planet. 
Like many organizations, we operate with the intent to 
balance the three key pillars of sustainability. To that end, 
the principles by which we operate are as follows:
• Economic Success: Build lasting customer 
relationships by developing differentiated, practical 
and ingenious solutions to their sustainability 
challenges. 
• Environmental Protection: Provide practical and 
effective solutions and products to address 
environmental challenges for ourselves and our 
customers. 
• Social Responsibility: Engage key stakeholders 
in dialogue and take action to improve 3M’s 
sustainability performance. “By partnering with our 
customers to better 
understand these challenges, 
and by empowering the 
passion and expertise of 
89,500 3Mers, we see 
an opportunity to create 
technologies that drive real 
change and real impact 
toward making a better future. 
We are currently increasing 
the number of sustainable 
products we create, deepening 
our approach to operational 
excellence and expanding our 
partnerships, particularly with 
our customers, to bring our 
vision to life.”
– Gayle Schueller, 
Vice President, 3M Global Sustainability “Sustainability is a natural part 
of who we are. We’ve been 
operating with sustainability 
in mind since before it was 
popular. Environmental and social 
considerations — both in our 
own operations and across our 
supply chain — have been part 
of our company’s value system 
from the beginning.”
– Jean Sweeney, 
Vice President, 3M Environment, 
Health and Safety and Sustainability Operations
The following pages outline these challenges and how we’re addressing them for the sustainability of our planet, our business and 
our daily lives. To learn more about how we identified and prioritized these key challenges, see the materiality section of this report.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   11 12   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
People consume it, farm with it and manufacture products with 
it. Reducing water consumption and improving water quality are 
important elements of environmental stewardship.
Water is our world’s most valuable natural resource. Despite its 
prevalence, freshwater makes up only 2.5 percent of our total global 
water supply1. A majority of freshwater is used for irrigation purposes, 
but nearly 30 percent of it is used for domestic consumption and 
industrial functions2. Aging infrastructure and increased demand places 
a premium on clean, accessible water for 3M and our customers.
Our customers are finding it difficult to source or deliver clean, accessible 
water. We can help them solve this problem by developing technology 
that increases water efficiencies and improves quality.
Rehabilitate and protect water infrastructure. To use water resources 
with greater efficiency and safety, our customers need solutions to 
protect water quality and reduce losses from water main deterioration, 
breaks and leaks.  3MTM ScotchkoteTM water pipe coatings and linings 
help rehabilitate aging potable water infrastructure while protecting new 
infrastructure.Water
The world’s population is growing larger, living longer 
— and consuming more. With this increased pressure 
on our finite natural resources and materials, we 
must move beyond low-cost, recyclable materials to 
renewable products.
As competition for nonrenewable materials increases, 
companies and people have been forced to become smarter 
and more efficient about resources when designing product 
lifecycles. For example: laptops, smartphones and tablets. To 
keep pace with today’s technology, consumers are upgrading 
devices at a faster pace and creating a greater need for raw 
materials to manufacture those products. This puts a strain 
on the world’s resources, and companies that address this 
issue not only help the planet, but they also gain a competitive 
advantage in the marketplace.
“Sustainability is about using 
materials to their fullest. 
Sometimes that means unlocking 
their hidden potentials.” 
           — Myhanh Truong, 
  3M Product DevelopmentRaw Material
ScarcityPhoto courtesy of Gary and Phyllis Thompson3M can’t solve every raw material challenge, but we can 
create solutions and practices to address them — and to 
help our customers address them. We can develop renewable 
replacements for impacted resources, revolutionize recyclable 
materials and become more sustainable. We’ve worked 
on this challenge for decades — and we plan to continue 
innovating well into the future.
It’s time to make electronic devices more recyclable.  
3M’s Thermal Bonding Films and Plastics Bonding Adhesives 
extend the potential lifespan of mobile devices and make 
it easier to recycle them. Our electronics bonding solutions 
enable faster assembly times and simplify rework by 
helping manufacturers fix damaged parts and salvage key 
components. 
Cleaning supplies can make the whole world cleaner, 
not just the home.  Take tequila, for example, made using 
agave. Since only the juice is used, often the rest of the 
plant is left to decompose in fields. 3Mers from the U.S. 
and France, looking to manufacture 3M products with more 
sustainable materials, partnered to create scrubbing fibers 
made of 50 percent agave. These fibers are the scouring 
muscle of a plant-based-fiber sponge that uses 23 percent 
recycled material. It took a lot of work to adapt the material 
to manufacturing processes, but thanks to their passion and 
persistence, they were able to create the Scotch-Brite® 
Greener Clean Non-Scratch Scrub Sponge. “The connections between water and 
energy, human health, manufacturing, food 
supply … make it vitally important that we 
innovate with this global challenge in mind. 
And that we do so in partnership with our 
customers, suppliers and communities.”
                           – David Schaefer, 
          Vice President and General 
Manager, 3M Purification
Water challenges are very local. In China, 
water challenges vary greatly across the country. 
So, 3M’s China Purification Residential Water 
Product Development team worked to understand 
the multiple local water source challenges and 
developed a residential product portfolio that 
supports human health and safety, as well as 
3M business growth. That’s a win-win. The team 
used 3M’s unique carbon/membrane technology 
to create products that would remove the broad 
spectrum of local contaminants. The “whole house” 
portfolio now offers point of use water filters, 
water softeners, a shower filter and water heaters 
(specifically created for local preference to drink 
hot water).  
1 “Water Use Rising Faster than World Population” Reuters (Oct, 2011)
2  World Resources Institute, (http://www.wri.org/our-work/topics/water)14   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   13
Global health and safety issues 
are prevalent, and concerns are 
growing to ensure safe and healthy 
workplaces around the world. Creative 
innovation, technology, education and 
collaboration are all critical if we 
are to tackle the human health and 
workplace safety concerns of today, 
for the sake of tomorrow.
Governments, corporations and consumers are driving global 
demand for safety, protection, healthcare and food safety 
solutions. Food poisoning and water-borne illnesses lead to 
the deaths of 3 million people across the globe each year. At 
the same time, approximately one of every 20 hospitalized 
patients in low- and middle-income countries will contract an 
infection while under medical care. 
For decades, 3M has had entire business divisions focused on 
creating products and services for human health, protection, 
security and safety. At the same time, the company has 
embraced this commitment in its own operations. 
Making hospital patients a bit more comfortable. 
Research shows that core body temperature drops rapidly 
following the induction of general anesthesia, which puts 
patients at an increased risk for unintended hypothermia, 
leading to higher mortality rates, longer hospital stays and an 
increased rate of wound infection. 3M (TM) Bair Paws (TM) 
Warming Units are revolutionary forced-air warming systems 
that help to preventand treat hypothermia while enhancing 
patient comfort. 
Protecting our most important asset, 3Mers.  Our 
innovations are only possible with the minds, talent and 
commitment of our 89,500 employees worldwide. So, we 
put a lot of thought and effort into keeping them safe and 
healthy. Our robust Safety and Health Policy  applies to all 3M 
operations worldwide. It holds anyone working at or visiting a 
3M location to strict safety and health requirements. Based 
on our core business values, the policy stems from our 
integrated vision for safe and healthy people, products and 
planet.Health 
& Safety
“The health of our 
employees, our customers 
and our communities has 
always been a priority at 3M. 
I’m proud of the role we play 
in making people healthier 
across the globe.”
                                  – Greg Anderson , 
Technical Director, 
                3M Critical and Chronic Care 
Solutionsgoal is to continue developing and 
implementing global concepts for the 
greatest long-term impact. 
Smaller footprint, greater power. In 
collaboration with Intel and SGI, 3M 
developed a revolutionary two-phase 
immersion cooling technology which is 
now being used as a proof-of-concept 
in a fully functional supercomputer. 
This technology using 3MTM NovecTM 
Engineered Fluids can reduce 
cooling energy costs by 95 percent 
and reduces water consumption by 
eliminating municipal water usage 
for evaporative cooling. Heat can also 
be harvested from the system and 
reused for heating and other process 
technologies, such as desalination of 
sea water. 
Unyielding commitment, an 
industry first.  In 2014, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
recognized 3M for a decade of global Access to a dependable energy 
supply directly affects all 
businesses and communities. 
Energy usage and climate concerns 
require systematic change, and 
we’re here to drive that forward.
From air emissions to fossil fuels, 3M 
takes a proactive and collaborative 
approach to addressing energy 
demand and climate change — in our 
operations and for our customers. The 
issues around effective use of energy 
resources and climate change are 
complex and interconnected.  At 3M, 
we are focused on understanding those 
connections and seeking solutions that 
promote energy conservation, clean 
energy infrastructure, and reductions 
in atmospheric greenhouse gases. 
We already have many products and 
technologies that reduce the impact of 
energy use, promote energy efficiency, 
and reduce greenhouse gases. Our 
Energy 
& Climate“3M is known for its commitment to 
innovation, and that commitment doesn’t 
just apply to products. We’re innovative in 
HOW we invent — seeking out ways to 
improve our processes, including greater 
energy efficiency and resource savings. 
Moreover, we share our best practices in 
an effort to pay it forward.” 
     – Steve Schultz, 
3M Corporate Energy Manager  
energy management achievements 
with the EPA ENERGY STAR Sustained 
Excellence Award for the 10th year in a 
row. 3M is the only industrial company 
in the world to attain this privilege. 
Award-winning efforts included 252 
energy management projects resulting 
in reductions of 61,700 million metric 
tons (MT) of CO2, the formation of 
Centers of Excellence to integrate all 
aspects of sustainability into business 
strategies across the company, 
initiatives to bring energy-saving 
innovations to diverse markets, and 
engagement with global communities 
in energy and sustainability dialogues.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   15 16   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Global unemployment rates are expected to remain 
steady through 2017, particularly among youth. Today’s 
job market has fewer opportunities, with most available 
jobs too specialized for young people and recent 
graduates. We’re training the workforce of tomorrow, 
while empowering the workforce of today.
Young people around the world are suffering from high 
unemployment rates as the number of science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) graduates is insufficient to 
meet today’s technical job market demands. As a technology 
company, 3M recognizes the importance of well-trained STEM 
graduates — we need young minds to step into specialized 
roles and help our company solve future challenges. At the 
same time, the workforce of today must feel supported to 
follow its own insights in pursuit of problem-solving, thus 
making education and employment both a social and a 
business challenge.
Energizing the classroom with 3M innovation.  3M is a 
leader in partnering with local schools on science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) related programs. 
3Mgives, the company’s strategic philanthropic and global community engagement organization, supports programs 
like FIRST Robotics and Destination Imagination. These 
programs engage students with challenge-based projects, 
addressing global challenges such as natural disasters or 
rainforest protection. 3M also provides grants to teachers 
to create and implement programs that bring science to life 
and that connect learning to the world beyond the classroom, 
student scholarships for higher education in STEM-related 
fields, and investments in technical training programs such 
as mechatronics. 
A “15% culture” for 65 years.  A core belief at 3M is that 
creativity needs freedom. That’s why, since about 1948, we’ve 
encouraged our employees to take our resources, to build up 
a unique team and to follow their own insights in pursuit of 
problem-solving — and to spend 15 percent of their working 
time to do it. If there’s a secret ingredient to 3M’s more than 
100 years of innovation, it’s this: Give talented people the 
time and resources to prove the worth of their ideas, and 
in the long run, you’ll come out well ahead. Even if those 
talented people are mistaken, you’ve learned something.“Management that is 
destructively critical when 
mistakes are made kills 
initiative. And it’s essential 
that we have many people 
with initiative if we are to 
continue to grow.”
      – William L. McKnight, 
Former President (1929–1949) 
and Chairman of the Board 
(1949–1966), 3M Education 
& Employment
For more information, visit 3M.com/sustainability  or check out #3Msustainability
18   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
& Sustainability
Stakeholders
MaterialityEngaging Our Stakeholders
that concern our stakeholders. A quantitative, stakeholder-
driven approach was used to determine and prioritize the 
key sustainability issues for 3M’s internal and external 
stakeholders, which can be tracked over time and provides 
rigor in driving strategy internally.
This quantitative and systematic understanding of stakeholder 
priorities provides a robust and transparent assessment for 
advancing 3M sustainability and engaging stakeholders. OUR APPROACH
Major Stakeholders and Key Actions
Major Stakeholders
Employees
Customers
Investors
Government/Regulators
Suppliers/Contractors/
Industry Associations
Local Communities
Academia/Scientific 
Organizations
Media
Nonprofit Organizations/
NGOs
3M Key Actions 
•  Respecting human rights and diversity
•  Supporting, optimizing and promoting development and growth
•  Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment
•  Ensuring equal opportunity
•  Providing competitive compensation and benefits
•  Providing diverse innovative product solutions and high-valued customer service and support
•  Offering a diversified portfolio of safe, reliable, dependable and sustainable products
•  Providing sustainable products to address energy, climate change and water challenges
•  Delivering profitable returns on investment
•  Disclosing timely, concise and relevant information (related to Economic, Environmental and
    Social)   
•  Responsive to inquiries
•  Upholding corporate values
•  Complying with laws, regulations and policies
•  Supporting and engaging on development and modification of changes
•  Selecting credible suppliers and contractors that meet or exceed expectations
•  Supporting collective efforts to deliver business results
•  Respecting human rights for workers in our supply chain
•  Supporting and engaging in citizenship activities 
•  Providing economic and social value to communities, while minimizing environmental impact
•  Supporting safe and healthy communities
•  Engaging on technical scientific research to develop innovative solutions for society
•  Ensuring 3M is represented accurately with current information
•  Partnering to understand societal concerns
•  Providing support to advance and solve global issuesOVERVIEW
3M has created a robust, stakeholder-driven approach to 
sustainability materiality that serves as a foundation for our 
sustainability strategy and reporting. Through understanding 
the critical sustainability issues from both internal and external 
perspectives, 3M can deepen its social license to operate 
and develop corporate strategy, goals, targets, programs, 
initiatives and a stakeholder engagement strategy to advance 
sustainability globally.
The assessment conducted by 3M includes both the significant 
sustainability impacts on 3M and the most important issues 20   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   19
MEMBERSHIPS & PARTNERSHIPS 
It is through collaboration and partnerships that 3M can accelerate sustainability in our company and in the world. We value our 
partnerships with numerous stakeholders as a way to not only address our sustainability issues, but to help our partners address 
their sustainability challenges. 3M has joined numerous organizations globally to advance sustainability through collaboration with 
the organization and its members. Memberships have provided a forum for working on key sustainability issues that are relevant 
to both 3M and our stakeholders.
Memberships and partnerships help provide us with diverse viewpoints on sustainability, a better understanding of the positions of 
our stakeholders, and a mechanism to learn from the successes and failures of our peers.
3M partners with many organizations. Some examples of key engagements are listed below.
Memberships and Partnerships 
•  United Nations Global Compact
•  Committee to Encourage Corporate   
 Philanthropy  
•  The League of American Bicyclists
•  The Science Museum of Minnesota
•  Retail Industry Leaders Association
•  The Sustainability Consortium
•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index
•  National Investor Relations Institute
•  The Conference Board
•  American Chamber of Commerce 
(AmCham)
•  CAPS Research
•  National Association of Manufacturers 
(NAM)
•  Practice Greenhealth
•  Mission Ready Sustainability Initiative 
(MRSI)
•  American Chemistry Council (ACC)
• European Chemistry Industry Council 
(CEFIC)Major Stakeholders
Employees
Customers
Investors
Suppliers/
Contractors/
Industry
 AssociationsMemberships and Partnerships 
•  U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership
•  U.S. EPA Energy Star Program and   
 U.S. Department of Energy  (DOE) 
• United Way
• Habitat for Humanity
• American Red Cross
• University of Minnesota, NorthStar 
Initiative for Sustainable Enterprise 
and Center for Sustainable Polymers
• Iowa State University for Bioplastics 
and Biocomposites
• Harvard Medical School, Center for 
Health   and the Global Environment
• Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change
• Sustainable Life Media
• The Nature Conservancy
• Forum for the Future
• WorldSkills
• Net Impact
• Alliance to Save Energy
• Friends of EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme (ETS)Major Stakeholders
Government/
Regulators
Local Communities
Academia/Scientific 
Organizations
Media
Nonprofit 
Organizations/NGOsSustainability Materiality 
Process & Outcomes
OVERVIEW
Sustainability materiality assessments are vital components of 
a company’s sustainability strategy and reporting. In 2013, 3M 
began a comprehensive sustainability materiality assessment 
and stakeholder engagement project.  3M commissioned 
GlobeScan, an independent research consultancy, to assist in 
better understanding stakeholders’ perspectives of key social 
and environmental issues. In addition, the study assisted 
in assessing 3M’s corporate reputation and leadership 
opportunities in the area of sustainability. A key output of 
research conducted with GlobeScan is the evidence-based 
sustainability materiality matrix. This matrix plots significant 
issues related to sustainability along three axes. From this 
matrix, 3M and the readers of this report can understand the 
degree of importance stakeholders accord to each issue, the 
ability of 3M to make a positive difference on these issues and 
the level of impact these issues may have on the company’s 
reputation. The matrix is evidence-based as each point on 
this matrix is determined from quantitative measures gained 
from an online survey as described below.  
We identified and evaluated relevant aspects of 3M’s 
sustainability performance as defined by our internal and 
external stakeholders.  Materiality with respect to sustainability 
reporting, as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
guidelines, includes topics and indicators that reflect the 3M is a member of global business associations that work on sustainability and various aspects core to our sustainability strategy, 
including the following:
organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social 
impacts or would substantively influence the assessments 
and decisions of stakeholders.
To create this matrix, 3M worked through a number of stages 
with GlobeScan.  The first stage of desk research involved 
the examination of relevant literature on sustainability 
materiality issues. Outputs from the desk research fed into 
the development of two interview discussion guides— 
one for internal (i.e. 3M employees) and one for external 
stakeholders. GlobeScan interviewed internal stakeholders 
in 3M’s various business units and regions and external 
stakeholders from around the world who have knowledge of 
3M and sustainability issues. The external stakeholder group 
included respondents from academia, civil society, the private 
sector, 3M suppliers, trade associations, and media as well 
as 3M customers. The primary purpose of these interviews 
was to identify and understand the array of important social 
and environmental issues to both internal and external 
stakeholders. 
The important  issues from the in-depth interviews were then 
compiled into a list and evaluated in a quantitative survey 
with internal and external stakeholders. The survey was 
conducted online, in English only, and completed by 1260 •  World Business Council for Sustainable Development
•  The Conference Board, Sustainability Councils I & II
•  Corporate Eco Forum•  Global Environmental Management Initiative (GEMI)
•   London Benchmarking Group
•   Sustainable Brands3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   21 22   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
employees at 3M across all business units and regions, 122 
3M customers and 224 external stakeholders. 3M developed 
the internal and customer samples ensuring that both 
samples were reflective of 3M’s diverse business. 3M and 
GlobeScan collectively built the external stakeholder sample. 
Similar to the other two groups, the sample was inclusive 
with a good spread across geography, stakeholder type and 
function. To safeguard the confidentiality and anonymity of 
respondents, GlobeScan managed the online survey process. 
Findings were reported in aggregate form with no responses 
being attributed to any one respondent or organization. 
Internal stakeholders were asked to rate the ability of 3M to 
make a positive difference on the significant issues  listed 
in the survey.  External stakeholders and customers were 
asked to rate the importance to them of 3M addressing each 
of the issues. All three stakeholder groups were asked to 
rate 3M’s performance on actions that would address the 
significant issues. For example, climate change was one key 
issue tested in the online survey. Respondents were asked to 
rate the importance of this issue as well as 3M’s perceived IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERSIMPACT ON 3M REPUTATION3M SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY MATRIX
Views of Internal Stakeholders, Customers, and Externals Stakeholders, 2014
Human healthEmploymentSupporting 
community building
Advocating laws 
supporting sustainabilityEngagement with 
citizens on sustainable 
behaviorWater shortages
Community safety and health
Energy use
Working 
conditions
Reducing toxic
substances
Ethical businessScarcity of 
raw materials Human rightsClimate changeWater quality
TransparencyAir quality
Availability of 
sustainable 
products and 
servicesReducing waste
Treatment of workersPerceived ability of 3M to 
make a positive difference
low high
performance on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The 
impact on 3M’s sustainability reputation was derived through 
regression analysis to determine the importance of 3M’s 
perceived performance in each issue area across the three 
audiences. Mean scores from the online survey were used to 
determine the relative importance of all of the sustainability 
issues, 3M’s perceived performance on the issues and the 
perceived ability of 3M to make a positive difference on the 
issues. These questions formed the basis of the matrix. 
Sustainability Materiality Matrix Results
The Materiality matrix is a synthesis of findings from the 
survey data achieved via using various statistical techniques 
including predictive modeling.  After completing a draft 
matrix, GlobeScan held a work session with the 3M team to 
discuss findings.
The top right area of the matrix shows that the environmental 
issues of water quality, energy use and reducing waste and 
toxic substances warrant the greatest attention as they are 
of high stakeholder concern and have a significant impact on 3M’s reputation. These three issues are also ones that 
3M has a higher degree of control over. We also recognize 
the connection between these issues and others identified 
with significant reputational impact and stakeholder concern, 
such as water shortages, climate change and air quality.  
These areas are represented in the Key Global Sustainability 
Challenges of Raw Material Scarcity, Water, and Energy & 
Climate, described in this sustainability report. 
The matrix also shows that ethical business and working 
conditions are both issues of high importance and where 
3M has a degree of control. Community safety and health 
and human rights also have a high importance but are 
viewed as 3M having less control. Although these issues 
may have slightly less impact on 3M’s reputation, they are 
representative of 3M’s core values and governance and are 
rated highly in perceived performance. All of these issues are addressed in our 3M Values, Code of Conduct, and Human 
Rights Policy Statement and are represented in the Key 
Global Sustainability Challenges of Education & Employment, 
and Health and Safety.
For all of the sustainability issues that are material to 3M, 
stakeholders indicate we can make a difference on a variety 
of fronts. They view 3M product and process innovation as 
a key approach to address these issues.  Indeed, 3M drives 
progress on environmental and social challenges both within 
our own operations and supply chain, and through the 
products we offer to society.  Our stakeholders also suggest 
that 3M can help  advance sustainability performance within 
our sphere of influence, including our suppliers, customers 
and communities. Throughout this report, we discuss how 
3M is utilizing all of these methods to address our material 
sustainability priorities.
24   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
About 3MAbout 3M
3M is a $31 billion diversified science-based technology 
company with a global presence and the following business 
groups: Consumer, Electronics and Energy, Health Care, 
Industrial, and Safety and Graphics. These five business 
segments bring together combinations of 3M’s 46 unique 
technology platforms to produce over 55,000 products, 
driving innovation and providing for efficient sharing of 
business resources.  
Canada
Trinidad & T obagoPuerto RicoDominican RepublicJamaica Mexico
Guatemala
El Salvador
Costa Rica
PanamaColombiaVenezuela
Ecuador
PeruBrazil
Chile Uruguay
ArgentinaCzech Republic
GermanyDenmark
Netherlands
Belgium
United Kingdom
Portugal
SpainFrance
MoroccoItaly Greece
Turkey
South AfricaZimbabweKenyaPakistan
UAEIsrealEgypt
India
Sri Lanka
MalaysiaIndonesia
Australia
New ZelandSingaporeThailandHong KongTaiwan
Vietnam
PhilippinesChinaJapanKoreaKazakhstanHungary
UkraineRomaniaRussiaAustria
SwitzerlandEstoniaFinlandPoland
Sweden
Sales & Marketing
Manufacturing/Converting
Technical CapabilitiesGlobal Operations
Headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota (USA), 3M has 
operations in more than 70 countries and serves customers 
in nearly 200 countries. The Company began operations in 
1902, and it was incorporated and began selling products 
outside the United States in 1929. An international operations 
organization was established in 1951. Types of operations 
include manufacturing facilities, research and development/laboratory sites, sales and marketing offices, technical centers, distribution centers, and regional headquarters. The Company is 
a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is a component of the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.
As of December 31, 2013, the Company employed 89,583 people (Total Employee Headcount; Full-Time and Part-Time 
Employees). 
Our Products
3M serves customers through five business segments, which increase speed and efficiency by sharing technology, manufacturing, 
marketing and other resources across all segments.
Consumer  
Supplying an array of innovative products that keep homes cleaner, well-maintained and decorated, and 
workplaces and lives organized. Our consumer and office business is home to some of the world’s best-known 
brands, including Post-it®, Scotch®, Scotch-Brite®, Filtrete™, O-Cel-O™, Nexcare™ and Command™.
Electronics and Energy
We turn 3M technology into solutions for customers in electronics and energy markets around the world. 
We contribute to reliable and efficient sources of power, high-performance electronic devices, and speedy, 
dependable telecommunications networks. We’re also leading the way in renewable energy to improve 
quality,  and reduce environmental footprints while reducing costs.
Health Care 
Supplying innovative and reliable products that help health care professionals improve the quality of care, 
we are a global leader in medical and oral care products and drug delivery and health information systems.
Industrial
We provide thousands of innovative products, including tapes, abrasives, adhesives, films, specialty materials 
and filtration systems, to dozens of diverse markets — from water purification to green buildings to automotive 
and aerospace.
Safety and Graphics
Our products — personal protective equipment, safety and security products, track-and-trace solutions, and 
more — increase the safety, security and productivity of people, facilities and systems around the world. We 
also inspire creative communication and design with a broad portfolio of graphic solutions to enhance visual 
impact.
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   25 26   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Governance, 
Values 
& Ethics
Corporate Values
3M’s actions are guided by our corporate vision 
and values of uncompromising honesty and 
integrity. We are proud to be recognized worldwide 
as an ethical and law-abiding company. As a 
company, we are committed to sustainable 
development through environmental protection, 
social responsibility and economic success.
3M Values
•  Act with uncompromising honesty 
and integrity in everything we do. 
• Satisfy our customers with 
innovative technology and superior 
quality, value and service. 
•  Provide our investors an attractive 
return through sustainable, global 
growth. 
•  Respect our social and physical 
environment around the world. 
•  Value and develop our employees’ 
diverse talents, initiative and 
leadership. 
•  Earn the admiration of all those 
associated with 3M worldwide.
3M GOVERNANCE STRUC TURE
3M Foundation Board
(Independent Corporate 
Contributions)3M Shareholders
3M Board of Direc tors
Chairman, President & 
Chief Executive OfficerCorporate Auditing
Business Conduct 
Committee
Area Management
• Asia Pacific
• Canada
• Europe/Middle East/Africa
• Latin America
• United StatesCrisis 
Management
CommitteeCorporate Environmental, 
Health and Safety (EHS)
CommitteeCorporate Operating
Committee
Corporate Staff Function
•  Center for Sustainability
•  EHS
•  Sourcing/Supply Chain
•  Finance
•  Information Technology
•  Engineering/Packaging
•  Human Resources
•  Compliance & Business Conduct
•  Community Affairs
•  Office of General Counsel
•  Public Affairs
•  Marketing/Sales/Communications
•  Research and Development
•  Strategy and Corporate 
Development
•  SecurityBusiness Group 
Management
• Consumer
• Electronics and Energy
• Health Care
• Industrial
• Safety and GraphicsBoard Committee
•  Nominating and Governance 
Committee
•  Audit Committee
•  Compensation Committee
•  Finance Committee
Other Committees 
& Centers 
of Excellence
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   27 28   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Michael L. 
Eskew
Lead Director of the 
Board and Retired 
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive 
Officer, United Parcel 
Service Inc.Corporate Governance
The Company believes that good corporate governance practices serve the long-term interests of stockholders, strengthen the Board 
and management, and further enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than a century of operating with honesty and integrity. 
The following provides corporate governance practice highlights, the Board’s leadership structure and responsibilities, the Board’s role 
in risk oversight, and the process for stakeholder input. For further information regarding 3M’s governance practices, see 2014 Proxy 
Statement and 2013 Annual Repor t.
The following table provides an overview of our corporate governance practices:3M Board of Directors
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
•  Board size: 12 directors (11 independent directors)
•  Annual election of all directors
•  Majority voting for directors in uncontested 
elections
•  Combined Chairman and CEO positions
•  Lead Independent Director
•  Independent directors regularly meet in Board and 
Committee executive sessions without management
•  Annual Board and Committee self-evaluations
•  Annual independent directors’ evaluation of 
Chairman and CEO
•  Annual equity grant to non-employee directors
•  Board orientation/education program
•  Seven Board meetings in 2013 (overall attendance 
at Board and Committee meetings was 98 percent)
•  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors
•  Code of Conduct for all employees, including our 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Accounting Officer
•  Risk oversight by the Board and Committees
•  Disclosure Committee for financial reporting•  Annual advisory approval of executive compensation 
with 96 percent of the votes cast in favor of the 
company’s executive compensation program in 2013
•  Stockholder ability to call a special meeting (25 
percent threshold)
•  No supermajority voting provisions
•  No stockholders’ rights plan (also known as a 
“poison pill”)
•  Disclosure of public policy engagement, on our 
Investor Relations website, including political 
contributions and membership in key trade 
associations Long-standing commitment to the 
environment and sustainability
•  Executive compensation best practices:
–  Strong pay-for-performance philosophy
–  Incentive compensation subject to clawback policy
–  Robust stock ownership guidelines for executive 
officers and stock retention policy for directors
–  Prohibition of hedging or pledging 3M stock by 
directors and executive officers
–  No employment, severance or change-in-control 
agreements with any of its senior executives, 
including its CEO
Inge G. Thulin 
Chairman of the 
Board, President 
and Chief 
Executive Officer, 
3M Company.
Vance D. 
Coffman
Retired Chairman 
of the Board and 
Chief Executive 
Officer, Lockheed 
Martin Corporation, 
a high-technology 
aerospace and 
defense company. 
Muhtar Kent
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive 
Officer, The Coca-Cola 
Company, the world’s 
largest beverage 
company. 
W. James Farrell 
Retired Chairman 
and Chief Executive 
Officer, Illnois Tool 
Works, Inc., a multi 
national manufacturer 
of highly engineered 
fasteners, components, 
assemblies, and 
systems.
Linda G. 
Alvarado
President and 
Chief Executive 
Officer, Alvarado 
Construction Inc.
Edward M. 
Liddy
Partner, Clayton, 
Dubilier & Rice LLC, 
a private equity 
investment firm.
Aulana Peters 
Retired Partner, 
Gibson, Dunn & 
Crutcher LLP , Law 
FirmThomas 
“Tony” K. 
Brown 
Retired Group Vice 
President, Global 
Purchasing, Ford 
Motor Company, a 
global automotive 
industry leader.
Herbert L. 
Henkel
Retired Chairman 
and Chief Executive 
Officer, Ingersoll-
Rand plc, a 
manufacturer of 
industrial products 
and components. 
Robert J. Ulrich
Retired Chairman of 
the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer, 
Target Corporation, 
an operator of large 
format general 
merchandise and 
food discount stores. 
Robert 
Morrison 
Retired Vice 
Chairman of PepsiCo, 
Inc., a processor of 
packaged foods and 
beverages3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   29 30   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Sustainability Governance
The Corporate Operating Committee, which is comprised of the CEO and his 
direct reports, approves 3M-wide sustainability principles, strategy and goals, 
as well as any associated major changes. Executive Committees associated with 
the strategic sustainability functions (composed of cross-functional members) 
help set and approve relevant policies and provide direction on executing the 
developed sustainability strategies. 
For example, the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, appointed 
by the Corporate Operating Committee, is composed of the following functions:
• Senior Vice President of corporate supply chain operations
• Executive Vice President of research and development and Chief 
Technology Officer
• Vice President of EHS and Sustainability Operations
• Vice President of public affairs
• Vice President of corporate research laboratory and international 
technical operations• Vice President and Medical  
Director of medical department
• Vice President of compliance 
and business conduct
• Vice President and general 
manager of Materials Resource 
Division
• Technical Director of the 
Materials Resource Division
• Associate General Counsel, EHS 
and Supply Chain
3M’s Center for Sustainability within 
Supply Chain Operations collaborates 
with various other global staff 
organizations and business units to 
develop the corporate sustainability 
strategy and goals. In addition, 
3M’s corporate staff groups provide 
technical expertise to assist business 
groups and area management in 
implementing and meeting the 
corporate sustainability strategy, 
policies and goals.
The Center for Sustainability is led 
by two Vice Presidents. One focuses 
on developing and commercializing 
products, which help our customers 
solve their sustainability challenges 
(Global Sustainability), and the 
other ensures sustainability within 
3M operations and supply chain 
(Sustainability Operations). Both Vice 
Presidents report to the Executive 
Vice President of 3M Supply Chain, 
who reports to the CEO. The formation 
of the Center for Sustainability in 
2013 demonstrates the corporation’s commitment to integrate innovation 
and sustainability for the benefit of 
our operations and customers. The 
primary role of the center is to develop 
strategy, set significant goals to track 
progress and drive sustainable actions 
throughout 3M, its supply chain and its 
product portfolio.
Corporate Governance 
Guidelines
The Board has adopted Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, which 
provide a framework for the effective 
governance of the Company. 
The guidelines address matters 
such as the respective roles and 
responsibilities of the Board and 
management, the Board’s leadership 
structure, the responsibilities of the 
lead director, Board independence, 
Board membership criteria, 
Board Committees, and Board 
and management evaluation. The 
Board’s Nominating and Governance 
Committee is responsible for 
overseeing and reviewing the 
guidelines at least annually and 
recommending any proposed changes 
to the Board for approval. The Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, the Certificate 
of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters 
of the Board Committees, Director 
Independence Guidelines and Codes 
of Conduct provide the framework 
for the governance of the Company 
and are available at www.3M.com , 
under Investor Relations — Corporate 
Governance.Executive Sessions
Independent directors regularly meet 
in executive sessions without the 
Chairman and CEO or other members 
of management present to review 
the criteria upon which the Chairman 
and CEO’s performance is based. 
They also review the performance of 
the Chairman and CEO against those 
criteria, ratify the compensation of 
the Chairman and CEO as approved 
by the Compensation Committee, and 
discuss any other relevant matters.
Board’s Leadership Structure
The Board’s leadership structure is 
characterized by the following:
• A combined Chairman of the 
Board and CEO
• A strong, independent and highly 
experienced Lead Director with 
well-defined responsibilities that 
support the Board’s oversight 
responsibilities
• A robust Committee structure 
composed entirely of independent 
directors with oversight of various 
types of risks
• An engaged and independent 
Board
The Board of Directors believes that 
this leadership structure provides 
independent board leadership and 
engagement while benefiting from 
having our CEO serve as Chairman 
of the Board. As the individual with 
primary responsibility for managing 
the Company’s day-to-day operations 
and with in-depth knowledge and 
understanding of the Company, he 
is best positioned to chair regular 
Board meetings as the directors 
discuss key business and strategic 
issues. Coupled with an independent 
Lead Director, this structure provides 
independent oversight while avoiding 
unnecessary confusion regarding 
the Board’s oversight responsibilities 
and the day-to-day management of 
business operations.
The Board believes that combining the 
roles of CEO and Chairman contributes 
to an efficient and effective Board. The 
Board believes that to drive change 
and continuous improvement within 
the Company, tempered by respect for 
3M’s traditions and values, the CEO 
must have maximum authority. The CEO 
is primarily responsible for effectively 
leading significant change, improving 
operational efficiency, driving growth, 
managing the Company’s day-to-day 
business, managing the various risks 
facing the Company, and reinforcing 
the expectation of all employees to 
continue building on 3M’s century-old 
tradition of uncompromising honesty 
and integrity.
The Board believes that adopting a 
rigid policy on whether to separate 
or combine the positions of Chairman 
of the Board and CEO would inhibit 
the Board’s ability to provide for a 
leadership structure that best serves 
stockholders. As a result, the Board has 
rejected adopting a policy permanently 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   31 32   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
separating or combining the positions of Chairman and CEO 
in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are reviewed 
at least annually and available at www.3M.com , under 
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Instead, the 
Board adopted an approach that allows it, in representing the 
stockholders’ best interests, to decide who should serve as 
Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or anticipated future 
circumstances.
The Board believes that the Company’s corporate governance 
measures ensure that strong, independent directors continue 
to effectively oversee the Company’s management and key 
issues related to executive compensation, CEO evaluation 
and succession planning, strategy, risk, and integrity. The 
Corporate Governance Guidelines provide, in part, that (i) 
independent directors comprise a substantial majority of 
the Board; (ii) directors are elected annually with majority 
vote standard in uncontested director elections; (iii) only 
independent directors serve on the Audit, Compensation, 
Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees; (iv) 
the Committee chairs establish their respective agendas; (v) 
the Board and Committees may retain their own advisors; 
(vi) the independent directors have complete access to 
management and employees; (vii) the independent directors 
meet in executive session without the CEO or other employees 
during each regular Board meeting; and (viii) the Board 
and each Committee regularly conduct self-evaluations to 
determine whether they function effectively. The Board has 
also designated one of its members to serve as Lead Director, 
with responsibilities (described in the next section) similar to 
those typically performed by an independent Chairman.
Lead Director
The 3M Board of Directors designated one of its members to 
serve as a Lead Director, with responsibilities similar to those 
typically performed by an independent chairman. Michael 
L. Eskew was appointed Lead Director by the independent 
directors, effective November 12, 2012, succeeding Dr. Vance 
Coffman who served as Lead Director since 2006. Eskew is 
a highly experienced director, serving on the boards of United Parcel Service Inc., International Business Machines Corp. 
and Eli Lilly and Company, and was the former Chairman and 
CEO of United Parcel Service Inc. His responsibilities include, 
but are not limited to, the following:
• Presides at all meetings of the Board at which the 
Chairman is not present, including executive sessions 
of the independent directors
• Acts as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and 
the independent directors
• Approves the meeting agendas for the Board, as well 
as the meeting schedules to assure there is sufficient 
time for discussion of all agenda items
• Has the authority to approve materials to be delivered 
to the directors before each Board meeting, and 
provides feedback regarding the quality, quantity and 
timeliness of those materials, which instills a feedback 
mechanism so the materials may be improved for 
future meetings
• Has the authority to call meetings of the independent 
directors
• Communicates Board member feedback to the 
Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the 
Compensation Committee leads the discussion of the 
Chairman/CEO’s performance and communicates the 
Board’s evaluation to the Chairman/CEO)
• If requested by major stockholders, ensures that he is 
available, when appropriate, for consultation and direct 
communication
• Performs such other duties as requested by the 
independent directors
Communication With Directors 
(Stockholder & Stakeholder Input)
The Board of Directors has adopted the following process 
for stockholders and other interested parties to send 
communications to members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with the Lead 
Director, the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and 
Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board, or with 
any of our other independent directors, or all of them as a 
group, by sending a letter to the following address: Corporate 
Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, 
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
Director Independence
The Board of Directors has adopted a formal set of Director 
Independence Guidelines with respect to the determination 
of director independence, the full text of which is available 
at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate 
Governance. In accordance with these Guidelines, a director or 
nominee for director must be determined to have no material 
relationship with the Company other than as a director. The 
Guidelines specify the criteria by which the independence of 
our directors will be determined, including strict guidelines 
for directors and their immediate families with respect to past 
employment or affiliation with the Company or its independent 
registered public accounting firm. The Guidelines also prohibit 
Audit Committee members from having any direct or indirect financial relationship with the Company, and they restrict both 
commercial and not-for-profit relationships of all directors 
with the Company. Directors may not be given personal loans 
or extensions of credit by the Company, and all directors are 
required to deal at arm’s length with the Company and its 
subsidiaries and to disclose any circumstance that might be 
perceived as a conflict of interest.
Board Membership Criteria
3M’s Corporate Governance Guidelines contain Board 
Membership Criteria that include a list of skills and 
characteristics expected to be represented on 3M’s Board. 
The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the 
appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board 
members given the current Board composition. It is the 
Board’s intent that it will be a high-performance organization 
creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform 
as such, the Board will be composed of individuals who have 
distinguished records of leadership and success in their 
arenas of activity and who will make substantial contributions 
to Board operations and effectively represent the interests 
of all stockholders. The Committee’s and the Board’s 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   33 34   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited 
to, consideration of the following:
(i)  Roles and contributions valuable to the business community
(ii)  Personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and 
whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout 
service on the Board a reputation in the community at large 
of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to the 
highest ethical standards
(iii) Relevant knowledge and diversity of background 
and experience in business, manufacturing, technology, 
finance and accounting, marketing, international business, 
government, and the like
(iv)  Whether the candidate is free of conflicts and has the 
time required for preparation, participation and attendance 
at all meetingsIn addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will 
also evaluate whether the nominees’ skills are complementary 
to the existing Board members’ skills; the Board’s needs for 
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, 
technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international 
business, government or other areas of expertise; and assess 
the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness.
Diversity
The Board of Directors values diversity as a factor in 
selecting nominees to serve on the Board because it provides 
significant benefit to the Board and the Company. Although it 
has no specific policy on diversity, the Committee considers 
the Board Membership Criteria in selecting nominees for 
directors, including diversity of background and experience. 
Such considerations may include gender, race, national origin, 
functional background, executive or professional experience, 
and international experience.Board Skills & Responsibilities
For more information on the roles and responsibilities of Lead 
Independent Director and each of the Board Committees, 
refer to 3M’s 2014 Proxy Statement and 2013 Annual Report .
Managing Enterprise Risks & 
Opportunitiesresponsible for managing a particular risk may also report to 
the full Board on how the risk is being managed and mitigated.
While the Board’s primary oversight of risk is with the Audit 
Committee, the Board has delegated to other Committees 
the oversight of risks within their areas of responsibility 
and expertise. For example, the Compensation Committee 
oversees the risks associated with the Company’s 
compensation practices, including an annual review of the 
Company’s risk assessment of its compensation policies and 
practices for its employees. The Finance Committee oversees 
risks associated with the Company’s capital structure, its credit 
ratings and its cost of capital, long-term benefit obligations, 
and the Company’s use of or investment in financial products, 
including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign 
currencies, commodities and interest rates. The Nominating 
and Governance Committee oversees the risks associated 
with the Company’s overall governance and its succession 
planning process to understand that the Company has a 
state of future, qualified candidates for key management 
positions. The Auditor also actively and routinely seeks input 
from executive Committees with expertise in specific risks. 
For example, the EHS Committee provides input on risks with 
environmental or social impacts.
The Board believes that its oversight of risks, primarily 
through delegation to the Audit Committee, but also 
through delegation to other Committees, and the sharing of 
information with the full Board, is appropriate for a diversified 
technology and manufacturing company like 3M. The chair 
of each Committee that oversees risk provides a summary of 
the matters discussed with the Committee to the full Board 
following each Committee meeting. The minutes of each 
Committee meeting are also provided to all Board members.
The Board also believes its oversight of risk is enhanced by its 
current leadership structure (discussed above) because the CEO, 
who is ultimately responsible for the Company’s risk management, 
also chairs regular Board meetings, and with his in-depth 
knowledge and understanding of the Company, he is best able to 
bring key business issues and risks to the Board’s attention.
INHERENT ASPECTS
Environmental Social EconomicENTERPRISE RISK 
CATEGORIESStrategic
Operational
Financial
Legal/Regulatory
Hazard
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee through 
its charter the primary responsibility for the oversight of 
risks facing the Company. The charter provides that the 
Audit Committee shall “discuss policies and procedures 
with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the 
Company’s major risk exposures and the steps management 
has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures.”
The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing 
(“Auditor”), whose appointment and performance is reviewed 
and evaluated by the Audit Committee and who has direct 
reporting obligations to the Audit Committee, is responsible for 
leading the formal risk assessment and management process 
within the Company. The Auditor, through consultation with 
the Company’s senior management, periodically assesses 
the major risks facing the Company and works with those 
executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The 
Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit Committee the 
major risks facing the Company and the steps management 
has taken to monitor and mitigate those risks. The Auditor’s 
risk management report, which is provided in advance of 
the meeting, is reviewed with the entire Board by either the 
Chair of the Audit Committee or the Auditor. The executive 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   35 36   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
3M conducts extensive interviews, group assessments and 
reviews by senior management for completion of risk analysis 
assessments to provide more customized and useful prioritized 
results and to incorporate understanding of external factors 
that could influence the nature and gravity of risk. This process 
assures that the appropriate risks are properly identified as 
an enterprise risk, to identify key “failure modes” that could 
lead to a risk incident, and to review and assess the quality of 
ownership of the risk and related resources available to ensure 
proper avoidance, mitigation and response capabilities. 
A gap assessment is completed to provide quantification on 
a common scale of the level of risk and 3M’s corresponding 
capabilities relative to each enterprise risk identified. The 
outcomes are used to prioritize action plans for each topic. 
More detailed quantitative and qualitative sensitivity analyses 
may be conducted and cover topics such as operational 
risk (business continuity), raw material sourcing and price 
fluctuation, compliance, revenue forecasting, climate change 
legislation, petroleum pricing and strategic planning processes, 
and many other areas.The Board of Directors Public Issues Committee reviews public 
policy issues and trends affecting the company, which inform 
the Audit Committee’s enterprise risk assessment process. 
The Committee also reviews and approves the company’s 
response to stockholder proposals relating to public policy 
issues. The Board of Directors has determined that all Public 
Issues Committee members are independent under the New 
York Stock Exchange listing standards. 
Corporate Code of Conduct
At 3M, we believe that what the Company stands for is just 
as important as what we sell. For 112 years, 3M has built 
a reputation for integrity and doing business the right way. 
3M expects all employees to act ethically and to sustain and 
advance 3M’s global reputation.
3M’s global compliance program is managed and administered 
by the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, led by 
the Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Compliance 
and Business Conduct, who is also 3M’s Chief Compliance 
Officer (CCO). The department is staffed with compliance 
professionals stationed at company headquarters and around 
the world. The CCO reports to the Audit Committee of the 3M 
Board of Directors, which assists the Board in oversight of 
3M’s legal and regulatory compliance efforts. The Compliance 
and Business Conduct Department oversees and administers 
strategic, systematic and operational components of 3M’s 
compliance program design and implementation. The 
compliance program is based on the U.S. Federal Sentencing 
Guidelines. Its elements include the following: 
• A core set of business conduct principles 
• Education, training materials and the schedule upon 
which compliance training is conducted 
• Periodic evaluations, audits and measurements of the 
compliance program’s effectiveness 
• A 24-hour helpline and website through which 
employees and others can report concerns and ask 
questions
3M was proudly recognized in 2014 by Ethisphere as 
one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. Ethisphere 
recognizes companies that promote ethical business 
standards and practices while exceeding legal 
compliance minimums. Through receipt of this award, 
3M is acknowledged for introducing best practices and 
shaping future compliance industry standards.Jim Zappa ( VP , Associate General Counsel, Chief Compliance 
Officer, 3M Compliance and Business Conduct) (center)• Programs to conduct appropriate due diligence on 
business partners, potential and new acquisitions, and 
candidates for hiring and promoting
• Investigative expertise
• Incentives and discipline to address compliance 
successes and failures
The Compliance and Business Conduct Department 
collaborates with and is assisted by dedicated compliance 
organizations and subject matter experts in areas such 
as corporate audit, corporate security, trade compliance, 
government contracting, health care regulation, and 
environmental health and safety. In addition, 3M’s business 
divisions and subsidiaries utilize staff who liaise with the 
Compliance and Business Conduct Department staff in 
ensuring that their organizations continuously demonstrate 
legal compliance and ethical business conduct. These 
staff members assist in business conduct policy training, 
communications and completion of periodic risk assessments 
for their organizations.
Compliance Program Enhancements in 2013
In 2013, 3M made a number of enhancements to its corporate 
compliance program, using several creative and innovative 
ways to promote awareness and improve compliance 
controls, specifically:
• Aligned its Business Conduct Principles into a Code 
of Conduct (“Code”), and created, implemented and 
distributed to all employees a new Code of Conduct 
Global Handbook
• Updated its Business Conduct Principles to improve 
readability and reinforce 3M’s core requirement 
of doing business “the right way, every day and 
everywhere” 
• Improved global awareness of the manner in which 
issues or concerns may be raised by creating new 
posters promoting the 3M-Ethics.com hotline and distributing over 2,000 of the posters in multiple 
languages to each global office
• Redesigned the Compliance and Business Conduct 
website to improve functionality and make compliance 
information more readily accessible
• Enhanced the tools and systems used to conduct 
reputational due diligence on 3M’s third-party 
intermediaries
Global Code of Conduct
While 3M has subsidiary operations in more than 70 countries, 
the Company has one Code that applies everywhere 3M 
does business. Our Code establishes a consistent standard 
of conduct for every employee and helps define the ethical 
decision-making we expect our employees to make every 
day. Our Code of Conduct Principles are comprehensive, clear, 
consistent, well-communicated and available to all employees. 
The Code helps employees and others acting on 3M’s 
behalf take a consistent, global approach to understanding 
and following fundamental compliance requirements. 3M 
employees, including supervisors, managers and other 
leaders, are responsible for understanding the legal and 
policy requirements that apply to their jobs and for reporting 
any suspected violations of law or these policies.
In 2013, we developed a Code of Conduct Global Handbook. 
The Handbook is contemporary, user-friendly and accessible 
to all employees worldwide. It summarizes 3M’s compliance 
principles and raises awareness of 3M’s core requirements of 
doing business “the right way, every day and everywhere.” It 
also includes an “Ethical Decision-Making” Business Conduct 
Principle, which requires 3M employees to make decisions 
based on 3M’s fundamental values: honesty, integrity, 
promise keeping, fairness, respect, concern for others and 
personal accountability. 
3M developed a communication and awareness program for 
the Code and Handbook deployment to ensure that each of 
3M’s more than 89,000 employees received a copy of the 
Handbook. That program included the following:3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   37 38   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
• A hard copy of the Code of Conduct Global Handbook was 
provided to all employees globally. To quickly and efficiently 
distribute the Handbook, using the innovative spirit of 3M, 
the team developed a method for storing printable versions 
online, where 3M subsidiaries could obtain the content in 
the language of their choice and print it through their local 
printer.
• The Code and Handbook were translated into 18 languages.
• The Code and Principles are available on 3M’s internal and 
external websites.
• Every employee with a 3M email account received weekly 
emails for eight weeks, including an introductory email from 
CEO and Chairman of the Board Inge Thulin. The videos 
featured senior leaders discussing the six “fundamental 
expectations” in our Code (Be Good, Be Honest, Be Fair 
and Impartial, Be Loyal, Be Accurate, and Be Respectful). Following the rollout of the Code in the United States, the 
team conducted a survey of a random employee sample 
to measure the awareness and impact of the new Code. 
The results indicated that more than 98 percent of U.S. 
employees and 95 percent of employees outside of the U.S. 
recalled information from the rollout, and a majority believed 
the material in the rollout was understandable and increased 
knowledge of the Code’s expectations.
All 3M employees are responsible for reporting any suspected 
violations of law or the Code. Consistent with historic practices, 
and where permitted by local law, 3M requires an Annual 
Code of Conduct certification from nonproduction employees 
at certain job grade levels, representing more than 38,000 
employees.
Business Conduct Committee
The 3M Business Conduct Committee is composed of several senior executives and is chaired by 3M’s CCO. The 
Committee has oversight for 3M’s various compliance efforts. 
The Business Conduct Committee reports jointly to the Audit 
Committee of the 3M Board of Directors and to the Corporate 
Operating Committee.
Compliance Training and Education
3M offers a comprehensive online compliance training 
program to all employees worldwide. The program’s training 
modules are mandatory for approximately 44,000 global 
employees, who are required to take modules on a two- 
or three-year cycle, depending on the course. Modules 
include conducting business across borders, understanding 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, financial reporting, 
government relationships, business conduct and ethics, 
conflicts of interest, and other key compliance areas. More 
than 25 courses are offered in multiple languages. The 3M 
Compliance and Business Conduct website on 3M’s intranet 
offers additional anti-bribery training on 3M’s global anti-
bribery compliance program. In addition to online training, 
the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, in 
close collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, provides frequent, 
tailored in-person training to business, subsidiary and staff 
groups. Some of this training occurs as part of an annual 
calendar and other training occurs as requested or deemed 
appropriate.
Commitment to Anti-Corruption
As a recent member of the United Nations Global Compact, 
3M is committed to support Principle 10 on Anti-Corruption 
and is working against corruption in all forms. We plan to use 
this opportunity to benchmark and learn best practices from 
other peer companies and participate in relevant working 
group opportunities. 
3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle requires compliance with all 
applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and all applicable 
local laws where 3M operates. The Anti-Bribery Principle 
applies to 3M employees, as well as to our business partners who act on 3M’s behalf. “Global Bribery and Corruption 
Awareness” training is required of employees in higher-
risk roles, including those in Legal, Audit, Sales, Marketing, 
Export and Global Trading. “Understanding the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act” training is required of a similar subset 
of the employee population. 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle and 
3M-provided training are designed to educate our employees 
and business partners on recognizing the many forms in 
which bribes can appear and how to avoid them, even at the 
risk of losing business opportunities. 
3M’s commitment to anti-corruption also applies to assessing 
and mitigating risks of using third-party intermediaries. 
Based upon a risk calibration resulting from an assessment 
of transaction, geography and other risk factors, 3M conducts 
reputational due diligence reviews on these third parties. 
Depending on the outcome of those reviews, 3M responds to 
identified risks with training, inclusion of relevant contractual 
terms and other risk-mitigating controls. 
The Compliance and Business Conduct Department also 
collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs on pre- and post-
acquisition due diligence processes in the merger and 
acquisition setting. These processes help identify and assess 
risks in the target company before acquisition. And, for any 
company 3M acquires, the processes accelerate our efforts 
to identify compliance gaps and begin to transition the 
acquired company’s employees to 3M’s compliance program 
and culture. 
Reporting Systems
3M recognizes that reporting suspected misconduct or 
even asking a compliance question can take courage, but 
we believe it is the right thing to do. Our employees are 
encouraged to raise questions or report misconduct or 
potential misconduct to management, 3M Legal Counsel, the 
Compliance and Business Conduct Department, or to their 
Human Resources Manager. 
In addition, a 24-hour confidential and anonymous helpline 
is available internally and externally through EthicsPoint, an 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   39 40   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
independent third-party vendor. Reports are made through this 
system telephonically or online and are promptly investigated 
and responded to by the Compliance and Business Conduct 
Department or another staff department. EthicsPoint does 
not trace phone calls or use caller identification, nor does 
EthicsPoint generate or maintain internal connection logs 
containing Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. Web-based 
reports are made through a secure Internet portal, which 
does not trace or show user screen names. 3M’s Employee 
Obligations and Reporting Principle prohibits retaliation 
against anyone who raises a business conduct concern in 
good faith or cooperates in a company investigation. Below 
is a bar graph illustrating four-year metrics for allegations 
raised using the telephone and online reporting tool.
Disciplinary action is taken when necessary and comes in 
a range of forms, from issuing warnings to termination. As 
indicated in the graph above, disciplinary actions may include 
one or more persons associated with a single substantiated 
violation.
Maintaining Business Conduct Compliance
Operating with uncompromising integrity is one of 3M’s core 
values and includes avoiding bribery or corruption in any 
form. 
Oversight, monitoring and testing of 3M’s corporate 
compliance program and controls is supported by periodic compliance risk assessments of 3M’s businesses, including 
assessment of risk related to corruption, and specific risk-
based compliance and ethics audits performed by 3M’s 
Internal Audit function. These audits follow a specific audit 
module that focuses on ethics and business as part of 
systematic audits of financial and other business controls. 
In addition, a dedicated team within 3M’s Compliance and 
Business Conduct Department conducts periodic compliance 
and anti-bribery evaluations in various 3M subsidiaries and 
operating units each year. These evaluations are selected 
based on objective and subjective risk factors, and they 
include reviews of sample financial transactions, compliance 
records and interviews with subsidiary and business unit 
personnel. In 2013, over 300 nonproduction employees were 
interviewed as part of the evaluation process. 
Audits, evaluations and risk assessments are all important 
activities for the purposes of detecting any opportunities for 
improvement or even gaps in processes or procedures. Of 
equal importance, they provide opportunities to reinforce 
the importance of operating with a compliance and 
ethical behavior mindset and facilitate the identification of 
compliance risks. All these outcomes reinforce prevention of 
future compliance gaps or failures.
Further Information:
3M Business Conduct Website
Respecting Human Rights
OVERVIEW
Leading With High Integrity and Values:  3M is committed to 
values that sustain a culture of high-integrity business ethics 
with our partners and within our own operations. In 2013, 
3M adopted a Global Human Rights Policy Statement . 3M 
respects international human rights principles, including 
the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, the United 
Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, 
and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 3M is dedicated 
to enriching the workplace, engaging with stakeholders 
and continuously improving the communities in which we 
operate. 3M’s Human Resources organization is responsible 
for oversight and enforcement of the Human Rights Policy 
Statement. Issues are addressed by the Employee Relations 
Director, at the direction of the Senior Vice President for 
Human Resources. 
OUR APPROACH & PROGRESS
3M has reviewed internal corporate policies, management 
systems, and external frameworks, principles, standards and 
affiliated organizations related to human rights. 3M made a 
significant commitment to human rights and labor practices 
in 2013, adopting a Human Rights Policy statement, and 
becoming a member of the U.N. Global Compact in early 2014, embracing its related principles. 3M’s approach for managing 
and ensuring human rights in the workplace will continue to 
align with 3M’s Code of Conduct in 2014, which recognizes 
the right of employees to have a respectful workplace. 3M 
continues to implement our human rights principles through 
our global policy statement, a management system utilizing 
self-assessments, audits, training and, ultimately, metrics 
tracking. 
3M values its people and has considered them a key 
contributing factor to our success and growth for 112 years. 
We work hard to foster an environment where all employees 
are treated with respect and allowed to develop their skills 
and talents and to always act with integrity. We not only 
comply with laws and regulations, but we are rooted in going 
above and beyond to do the right thing.ALLEGATIONS & DISCIPLINARY ACTION
2010 2011 2012 2013
Allegations Reported          Substantiated Allegations           Disciplinary Actions450
400
350500
300
250
200
150
50100
0
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   41 42   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Human Rights Elements:  
• Safe and Healthy Workplace:  One of 3M’s primary 
goals is to ensure that all employees are provided a safe 
and healthy workplace. 3M has environmental, health 
and safety policies and practices that comply with or, 
in many cases, exceed applicable laws and regulations. 
See Safety and Health section of this report  for further 
information.
• Respectful Workplace:  3M is committed to 
attracting and retaining a diverse workforce. Our 
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies prohibit 
all forms of discrimination or harassment against 
applicants, employees, vendors, contractors or 
customers on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, 
sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran’s status, 
pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, 
marital status, citizenship status, status with regards 
to public assistance, gender identity/expression or any 
other reason prohibited by law. Our affirmative action 
policies and programs are designed to ensure equal opportunities for qualified minorities, women, covered 
veterans and individuals with disabilities, and also to 
provide reasonable accommodation to individuals with 
disabilities. 3M is committed to attracting and retaining a 
diverse workforce by creating the kind of inclusive work 
environment 3M employees want and can be proud of.
• Working Hours and Compensation : 3M complies with 
minimum wage legislation globally. In most countries 
where 3M does business, our compensation exceeds 
legal minimum wage requirements. Our competitive 
compensation reflects our practice of establishing 
competitive salary ranges based on actual pay data from 
benchmark peer companies. 3M also complies with all 
applicable laws relating to working hours, overtime and 
breaks.
• Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining : 
3M works diligently to create a work culture that affords 
all employees the opportunity to work without fear of intimidation, reprisal or harassment, in an environment 
where employees are able to get their questions 
addressed in a fair and timely manner. In all locations, 
the company’s relationship with employees, whether 
union or nonunion, is a key responsibility of all leaders, 
assisted by human resources representatives. Human 
resources professionals work with all employees to 
maintain positive employee relations. 3M recognizes and 
respects the ability of employees to choose whether or 
not to join unions and engage in collective bargaining, as 
permitted by applicable laws in the countries where 3M 
does business. Approximately 29 percent of 3M’s global 
workforce is unionized.
• Child Labor/Minimum Hiring Age : 3M complies with 
all applicable laws relating to hiring minors and applies 
a global minimum hiring age of 16 even where the law 
allows hiring workers younger than 16. 3M has those 
same expectations for all vendors doing business with us. 
• Forced and Compulsory Labor : 3M complies with all 
applicable laws and employment regulations and does 
not engage or participate in forced labor. 3M has those 
same expectations for all vendors doing business with us. 
Human Rights Remediation/Grievance Resolution 
3M has several means by which an individual can report his 
or her concerns. An employee (or any third party) may report 
an issue online or by phone, and may do so anonymously 
through 3M’s Compliance and Business Conduct independent 
third-party vendor, EthicsPoint. In addition, employees have 
several additional ways to report issues, such as talking to a 
manager, supervisor or any Human Resources professional. 
However concerns are reported, 3M will assign an individual 
to investigate the issues raised and to report back to the party 
expressing concern. 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone 
who reports a business conduct concern in good faith or 
cooperates in a company investigation. 
Human Rights Awareness and Training
To ensure that employees are aware of 3M policies related to human rights, 3M provides regular training to employees 
regarding our Business Conduct Policies, including 3M’s 
Respectful Workplace Principle. Employee training regarding 
our Respectful Workplace Principle has been updated and will 
be launched in 2014 to address 3M’s Human Rights Policy 
and 3M’s commitment to human rights. Current training 
includes direction on how employees can raise issues for 
investigation and response. All 3M locations also post 
information on how employees can report any concerns. The 
enhanced training will be rolled out to all employees globally, 
except for production employees outside the U.S. because of 
translation barriers. 3M will work toward providing training 
to that population as well in the future. Finally, 3M’s website 
also has information on corporate policies, as well as links 
and additional information on how to report any concerns.
Human Rights Performance and Assessment
3M’s employee relations staff conducts site self-assessments 
of workplace practices on a biannual basis, which include 
review of practices related to 3M’s Human Rights Policy to 
ensure that practices are consistent with and reinforce that 
policy. Various data is tracked through the process to identify 
potential gaps and opportunities for improvement. The self-
assessments have been implemented in 3M operations in the 
United States, Canada, Asia and Western Europe. In 2014, 
3M will work toward implementation in Eastern Europe, the 
Middle East and Latin America. 
In addition, corporate audits are conducted of site workplace 
and human resource practices. Assessment and auditing of 
suppliers is also conducted to assure compliance with 3M’s 
expectations related to labor practices (see the Engaging Our 
Suppliers section of this report for more details).
Further information
• 3M Global Human Rights Policy Statement  
• 3M Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
• 3M Respectful Workplace Principle 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   43 44   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Public Policy & Engagement Worldwide
3M lives its values through its public policy pursuits — and 
in a manner consistent with our corporate vision. As a diverse 
global company, developing 3M public policy priorities can 
be a challenge. 3M manages this by working with local, 
national and international government agencies and through 
membership organizations. The public policy issues on which 
3M engages extend beyond borders to include promoting 
international trade, sustainability, respect for intellectual 
property rights, public health, worker safety, security and 
international law, and innovation. 
In a fast-moving global environment, 3M’s public policy 
values remain consistent even as they address the unique 
needs of the national, regional and local governments in 
locations where we operate. 3M reinforces our corporate 
vision and principles, but we continually identify and re-
evaluate our global public policy priorities to address changing 
circumstances.
Each country has an evaluation process. For example, in the 
United States, an evaluation process developed by the 3M 
Public Affairs Department establishes a public policy agenda 
of issues impacting our businesses. U.S. public policy teams 
develop a Top 10 list (see below) of Priority Public Policy Issues 
that serves as a road map for all forms of engagement with 
federal, state and local governments. Besides linking 3M’s 
vision to the needs and priorities of government officials, the 
Top 10 list helps ensure the many faces of 3M speak with 
a single, unified voice. Internationally, 3M managing directors 
of host country businesses are responsible for evaluating 
and determining key government issues in their respective 
countries.
The following is 3M’s Top 10 list for the United States in 2014:(1) Tax Policy − Tax reform is essential to ensuring the long-
term competitiveness of American businesses and workers. 
3M believes business tax reform should focus on a significant 
reduction of the corporate income tax rate, transitioning to a 
competitive international system and creating incentives for 
U.S.-based IP ownership. In addition, state tax policy should 
incentivize capital investment and sustainable job creation by 
rewarding plant expansion and modernization investments, 
and efforts to increase employment.
(2) Regulatory Reform  − The U.S. regulatory environment 
plays a vital role in advancing the nation’s economic security 
interests. So as to promote genuine competition and 
sustainable job creation, regulatory reforms must include 
thorough cost-benefit and risk assessments, while preserving 
the highest standards for safety, quality and efficiency. Efforts 
by certain federal agencies to extend their regulatory reach 
without congressional oversight must also be curtailed.
(3)  Sustainability/Environmental Policy  − 3M’s strategies 
for sustainable development encompass the pursuit of 
customer satisfaction and commercial success within a 
framework of environmental, social and economic values. 
To that end, 3M has made significant investments designed 
to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations, 
investments which continue today. And by developing 
sustainable products, we help our customers reduce their 
environmental footprint and help to meet their sustainability 
goals. Finally, 3M believes environmental policy and 
regulations should be guided by science-based decision-
making.
(4) Health Care Policy  – The U.S. health system should 
remain market-driven and efforts to address the uninsured 
should not weaken the current employer-based coverage system. Reforms of the U.S. health care system should 
focus on increasing efficiencies within the system as well as 
improving quality outcomes and patient safety. 
(5) Homeland Security – 3M believes our nation’s homeland 
security and defense preparedness should be strengthened 
through improved border and immigration security, improved 
force protection measures, additional support for first 
responders, and planning for pandemics or other national 
emergencies. 
(6) Legal Reform/Patent Policy  – The U.S. legal system 
is the most expensive in the world, driven often by lawsuit 
abuse. To ensure the legal justice system is fair, efficient 
and consistent, we support reforms making liability litigation 
more equitable, subjecting punitive damages to reasonable 
caps, and ending destructive practices like indiscriminate 
screening, venue shopping and case bundling. Such reforms 
can be achieved while ensuring that those injured by faulty 
products receive fair compensation proportionate to the injury 
of the claimant and the fault of the defendant. 3M believes 
in strongly supporting patent rights for innovators and patent 
holders across this nation and globally. We support efforts 
to enhance the resources and capabilities of the United 
States Patent and Trademark Office, improve the quality 
and transparency of the patenting process, and bring more 
balance, objectivity and predictability to patent infringement 
litigation. We support efforts, both in the U.S. and in patent 
offices and courts globally, to enhance the enforceability of 
patent rights against infringing activities (including bad-faith 
claims of infringement) and the remedies available against 
infringement. 
(7) International Trade Policy  – The U.S. economy and 
American jobs depend on the expansion of free and fair trade through the passage of new trade agreements. 3M supports 
renewal of the president’s Trade Promotion Authority so as to 
allow additional agreements to be negotiated. International 
trade policy also requires a level playing field, including 
recognition, protection and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights and trading rules. 
(8) Transportation Infrastructure Policy   – The maintenance 
and improvement of the nation’s transportation infrastructure 
— which is important to 3M as a supplier of traffic safety and 
construction products, and as a user of the system — can 
only be achieved if the Highway Trust Fund remains solvent. 
3M believes all highway user fees should be dedicated to the 
fund; additional steps should be taken to crack down on fuel 
tax evasion; and Congress should consider other measures, 
if necessary, to ensure the fund’s solvency. 
(9) Labor Policy  – 3M supports the full measure of rights 
provided to employers and employees under the National 
Labor Relations Act. However, we strongly oppose actions 
by the National Labor Relations Board that challenge U.S. 
manufacturing leadership. We also oppose any legislative 
or regulatory efforts to diminish or eliminate secret ballot 
elections for employees as relates to either accepting or 
rejecting union representation. 3M invests in STEM initiatives 
that encourage and support student interest and achievement. 
We also support reform of our immigration system to ensure 
American companies are able to hire those with advanced 
degrees in STEM fields so we can continue to grow and 
innovate in the U.S. 
(10) Energy Policy  – National (and state) energy policy 
should ensure a continuous, reliable and uninterrupted 
supply of energy at competitive rates. 3M supports policies 
that address new sources of energy, alternative energy, faster 
adoption of technology and improved energy efficiency.46   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Financial Performance
Operating Results
Net Sales Million $USD $ 26,662 $ 29,611 $ 29,904 $ 30,871 3.2% 15.8%
Operating Income Million $USD $ 5,918 $ 6,178 $ 6,483 $ 6,666 2.8% 12.6%
Net Income attributable to 3M Million $USD $ 4,085 $ 4,283 $ 4,444 $ 4,659 4.8% 14.1%
Per share-Basic Million $USD $ 5.72 $ 6.05 $ 6.40 $ 6.83 6.7% 19.4%
Per share-Diluted Million $USD $ 5.63 $ 5.96 $ 6.32 $ 6.72 6.3% 19.4%
Additional  Information
Capital Expenditures Million $USD $ 1,091 $ 1,379 $ 1,484 $ 1,665 12.2% 52.6%
Research, Development and Related 
ExpensesMillion $USD $ 1,434 $ 1,570 $ 1,634 $ 1,715 5.0% 19.6%
Employee Compensation and Benefits Million $USD $ 7,226 $ 8,059 $ 8,347 $ 8,732 4.6% 20.8%
Payments to providers of capital Million $USD $ 1,701 $ 1,774 $ 1,801 $ 1,899 5.4% 11.8%
Provision for Income Taxes Million $USD $ 1,592 $ 1,674 $ 1,840 $ 1,841 0.1% 15.6%
Product Development
New Product Vitality Index (NPVI)Percent of net sales of products introduced within the 
last five years as compared to total net sales31.4% 31.7% 33.1% 33.3% 0.2% 1.9%
Performance
Sustainability
Summary
Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 20132012-2013 
ANNUAL % 
Change2010-2013 
% Change3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   47 48   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Supplier Responsibility
Review 80% of Supplier Spend in Top 10 High Risk 
Countries for Alignment with 3M Supplier Policy and 
StandardsSupplier Spend Reviewed (Alignment with 
Supplier Sustainability Policy and Standards)Percent of Supplier Spend Reviewed in Top 10 High 
Risk CountriesBase Year 74.0% 78.0% 80.0% 2.0% –
Environmental Performance
Environmental Management Systems
% ISO14001 Certified Sites per Sales 
Value of Production (SVOP)Percent of Global SVOP with ISO 14001 Certified 
Environmental Management Systems– – 90% 89% -1.0% –
Promote a Road to EHS Excellence at New 3M Sites EHS Onboarding for Acquired OperationsPercent  of acquired sites with an EHS Onboarding 
Plan100% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% 0.0%
Energy Management
Improve Energy Efficiency 25% Indexed to Net Sales by 
2015 from 2005 Base YearTotal Energy (Indexed to Net Sales) MMBTUs per Net Sales(MM $USD) 1010 902 931 930 -0.1% -7.9%
Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 26,917,031 26,703,396 27,838,414 28,714,940 3.1% 6.7%
Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,277,671 15,127,844 14,885,922 15,505,194 4.2% 1.5%
Total Electrical MMBTUs 9,573,615 9,675,104 10,098,298 10,316,441 2.2% 7.8%
Total Steam MMBTUs 807,211 832,820 839,832 901,783 7.4% 11.7%
Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 686,393 549,059 1,485,352 1,495,673 0.7% 117.9%
Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 233,461 202,293 225,343 191,715 -14.9% -17.9%
Total Propane and Jet Fuel MMBTUs 338,680 316,276 295,203 281,177 -4.8% -17.0%
Total Coal MMBTUs – – – – – –
Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 20132012-2013 
ANNUAL % 
Change2010-2013 
% Change3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   49 50   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Air Emissions Management
Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 5% Indexed to Net 
Sales by 2011 from 2006 Base YearTotal Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Indexed to 
Net Sales) (1) Million Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 233 206 221 258 16.7% -
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Absolute-
Kyoto and Non-Kyoto) (1) Million Metric Tons CO2e 6.230 6.090 6.620 7.950 20.1% -
Scope 1 Emissions (Direct) (1)Million Metric Tons CO2e 4.280 4.060 4.370 5.590 27.9% -
Scope 2 Emissions (Indirect) (1)Million Metric Tons CO2e 1.940 2.030 2.250 2.360 4.9% -
Scope 3 Emissions (2)Million Metric Tons CO2e Not Evaluated 8.15 10.66 10.64 -0.2% -
Upstream (2) (3)Not Evaluated 8.15 9.15 9.41 2.8% -
Downstream (2) (4)Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 1.51 1.23 -18.5% -
Reduce Volatile Air Emissions 15% Indexed to Net 
Sales by 2015 from 2010 Base YearTotal Volatile Organic Compound Emissions 
(Indexed to Net Sales)Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 0.23 0.20 0.20 0.17 -13.4% -23.8%
Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions 
(Absolute)Metric Tons 6074 6054 5984 5354 -10.5% -11.9%
Waste Management
Reduce Waste 10% Indexed to Net Sales by 2015 from 
2010 Base YearTotal Waste (Indexed to Net Sales) Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 6.6 6.04 5.98 6.12 2.3% -7.3%
Total Waste Generated (Absolute) Metric Tons 176,293 178,817 178,728 189,081 5.8% 7.3%
Hazardous Waste Metric Tons 42,316 41,253 39,663 38,865 -2.0% -8.2%
NonHazardous Waste Metric Tons 133,977 137,564 139,065 150,216 8.0% 12.1%
Total Waste Recycled and Reused (Absolute)
Onsite Recycle & Reuse (5)Metric Tons 850,133 766,118 728,035 719,637 -1.2% -15.4%
Offsite Reuse (5Metric Tons 1,972,152 1,868,424 1,423,300 1,788,981 25.7% -9.3%
Offsite Reuse (5)Metric Tons 127,965 129,198 128,160 130,516 1.8% 2.0%
Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 20132012-2013 
ANNUAL % 
Change2010-2013 
% Change3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   51 52   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Water Management
Total Water Use (Indexed to Net Sales) Million Cubic Meters per Net Sales (MM $USD) 0.0016 0.0014 0.0015 0.0014 -6.7% -12.5%
Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 42.98 41.13 43.51 43.18 -0.8% 0.5%
Total Water Recycled (6)Percent of Total Water Use – – 36.6% 37.0% 1.1% –
Develop Water Conservation Planning for 3M Sites 
Located in Water Stressed/Scarce AreasSites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas (7)Number of manufacturing sites in water stressed/
scarce areas with water conservation planning effortsBase Year 18 24 22 -8.3% –
Social Performance
Employees
Total Global Employees at Year-End 
(Headcount)Number of Employees 79,179 83, 253 86,557 89,583 3.5% 13.1%
% Full Time Employees Percent of total employee headcount 97.0% 97.2% 97.2% 97.1% -0.1% 0.1%
% Part Time Employees Percent of total employee headcount 3.0% 2.8% 2.8% 2.9% 0.1% -0.1%
% Female employees Percent of total employee headcount 33.3% 33.6% 33.7% 33.7% 0.0% 0.4%
% Female employees in management 
positionsPercent of total employee headcount 22.9% 24.0% 24.6% 25.3% 0.7% 2.4%
Total Global Employees Hired Number of Employees 11,067 10,775 9,322 10,471 12.3% -5.4%
Global Giving
Total Global Giving $ Million USD $ 58.79 $ 66.28 $ 60.30 $ 61.60 2.2% 4.8%
Total Cash Donations $ Million USD $ 27.16 $ 29.40 $ 27.91 $ 30.29 8.5% 11.5%
Total In-Kind Product Donations $ Million USD $ 31.63 $ 36.88 $ 32.39 $ 31.32 -3.3% -1.0%
Community Engagement
Develop Community Stakeholder Engagement Plans for 
Select Manufacturing SitesLocal Stakeholder Engagement PlansNumber of Global  Manufacturing Sites  with 
Stakeholder Engagement PlansBase Year 70 113 116 2.7% –
Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 20132012-2013 
ANNUAL % 
Change2010-2013 
% Change3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   53 54   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 20132012-2013 
ANNUAL % 
Change2010-2013 
% Change
FOOTNOTES:
(1)  2012-2013 US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2010-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR,AR4 based GHG 
accounting for data provided in this table.
(2)   The data reported is in accordance to the  World Resources Institute (WRI)/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Corporate 
Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
(3)  Includes Categories 1, 2, 6, 7; Category 3 and 8 are included in Scope 1, 2 emissions.
(4)  Includes Categories 9, 14, 15; Category 13 is included in Scope 1, 2 emissions.
(5)  98% of Offsite Reuse and 91% of Onsite Recycle+Reuse is from the production of Roofing Granules.
(6)  There were data entry errors in the 2012 Water Source Data for Total Water Recycled.  This data point has been corrected in this table and in the 
report.
(7)  3M uses the WBCSD Global Water Tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on 
internal criteria.Safety and Health Management
Global Recordable Incident RateAnnual Recordable Incidents per 100 Employees 
(200,000 work hours)1.56 1.46 1.42 1.41 -0.7% -9.6%
Global Lost time Incident RateAnnual Lost time incidents per 100 employees 
(200,000 work hours)0.36 0.38 0.39 0.34 -12.8% -5.6%
Work Related Fatalities Total Number 1 1 2 2
3M Employees Total Number 1 0 1 1
3M Contractors Total Number 0 1 1 1
Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track56   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Growth &
Business
PerformanceFinancial Summary
OUR VISION
3M continues to be inspired and motivated by our corporate 
vision:
• 3M Technology Advancing Every Company
• 3M Products Enhancing Every Home
• 3M Innovation Improving Every Life 
The vision captures the essence of 3M: technology, products 
and innovation. It describes what we do for our customers every 
day: advance, enhance and improve. And it sets a stretch goal 
for all of us: We have the capability to reach every company, 
every home and every life all around the world.
Concurrent with our vision, 3M introduced six strategies that 
will propel the Company forward and achieve our financial 
goals:• Expand relevance to our customers and our presence in 
the marketplace
• Gain profitable market share and accelerate market 
penetration everywhere
• Invest in innovation: Invigorate existing market 
opportunities and focus on emerging megatrends
• Intensify capabilities and achieve regional self-sufficiency
• Build high-performing and diverse global talent
• Drive consistent superior levels of operational excellence
As a result of our strong performance in 2013, we remain on 
track to deliver on 2013–2017 financial goals:SELECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
OPERATING RESULTS2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 - 2013 CHANGE
$ $ $ $ $ %
Net Sales 26,662 29,611 29,904 30,871 967 3.2
Operating Income 5,918 6,178 6,483 6,666 183 2.8
Net Income Attributes to 3M 4,085 4,283 4,444 4,659 215 4.8
Per Share - Basic 5.72 6.05 6.40 6.83 0.43 6.7
Per Share - Diluted 5.63 5.96 6.32 6.72 0.40 6.3
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Capital Expenditures 1,091 1,379 1,484 1,665 181 12.2
Research, Development and Relat -
ed expenses1,434 1,570 1,634 1,715 81 5.0
Employee Compensation and 
Benefits7,226 8,059 8,347 8,732 385 4.6
Payments to Providers of Capital 1,701 1,774 1,801 1,899 98 5.4
• Grow earnings per share 9–11 percent per year, on 
average
• Grow organic sales 4-6 percent per year, on average
• Achieve return on invested capital of approximately 20 
percent
• Convert approximately 100 percent of net income to free 
cash flow
Three key strategic levers enabled outstanding performance 
in 2013:
• Portfolio Management: We combined and scaled 
business to better serve our customers, to gain cost 
savings and to address underperforming businesses. 
Similarly, we enhance our product offering and improved 
our relevance to customers in other businesses and, 
when it made sense, we exited.
• Investing in Innovation: Innovation is now and always will be the heartbeat of our company. We continue to invest 
in R&D and increased investment focused on long-term 
disruptive technologies aimed at opportunities with 
significant growth potential. Twenty-six new product 
platforms aimed at accessing new markets were funded 
in 2013, several of which are expected to be introduced 
to the market in 2014. By 2017, our annual investment 
in R&D will increase to 6 percent of sales.
• Business Transformation: We are making good progress 
as we continue to implement our global Enterprise 
Resource Planning system. It was successfully launched 
in multiple countries in 2013, and learnings will 
accelerate success going forward. This integrated global 
IT platform will enable greater organization efficiency 
and productivity.
As a result of our strong performance in 2013, 3M remains on 
track to deliver on our financial goals while investing and building 
for long-term success:3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   57 58   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
QUALIFIED AND NONQUALIFIED PENSION BENEFITS (IN MILLIONS)
2010 2011 2012 20132012 - 2013 
CHANGE
$ $ $ $ $
United States
Projected Benefit Obligation 12,319 14,499 14,830 13,967 (863)
Fair Value of Assets 11,575 12,102 13,781 13,889 108
Net Funded Status (744) (2,397) (1,049) (78) 971
International
Projected Benefit Obligations 4,912 5,332 6,414 6,346 (68)
Fair Value of Assets 4,355 4,643 5,222 5,758 536
Net Funded Status (557) (689) (1,192) (588) 604
Key Economic Highlights for 2013:
• Earning per share increased 6.3 percent to $6.72.
• Operating income was $6.7 billion, a 2.8 percent 
increase.
• Operating income margins remained strong at 21.6 
percent, with four of our five business groups delivering 
margins above 21 percent.
• Sales for the year were $31 billion. In organic local 
currency terms, sales increased 3.4 percent.
• Latin America/Canada led the way with organic growth 
of 7 percent. Asia Pacific rose 4 percent, the U.S. was 
up 3 percent and Europe/Middle East/Africa was up 2 
percent.
• Currency impacts reduced worldwide sales by 1.6 
percent, and acquisitions added 1.4 percent.
• $6.9 billion in cash was returned to shareholders 
through dividends and share repurchases.• Free cash flow conversion was 89 percent with ROIC at 
20 percent.
3M has company-sponsored retirement plans covering 
substantially all U.S. employees and many employees outside 
the U.S. The primary U.S. defined-benefit pension plan was 
closed to new participants effective January 1, 2009. 3M 
expects to contribute $100 million to $200 million to its U.S. 
and International plans in 2014. 3M does not have a required 
minimum cash pension obligation for its U.S. plans for 2014, 
due to the funded status as shown above.
The Company also sponsors employee savings plans under 
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 
1, 2010, substantially all Company contributions to the plans 
are made in cash. For employees hired prior to January 1, 
2009, employee 401(k) contributions of up to 6 percent 
of eligible compensation are matched at rates of 60 to 75 
percent, depending on the plan the employee participated 
in. Employees hired after January 1, 2009, receive a cash 
match of 100 percent for employee 401(k) contributions of up to 6 percent of eligible compensation and also receive an 
employer retirement income account cash contribution of 3 
percent of the participant’s total eligible compensation.
Additional financial details can be found in 3M’s 2013 Annual 
Report .
Accelerating Innovation
OVERVIEW
3M has a long-standing reputation as being a company 
committed to innovation and continues to dedicate a 
large percentage of revenue (5.6 percent) to research and 
development (R&D) around the world. In addition to having 
extensive resources at our headquarters in Minnesota, 3M 
has rapidly expanded R&D operations globally and now 
operates approximately 85 laboratories and 45 technology 
centers. To drive further global growth of the company, a 
specific Invest in Innovation (I3) program was put in place 
in 2012 to focus on organic growth through prioritized 
investments in new-to-the world platform development areas 
aimed at new markets for 3M. The increased R&D spending 
began in 2013 and is projected to stabilize at six percent to 
sales by 2017. One of the key metrics for organic growth is 
the New Product Vitality Index (NPVI) which 3M developed 
as a measure of the percentage of 3M total sales coming 
from products launched in the last 5 years. Currently at 33.3 
percent, our NPVI has steadily increased since the metric 
was established in 2002.  The additional Invest in Innovation 
R&D funding is aimed at injecting additional fuel to take 3M’s 
organic growth rate to new levels and continue our NPVI 
trajectory.  The vast majority of Invest in Innovation funding 
is aimed at new product platforms and applications with 
significant sustainability advantages. 
OUR APPROACH
By leveraging strategic partnerships with several stakeholders 
both internally and externally, 3M is enabled to integrate a rich 
diversity of ideas and creativity into superior technologies, 
business assets and innovative product platforms. 3M’s 
Collaborating 
to Create More 
Sustainable Light 
Technology
The new 3MTM LED Advanced Light is an example 
of applying 3M technologies and culture of 
collaboration to create 3M’s first-ever light bulb, 
advancing lighting technology by utilizing light-
emitting diodes (LEDs). Developed with 3M’s 
unique multilayer optical film, adhesives and heat 
management technologies, the bulb provides 
energy efficiency far beyond both incandescent 
and fluorescent lighting alternatives and long-
term cost savings over an impressive 25-year 
product life span. In addition, with the new federal 
standards phasing out incandescent light bulbs, 
the 3MTM LED Advanced Light provides an option 
that is just as bright as a traditional bulb at a 
fraction of the energy. The 3MTM LED Advanced 
Light received a Golden Edison Award in 2013.
seven-phase New Product Introduction process provides 
the robust framework for developing products from idea to 
launch. Many other tools and systems are in place to expand, 
promote, manage and accelerate the innovation process. 
These include but are not limited to technical committees, 
collaborative ideation, tracking systems, and customer 
interaction and insights processes and forums.
Technology Platforms: 3M’s Innovation Engine
A broad base of 46 innovative technology platforms — 
ranging from adhesives, abrasives and ceramics to fiber 
optics, imaging, light management, molding, nonwoven 
materials, polymer melt processing and many more — 
come together in new and groundbreaking ways for 
customized solutions. Our technologies are transformed into 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   59 60   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
NEW PRODUCT VITALITY INDEX
2010
2011
2012
2013
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35%
2010 2011 2012 2013
NPVI 31.4% 31.7% 33.1% 33.3%consumer brands known and respected around the world, 
including Scotch®, Post-it™, Scotch-Brite™, Filtrete™, 
Command™, Nexcare™ and Scotchgard™ Brands. Learn 
more about 3M’s Technology Platforms .
3M Tech Forum: Innovation Through Collaboration
Established in 1951, the 3M Technical Forum is the central 
organization within 3M for productive technical interaction 
at the interpersonal grass-roots level. Through the collective 
knowledge and global relationships of over 11,000 technical 
employee members and over 40+ technical chapters and 
committees, this interconnected global network continues to 
build our technology platform knowledge and share ideas and 
expertise to spark solutions for our customers.GOALS & RESULTS
OUR APPROACH
Life Cycle Management & Analysis
3M’s global Life Cycle Management (LCM) process is used 
to identify opportunities associated with environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) performance, and to characterize and 
manage EHS risks and regulatory compliance throughout 
a product’s life cycle and supply chain. LCM is a broad, 
customized evaluation process within 3M, including subject 
matter experts with deep knowledge and experience related 
Product Spotlight: Scotch-Brite® Greener Clean 
Cleaning supplies should make the whole world cleaner, not just the home. But we didn’t expect tequila would be 
the answer. 
Jalisco, Mexico, is the state of tequila. In 2011, over 41 million gallons of tequila were produced here by 145 
registered distilleries. It took over 700,000 tons of agave to produce the tequila. Since only the juice from the root 
is used, what happens to the rest of the agave plant afterward? 
The answer, until recently, was nothing much: it was often left to decompose in the fields. But it takes 6–10 
years of farming — spending energy and water — to grow agave before it’s harvested for tequila. That’s up to a 
decade’s worth of energy that could be used productively. 
3M scientist Myhanh Truong was part of an informal self-directed team in the U.S exploring ways to manufacture 
3M products with new, more environmentally sustainable materials. At the same time in France, another 3M team 
pioneered a way to turn agave fiber, called bagasse, into a nonflammable nonwoven material based on one of 
3M’s most fundamental core technologies. Could it be adapted for use in a new kind of scouring sponge? Agave 
might be great at scrubbing, but it took a lot of work to adapt the material to manufacturing processes. 
Through prototyping various manufacturing processes, the 3M team learned how best to address flammability 
and stickiness and inherent challenges of mass-producing scrubbing fibers with the material. The 3M team 
created scrubbing fibers made of 50 percent agave, the scouring muscle of a new 100 percent plant-based-
fiber sponge using 23 percent recycled material. It’s called the Scotch-Brite® Greener Clean Non-Scratch Scrub 
Sponge. 
In addition to providing a valuable use for previously wasted plant material, this program provides new work 
and earning potential for rural families harvesting and preparing the agave plants and fiber for manufacturing at 
3M. And the innovation doesn’t stop with the United States and France. 3M’s global new product development 
network identified similar opportunities in Brazil with curaua fiber and in India with coconut fiber. In each case, 
previously wasted plant material is harvested and 
prepared to provide locally sourced raw materials 
to produce sanitary means for people to clean 
surfaces that come in contact with their food on a 
daily basis.
Learn more: Scotch Brite® Greener Clean
Life Cycle Management & Analysis Driving Growth Through 
Sustainable Product 
Stewardship
OVERVIEW
To further advance 3M’s vision and to make a positive 
difference for an expected growing population of over 9 
billion lives by 2050, 3M is focused on purposeful and 
responsible solutions to contribute to a healthier world 
while creating new business opportunities. Our people 
are committed and inspired to use our core technology 
platforms, our large-scale manufacturing infrastructure 
and expertise and our local presence in every 
geography to enable new and improved solutions. Our 
teams are focused on collaborating with our customers 
and developing product experiences that integrate 
full life-cycle thinking, have net-positive impacts and 
create more sustainable business practices. Watch this 
video  to learn more.to the products, applications, marketplace, and environmental 
and toxicological implications. It applies globally to all 
3M products whether 3M-developed, developed jointly 
with another company or acquired from a third party. Any 
product purchased from an outside supplier for sale as a 3M 
product receives the same product life-cycle consideration 
as an internally developed and manufactured product. LCM 
evaluations are a required component of 3M’s New Product 
Introduction (NPI) process, essential for each and every new 
product launched by 3M, anywhere in the world. Key elements Disposal &
Recycling
Product Use
& ReuseDistribution &
TransportationManufacturing 
& ProductionRaw Material 
AcquisitionResearch & 
Development3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   61 62   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
that may be included in the LCM evaluation are energy and greenhouse 
gas impacts, reduction of hazardous materials, and potential health and 
environmental effects, customer/worker safety, and design for product 
“end of life” including potential for recycling.
3M’s global strategy for detailed quantitative Life Cycle Assessments 
(LCA) is first and foremost based on using sound science. 3M has a 
global strategy for conducting consistent LCAs, led by the Corporate 
Environmental Laboratory, which has adopted the ISO 14040 series 
standards, World Resource Institute standards and World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development standards as guidance. Other 
standards as well as Product Category Rules are applied and used as 
applicable. Individual LCAs may be conducted on a full product’s life 
cycle or on specific life-cycle stages. 
This flexibility enables 3M to evaluate risks and opportunities in more 
detail during the new product introduction process as needed. Due to 
the tens of thousands of unique products and differences in sourcing, 
manufacturing, supply chain, and end uses, 3M’s core strategy for 
conducting LCAs and advancing our evaluations is focused on evaluations of common technologies and chemistries 
that are then shared across multiple products 
and applications. Having LCAs on common 
technologies and chemistries enables 
more consistent and timely completion of 
meaningful full-product LCAs. 
Deepening Sustainability in Solution 
Development 
3M launched a project in 2013 to build 
capabilities to further enhance the extent 
to which our new products improve lives 
in socio-environmental terms. With this, 
we are building on our existing Life Cycle 
Management (LCM) process and tools 
for assessment and prompting creative 
sustainability-focused solutions throughout 
the seven stages of our new product 
introduction process to guide teams to invent 
more sustainable solutions and understand 
and improve product impacts. Getting to the 
core of who we are at 3M -- Innovation. This 
project will help to educate cross-functional 
teams on how to think about improving the 
sustainability attributes and applications of 
products from before a new idea even gets 
drawn out on paper all the way through 
the finalization of the manufacturing scale-
up and product launch. This will build on 
our long-standing Life Cycle Management 
process to further integrate sustainability 
into our product development culture and 
processes. 
We know that 3M employees care. A 
global employee survey conducted in 2013 
indicated sustainable product development 
Product Spotlight: Cubitron II™
With decades of experience 
in ceramic, abrasive and 
microreplicated technologies, 3M 
has reinvented abrasives with 
3M™ Cubitron™ II Products. 
This new brand of abrasive 
products contains a new patented 
triangular-shaped abrasive grain 
that is electrostatically oriented to 
maximize cutting potential. 
The result: Each individual precision-shaped ceramic grain acts like 
a cutting tool, slicing through metal like a knife and continuously re-
sharpens as points break off. This allows 3m™ Cubitron™ Abrasive 
Products to cut faster, run cooler and last up to four times longer than 
conventional abrasive products. Learn more: www.3Mcubitron2.com . is the top sustainability-related priority 
for employees across the company. 
With over 55,000 products based on 
various combinations of our 46 core 
technologies, 3M is invigorating our 
product developers to find new and 
unique ways to apply our technologies 
and creative product design with 
customer and consumer insights to 
help make a positive difference in 
some of the world’s most difficult 
sustainability challenges. Deepening 
social and environmental thinking 
further into solution development will 
enable our customers to advance and 
help improve lives around the world.
Product Marketing & 
Communications
Environmental Product Declarations
3M uses Environmental Product 
Declarations (EPDs) as one tool to 
standardize reports and communicate 
LCA results that are environmentally 
beneficial to the user/consumer. Various 
methodologies (for example: ReCiPe, 
Tracy and CML) are used for creating 
Environmental Product Declarations, 
and Product Category Rules (PRCs) are 
developed to standardize application of 
an LCA standard to a specific product 
category. 3M uses published Product 
Category Rules where appropriate 
to guide us in making Environmental 
Product Declarations. We continue to 
work with the Sustainability Consortium user as specified by the Advertising 
and Product Representation Policy. 
3M’s environmental claims support 
team assists businesses in determining 
the appropriate product claims and is 
comprised of laboratory scientists, 
legal staff, life-cycle management 
professionals and others with 
environmental marketing and business 
expertise. Extensive environmental 
marketing claim information and 
guidance is provided in 3M’s internal 
Environmental Claims Guide.
GOALS & RESULTS
In 2011, 3M established a goal to 
“Further Enhance the Environmental 
Sustainability Attributes of New 
Products.” Externally, the goal is 
aspirational and directional. Internally, 
we have developed a process to as well as other organizations to assist 
in establishing Product Category Rules 
while internal guidance is provided to 
our businesses globally to ensure the 
EPDs meet the company’s requirements 
and are substantiated in accordance 
to the standards and methodologies 
specified. 
Product Marketing & Communications
It’s our policy (3M’s Advertising and 
Product Representation Policy) to 
represent our products truthfully, fairly 
and accurately in all sales, advertising, 
packaging and promotional efforts. 
Management of every 3M business unit 
is responsible for ensuring appropriate 
review of advertising and claims 
regarding respective business products 
and services. All Environmental 
Product claims must be substantiated 
and technically accurate to the end 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   63 64   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
measure our progress on this goal that 
involves evaluating all new products 
against a set of sustainable environmental 
product criteria and measure the sales of 
those products versus new products that 
do not meet the criteria. 
Today, to be included internally as part 
of the enhancement product goal, a new 
product’s attributes must meet all of these 
criteria: 
• It must not pose any significant 
environmental, health or safety 
concerns that would outweigh the 
sustainability benefit. 
• It must be relevant to the product 
type and marketplace. This means 
a product must be relevant in the 
market it is primarily sold in the year 
when it is introduced. For example, 
the attribute cannot be integrated to 
comply with legislation or regulation, 
and at least 30 percent of the 
existing competitor products must 
not contain the same attribute. 
• It must contain one or more of the 
3M Defined Product Environmental 
Sustainability Attributes within the 
product’s life-cycle stages (raw 
material sourcing, manufacturing, 
customer use and design/function, 
and/or disposal). 
3M’s current work to deepen sustainability 
into product development will help 
further refine criteria and expand product 
sustainability attributes. To learn more 
about current 3M Products featuring 
environmental sustainability attributes today, see 3M’s Environmental Solutions Catalogs .
Achieving Customer Loyalty
OVERVIEW
One of 3M’s six global strategies is to expand relevance to our customers 
and our presence in the marketplace. For us, achieving customer relevance 
is about building relationships and loyalty, through increasing the entire 
integrated customer experience. We continuously strive to deliver purposeful 
solutions that help our customers, products that make them successful, 
and align our shared goals with theirs. Collaborating together will provide 
solutions to advance every company, enhance every home and improve every 
life and long-term success.
APPROACH 
3M’s approach to achieving customer relevance is built on the evolution of 
customer satisfaction and loyalty measurement to encompass the entire 
customer experience. By having shared goals with our customers, we are 
committed to helping people succeed as much as ourselves, which will 
lead to strong business success. Using quality, competence and curiosity 
as our foundation, the path to sustainable growth is linking our customer 
experiences to relevant business strategies and performance metrics. Our 
regions, businesses and divisions have global responsibility for sales and 
results. To advance sustainable customer loyalty, a key account management 
structure is implemented and supported by marketing, sales and technical 
experts to provide customers with tailored, ongoing dialogue to meet their 
needs. 
GOALS & RESULTS
Further Understanding Our Customers
To ensure continuous improvement, in 2013, 3M conducted global studies 
to further understand our strengths and opportunities regarding customer 
relationships across businesses and geographies. The studies included 
outcomes that reflect our current progress regarding experience categories: 
products and pricing, customer touch points, knowledge of customer values 
and requirements, and ordering. 3M is using these insights to evaluate and 
our products and services and optimize the value we provide.Responding to Customers
Combined with customer experience 
studies, 3M has a variety of mechanisms 
to listen, gather and, most important, 
act on feedback from customers in the 
marketplace about product and service 
quality. 3M’s main customer contact 
center is staffed 24/7 with trained 
personnel to direct customer inquiries to 
the correct resources. Cross-functional 
teams, in addition to independent 
quality managers not reporting to 
the manufacturing organization, staff 
each division. They review customer 
feedback with key stakeholders and 
assure that all questions are addressed 
in a professional, timely and effective 
manner.
Our Corporate Quality Management 
and Global Quality Network are led by 
the Strategic Quality Leadership Team 
supported by the Quality Council. The 
Strategic Quality Leadership Team 
sets strategy, identifies common 
opportunities for improvement and 
directs global synergy across all 
business units within 3M. We use 
several tools to manage variation in all 
our business processes to ensure that 
3M understands, meets and exceeds 
customer quality expectations. The 
Quality Council includes all quality 
leaders from divisions, facilities and 
countries where 3M has operations 
and is responsible for ensuring the 
deployment of best practices and 
the implementation of the Quality 
Management System company-wide.
66   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Growth Through
Accelerating
People
Employee Resource 
Networks
“One of the biggest benefits of being part of 
an Employee Resource Network is gaining an 
insight into our diverse workforce and finding 
common threads that connect us to 3M’s 
broader culture. I also find that we have unique 
access to leadership — who are, in turn, very 
supportive and forthcoming when we approach 
them for advice, resources and events. 
In participating in an Employee Resource 
Network, my knowledge of 3M’s businesses 
and objectives grows deeper and broader. I 
participate in fascinating projects and meet new 
people while strengthening my leadership skills.” 
 - Vijay Rajamani
Technical Supervisor, 3M Automotive Division, 
St. Paul, MN
Globally Diverse 
Workforce
OVERVIEW
Our innovations have improved daily life for hundreds of millions 
of people around the world. When you work with 3M, you join 
with a collaborative, diverse group of people whose ideas 
are transforming the future. We are continuously focusing on 
building and maintaining an inclusive culture where creative 
thinking is nurtured. APPROACH
Having a diverse global workforce and an inherently 
collaborative culture helps us generate more ideas, which yield 
more innovative solutions. As global markets expand and more 
than 60 percent of 3M’s sales live outside the United States, 
we rely on employees who understand the needs of diverse, 
local customers. 
3M has been known for our innovation for more than 100 years. 
We believe that this is only possible because our culture values 
and leverages the diverse perspectives of our employees. They allow us to maintain our competitiveness. With operations in 
more than 70 countries, we strive to represent the diversity of 
geography, markets and customers we serve. This ensures that 
different values, backgrounds and cultures are represented in 
all that we create. Our goal is to reflect the diversity of our 
global customers and build on each employee’s unique abilities 
to grow.
GOALS & RESULTS
Recruiting & Retaining Diverse Talent
3M actively builds a culture of diverse representation and 
inclusion. We look closely at each step in the process so that 
we attract and retain the right talent and help our people 
advance in their careers. 
In the U.S., we participate in recruiting fairs at top colleges 
and universities. We also participate in recruiting events where 
thousands of talented, diverse candidates congregate. During 
2014, our goal is to attend 15 events to reach these candidates. 
These events include:
• American Indian Sciences and Engineering Society
• Asian MBA
• Martin Luther King Jr. Day Career Fair
• National Black MBA Association
• National Organization for the Professional Advancement 
of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers
• National Sales Network
• National Society of Black Engineers
• National Society of Hispanic MBAs
• Reaching Out LGBT MBAs
• Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers
• Society of Women Engineers (two events)
• South by Southwest• The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management
• University of Saint Thomas Multicultural Forum Career 
Fair
On the retention front, we are making progress in developing 
a more inclusive culture and environment through new 
training options. We started with cultural competence and 
global mindset training, and more than 60 percent of U.S. 
managers and supervisors have already participated in it. 
We’ve also integrated diversity content in corporate leadership 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   67 68   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
development programs and developed several training 
modules that cover topics such as unconscious bias, multiple 
generations and engaging diverse perspectives. 
To advance our efforts, we also engage with nationally known 
organizations, including Catalyst  and Diversity Best Practices . 
These organizations offer members several opportunities for 
training and education such as conferences, webinars, white 
papers, etc. 3M human resources (HR) teams rotate attendance 
at sessions to maximize our memberships.
Finally, 3M encourages and supports Employee Resource 
Networks (ERNs). 3M ERNs have often impacted 3M policies 
and benefits offerings. These networks include:
• African American Network
• China Resource Network
• disAbility Awareness Network
• GLBT+ Network
• Latino Resource Network
• Military Support Network
• Native American Network
• New Employee Opportunity Network
• South Asia Network
• Team Austin
• Team Dynamic Korea
• Women’s Leadership Network
ERNs partner with 3M businesses to tackle specific business 
challenges. What results from the partnerships among the groups is impressive. Many of our ERNs are able to identify 
significant market potential in specific customer segments 
— some of which include millions of current or potential 
customers. For example:
• GLBT+ has been instrumental in driving changes to 
our policies and benefits offerings. As a result, we were 
recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality 
with a rating of 100 percent for the third year in a row. 
• Our businesses are leveraging ERNs to accelerate 
growth in emerging markets. For example, the Industrial 
and Transportation Business partnered with the Latino 
Resource Network to understand how to engage and 
sell to diverse customers using a multicultural business 
development process.
• Team Africa has been working with 3M businesses to 
help apply 3M technology to develop products suitable 
for the African market such as affordable water solutions 
and solar cooking solutions.
• In 2013, 3M formed the Women’s Leadership Forum, a 
global effort to encourage women in leadership. Chapters are 
underway in 3M India and 3M Japan as well as in U.S. plant 
locations. In addition, new Latin America Womens Leadership 
Forums are launching across the region. 
Globally, we are enabling our HR leaders to accelerate their 
strategies and tactics on diversity and inclusion. We have 
assigned a team to work with HR internationally to support 
them with development and other key tactics. During 2014, 
there will be a strong deployment of development elements 
and training. 
To learn more about 3M Diversity and Inclusion, 
visit www.3M.com/Diversity .
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   69 70   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
AGE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL 3M EMPLOYEES 
PER YEAR2010 2011 2012 2013
BABY BOOMERS (1943-1960) 26.6% 24.2% 22.0% 20.1%
Asia Pacific 1.7% 1.5% 1.2% 1.2%
Canada 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5%
Europe/Middle East/Africa 5.5% 5.0% 5.0% 4.4%
Latin America 1.2% 1.1% 1.0% 0.8%
United States 17.5% 15.8% 14.2% 13.1%
GENERATION X (1961-1981) 60.2% 59.9% 60.1% 59.3%
Asia Pacific 14.4% 14.8% 14.1% 13.4%
Canada 1.5% 1.5% 1.4% 1.4%
Europe/Middle East/Africa 14.7% 14.7% 15.2% 15.0%
Latin America 8.7% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5%
United States 20.8% 20.5% 20.9% 21.0%
GENERATION Y (> 1981) 13.2% 15.9% 17.9% 20.6%
Asia Pacific 3.9% 5.2% 5.4% 6.0%
Canada 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2%
Europe/Middle East/Africa 2.6% 3.1% 3.6% 4.1%
Latin America 3.3% 3.8% 4.5% 5.3%
United States 3.3% 3.7% 4.3% 4.9%FEMALES HIRED
(As a percentage of new hires)
2010 2011 2012 2013
United States 32% 36% 34% 37%
Latin America 45% 50% 51% 55%
Asia Pacific 24% 27% 26% 31%
Europe/Middle East/Africa 38% 35% 37% 34%
Canada 40% 38% 40% 42%EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT
2010
2011
2012
2013
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total 6,616 6,875 7,100 7,334
% Female 23% 24% 25% 25%
TOTAL 3M EMPLOYEES 
Includes both full-time and part-time employees
2010 2011 2012 2013
GLOBAL TOTAL 79,179 83,253 86,557 89,583
% Full Time (FT) / Part Time (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT)
United States 97.4% 2.6% 97.5% 2.5% 97.8% 2.2% 98.0% 2.0%
Latin America 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1%
Asia Pacific 99.1% 0.9% 99.2% 0.8% 99.3% 0.7% 99.3% 0.7%
Europe/Middle East/Africa 92.5% 7.5% 92.8% 7.2% 92.7% 7.3% 91.8% 8.2%
Canada 98.9% 1.1% 98.9% 1.1% 98.8% 1.2% 99.3% 0.7%TOTAL 3M EMPLOYEES 
Includes both full-time and part-time employees
2010
2011
2012
2013
0%
United States Latin America Asia Pacific Canada Europe/ Middle East/ Africa10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
2010 2011 2012 2013
Global Total 79,179 83,253 86,557 89,583
FEMALE EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT
(As a percentage of total)
2010
2011
2012
2013
0%
United States
Latin AmericaAsia Pacific Canada
Europe/ Middle East/ Africa10% 20% 30% 40%EMPLOYEES HIRED
2010
2011
2012
2013
0
United States
Latin AmericaAsia Pacific Canada
Europe/ Middle East/ Africa1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000OUR FOOTPRINT
The employee metrics below are reflective 
of employee headcount (total number of 3M 
full-time and part-time employees) not 3M 
full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. 3M’s 
Annual Report (10K)  reports employee FTE for 
all 3M legal owned entities at year end 2013. 
Due to acquisition integration schedules onto 
3M’s human resources systems, detailed 
employee information below may differ from 
employee totals in 3M financial reports.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   71 72   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
3M health care benefits continue to rank in the 
top quartile of plans offered by Fortune 500 
companies. 3M pays the majority of employees’ 
health care coverage, including about 80 percent 
of U.S. employees’ health care costs. That 
equates to about $9,600 per employee, or nearly 
$325 million total.20%
Employees80%
3MMEDICAL COSTS
GROWING OUR BUSINESS BY GROWING OUR PEOPLE
Employee development drives company performance and 
builds high performing and diverse talent across the globe
We have a learning culture that fosters the spark of 
innovation
We provide relevant and meaningful tools and resources 
for employees and leaders
Our employees and leaders are engaged people 
developers
There are boundless opportunities to grow and develop 
your careerInvesting in Our People
OVERVIEW
The long-term success of 3M is due to the dedication, skill and 
effort of our employees. We continue to place importance on 
helping employees develop their diverse talents to drive the 
company’s success. To that end, one of our six company-wide 
strategies is to continue to Build High-Performing and Diverse 
Global Talent. As this illustration shows, we purposefully develop 
our people in ways that prepare them to lead business growth.Total Rewards
OVERVIEW
3M’s Total Rewards include a range of plans and 
programs designed to attract, retain and motivate our 
high-performing talent. 3M regularly benchmarks its 
compensation and benefits with those of companies 
that are comparable in size and scope to ensure that we 
remain highly competitive. 
• Competitive pay. Base salary and variable incentive 
pay linked to company and individual performance. 
• Competitive benefits. High-quality medical and 
dental plan options, savings and retirement plans, 
and a 3M employee stock purchase plan that 
helps you become an owner of the company you 
work for. 
• Innovative programs and resources. Professional 
and personal growth opportunities, community 
involvement, and recreational pursuits.
APPROACH
Comprehensive Benefits
3M is committed to providing competitive market pay 
and comprehensive benefits. In addition to providing a 
professional work environment that promotes innovation 
and rewards performance, 3M’s total compensation 
for employees includes a variety of components for 
sustainable employment and the ability to build a strong 
financial future. 3M’s total compensation program 
includes the following for all eligible employees worldwide. 
Some programs and benefits may differ internationally 
due to local laws and regulations.
Compensation: Annual salary, short-term annual cash 
incentives and long-term equity incentives. 
Vacation/Paid Leave:  Vacation, holidays and paid leave, 
including short-term and long-term disability benefits.
Life/Disability Insurance:  Life insurance for employees and their eligible dependents at group rates. Short- and long-
term disability benefits offered to help employees who cannot 
work due to illness or injury.
Health Care:  Medical, prescription drug, dental and vision 
benefits. 
Health Savings Account:  An employee-owned Health Savings 
Account that includes an annual 3M contribution.
Flexible Spending Accounts: Tax-free reimbursement accounts 
for qualified health care and dependent care expenses. 
Parental Leave:  (U.S. example) To allow parents enough time to 
bond with their new children, 3M’s Family/Medical Leave Policy 
offers employees additional bonding leave for this purpose 
even if this means they will exceed their 12-week allotment of 
family/medical leave for the year. The additional bonding leave 
must be taken on a full-time basis and must be completed 
within 12 months after the birth of the child or placement in 
the home for adoption or foster care. 3M complies with state 
laws within the U.S. and with local laws and requirements for 
operations outside the U.S.
Retirement Programs:  401(k) plan and retiree medical 
insurance. The 3M Voluntary Investment Plan (VIP), 3M’s 
401(k) plan, is an opportunity for employees and 3M to 
share responsibility for building income for our employees’ 
retirement years. Employees have the opportunity to save 
both on a before-tax basis to the Before-Tax 401(k) Account 
and on a Roth 401(k) basis to the Roth 401(k) Account in the 
3M VIP . 3M contributes to employees’ retirement savings with 
both matching and nonelective contributions. Employees also 
have the opportunity for additional savings by contributing to 
their After-Tax Savings Account in the VIP . Employees who 
retire from 3M after reaching age 55 with at least five years 
of service are eligible to purchase retiree medical insurance 
coverage through a retiree medical savings account, which 
includes credits that accumulate while people are employed 
by 3M.
Stock Ownership/Investment Programs:  Through 3M’s 
General Employees Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP)‚ 3M offers employees a 15 percent discount on 3M stock purchases. 
3M hopes the GESPP will help employees achieve their 
long-term financial goals. Over the years‚ employees 
have used their GESPP investments for everything from 
home improvement projects to funding their children’s 
and grandchildren’s educations. 3M has encouraged 
employees to become owners of the Company through 
the GESPP since 1964‚ when the Company introduced 
the plan. Today‚ more than 40 countries have adopted 
the plan‚ more than 68‚000 employees worldwide are 
eligible and more than 19‚000 employees currently 
participate in the plan.
Dependent Care:  3M provides a range of resources to 
assist employees with dependent care, including child 
care and elder care. 3M offers child care and adult 
care consultation and referral services through the 3M 
Competency/Career
DevelopmentRegional
Operational
Excellence3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   73 74   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Employee Assistance Program in order to help employees 
locate appropriate services for their loved ones across the 
United States. 3M employees in the St. Paul area also have 
access to back-up child care, which is available when their 
regular day care cannot care for their child.
Adoption Assistance:  3M provides financial assistance to 
eligible employees who choose to adopt children by covering a 
portion of the eligible expenses associated with the adoption.
Employee Assistance Program (EAP):  In 1974, 3M began 
an employee assistance program that today provides more 
than 8,100 hours of consultation and education per year to 
U.S. employees and their dependents, and leaders across 3M 
“One of the beauties of working 
for 3M is that there are so many 
opportunities at your fingertips. 
In my 15 years here, I’ve 
transitioned to several different 
types of assignments, each 
completely different from the 
other.” 
                  – Monica Barros
Business Manager, Electrical Markets Division, 
Sao Paulo, Brazilto assist them in navigating challenging situations. In some 
locations outside of the United States, 3M offers employee 
assistance resources at the local level. Resources enhance 
well-being and effectiveness; prevent problems; or address 
a wide range of personal, family, work or behavioral health 
challenges; and are available online, in print literature and 
other media. In addition, 3M offers U.S. employees legal and 
financial consultation and referral services through the EAP . 
Financial issues include debt management and taxes, while 
legal issues include family, civil, tax or criminal law.
Corporate-Supported Employee Groups:  Through 3M 
clubs around the world, 3M encourages employees with 
shared interests to pursue those interests in a supportive 
environment. Every country in which 3M does business has a 
3M employee club that sponsors special events, activities and 
sports programs and offers special discounts and privileges in 
support of exercise, friendship and fun. The largest employee 
club is in St. Paul, Minnesota, and has approximately 7,000 
members. 3M also sponsors Employee Resource Networks 
under the direction of 3Mgives. 
Flexible Work Arrangements:  3M recognizes the importance 
of helping employees balance their life concerns with their work 
responsibilities. 3M employees are able to explore a variety of flexible work arrangements with their management, including 
part-time, job share, flex-time, compressed work week and 
telecommuting. These opportunities are communicated to 
employees through management and are administered through 
3M internal systems. 
Additional Resources and Opportunities Offered Globally:
• Scholarships for eligible dependents of employees 
• Employee stores for purchase of 3M products online or 
at many 3M locations
• Support for community involvement: Matching Gifts, 
Volunteer Match and 3M Community Giving 
• A 3M-owned 486-acre park offering employees the use 
of a 27-hole golf course, recreational areas for softball, 
tennis and more, as well as a clubhouse/conference 
center and picnic pavilions for personal use, such as 
weddings, graduations, family gatherings and sporting 
events. 
Education & Career Growth
Today’s business environment demands that we become faster 
and more flexible in anticipating and exceeding the needs of 
our customers, shareholders and employees. Creating a high-
performance culture built on continuous learning helps 3M 
achieve business growth for the Company and professional 
growth for employees
New Employee Onboarding:  3M invests in onboarding 
and developing new employees so that they have the tools, 
resources and networks they need to succeed. Our onboarding 
process begins at the time a candidate accepts a job offer and 
continues through the first year of employment. In 2013, we 
implemented an onboarding portal via our intranet in more than 
60 countries. Countries have customized information available 
in local languages. We are in the process of deploying a more 
comprehensive onboarding technology that provides pre-start 
information delivery and engagement for new employees on 
the front end and clear metrics, reporting and tracking for 3M on the back end. Currently live in 21 countries, the phase 
two technology will be fully deployed globally by early 2015, 
providing new employees with a better introduction to their 
career at 3M.This investment sets new employees up to be 
successful and make meaningful contributions from the start. 
Instituting a 3M-wide onboarding process is also one way we 
help supervisors and managers support employee growth and 
achievement consistently throughout the company.
A new program for new supervisors also ensures that new 
leaders have all the information and tools they need to lead 
teams successfully. This program covers topics that are needed 
for compliance, as well as how to lead, motivate and develop a 
high-performing team.
Skill Mapping and Contribution and Development 
Assessment:  3M has separate processes for employee 
performance and career development reviews. Each year, all 3M 
nonproduction employees identify their contributions in meeting 
their specified goals through an employee performance review 
system. 3M strives to have 100 percent of nonproduction 
employees receiving performance and career development 
reviews at least annually. In 2013 approximately 95 percent of 
global nonproduction employees set up a performance review 
form and 67 percent completed the entire performance review 
process. 
In addition, employees create or update their development plan 
that includes goals to elevate individual performance and skills. 
Additional skill-mapping tools may be used in collaboration 
with the employee’s supervisor to identify long-term desired 
goals. Contribution and development assessments for 
production staff follow site-specific procedures depending on 
local requirements and business-specific needs. 
Accelerated Leadership Development:  3M views leadership 
development as a competitive advantage and is accelerating 
leadership development across all employee segments by 
using new technologies and delivery methods to make its 
programs globally inclusive.
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   75 76   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
HEALTHY LIVING RESOURCES ADDITIONAL ONSITE SERVICES - ST. PAUL/AUSTIN
• 3M Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
• Back-up child care 
• Dependent scholarship programs
• Educational tools 
• Family, parenting and couples
• Financial and legal information and referrals 
• Flexible work arrangements
• Frequent fitness discount
• Grief, loss and domestic violence support
• Help finding child and adult/elder care, 
including back-up or sick-child care
• Incentives for participating in different health 
activities
• Know your numbers
• Lactation program
• Maternity management program
• New parent kits
• Parenting support 
• Partial reimbursement for qualifying weight 
management programs
• Pet care
• Preventive care offerings
• Sick-child care
• Tobacco cessation programs
• Weight Watchers® At Work• 3M Fitness Centers
• 3M Medical Clinic:
– Cardiovascular risk reduction program 
Mammography screenings
– Migraine clinic
– Physical therapy
– Registered dietitian
– Smoking cessation
– Travel services
– Urgent care clinic
• Banking
• Employee Store
• Farmers market
• FedEx
• Flu shots 
• Hair salons
• Healthy Living Center for Wellness
• Notaries 
• On-site health coaching
• Pharmacy 
• Sick-child care 
• Tartan Park
• Walking paths and skywalksThere are multiple leadership development programs offered 
for different stages in employees’ career journey. There are 
business and leadership courses available to employees at any 
level, including online programs that are free and available to 
employees in all geographies and cover topics ranging from 
personal effectiveness to finance. There is also a year-long 
onboarding program for new supervisors, as well as several 
programs for leaders as they progress into different leadership 
roles. 
3M is building leadership capability through all our programs 
by embedding diversity, collaboration and inclusion strategies 
directly into our programs. We have also aligned courses to 
key leadership behaviors, which are aligned to performance 
assessments and aim to encourage and foster the development 
of self and others. We place great importance on driving 
engagement of all employees by focusing on their career and 
development desires. 
Tuition Reimbursement:  In 3M locations around the world, 
employees are encouraged to continuously learn and improve 
their skills. In most countries where we do business, 3M offers, 
with management support, tuition reimbursement to encourage 
employees to upgrade their education to better meet current 
job responsibilities, prepare for future responsibilities and help 
qualify for changes in career paths within 3M. Mentoring:  Through the 3M Mentoring Network, the 
organization encourages self-directed mentoring partnerships. 
Mentors are identified globally throughout the Company 
utilizing online social platforms, including profile tagging and 
wikis. An online mentoring program design kit with guidelines 
for developing and implementing a mentoring program in 
alignment with strategic business objectives is available to 
support organizations wanting to offer mentoring programs. 
An executive mentoring program supports the professional 
development of high-performing employees. Originally focused 
on minority and women, this program was expanded in 2013 
to include all high-performing employees. Since January 2002, 
approximately 800 employees have enrolled in the executive 
mentoring program.
Outplacement Assistance:  3M offers a range of outplacement 
services and resources for employees whose positions are 
eliminated due to business needs. These resources are 
offered on a worldwide basis to help employees transition to 
employment in other areas of 3M or outside of the Company 
and include services such as development of career transition 
skills and identification of job placement opportunities. Health & Wellness
3M wants our employees to stay healthy and productive, which is good for employees, the Company and the community. 
With 3M Healthy Living, a healthy lifestyle is within reach. It helps support all areas of employees’ lives — social, 
emotional, mental and physical — both at home and at work. 
At 3M, we understand that health management programs help to differentiate 3M as an employer of choice. Good health improves 
business reputation, safety and business continuity. Productivity also improves. Investments in employee health can show a positive 
return on investment for the employee, 3M and the community. 
3M also offers valuable incentives to help motivate employees and support the community at the same time. We’ve focused our 
efforts on improving three risk factors to help improve overall health: physical inactivity, poor eating behaviors and lack of health 
screenings. 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   77 78   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Here is a summary of what we’ve provided to-date: 
• In 2013, we increased health screening participation to 
80 percent by offering a health assessment and allowing 
employees to self-report on activities to improve their 
health. Employees who participated earned up to $480 
off their 2014 3M medical plan premiums.
•  In 2012, we offered incentives for employees to participate 
in a shape-up challenge to encourage exercise, and an number of years, companies have implemented health 
and well-being programs in the U.S. in an effort to 
reduce health care costs. These programs are now being 
expanded to global operations for a number of reasons. 
Healthy employees typically have fewer absences and 
are more productive when they are at work. Supporting 
employee health and well-being improves workforce 
morale and engagement and promotes a positive 
corporate image. Implementing a global healthy living 
strategy for 3M employees leverages our resources more 
efficiently to achieve positive results.
We recently conducted a global survey to establish a 
baseline on current health promotion and well-being 
programs in the countries where 3M does business. 
3M HR representatives in 50 countries (not including 
the U.S.) completed the Healthy Living Global Survey in 
2013. Their responses represent over 38,000 employees 
for an average of 760 employees per response. While 
most countries reported that they offered some type of 
health and wellness initiative, we know that there is more 
work to do. 
GOALS & RESULTS
Our goals are to continue to attract and retain employees 
through offering competitive total rewards, including 
health and wellness programs that are valued by 
our employees. We monitor what is important to our 
employees, and benchmark externally, to ensure we 
continue to offer programs that are competitive.
We are also focused on developing our employees and 
providing them with resources to grow in their career at 
3M. We are reaching more people more quickly by utilizing 
new technologies and delivery methods. For example, we 
have recently launched a revised development program 
for new leaders. Approximately 50 facilitators have been 
trained to deliver these sessions around the globe and we 
now expect to reach most new supervisors within their 
first six months of becoming a new supervisor.
What 3M Employees Are Saying:
“I even got a letter from 
my doctor saying he 
doesn’t  need to see me 
for another year. He finally 
stopped harping at me!     
If I can do it, anyone can.”
– Vickie Crouse
“I often look in the mirror 
and say to myself, ‘Is that 
really me?’”
– Bonnie ShowstackVickie Crouse, a human resources 
coordinator at 3M’s Industrial 
Adhesives & Tapes plant in Conover, 
North Carolina, had a health 
assessment that hinted of more 
serious health problems. By taking 
advantage of 3M’s frequent fitness 
program (if you work out 12 times 
a month, you earn $20 back in your 
pocket), Vickie was able to get her 
health issues under control to better 
enjoy time with her family.
“When my doctor wrote in my chart 
‘middle-aged obese woman’ that 
was a turning point for me,” says 
3Mer Bonnie Showstack. “I didn’t 
see myself as that and certainly did 
not want to be labeled that way.”
Today, four years later, Bonnie has 
successfully lost 63 pounds and 
has gone from a size 18 to a size 6! 
“I often look in the mirror and say 
to myself, ‘Is that really me?’” says 
Bonnie who is the Occupational 
Health Nurse and manages the 
Healthy Living program at the 3M 
location in Rockland, Mass.“eat five fruits and vegetables a day” challenge 
to improve overall eating habits. 
•  In 2011, 38 percent of our employees participated 
in a health assessment and screening. If 
employees participated, they earned $50, plus 
their name was placed in a drawing for a free 
year of 3M Medical Plan premiums or $500. 
Aggregate results from 2013 indicated that 3Mers who 
focused on weight loss lost an average of 15 pounds 
per person. Seventy-three percent saw stress levels 
improve, and 90 percent of 3Mers who focused on 
physical activity spent an average of 150 minutes per 
week exercising. 
Through the aggregate results we received on the 
health assessment and screening, we learned that 3M 
employees who participated in health assessment and 
screenings had lower health care costs by $1,004 per 
participant. 
A Community Affair
In May 2013, 3M Healthy Living held a fitness walk. 
Healthy Living partnered with the 3Mgives to contribute 
$2,500 to Hunger Solutions Minnesota. In total, we had 
more than 1,600 walkers participate on our Maplewood, 
Minnesota, campus. 
In 2013 we have again partnered with 3Mgives, which 
donated $1 to the American Red Cross for every 
wellness screening completed, up to $25,000. We 
surpassed our goal with more than 25,000 participants.
Our Challenges
In the U.S., visibility for the Healthy Living program 
is high. In just three years, the familiarity of Healthy 
Living went from 22 to 89 percent. One of our biggest 
challenges is implementing a global wellness program. 
The health of employees is evolving as an increasingly 
important priority for global businesses like ours. For a Employee Engagement 
& Recognition
OVERVIEW
Employee engagement is a priority for 3M. We know that 
employee engagement is good for the Company and 
employees. Engaged employees are more satisfied with 
their work, tend to stay longer, and are more productive and 
committed. Employees are encouraged to pursue their ideas 
with a passion and collaborate with others to make their ideas 
reality. To facilitate employee engagement, we foster and 
reinforce behaviors that support engagement using multiple 
avenues including networking and collaboration, diversity and 
inclusion, and measurement and feedback on engagement. 
APPROACH
Networks & Collaboration
3M has numerous pathways to support organizational 
communications, learning and knowledge management. 
There are a variety of corporate and job functional systems to 
methodically help information and knowledge emerge and flow 
to the right people at the right time to add value. For example:
• Formal Learning Networks: The Learning Solution is 
3M’s corporate learning management system and is a 
one-stop electronic learning center that helps employees 
enroll in, deliver, track and report on learning activities. 
The Learning Solution serves the learning needs of 
3M business units, plants and learning organizations 
globally.
• Intranet Knowledge Platforms Databases: 3M’s intranet 
site structure is set up so that each employee has a 
Work Center as one of the quick-link tabs following login. 
Each Work Center is a collection of tools, systems and 
processes that are used routinely in daily work practices 
to successfully complete projects and work assignments 
in an employee’s functional work area. Company news 
for employees is available on a global news site called 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   79 80   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
90% Reported they perservere when faced 
with difficulties, take on new roles and 
responsibilities as the need arises, and are excited that 
their  work contributes to company success.
89% Respondents saw they feel like they 
really belong in the company.
83%   Highest worldwide Engagement 
category score since the first survey 
was conducted.
76% Reported the people in my work group 
actively pursue self-development 
opportunities to meet company needs.
72% Reported it is very easy to maintain my 
focus.Results from 2013 Vision and Strategies 
Alignment Survey: 
Spark 3M News. It enables employees to share news articles, 
videos and links with others both internally and externally via 
email and social media. 
• Best Practice Descriptions/Processes: As a diverse technical 
company, 3M shares best practices several ways. Two of the 
most widely used internal organizations are the 3M Technical 
Forum and the 3M Engineering Technology Organization. 
These two organizations provide an extensive network of 
expertise through specialized chapters focused on 3M’s core 
technologies and other emerging markets. Employees in 
R&D, manufacturing and other parts of the supply chain are 
able to collaborate and drive innovation globally across the 
organization.
• Company Education Facility: In addition to a variety of general 
courses, webinars, etc., 3M offers specialized extended 
courses to increase skills such as the 3M Leadership 
Development Institute, the 3M Marketing University and the 
General Managers’ and Managing Directors’ program.
• Idea Sharing: Idea management is driven differently across 
the Company depending on organizational needs and what 
works best for the area of work. Some platform examples 
include Yammer, Wiki Enterprise, and various 3M internal and 
external social media channels. Systems are implemented 
and available globally to share best practices and ideas.Measurement, Feedback & Action 
on Employee Engagement 
Since 2006, key survey content and follow-up actions have 
focused on employee engagement. We measure engagement 
and engagement drivers, and provide these results to leaders 
and their organizations for follow-up. 
As 3M corporate policy, a standard opinion survey is administered 
to all employees at locations worldwide once every two years. 
3M uses survey results to address employee concerns and 
identify opportunities for improvement. Summaries of survey 
results and actions taken are circulated up the management 
chain to ensure visibility and accountability. 3M also conducts a 
more strategically focused survey every two years that includes 
engagement measures. The Vision and Strategies Alignment 
Survey (formerly Leadership Survey) was last conducted in 
October 2013. 
3M also requires its leaders to actively foster engagement as 
part of their day-to-day coaching and interactions with others. 
This expectation is embedded in our leadership behaviors, 
which apply to all 3M leaders and links to their annual 
performance assessment. 3M supports leaders in these efforts 
via formal training, videos and on-demand tools. GOALS & RESULTS
Survey Measurements on Employee 
Engagement 
Results from the Standard Opinion Survey and the Vision 
and Strategies Alignment Survey indicate 3M’s support 
of employee engagement is strong and continuing to get 
stronger. For instance, engagement results have been 
tracked over the last four administrations of the Vision 
and Strategies Alignment Survey, which is completed 
every two years. Results have improved with each 
administration, up to 83 percent in 2013 which is well 
above the threshold for strength (70 percent favorable). 
Employee Rewards & Recognition
Hard work and extra effort are rewarded and recognized 
at 3M through an array of award programs. 3M sponsors 
many corporate award programs to honor individuals and 
teams that make significant contributions to the company.
In addition, many divisions also have their own specific 
ways of recognizing and rewarding people. Across 3M, 
management can choose from a variety of monetary and 
nonmonetary awards to show appreciation for exceptional 
contributions. Examples of corporate awards include:
• Awards for specific professionals, such as the Global 
Marketing Excellence Award and the Circle of Technical 
Excellence and Innovation Award
• Awards for cross-functional teams, such as the 
Golden Step Award
• Awards focused on employees who improve safety 
or pollution prevention
• Two prestigious lifetime achievement awards: the 
Engineering Achievement Award and the Carlton 
Society recognition, which honor employees for 
their scientific achievements
Transforming a Legacy Culture at 3M 
3M, along with four other large companies, is featured in 
The Oxford Handbook of Organizational Climate and Culture, 
New York: Oxford University Press (May 2014. Schneider, B., 
& Barbera, K. M. (Eds.). The book looks at how organizations 
acquire, develop, motivate and lead employees in contemporary 
organizations. 
“Transforming a Legacy Culture at 3M: Teaching an Elephant 
How to Dance,” is devoted to the central role of employee 
engagement in culture maintenance and change in 3M. 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   81 82   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
to high-hazard activities launched in 2014. This initiative is 
part of a 3M challenge to go from “Good to Great” in our EHS 
performance. The goal for Safety and Health in 3M is for all 
sites to achieve 100 percent conformance to six critical GSHP 
standards related to risk management of high-hazard activities: 
• Safety and Health Hazard Recognition and Risk 
Assessment
• Incident and Potential Hazard Reporting, Record Keeping, 
Investigation and Follow-up
• Powered Industrial Vehicles
• Machine Guarding
• Work at Height
• Process Hazard Analysis
Risk Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) 
Risk Assessment & Prioritization or RAP is a practical new 
approach to risk management that has been incorporated into 
existing facility risk management systems. In most situations it 
supplements rather than replaces existing hazard management 
tools. 3M has participated with member companies in ORCHSE 
Strategies, LLC’s Occupational Safety and Health Group 
Network, in a multiyear project that analyzed years of injury and illness data and conducted research into human performance. 
Individuals and teams of knowledgeable professionals identified 
the effective elements companies must have in place to reduce 
the incidence of FSIs. (Krause, T.R. and Murray, G.A.) 
The implementation of this methodology in 3M has effectively 
lowered risk levels associated with many higher-hazard tasks 
and activities to acceptable levels in a well-documented, and 
quantifiable manner. Through the proper use of this approach, 
safety professionals and others involved with hazard analyses 
no longer need to only rely on their experience or instinct 
to determine whether or not the tasks or activities meet an 
acceptable level of risk.
Measuring Risk Reduction Impact
Many incident management systems focus solely on the 
severity of the incidents rather than identifying the level of risk 
associated with incidents, potential hazards or near misses. 
Requiring incident management system users to identify the 
most likely consequence from the incident, potential hazard 
or near miss, not just the actual severity of the incident, is a 
critical step to identifying tasks with an elevated potential to 
result in an FSI. 
Over 6,000 risk assessments were completed in 2013 after 
the RAP Tool was released in the newly upgraded Worldwide 
Incident Management System (WIMS) database. Approximately 
14 percent of these assessments had risk levels that required 
action to achieve acceptable risk reduction. The data has proven 
itself invaluable due to our ability to track risk reduction in terms 
of real numbers. The upgrade has also provided measures of 
how timely the risk reductions are being implemented. 3M 
locations are now setting goals for themselves not only for 
conducting targeted numbers of risk assessments but also for 
reaching timely closure of implemented improvement actions.
Operational Risk Management
At the operational level, the RAP process integrates a 
uniform approach to risk characterization, prioritization and 
management. This includes systematic evaluation of layers of 
protection (LOP) for all common hazard identification inputs, including incidents, near misses, and potential hazard reviews. 
Hazard risks are systematically prioritized and the layers of 
protection analysis results used to define the most effective and 
efficient mitigation strategy. A final hazard risk characterization 
is performed after mitigation is complete so that overall risk 
reduction can be quantified. 
Common risk reduction successes have been achieved for 
machine hazards. In the example, this equipment was only 
partially guarded due to perceived operational needs. The 
risk assessment revealed that a serious Level 5 risk existed. 
Additional actions were implemented to further control the 
hazards of hand injury. These controls reduced the risk from 
Level 5 to Level 1. Installation of additional guards to prevent 
access to the point of operation for this equipment reduced the 
risk score significantly.Global Safety & 
Health
OVERVIEW
3M has a long history of ensuring its Global Safety and Health 
commitment to all employees. 3M’s Safety and Health Policy 
applies to all 3M operations, including new acquisitions. It 
is based on our core business values and stems from our 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) vision for “Safe and 
Healthy People, Products and Planet.” All visitors, vendors, 
and contract workers at 3M locations are held to the same 
safety and health requirements as 3M employees, therefore 
consistent management systems and evaluation tools are 
critical to company safety and health success.
APPROACH
In 1996, a Global Safety & Health Plan (GSHP) tool was initiated 
for all 3M locations worldwide. It utilizes a well-developed 
self-assessment process that is categorized into multiple 
elements addressing various areas and standards related to 
safety and health. 3M utilizes a variety of tools to manage risks 
from hazards in the workplace. We’ve used specialized tools 
successfully for a number of years in the areas of Industrial 
Hygiene, Ergonomics and Process Safety. Each of these 
disciplines uses a risk management approach to categorize 
hazard levels and define appropriate levels of control.
Recognizing the need to further minimize the rates of fatalities 
and serious injuries (FSI), 3M has been engaged in the 
development of a practical new approach to better managing 
hazards that have the potential to result in fatalities or serious 
life-altering injuries. 
The new approach was implemented in 2013, and includes 
development of an inventory of FSI precursors — a list of 
high-hazard activities, operations and situations that have 
the potential to result in a fatality or life-altering injury. These 
potential hazards are taken through the risk assessment and 
reduction process along with all near misses and incidents. 
A new five-year objective to achieve risk reduction related 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   83 84   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Process Hazard Risk Management
Process Hazard Management (PHM) is a systematic approach 
for prevention of process-related fires, explosions and sudden 
release of toxic materials. 3M PHM employs accepted industry 
practices and regulations. 3M PHM allows facilities to identify, 
control and verify that process hazards are understood and 
managed. The framework for PHM consists of:
• Hazard Identification and Assessment
• Hazard Reduction and Control
• Control Effectiveness Verification
Various tools are being used to ensure the appropriate rigor 
is being provided to manage the hazards associated with 
hazardous processes. Risk management of the hazardous 
process begins with the use of the Hazardous Process Over the past decade, over 95% of all chemical agents and noise 
baseline exposure risk assessments have been completed for 
all jobs, creating a foundation of exposure assessments used 
to drive the following:
• Baseline exposure assessments
• Annual air and noise sampling plans
• Exposure assessment validation plans
• Medical surveillance applicability analysis plans
• Hearing conservation programs including E-A-Rfit 
training
• Respirator and personal protective equipment programs
• As needed, other exposure management programs 
including administrative, industrial ventilation and 
isolation controls
Each year, active qualitative assessments are used to define 
annual air and noise monitoring and validation plans for each 
facility around the world. The air and noise exposure monitoring 
results are then analyzed using statistical methods to determine 
if any exposure management programs are required. 
3M requires each facility where there is potential for significant 
exposure to chemicals or noise to have annual Chemical 
and Noise Assessment and Validation Plans that identify and 
prioritize processes for exposure assessment, monitoring and 
statistical validation. The Chemical and Noise Assessment and 
Validation Plans enable facilities to prioritize annual activities 
toward completion of the goal of understanding and managing 
all workplace exposure risks. 
Ergonomics Risk Management
3M’s Ergonomics Risk Reduction Process (ERRP) is a global, 
comprehensive program integrating Ergonomic Job Analysis, 
Safety and Health, and Engineering professional development 
and ergonomics engineering design criteria in order to reduce 
exposure to commonly identified Work-related Musculoskeletal Disorder (WMSD) risk factors and support operational efficiency 
throughout 3M.
3M’s vision for ergonomics is to eliminate the existence of 
unacceptable levels of WMSD risk exposure as defined by 
the Ergo Job Analyzer (EJA) ©. A long-term EHS Scorecard 
Metric since 2008, approved by the EHS Committee, is to drive 
progress toward achieving this goal. While the goal is to reduce 
WMSD risks to the lowest level feasible, focus is first given to 
the potential higher-risk operations, processes or tasks.
Auditing & Compliance
To assure that the facility self-assessment and improvement 
process is effectively being utilized across the company, a risk-
based auditing program for Safety and Health is managed at 
the corporate level. Audit findings are ranked using the same 
risk matrix that is utilized for the analysis of potential hazards 
and incidents. Areas of nonconformance are examined for 
potential hazards, which can then be investigated for causal 
factors, risk assessment and corrective action to achieve 
risk reduction and conformance to established standards. All 
moderate- to high-risk audit findings are tracked to closure, 
and are then reviewed and approved by the lead auditor for 
satisfactory improvement. 
Safety & Health Committees
3M seeks employee participation at all levels to ensure 
involvement and ownership of safety and health programs 
and systems. This involvement is critical to achieving effective, 
proactive solutions to safety and health issues. Increasing 
employee ownership and involvement in the safety and health 
process helps provide a safer, healthier workplace. Emphasis 
is placed on a cooperative effort between management and 
employees in achieving these goals. Primary examples of how 
these efforts align with the risk reduction elements include:
• Job hazard analysis and risk assessments
• Ergonomics teams
• Process safety management 
RISK ASSESSMENT AND PRIORITIZATION (RAP) TOOL
Choose Most Appropriate Factor For Each Column
Evaluation Tool (HazPET), which provides a consistent and 
simplified categorization of the hazardous processes. Process 
Hazard Analysis methodologies are used to assess the process 
hazards and evaluate the effectiveness of existing safeguards.
Recent enhanced PHA requirements will provide a more 
sustainable rigorous hazard assessment methodology. Layers 
of Protection Analysis (LOPA) will also be used to analyze the 
effectiveness of critical safety devices and systems providing 
more attention to independent protection layers.
Comprehensive Chemical & Noise Exposure 
Risk Assessment and Management
Comprehensive exposure risk assessment and management 
is a systematic approach for estimating workplace exposures to 
chemical and physical agents for all materials, processes and 
employees. Accurate exposure assessments are critical to all 
exposure management programs and activities. 3M uses the 
comprehensive approach outlined by the American Industrial 
Hygiene Association (AIHA), creating an effective and efficient 
system for assessing and managing all exposure risks. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   85 86   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
FATALITIES 2010 2011 2012 2013
TOTAL EMPLOYEES  
(work-related fatalities)1 0 1 1
TOTAL CONTRACTORS 
(work-related fatalities)0 1 1 1• Potential hazard reporting programs 
• Participation in investigations and prompt follow-up of 
incidents and potential hazards
Through this collaborative effort, all employees have the 
opportunity to be involved in risk assessment activities to then 
develop action plans and assign responsibilities for completing 
goals and objectives to resolve safety and health issues. 
Formal Safety and Health Committees are the most active and 
visible way that this is demonstrated within 3M. In fact, this 
aspect is represented by its own standard of performance in 
the GSHP that requires locations to establish and maintain 
active safety and health committees. They are defined 
specifically as an organized group of employees from all levels 
of the facility whose function is to support the safety and health 
management system by identifying preventive and corrective 
measures needed to eliminate or control recognized safety and 
health hazards.
GOALS & RESULTS
Measuring leading indicators of Safety and Health performance 
is a key focus for 3M. Aggregated data from all Global Safety 
and Health Plan Assessments, Audits and Incident Reporting 
are evaluated to identify performance status and corporate-
wide opportunities. Metrics are tracked and reported for 
continuous improvement at the facility, business unit, regional 
and corporate levels. Initiatives such as improving the quality 
and level of implementation of safety and health management 
system elements (including preventive measures) at each 3M 
site results in increased awareness, mature programs, and 
reduced injury and illness rates. In 2011, 3M set key corporate-
wide safety and health objectives to continuously improve 
related management systems and to proactively reduce 
negative Safety and Health impacts. Significant achievement 
was made in meeting those objectives. The 2013 results are 
listed in the table on pages 87-90. Continuous improvement 
objectives have been identified for achievement by year-end 
2018.3M WORLDWIDE
Recordable Incident Rates by Cause
0.70.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.02006
Ergonomic Contact with 
object/equipmentSlip, trip, fall Miscellaneous2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 20133M WORLDWIDE - BY REGION
Recordable Trends
2010 2011 2012 2013
Asia Pacific 0.46 0.49 0.44 0.35
Canada 0.48 0.75 1.08 0.98
Europe/ Middle East/ Africa 0.75 1.08 1.11 0.95
Latin America 0.55 0.67 0.55 0.67
United States 2.90 2.3 2.3 2.34
Worldwide 1.56 1.46 1.42 1.413.003.50
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
0.00Recordable IR3M WORLDWIDE - BY REGION
Lost Time Trends
2010 2011 2012 2013
Asia Pacific 0.11 0.18 0.12 0.08
Canada 0.10 0.18 0.27 0.13
Europe/ Middle East/ Africa 0.51 0.62 0.62 0.43
Latin America 0.42 0.29 0.32 0.16
United States 0.46 0.42 0.46 0.48
Worldwide 0.36 0.38 0.39 0.340.600.70
0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00Lost Time IROUR FOOTPRINT
3M has been monitoring, measuring and working toward 
improving leading indicators of performance while 
simultaneously increasing the growth of the company. As 
a result of our efforts, lagging indicators such as worldwide 
recordable and lost time rates have continued to decrease. 
3M follows the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) 
recordkeeping rules and formulas to record and measure 
injury and illness rates worldwide. All 3M employees and 
contingent employees, regardless of facility type but within 
3M’s operational control, are covered by our injury and illness the steel beam that was being staged on the ground prior to lifting it into the building framework. As the tension on the beam was 
released, it became unstable and tipped over and struck the supervisor. 
Injury and Illness Rates
Global incident rates for injuries and illnesses continue to trend downward. There has been a 42 percent reduction in days away from 
work case rates (LTIR) since 2006. The most frequent cause of injuries is from contact with objects or equipment.
The implementation of the new risk management process is primarily designed to prevent fatal and serious injury events related to 
recordkeeping rules. In addition, contractors are asked to 
submit notification to 3M of worker hours and any injuries 
occurring while performing work in accordance with a 3M 
contract.
Fatal Incidents
Sadly, 3M experienced the tragic loss of one employee and one 
contractor in the workplace in 2013. 
A 3M employee was fatally injured when she pinned herself 
between a warehouse storage rack and the powered industrial 
vehicle she was operating while trying to push a loaded pallet 
from underneath the storage rack. Training had been completed 
by the employee, however the investigation concluded that 
a shortcut was being taken. Justification for the shortcut 
could not be determined. Additional layers of protection were 
incorporated into this operation to address organizational 
performance and gaps in training.
A sub-contractor supervisor died from injuries sustained when 
he was struck by a steel beam at a new construction site. The 
supervisor had ordered a crane operator to relieve tension on 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   87 88   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
GLOBAL SAFETY & HEALTH OBJECTIVES
CORPORATE SAFETY & HEALTH OBJECTIVES TARGET MILESTONES 2013 RESULTS
Implement standardized tool for risk characterization and 
prioritizationyear - end 
2013•  Conduct training on use of tool
•  Integrate into global EHS auditing system
•  Integrate into potential hazard reportingA standardized Risk Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) tool was developed and is being used for prioritizing audit 
findings and reducing the risk levels of potential hazards. 
The RAP tool was also integrated into the incident investigation process to determine the effectiveness, strength and 
reliability of safeguards and controls for the prevention of incidents.
Enhance and improve worldwide incident reporting data 
quality for statistical accuracy and metrics evaluationyear - end 
2013•  Conduct Six Sigma Improvement Project
•  Establish timeline and work teams to complete project 
recommendations
•  Implement project recommendationsThe Six Sigma project was completed in June 2012 and resulted in significant changes to the approach used for the 
investigation of incidents.
All incidents, near miss cases and potential hazards are given a risk assessment using the new RAP tool that was 
incorporated into the 3M incident management system.
The data entry process was also improved to minimize reporting errors.
Increase quality of incident investigation reports and action 
items to drive better understanding of contributing factors 
and improvements in the control of hazards.year - end 
2013•  Define, pilot and refine a quality assessment tool
•  Conduct training on use of tool
•  Implement use of tool
•  Adjust tool as needed for improvementA layer of protection approach was defined as the basis for incident investigations. This method has been incorporated 
into the 3M incident management system.
Training on the use of this new method is ongoing.
Implement a standardized method for the identification, 
evaluation and control of machine hazardsyear - end 
2013•  Assess methods and tools currently in use
•  Select method(s) that provide greatest control of machine hazards
•  Pilot at locations where high-severity events related to machine 
hazards have occured
•  Implement final method(s) and toolsThe assessment resulted in the selection of two methods for machine hazard analysis. The RAP tool is used to assess 
all layers of protection related to equipment operation. An additional risk tool is used to evaluate the strength of safety 
control circuitry necessary to prevent severe injuries. 
Training for both methods is ongoing.
Conduct facility EHS perception surveys and implement 
improvement activitiesyear - end 
2013•  Conduct EHS perception surveys at all 3M manufacturing facilities
•  Develop and implement facility EHS culture improvement plans
•  Collect and share best practices for EHS culture improvement84 percent of 3M manufacturing facilities had completed an EHS perception survey at the end of 2013.
Best practices taken from the improvement plans were shared across 3M.
Implement new global audit management system year - end 
2013•  Define and deliver new software
•  Conduct training for lead auditors 
•  Pilot and implement use of toolSoftware has been developed and deployed for use.
Training for lead auditors has been conducted as scheduled and the tool is in use globally.
Complete baseline exposure assessments worldwide year - end 
2013•  Complete Comprehensive Chemical & Noise Baseline Qualitative 
Exposure Assessments in new Industrial Hygiene software system for 
all sitesNew Web-based exposure assessment and management system has been implemented to support a comprehensive 
strategy across all sites globally. The system implementation included Web-based and hands-on training of over 250 
users worldwide to complete >500,000 process-task-chemical assessments.
Comprehensive task-based exposure assessments for all materials and chemicals are used across every site globally.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   89 90   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Implement Air and Noise Monitoring Certification program 
to enhance protection and performanceyear - end 
2014•  Develop Air and Noise Monitoring Certification program 
•  Certify an Air and Noise Monitoring resource for each site where 
monitoring is conductedAn updated Air & Noise Certification training program including proficiency testing was completed in 2012. 
Implementation began in late 2012 with a total of 27 percent of sites globally having an assigned certified resource.
Improve global implementation of 3M Ergonomic Program year - end 
2013•  Assist acquisitions to implement ergonomic program
•  Assess MSD risk exposure data and re-evaluate job assessment 
criteria
•  Expand location and regional ergonomics self sufficiencyNew acquisition sites were visited on schedule to begin implementation of the 3M ergonomics program.
MSD risk assessments were conducted as planned.
Regional workshops are ongoing to improve expertise of EHS personnel globally in the use of ergonomics risk 
reduction tools.
Develop and Implement new medical surveillance 
applicability analysis systemyear - end 
2017•  Integrate new medical surveillance applicability analysis module into 
the global exposure assessment system.
•  Develop and deliver training on new module for all global users. In progress
Job tasks associated with targeted high hazard activities 
are evaluated for adequate control using the 3M Risk 
Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) tool.year - end 
2018•  Affected sites meet 95 to 100% of requirements for: 
- Work performed near mechanical hazards;
- Work performed at height;
- Operation of mobile equipment or vehicles; In progress
Process Hazard levels are determined for every process in 
the covered facility using the Hazardous Process Evaluation 
Tool (HazPET)year - end 
2018•  Affected sites meet 95 to 100% of HazPET requirements  In progress
E-A-Rfit system implemented for all high priority sites year - end
2018•  Develop and deliver training for effective implementation of  E-A-Rfit 
system.
•  Implement E-A-Rfit across all sites with large hearing conservation 
programs. In progress
Validate protection factor for first tier priority operations 
with required respirator use.year - end
2018•  Build reports to efficiently identify all first tier priority operations and 
relevant air sampling data for applicable respirator tasks.
•  Complete validation of all respirator assessments for first tier priority 
operations. In progressGLOBAL SAFETY AND HEALTH OBJECTIVES
CORPORATE SAFETY AND HEALTH OBJECTIVES TARGET MILESTONES 2013 RESULTS92   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Our Environmental
Optimizing
Footprint
Optimizing Our 
Environmental Footprint
3M is committed to managing and minimizing its Environmental 
Footprint. Our strategy and resulting actions are categorized in 
the following sections: Environmental Management Systems 
and Compliance, Climate and Energy, Raw Material Scarcity, 
and Water Quality and Availability.
Pollution Prevention Pays (3P)
3M’s Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program celebrated its 
38th anniversary in 2013. In those 38 years, the program 
has prevented more than 1.9 million metric tons of pollutants 
and saved nearly $1.8 billion (USD) based on aggregated 
data from the first year of each 3P project. The 3P program 
helps prevent pollution at the source, in products and in 
manufacturing processes rather than removing it after it has 
been created. When the 3P program was launched in 1975, 
the concept of applying pollution prevention on a company-
wide basis and documenting the results was an industry first.
Active and thriving today, the 3P program invites participation 
from all sectors of the Company, including research and 
development, manufacturing, logistics, transportation, and 
packaging employees. The program is a key element of our 
Amanda Jarvis is an Environmental, Health and Safety 
Specialist and a steward lead for 3P at 3M Rockland, 
Massachusetts. 3M Rockland had 285 short tons 
of waste (pollution prevented) saved in seven 3P 
programs recognized in 2013. Amanda credits the 
site’s division leadership for its strong support of the 
3P and environmental, health and safety programs. 
Although Rockland recently integrated into 3M, the 
team enthusiastically embraced the 3P program 
with 9 projects in two years, and 38 employees were 
recognized for 2013 3P projects. The team takes 
pride in continuously improving and reducing its 
environmental footprint, and Rockland’s competitive 
nature leads it to pursue the 3P projects that most 
significantly impact pollution prevention. Amanda says 
the 3P program’s longevity and continued success is 
indicative of 3M’s commitment to pollution prevention.
3P GLOBAL PREVENTION ACHIEVEMENTS: 1975-2013
First Year Savings Cumulative Totals (Tons)
1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Waste 
Pollution PreventedTotal Air 
Pollution PreventedTotal Water 
Pollution Prevented2,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
Total Number of Projects:  11,000 Total Savings: $1.7 Billion USD
Total Pollution Prevented: 1.9 Million Metrics Tons3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   93 94   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
environmental strategy and is advancing our sustainability 
efforts. 3P has achieved that status based on our belief 
that a prevention approach is more environmentally 
effective, socially acceptable and more economical than 
conventional pollution controls. 3P seeks to eliminate 
pollution through the following methods:
• Product Reformulation
• Process Modification and Redesign
• Equipment Redesign
• Supply Chain Improvements
• Recycling and Reuse of Waste Materials
The program depends directly on the voluntary 
participation of 3M employees. Innovative projects 
are submitted and then reviewed and selected based 
on defined criteria by a 3P committee representing 
R&D; engineering; Environmental, Health and Safety; 
manufacturing; and supply chain organizations. Selected 
project teams receive recognition for their achievement.
Environmental 
Management Systems 
& Compliance
OVERVIEW
Setting and implementing global environmental 
policies, management systems and tracking as well as 
maintaining key performance metrics enables 3M to 
continually integrate and drive environmental stewardship 
throughout the Company. Environmental stewardship is 
integrated into each of the five business units globally, 
ensuring consistency and innovative environmental 
thinking. As reflected by our environmental performance 
indicators and 2015 Sustainability Goals, environmental 
stewardship is a core corporate commitment backed by 
decades of proven performance.APPROACH
In 1975, 3M’s commitment to environmental stewardship 
was formalized when the Board of Directors adopted the 3M 
Environmental Policy. It is a comprehensive statement of 3M’s 
environmental commitment, emphasizing preventing pollution at 
the source. The executive Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Committee, reporting to the Corporate Operating Committee, 
provides oversight of 3M’s environmental programs. 
Environmental Management Systems
3M’s multifaceted strategy for implementing environmental 
management systems and global auditing of environmental 
compliance for our operations is key to understanding any potential 
gaps and gaining resolution quickly. All manufacturing facilities are 
required to complete a Global Environmental Management Self-
Assessment at least annually, which consists of a detailed evaluation 
of each facility’s systems alignment for ensuring environmental 
compliance and management system performance. Following is a 
list of topics covered in the self-assessment:
• Regulatory Applicability
• Regulatory Change Management
• Air Regulatory Compliance and Conformance
• Air Emission Control Operation
• On-Site Waste Management
• Off-Site Waste Recycle and Disposal
• Wastewater
• Rainwater and Stormwater
• Water Supply and Use
• Groundwater and Remediation
• Storage Tanks
• Energy Management
• Environmental Policies and Standards• Incident Prevention Reporting and Investigation
• Incident Reporting and Investigation
• Planning and Goals
• Training and Communications
The elements reflect procedures, systems and processes that 
are comprehensive and mandatory to maintain compliance with 
legal or other requirements. Additional ISO 14001 elements and 
associated questions are provided to enable sites to conduct 
further review of their Environmental Management System. 
Data from the assessments is validated through audits, site 
visits by subject matter experts and other data systems.
Tracking Operational Performance
3M has extensive global environmental data management 
systems in place to identify, track and manage relevant 
information indicative of corporate-wide environmental 
management and performance. This includes management 
systems covering a full range of environmental compliance and 
operational performance metrics relevant to 3M operations, 
some of which are provided in this report. 
Information and performance data on a majority of these 
program elements are tracked and reported through corporate 
electronic reporting systems. Scorecards published quarterly include environmental performance data at the facility, division, 
business unit and corporate levels and are reviewed by 
executive management for performance on selected indicators. 
This enables 3M to monitor and identify successes, risks and 
opportunities for improvements and reductions worldwide.
Ensuring Regulatory Compliance
3M operations are subject to global environmental laws 
and regulations, including those pertaining to air emissions, 
wastewater and stormwater discharges, hazardous substances 
or materials of concern, and the handling and disposal of 
solid and hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations are 
enforceable by national, state and local authorities around 
the world. 3M is committed to compliance with all global 
environmental requirements and regulations. Key elements of 
the environmental auditing program include:
• To measure and assure that procedures, practices and 
programs comply with environmental regulations
• To identify potential environmental concerns and 
establish plans to address them
• To apprise management on compliance matters
• To assure 3M environmental policy and standard 
expectations are met
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   95 96   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
• Exceedances: emissions or other environmental 
parameters above permitted or allowable regulatory 
levels
• Significant Spills: Spills that are deemed above a 
designated risk level based on internal company set 
volume and response level required to adequately 
respond. 
• Agency Notices: Notices received by 3M for allegations 
from an environmental regulatory or permitting 
requirement
• Fines: Compensation paid by 3M to address an 
administrative fine or penalty imposed by an 
environmental regulatory agency.
We implemented WIMS in 2010 as the new corporate-wide 
database for reporting all EHS incidents. As we’d previously 
used several different systems, the consolidated WIMS has led 
to continuous improvement related to increased awareness of 
responsibilities, understanding of the holistic system and more 
consistent reporting requirements. In turn, this has provided 
more accurate reporting by the 200-plus sites globally since 
2010.
OUR FOOTPRINT 
EMS Implementation & Environmental 
Compliance
In addition to 3M’s Global Environmental Management System 
annual self-assessment, approximately 89 percent of sales 
value of production (SVOP) have ISO 14001-certified (or 
equivalent) management systems that are reviewed by an 
independent third party. SVOP is defined as the Sales Value of 
all output of a location.  This includes not only Finished Goods 
sold within the producing country, but also the Sales Value of 
products transferred out of a facility to other locations within 
country, or as an intercompany sale
3M had 85 significant unplanned releases (spills) to the 
environment in 2013. This includes releases that have been 
designated with 3M severity evaluation of level 2 (significant) Following are several key elements of the auditing program: 
• Manufacturing, distribution and laboratory operations 
are audited for environmental compliance on a frequency 
determined based on relative risk
• At least annually, all global operations are assessed 
against a variety of criteria to establish a prioritized list of 
facilities for compliance auditing
• 3M uses a variety of tools and resources for compliance 
auditing, including:
– Internally developed compliance protocols, created 
by subject matter experts in regulatory programs 
and 3M processes
– 3M’s Global Environmental Management Self-
Assessment as an evaluation tool 
– Externally purchased compliance protocols, 
especially for international operations, to ensure 
local compliance obligations are understood and 
met
– Internal environmental compliance experts from 
around the company
– External environmental consultants as needed 
to provide additional expertise and third-party 
verification of our auditing protocols
– Complete and robust documentation of audit 
findings, assignment of responsibility and due 
dates for closure of findings, and detailed review 
of findings closure to assure corrective actions are 
appropriate and sustainable
3M’s environmental auditing program is audited periodically by 
3M’s Corporate Auditing department.
Tracking Environmental Incidents
All global 3M-owned facilities that are within 3M’s operational 
control are required to internally report environmental 
exceedances, spills, agency notices and fines through 3M’s 
Worldwide Incident Management System (WIMS). These are 
defined as follows:or level 3 (severe/most significant) based on several risk 
factors (including regulatory compliance, volume released 
and response requirements) with the 3M WIMS system.  The 
increased number of significant global  spills is due to improved 
understanding and reporting processes within 3M. We plan to 
use the improved data to better drive spill-prevention activities.
3M ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE METRICS
2010 2011 2012 2013
All Global Exceedances 30 23 42 73
Significant Global Spills 93 102 111 85
All Agency Notices 16 21 32 47100120
80
60
40
20
03M GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINES
2010 2011 2012 2013
     Fines ($USD) $169,534 $25,835 $21,275 $5,600$20,000$40,000$60,000$80,000$100,000$120,000$140,000$160,000$180,000
$0Global environmental fines reported herein include more than the 
GRI definition of significant and reportable in 3M’s Annual Report 
(10K), as global fines regardless of significance are tracked and 
reported through WIMS. The increase in 2010 was the result of 
fines incurred at one of our U.S. manufacturing sites.
98   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   97
ongoing dialogue on strategies to address 
potential global climate change issues.
• 3M endorses a voluntary approach that 
involves all nations. If reductions are mandated 
by regulation or legislation, 3M endorses a 
uniform market-based approach that includes 
all nations; this approach should also include 
provisions for emissions trading and credit for 
early action.
• 3M supports continued research to assess the 
scientific and economic impacts of strategies 
to address climate change, while considering 
the interrelationship to other environmental 
regulations and issues. 
• 3M applies its environmental goals and 
standards, including those pertaining 
to GHG reductions, consistently around 
the world.
1) Executive-Level Commitment
Climate change and energy efficiency are 
issues of great importance throughout 3M up 
to the Corporate Operating Committee and 
CEO. Top-level executives have empowered 
the Corporate EHS Committee to take proactive 
steps and be responsible for all final decisions 
on climate change and energy strategy. This 
includes setting Company reduction goals and 
policies. 
In addition, for climate change strategy and GHG 
emission advice, the Corporate EHS Committee 
has appointed the corporate Climate Change 
Steering Team. Complementing the efforts 
of the Climate Change Steering Team, 3M’s 
business continuity planning process and 
our crisis management program review help 
manage risks facing the Company’s physical 
operations and supply chains (e.g., severe 
weather events).Energy 
& Climate
OVERVIEW
3M has a history of proactive leadership in addressing both the 
challenges and opportunities presented by climate change and energy 
conservation. We operate under the philosophy that early action is 
paramount to being a leader in this space, and our programs and 
results prove our success. 
This proactive leadership can perhaps best be understood through five 
areas of action:
1. Executive-level commitment to these important topics and 
our related principles, commitments and risk-mitigation 
planning efforts
2. Industry-leading efforts to reduce our own greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions 
3. Extensive public policy engagement on both climate 
change and energy conservation 
4. A decades-long track record of improving energy 
efficiency at our facilities 
5. Serving our customers through a wide range of innovative 
products that help them improve energy efficiency and reduce 
their carbon footprint
OUR APPROACH
Guiding Principles
3M’s approach to global climate change is based on several 
principles: 
• 3M supports the long-term goal of sustainable development; the 
Company is committed to continuous and measurable improvement 
in environmental performance as a means of achieving that goal. 
• 3M believes that sufficient information exists to take voluntary, 
responsible action to reduce its GHG footprint. 
• 3M recognizes the activities of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and intends to participate in the 
Helping Data Centers 
Manage Energy Efficiency
In addition to dramatically reducing our own GHG 
emissions, 3M has introduced several products into 
the marketplace to enable meaningful reduction in 
GHG emissions for our customers. One example 
includes our 3MTM NovecTM Engineered Fluids, which 
have recently enabled a new paradigm in data center 
cooling that dramatically reduces energy use, GHG 
emissions and municipal water consumption for 
evaporative cooling. In the past year, the technology 
and customer applications for the Company’s two-
phase immersion cooling products in data centers 
have been recognized with numerous awards. For 
example, one data center in Hong Kong using 3M 
NovecTM technology reports 4,000 times energy 
efficiency improvements over traditional data center 
cooling approach. Watch this video  to learn more 
about how data centers are using this technology to 
be more energy-efficient. 
Exploring Energy-Efficient 
Technologies and Solutions for the 
Chinese Market 
3M announced earlier this year 
that it was selected as a partner 
in the U.S.-China Clean Energy 
Research Center (CERC) Building 
Energy Efficiency consortium. 
The CERC, established in 2009 
by President Barack Obama 
and President Hu Jintao, is intended to facilitate joint research and 
development on clean energy technology by teams of scientists and 
engineers from the U.S. and China. 
As part of the Building Energy Efficiency consortium, 3M will 
participate in research on building-efficiency strategies, tools 
and practices in areas such as building envelope technologies 
and integration of new construction materials for building energy 
efficiency.
Among other projects, the consortium will collaborate during the 
remaining years of its charter on a number of demonstration 
buildings in China to incorporate 3M energy-efficiency technologies. 
It will study these products at work in various Chinese environments, 
as well as with locally sourced Chinese building components.
“3M’s participation in the consortium will not only help us drive the 
growing market for large-scale energy efficiency and sustainability 
projects forward, but will give all members the opportunity to learn 
firsthand about the energy efficiency needs of the Chinese market,” 
said Stefan Babirad, Ph.D., technical director for 3M Industrial 
Adhesives and Tapes Division. “This partnership will also allow us to 
gain invaluable customer feedback to help shape future innovations.”3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   99 100   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
To address the issue of climate change, 3M has committed to 
the following 
• Develop and maintain an inventory of our Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions.
• Continue to improve energy efficiency in manufacturing 
and administrative operations, including all aspects of 
direct and indirect use of fossil fuels
• Manage emission of our GHG to optimize reductions and 
cost benefits
• Assess the potential use of renewable energy sources at 
3M operations
• Increase the use of energy efficiency products within 3M 
operations and encourage their use by 3M suppliers and 
customers
• Incorporate an evaluation of environmental and energy 
impacts throughout the full product life cycle (from 
raw material acquisition through manufacturing, use 
and disposal) as part of the Company’s Life Cycle 
Management assessment process
• Invest in research and development to create new 
products and technology that will reduce the generation 
and emissions of GHG
• Develop partnerships and participate in a positive 
dialogue with governmental agencies and other 
organizations engaged in tackling climate change
Risk-Mitigation Planning
Severe weather and long-term trends could affect 3M’s 
operations and supply chain. To address these and other 
risks, 3M has developed and maintains a systematic Business 
Continuity and Planning Process and Crisis Management 
Program. To implement this process and respond to specific 
incidents, 3M’s Corporate Crisis Management Program 
coordinates efforts of local crisis management teams 
maintained at each 3M facility and international subsidiary. Corporate and local plans take into account natural disaster, 
infectious disease, employee safety, protection of assets, 
customer service and other business continuity requirements 
that may impact specific facilities and businesses. Every year, 
the local crisis management team must review and update its 
plan to reflect current conditions. It also performs a tabletop 
or actual crisis response exercise. 3M Corporate Auditing 
and Corporate Security monitor facility compliance with the 
Corporate Crisis Management Program.
3M mitigates supply chain risks through a variety of management 
practices, including multisourcing raw materials, pre-
qualification of potential outsource manufacturers, maintaining 
appropriate stocks of raw materials and contingency plans with 
key suppliers to ensure allocation to 3M in the event of supply 
disruption.
2) Reducing Our GHG Emissions
GHG emission reductions are achieved through a variety of 
methods at 3M and include, but are not limited to, increasing 
the use of more sustainable raw materials, improving process 
and equipment efficiency, upgrading equipment, reducing our 
demand for energy use, and implementing and maintaining 
pollution control technologies. All reduction efforts are integral 
to the Company’s overall success and assist the Company 
with the challenge of addressing climate change. Further 
details regarding our GHG impressive emission reduction 
achievements can be found in the Goals & Progress and Our 
Footprint sections that follow.
3) Public Policy Engagement
3M is actively engaged in public policy development to address 
climate change. One such important direct engagement is with 
the National Climate Coalition (NCC). 3M is a founding member 
of NCC, an organization committed to dialogue and policy 
development with decision-makers in the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) and many state agencies throughout 
the U.S.
In 2013, NCC made great advancements through engagement 
with U.S. EPA, many state environmental agencies, the 
Engaging Our Stakeholders: 
Creating Smarter Cities
Urban centers are the driving force in 
generating Europe’s economic growth. 
And with almost 70 percent of the 
European Union population living in 
urban areas, smarter cities represent 
an enormous opportunity to improve the 
quality of life for millions of people. 
As part of its Europe 2020 strategy 
for growth and jobs, the European 
Commission launched the Smart Cities 
Initiative in July 2012. The initiative’s goal 
is to foster smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in Europe. Eco-innovation is seen as an essential 
enabler of resource efficiency and a source of green growth to help EU member states exit the economic 
crisis, keep manufacturing in Europe and meet environmental goals.
At 3M, we recognized early on that doing business in new, smarter ways would not only create a more 
viable Company, it could also enable us to meet our social responsibilities and reduce our impact on 
the environment. This passion for embedded sustainability made our participation in the Smart Cities 
Initiative a natural fit. So, in 2013, we engaged with key 3M stakeholders to better understand what they 
value in smart cities and to share what we’re doing as a Company to help make cities smarter.
• Smart City Consumer Research: To understand what people living in urban areas felt were 
the most important attributes of smart city living, we conducted a survey in May 2013 with 500 
European city dwellers across the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, France and Sweden. We asked 
them a range of questions related to mobility, day-to-day living, health and energy. Our results 
indicate that EU citizens cite a good transportation system and being environmentally friendly as the 
most popular descriptions of a smart city. 
• Sustainable Solutions for Smart Cities Event: In June 2013, 3M hosted an event in Brussels 
for hundreds of our customers and industry thought leaders to showcase examples of how 3M is 
creating sustainable solutions for smart cities. We invited both 3M leaders and external partners to 
speak at the event, highlighting 3M solutions that spanned smart grid applications, e-mobility and 
transportation uses, and health care and quality of life needs. Following the event, all attendees were 
invited to provide feedback via an online survey, and 80 percent of respondents indicated that the 
event was a valuable experience.
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   101 102   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) and Resources for the Future 
(RFF). This work has accelerated in 2014, with the primary goal 
to create effective climate change regulation in the U.S. (absent 
legislative action) that serves to reduce GHG emissions from 
the utility sector and encourage additional GHG reductions, all 
while enabling U.S. businesses to remain competitive in the 
global marketplace. 
4) Improving Our Energy Efficiency
3M has identified a broad approach to managing our energy 
footprint, which includes evaluating the energy impact of new 
products and manufacturing processes being developed in 
our laboratories; new equipment and facilities being designed 
and built by our engineering staff; and reducing our energy 
footprint of our manufacturing and administrative facilities. 
In addition, 3M actively shares information about the energy 
management program with external stakeholders, such as 
suppliers, customers and other interested organizations.At 3M, energy management extends beyond energy-efficiency 
efforts in factories and buildings. It is a team effort guided 
by the global Corporate Energy Policy. Energy management 
responsibilities are coordinated by the Corporate Energy 
Management team, with oversight by 3M’s Corporate Energy 
Manager and Senior Engineering Vice President and with 
active support from the CEO. The team involves personnel from 
environmental operations, facility operations, finance, sourcing, 
engineering, energy management, corporate marketing and 
public affairs. Each department provides cross-functional 
contributions, ensuring that: 
• Energy-efficient technologies are being used and 
opportunities are being identified in the design process.
• Renewable energy opportunities are identified and 
financed.
• Data is tracked routinely and consistently by facilities.5) Innovative GHG-Reducing Products for Our 
Customers
Many examples of the products we bring to market that help 
our customers reduce their GHG emissions can be seen found 
in the 2014 edition of our Environmental Solutions Catalog.
In addition to offering products that help our customers reduce 
their carbon footprint, 3M is actively involved in measuring the 
carbon footprint of many of our products.
3M conducts product carbon footprint evaluations as part of 
the product Life Cycle Assessment process on select products 
and is engaged with key stakeholders to improve and refine 
common metrics for such analysis. 
3M defines a product carbon footprint as GHG (CO2 equivalent) 
emissions resulting from a product across its entire life cycle 
— including raw material acquisition, manufacturing, transport, 
storage, use and disposal of the product. To calculate carbon 
footprints, 3M applies currently available standards and tools.
One of the challenges in this area is the wide range of 
potential approaches and assumptions being used for such 
calculations. To address these issues, 3M supports further 
development of common metrics and is working with the World 
Resource Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WRI/WBCSD), peer companies, governments 
and environmental organizations. The goal of these efforts is to 
enable 3M and others to provide cost-effective, accurate and 
useful information to customers and other stakeholders.
Using product carbon footprint information, 3M has offset 
GHG emissions from certain products through the purchase 
of carbon offsets. To consistently manage carbon offsets, 3M 
adopted a Product Carbon Footprint Offsets Standard. This 
standard addresses the requirements for the calculation of 
product carbon footprints and the management of product 
carbon offsets. 
For additional information about how 3M is tackling climate 
change, visit www.3M.com/Sustainability.GOALS & RESULTS
3M is a leader in setting and achieving visionary goals to 
improve our energy efficiency and make a positive impact on the 
environment through early reduction of GHG emissions. When 
others were talking about making reductions, the Company 
took leadership actions to achieve those reductions in real life. 
These goals and leadership actions have led to tremendous 
results, as demonstrated by our actual performance and the 
external recognition we have received. 
The Company first set an energy conservation goal in 1990 
and has been setting such goals ever since. As a result of our 
leadership in energy management, the U.S. EPA has recognized 
3M with the ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award for an 
industry-leading 10 years. 
In addition, the Company was among the first to set GHG 
emission reduction goals. Two GHG reduction goals have been 
set and achieved with strong results. From 2002 through 
2013, the Company reduced GHG emissions by an astounding 
57 percent on an absolute basis. This industry-leading 
performance contributed to the Company being recognized 
with several external awards, including the Gigaton Award from 
the Carbon War Room and the Climate Leaders Award from 
U.S. EPA.
Industry-Leading Goals & Achievements
Reducing our GHG emissions by 57 percent in only 11 years 
(2002–2013) has provided a direct and immediate benefit to the 
environment. This reduction is even more impressive when one 
considers it is an absolute reduction (e.g., it occurred even as 
the Company grew sales and production during this timeframe). 
The Company’s reductions from the 2002 base through 2013 
resulted in a cumulative reduction of nearly 100 million metric 
tons of GHG emissions to the atmosphere compared with the 
emission level during the base year. This calculation even takes 
into account the investment in acquisitions of $9.5 billion (not 
including inflation) that 3M has made since 2002, meaning 
that even as the Company expanded in scope, substantial 
reductions in GHG emissions have been achieved.3M and Gossamer Unveil the World’s Largest Aperture Parabolic Trough in Daggett, California — May 20123M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   103 104   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
To put this in perspective, the value the Company has provided 
to society throughout that time period is equivalent to any of 
the following: 
• Removing nearly 2 million cars from the road
• Removing over 800,000 homes from the grid
• Eliminating the need for more than two coal-fired power 
plants in the U.S.
We continue to focus on appropriately managing our GHG 
emissions and seek to achieve further reductions in the years 
to come. Given our progress to date, fluctuations in our own 
GHG emission levels year-to-year have occurred and remain 
possible. For example, over the past six years, the Company’s 
GHG emissions have increased in three years and decreased 
the other three years. This fluctuation occurs for a variety of 
reasons, including the growth of products across our portfolio, 
the number of acquisitions we made, and overall economic 
conditions in the markets we serve. 
It is important to note that even as those yearly fluctuations 
occur, a large benefit to society has already been provided, and 
additional significant net reductions continue to be realized each 
year. In addition, the growth of products across the Company’s 
portfolio is beneficial in that many of those products help our 
customers reduce their GHG emissions and meet their own 
climate change goals.
GHG emission inventory and accounting initiatives have been 
a key priority for 3M. Our GHG management strategy includes 
a rigorous accounting system to generate an annual inventory 
of worldwide emissions. In addition, the process and associated 
GHG emissions reported from 1990–2007 were validated by 
an external third-party consultant. Since 2002, the global 3M 
inventory has been developed, maintained and verified by 3M’s 
ISO/IEC 17025 accredited laboratory in accordance to the World 
Resource Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol. 
The total GHG Inventory encompasses the Company’s diversity 
and complexity. A total of approximately 600 facilities, including R&D, manufacturing, distribution centers and administrative 
support offices within 3M’s operational control, are accounted 
for in the current inventory. Both Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 
(indirect) emissions as categorized by WRI are included. 3M tracks 
and reports both absolute and indexed to net sales emissions 
data. 
GHG emission data for 2012 and 2013 cannot be directly 
compared to years before as the WRI-based GHG accounting 
rules 3M has historically used were modified for 2012 and 2013 
to comply and be consistent with the requirements of the U.S. 
EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule (EPA GHG-
MRR). In addition, use of the U.S. EPA GHG-MRR resulted in the 
re-categorization of some chemical emissions from Non-Kyoto to 
Kyoto gas and vice versa, which resulted in a significant change to 
3M’s Kyoto/Non-Kyoto GHG emissions distribution as compared 
to the time period prior to 2012. Accordingly, the 2012 (and 
now 2013) inventory methodology serves as a new framework 
for future GHG reporting by 3M and other companies subject to 
the EPA GHG-MRR. 3M has recalculated our 2002 emissions 
inventory due to the 2012-2013 emission factor changes. This 
recalculated 2002 emissions inventory now serves as the new 
baseline to compare our emission reduction in future years.
Better Tracking of GHG Emissions From Our 
Suppliers and Customers
With the publishing of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate 
Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard in 
October 2011, 3M has been working on developing a Scope 3 
emissions inventory. 3M places a high value on sound science and 
decision-making so data reported is in accordance to the WRI/
WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard. When available for a Scope 3 category, primary data was 
used to calculate the GHG emissions. When primary data was not 
available or the complexity of the supply chain did not allow for 
direct calculation, an input/output model calculation method was 
used. The input/output model calculations were based on the level 
of sourcing financial spend for each GHG emission category 
and was conducted in collaboration with Climate Earth Inc. for 
categories 1, 2, 6 and 7 (see scope 3 table on page 81). In 2013, a third-party audit of the input/output model data was conducted 
in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 
standard to verify and determine the quality of the data reported and 
reliability of the calculation method for 2012. Regarding category 11, use 
of sold products, 3M has only started to estimate these emissions. We 
have a Climate Change Solutions product catalog with many products 
that reduce GHG emissions for our customers. Preliminary estimates on 
our three largest Climate Change Solutions products indicate a reduction 
of approximately 20 million metric tons CO2 eq in 2012 based on sales. 
Further work is being conducted on other Climate Change Solution 
products, as well as 3M products that use energy.
Future GHG Reduction Goals
As noted above, the early and rapid success the Company achieved 
presents a unique challenge when considering additional GHG 
reduction goals. The Company, in essence, has already set and 
achieved multiple GHG reduction goals in an accelerated time period 
(e.g., a 58 percent absolute reduction has already been achieved). 
The Company continues to evaluate potential future goals to further 
strengthen and demonstrate our commitment to help address 
climate change. The following considerations are part of our active 
effort to establish a third GHG goal: 
• How do our external stakeholders feel the Company 
can best address climate change (e.g., advancing new 
products and technologies that allow society to reduce 
GHG emissions)?
• What role should renewable energy play in our future 
goals?
• How might the Company’s extensive supplier base play 
a role in combating climate change? As these questions 
are addressed, 3M will make a final decision on how to 
proceed with a future greenhouse gas reduction goal.
• Are there opportunities for the Company to expand 
external partnerships and work with communities to 
realize future GHG emission reductions? Setting Energy Performance Goals & 
Evaluating Progress
As previously noted, 3M has a long history in setting and 
achieving energy conservation goals. In 2010 as part of our 2015 
Sustainability Goals, 3M set a global goal to increase energy 
efficiency by 25 percent in 2015 from a 2005 base year. That 
goal was achieved in 2010, so we established a new internal 
goal to improve by an additional 15 percent for a total increase 
of 40 percent in energy efficiency. We are presently on track to 
meeting our new goal.
We also identified three areas of focus that will make a step-
change in the energy and carbon intensity of our operations. 
The implementation of combined heat and power systems 
and heat recovery systems at certain 3M locations has a large 
potential to improve efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. The 
implementation of advanced energy information systems in our 
manufacturing facilities is expected to give operations personnel 
information they can use to more effectively manage energy use.
To meet global goals, 3M reviews its Strategic Energy 
Management Plan annually to prioritize programs. Longer-term 
action items are added periodically to achieve greater efficiency. 
The plan uses input from stakeholders, including manufacturing 
directors, plant managers, operations employees and executive 
management. The plan aims to continuously improve results; 
leverage engineering expertise; drive plant-level efficiency 
improvements; maintain top management support; and protect 
3M.
2000 2005 2013ENERGY GOALS HISTORY AND RESULTS
Total Reduction 2000-2013: 49%ENERGY GOALEnvironmental Targets 
(ET’05)
20% Reduction in 
Total Energy 
(Indexed to Net Sales)25% Reduction in Total 
Energy 
(Indexed to Net Sales)
27% Total Energy 
Reduction 
(Indexed to Net Sales)29% Total Energy 
Reduction through 2013
(Indexed to Net Sales)Sustainability Goals 
(Environmental Stewardship)TOTAL ENERGY 
RESULTS3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   105 106   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales)
(Scope 1 and Scope 2)OUR FOOTPRINT
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Absolute)
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) 
2002-2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS-ABSOLUTE 2002-2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS-INDEXED TO NET SALES
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   107 108   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Scope 3 Category(Metric Tons CO2e)
Boundary Comments
2011 2012 2013
Upstream Emissions
1Purchased Goods and Services 7,620,000 8,155,000 8,357,000 From climate earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M spend
2Capital Goods 498,000 584,000 647,000 From climate earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M spend
3Fuel-and-Energy Related Activities 
(not including scope 1 or scope 2 emissions)Partially included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control Electricity transmission & distribution losses included in Scope 1 and 2
4Upstream transportation and distribution Not Evaluated 3M Operational Control A complete data set was not available for Climate Earth to use Input/Output Model based on 3M spend
5Waste generated in operations 29,000Estimated <1% of Total 
Upstream EmissionsUnder Evaluation 3M Operational Control Only a partial characterization of emissions from operational waste could be made - improvements are planned for the next reporting year .
6Business Travel Not Evaluated 58,600 57,000 3M Operational Control Environmental Lab calculated from 3M primary data on business travel
7Employee Commuting Not Evaluated 352,437 353,000 3M Operational Control From Climate Earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M employee population
8Upstream, leased assets Included in scope 1 or scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control
Total Upstream 8,147,000 9,150,000 9,414,000 Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated
Downstream Emissions
9Downstream transportation and distribution Not Evaluated 1,510,000 1,230,000 3M Operational Control Environmental Lab calculated from 3M primary data on downstream transportation
10 Processing of sold products Not EvaluatedWith over 55,000 products and the diversity of products across many market sectors, this complexity and the unknown application (downstream processing) of 
many products does not allow for calculation, or even a reasonable estimate, for this category. 
11 Use of sold products Not Evaluated Under EvaluationAn evaluation of customer GHG reductions from use of sold products is being conducted.  The primary products with GHG emission reductions are being 
evaluated.  Continuing work will be conducted on other products with both GHG reductions and GHG emissions during use.  The GHG reductions and emissions 
from these other products are expected to be de minimus compared with the magnitude of primary product use reductions.
12 End of life treatment of sold products Not EvaluatedWith over 55,000 products and the diversity of products across many market sectors, this complexity and the unknown disposal (end of life treatment) of many 
products does not allow for calculation, or even a reasonable estimate, for this category.  This is unknown as many products are part of our customers’ products.
13 Downstream leased assets Not Evaluated Included in scope 1 or scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control
14 Franchises Not Evaluated None 0 3M Financial Control No franchises under 3M financial control
15 Investments Not Evaluated None 0 3M Financial Control No investments under 3M financial control
Total Downstream – 1,510,000 1,230,000 Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated
Scope 3 Notes:
1.  The data reported is in accordance to the  World Resources Institute (WRI)/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
2.  An input/output model calculation methodology based on spend by commodity was used in collaboration with Climate Earth for categories 1 and 2, and based on employee headcount by country for category 7.
3.  A third party audit of the input/output model data in accordance to the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) standard was conducted in 2013 to determine the quality of the data reported and the reliability of the calculation method.
4.  Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011)Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(Scope 3) - Upstream and Downstream - Absolute3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   109 110   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
TOTAL ENERGY USE
Gigajoules
2010
2011
2012
2013
27,000,000 27,500,000 28,000,000 29,000,000 29,500,000 28,500,000 30,000,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Energy 28,419,705 28,192,667 29,378,687 30,295,005
TOTAL ENERGY USE
Indexed: MMBTUs/Net Sales (MM $USD)
2010
2011
2012
2013
800 900 1,000 1,100
2010 2011 2012 2013
Indexed Energy 1,010 902 931 930TOTAL ENERGY USE
MMBTUs
2010
2011
2012
2013
25,500,000 26,000,000 26,500,000 27,500,000 28,000,000 27,000,000 28,500,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Energy 26,917,031 26,703,396 27,838,414 28,714,940
TOTAL ENERGY BY FUEL TYPE
MMBTUs
2010
2011
2012
2013
0 10,000,000 20,000,000 30,000,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Natural Gas 15,277,671 15,127,844 14,885,922 15,505,194
Electricity 9,573,615 9,675,104 10,098,298 10,316,441
Steam 807,211 832,820 839,832 901,783
Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 686,393 549,059 1,485,352 1,495,673
Gasoline & Diesel 233,461 202,293 225,343 191,715
Propane and Jet Fuel 338,680 316,276 295,203 281,177
Coal – – – –Total Energy Use
3M’s commitment to improving energy efficiency is evident in the figures and 
goals summary that follows. From 2000 through 2013, 3M reduced energy 
usage by 49 percent indexed to net sales. Having exceeded its energy-reduction 
goal ahead of schedule, 3M set an internal target to improve energy use per unit 
of product an additional 3 percent annually (2010–2015). Achieving these goals 
would help prevent 1.3 million metric tons of related CO2 emissions.
All manufacturing locations and other locations greater than 30,000 square feet 
(2787 square meters) report energy use and energy costs into an electronic 
reporting system monthly. Data is analyzed at the facility, division, business unit 
and corporate levels quarterly for 3M’s major business as part of 3M’s EHS 
Management System Scorecard previously described. 
Investing in Renewable Energy 
3M continues to evaluate, invest in and incorporate on-site renewable energy 
sources within our own operations where feasible while continuing to expand 
and collaborate with external partners. We estimate that approximately 1 percent 
of 3M energy used today is from renewable sources generated on-site in our 
own operations. We also partner with utility providers that incorporate renewable 
energy into their own operations, thereby passing those benefits onto their 
customers, including 3M.
Energy Highlights
• 3M received the 2014 Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award (10th 
consecutive year).
• We formed partnership to develop novel solutions for transportation, IT 
and electronics.
• We leveraged grants to advance CO2 recycling, fuel system, battery and 
solar technologies.
• We formed Engineering Energy Steering Committee to support the policy 
of building energy efficiency into corporate engineering projects.
• We launched the Global Energy Data Validation and Utility Review to 
identify savings within facilities, emphasizing the importance of engaging 
with supporting utilities to understand and verify data accuracy.
• We achieved ISO 50001 certification at a fourth site, and more sites are 
pursuing certification.
3M Italy: Sustainable Building Design 
From the Ground Up 
3M Italy’s newest headquarters building was built 
in 2010 in Pioltello, Italy, and is a best-in-class 
sustainable facility for the Company. Designed to 
enhance the use of renewable energy, create a 
motivating office environment and a sense of well-
being for employees, and reduce energy and resource 
needs, the building earned an Italian CENED Class 
A energy classification under the European Union’s 
Energy Performance of Building Directive. 
The same technologies, solutions and products that 
3M presents to markets have been used extensively in this building. The facility is a linear 11,300 m2 building, 
105 m long and 21 m wide, with a terraced form stepping down from five to two stories. It’s also gas-free, 
with all cooling and heating capacity provided through a geothermal system where underground water is later 
released to the water ditches of Parco della Besozza to support its ecosystem. Thanks to its sustainable design, 
the building allows for 1,5000,000 kWh of energy savings annually. 
Sustainable highlights of the building include the following:
•  Effective control of solar light and protection from UV rays help reduce the demand for air conditioning in hot 
summer months. In the winter, 70 percent of the glass facade is exposed to direct sun, thanks to the correct 
design of shading devices.
•  Close proximity to public transportation stations, bicycle ways and shuttle buses enables many commuting 
options.
•  The site offers outdoor activities for employees and on-site changing rooms for employees commuting by 
bicycle. 
•  Photovoltaic panels (493 m2) supply 100,000 kWh of energy to the building annually. The photovoltaic 
system reduced the emissions of OIL (23.6 tons), CO2 (62 tons) and NOx (0.17 tons) in one year.
•  A geothermal system reduced the emissions of OIL (195 tons), CO2 (417 tons) and NOx (1.46 tons) in one 
year.
The building won the MIPIM AWARD 2011 in the Green Buildings category (the world’s premier real estate event 
in Cannes for professionals), the U.S. Architectural Award in 2010, and Premio Innovazione Amica dell’Ambiente 
2010 (main Italian green NPO for green building).
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   111 112   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Raw Material 
Scarcity
OVERVIEW
Raw materials are used in the primary production of 
manufactured goods. They are also often altered to be used 
in a variety of processes and applications. Material diversity 
and availability based on shifts in supply and demand impact 
technological, operational and geographic developments 
across the global economy. Raw material scarcity implies that 
long-term global demand will exceed world supply.
Efficiencies in product design, reconfiguration of new sources, 
and consideration or recovery of alternative material streams 
are just a few potential solutions that we use to address 
material shortages impacting 3M’s global supply chains. Close 
cross-functional collaboration is key to strategically unlocking 
new, improved and unique partnerships.
Maximizing Raw Material Usage 
Raw material usage is a measurement of overall product and 
process yield throughout our manufacturing process and a key 
metric for 3M. It’s indicative of operational excellence in our product designs and manufacturing processes. We base it on a 
formula that quantifies product output versus all outputs from 
the process and product and includes all by-products. 
The diversity of manufacturing technologies, processes and 
products at 3M provides opportunities for creative waste 
usage solutions for the Company. Accurate waste identification 
is a continuous education process and provides a foundational 
opportunity to further advance waste minimization and 
recycling at all our locations. One business’s by-product may 
connect as another business’s raw material. As we continue 
to grow internationally, integrating consistent, yet resourceful, 
waste management practices in accordance to 3M standards 
remains a key objective.
As such, we continuously look for ways to recover, reuse and 
recycle by-products and other waste material when feasible. 
And when it’s not usable, we responsibly dispose of waste 
materials. The concept of maximizing raw material usage is 
important both internally and externally to address the global 
challenge of resource efficiency and scarcity. Improving our 
raw material usage through product design and operational 
considerations provides cost benefits throughout our supply 
chain in material use, energy and transportation efficiency.
Waste from manufacturing sites accounts for the majority 
of waste in 3M’s environmental footprint. We estimate an 
additional 4 percent of the waste we generate comes from 
nonmanufacturing sites, including laboratories, distribution 
centers and office facilities. 3M’s waste metrics include 3M 
manufacturing operations with total output greater than 4536 
metric tons per year (10,000 pounds), which represents 97 
percent of SVOP .
APPROACH
Optimizing Efficiencies in Operational Waste & 
Recycling
3M’s Waste Management Standard applies to all 3M locations 
and provides a framework for managing all waste types from the 
time of generation until reused, recycled, treated or disposed. 
The Standard sets a baseline for several core waste program 
elements and encourages waste minimization and recycling 
whenever possible. Per the Standard, each location is to assign a 
Waste Management Coordinator who is responsible for ensuring 
that personnel receive applicable waste training. Compliance 
with all 3M and other regulated waste requirements is evaluated 
through the internal environmental auditing program.
3M Corporate Environmental Operations identifies and measures 
efficiency improvement progress toward raw material usage 
and waste reduction for sites within our global manufacturing 
footprint. The results and raw data are used to identify, quantify 
and prioritize projects to improve utilizing Lean Six Sigma 
Continuous Improvement methodology. Results are reviewed 
quarterly and annually within regions, businesses and divisions 
against goals and tracking metrics.
Specialized teams within the organization work on a variety of 
projects and programs, ranging from basic office recycling 
to more complex projects such as developing and capturing 
intrinsic waste materials generated off a manufacturing line. 
Through an evaluation process, all aspects of diversion benefits 
or risk are reviewed. Some programs have initiated and 
implemented excellent reuse programs, which are then shared as a best practice throughout the organization for replication. 
3M continues to work with our customers and manufacturing 
partners to manage or develop recycling programs to continue to 
support our community commitment to sustainability.
Air Quality Management 
An important component to 3M’s sustainability strategy is our 
commitment to improving air quality globally. Air emissions 
from 3M operations include volatile organics, particulates and 
substances listed on the U.S. EPA Toxic Release Inventory or 
global equivalent. 
As a Company with many solvent-based products, 3M 
inherently generates volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in 
many of our manufacturing processes. Emissions of VOCs 
at many of our manufacturing facilities require permits with 
rigorous tracking requirements. Even where tracking is not 
required from a regulatory perspective, 3M’s manufacturing 
principles require accurate information on its major sources 
of emissions to understand the level of emissions and to 
identify opportunities for reductions. 3M has developed internal 
programs to minimize its emissions. For these reasons, 3M 
tracks and reports VOC emissions based on raw material 
usage and pollution control device utilization.
3M processes do not generate significant amounts of other 
criteria pollutant emissions (i.e., NOx, CO, SO2 and PM) when 
compared with many other industrial sectors and utilities and to 
3M’s VOC emissions. For many 3M manufacturing processes, 
NOx, SO2, CO and PM are created as an indirect by-product or 
are generated by combustion. In many locations, emissions of 
these pollutants have been determined to be below thresholds 
that would require permitting, tracking and reporting. Therefore, 
we have chosen to focus our air quality improvement efforts 
around tracking and reducing our VOC emissions, for which we 
have been very successful.
With the increasing complexity of air quality regulations 
globally, reductions in actual air emissions and a solid air Collaborating With The Nature Conservancy to Protect 
Biodiversity While Improving Seed Yields
In the Brazilian Amazon, indigenous territories occupy 22 percent of the Amazon and many 
of its best-preserved areas. But they suffer from illegal encroachment from loggers. Last 
year, Brazil adopted its National Indigenous Territories Environmental Management Policy 
to strengthen indigenous peoples’ control of their lands and direct millions of dollars to 
needed sustainable development and conservation projects. 3M provided a $500,000 
gift to The Nature Conservancy  to support implementation of the Indigenous Territories 
Environmental Management Policy, which will help to 
address indigenous peoples’ rights, as well as protect 
pristine habitat in the Brazilian Amazon.Haroldo Palo, Jr.114   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   113
Recycling Plant in Bavaria Eliminates 
Waste, Conserves Resources
In June 2013, 3M and its 
subsidiary Dyneon GmbH 
broke ground on a new pilot 
plant for specialty plastics 
recycling in Bavaria, Germany. 
The facility is designed to 
recycle polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE), a specialty plastic 
material that is indispensable 
in the fields of automotive engineering, manufacturing and environmental 
protection, where it’s used in high-tech applications. 
Supported by a nearly €1 million EUR ($1.4 million USD) grant from the 
German Federal Environment Department, the new plant expects to begin 
operations by fall 2014. Once open, the pilot plant will recycle up to 500 
tons of PTFE production waste and “end of life plastics” (post-consumer 
PTFE) each year. 
Until now, PTFE wastes had to either be incinerated for energy recovery or 
required cost-intensive disposal in special landfills. With the new facility 
in Bavaria, however, they can be recycled for reuse in new manufacturing 
processes without any loss of quality. 
Experts estimate that during the processing of PTFE in Europe alone, up to 
5,000 tons of PTFE waste are produced annually. The pilot plant in Bavaria 
with its recycling capacity of 500 tons will save an estimated 2,500 tons of 
chlorine while eliminating 5,000 tons of CO2 emissions and 5,000 tons of 
waste acid. In addition to reducing environmental impacts, the plant will also 
save valuable primary resources, such as fluorite.
All waste recycling, reuse, treatment and disposal practices are required to 
comply with applicable regulations and the 3M Disposal of Chemical Waste 
Policy, including waste stream profiles, content identification and labeling. 
Waste management practices and technologies are required to be approved 
where the emphasis is on using only the most environmentally safe and 
appropriate waste management practices available. permit and regulatory approach are increasingly important components of 
global business growth and long-term sustainability. Air emission reductions 
are achieved through a variety of methods at 3M and include, but are not 
limited to, increasing the use of more sustainable raw materials, water-based 
coatings; improving process and equipment efficiency; upgrading equipment; 
and implementing and maintaining pollution control technologies. All reduction 
efforts are integral to the Company’s overall success and assist the Company 
with the challenge of improving air quality in the areas in which we operate.
Implementing & Maintaining Pollution Control
Although 3M has made significant progress in reducing air emissions from 
our operations through pollution prevention thinking (i.e., elimination at 
the source) and improving process efficiencies (e.g., Lean Six Sigma), 3M 
implements and maintains pollution control equipment when necessary. A 
variety of pollution control technologies are evaluated and utilized to control 
and reduce our air emissions. These include thermal oxidizers, baghouses, 
scrubbers and cyclones. 3M maintains rigorous preventative maintenance 
schedules to ensure proper operation and ongoing air pollution control 
effectiveness for VOCs, particulate matter and other air emissions.
In the future, 3M is looking to expand the use of alternative control technologies 
to reduce energy and natural resource usage of pollution control equipment, 
while still providing required air pollution control efficiencies. Biological air 
pollution control systems are an innovative solution to control VOC emissions 
in certain 3M processes. In pilot and select full-scale installations, 3M has 
demonstrated its technology on appropriate air streams to reduce VOC 
emissions while significantly reducing operating costs, GHG emissions and 
eliminating natural gas usage. 
Integrating Green Chemistry Initiatives
To integrate more sustainable raw materials, select 3M divisions use the 
12 Principles of Green Chemistry (developed by Paul Anastas, with the U.S. 
EPA, and John Warner, currently President of Warner Babcock Institute for 
Green Chemistry), a holistic set of principles and framework for putting 
Green Chemistry into practice, as a tool for product development. Green 
Chemistry is the design, development and implementation of chemical 
products and processes to reduce or eliminate the use and generation of 
substances hazardous to human health and the environment. The products 
and processes must be more environmentally benign, more economical and 
better performing than alternatives. 
2013 Sustainable Supplier Expo
In November 2013, 3M hosted its first Sustainable 
Supplier Expo. We invited new and existing product and 
package suppliers, both local and globally based, to share 
sustainability solutions with 3M employees. The purpose of 
the event was to:
•  Educate 3M product and package commercialization team members on sustainability topics 
related to converted materials, raw materials, chemicals and emerging technologies.
•  Obtain solutions to enhance the environmental attributes of 3M’s products and packages, 
enabling growth.
•  Enable new connections with sustainable suppliers.
Suppliers at the event represented a wide variety of materials and technologies, including 
renewables, printing, bio materials, paperboard, thermoform, resins and more. The event was 
well-received by both 3M employees and suppliers, with more than 50 percent of employees 
who attended reporting that they planned to follow up with suppliers to explore ways to increase 
3M’s sustainable product and package offerings. Most suppliers indicated that they would be 
interested in attending future 3M Supplier Expo events. 
“The sustainability expo was a great event and good opportunity to network with others relative 
to sustainability. I am planning to follow up with some of the 3M Alliance partners, as well as see 
if more of our 3M labels can be produced with recyclable materials.” — Paul Amos, Building and 
Commercial Services Division Marketing Manager 
The Sustainable Supplier Expo served as a catalyst for sparking new sustainable material ideas that 
will benefit 3M’s entire value chain.
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   115 116   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
TOTAL WASTE 
(Absolute Hazardous and Nonhazardous-Metric Tons)
2010
2011
2012
2013
10,000 50,000 90,000 130,000 170,000 210,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Hazardous Waste 42,316 41,253 39,663 38,865
Total Nonhazardous Waste 133,977 137,564 139,065 150,216The principles can generally be grouped into four main categories: Hazard Reduction, Lower Impact Products & Processes, Resource 
Reduction & Conservation, and Use of Renewable Raw Materials.
3M’s Material Resource Division, a major internal supplier for many materials within 3M, created a new product design tool that 
mandates in its division the evaluation of new chemistries and products against the 12 principles. These principles are as follows:OUR FOOTPRINT
Operational Waste Impact
* 98% of Off-site Reuse and 91% of Onsite Recycle+Reuse is from the production of roofing granules.WASTE RECYCLING BY TYPE
(Metric Tons)
2010
2011
2012
2013
500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Onsite Recycle + Reuse* 850,133 766,118 728,035 719,637
Offsite Reuse* 1,972,152 1,868,424 1,423,300 1,788,981
Offsite Recycle 127,965 129,198 128,160 130,516
TOTAL WASTE INDEXED TO NET SALES
(Metric Tons/Net Sales Million $USD)
2010
2011
2012
2013
0 2.00 1.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Waste Indexed to Net Sales 6.60 6.04 5.98 6.12TOTAL ABSOLUTE WASTE BY PROCESS TYPE
(Nonhazardous and Hazardous-Metric Tons)
2010
2011
2012
2013
0 40,000 20,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
Treatment/Incineration 39,299 45,174 42,951 42,867
Landfilled 96,478 92,832 93,648 100,997
Waste to Energy 40,486 40,781 42,098 45,185
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015
Total Reduction 1990-2013: 68%WASTE GOALChallenge ‘95 Program Year 2000 Goals Environmental Targets
(ET’05)Environmental Targets
(ET’10)Sustainability Goals 
(Environmental Stewardship)
35% Reduction in 
Waste
30% Reduction 
Indexed to Total 
Product Produced50% Reduction in 
Waste
(Indexed to Net Sales)
36% Reduction
Indexed to Net Sales25% Reduction in 
Waste
(Indexed to Net Sales)
25% Reduction
Indexed to Net Sales20% Reduction in 
Waste
(Indexed to Net Sales)
19% Reduction
Indexed to Net Sales10% Reduction in 
Waste
(Indexed to Net Sales)
7% Reduction
Indexed to Net Sales
(through 2013)TOTAL WASTE
REDUCTION  RESULTS1. Prevent Waste Generation
2. Atom Economy
3. Less Hazardous Chemical Syntheses
4. Designing Safer Chemicals
5. Safer Solvents and Auxiliaries
6. Design for Energy Efficiency7. Use of Renewable Feed Stocks
8. Use of Most Direct Synthetic Route
9. Catalysis
10. Design for Degradation
11. Real-Time Analysis for Pollution Prevention
12. Inherently Safer Chemistry for Accident Prevention
The increase in the total amount of waste in 2013 is due 
in large part to additional waste generation at two facilities; 
however, there are some general trends that are also impacting 
the ability to meet our waste goal. Our current waste processing 
challenges include the following:
• Although we continue to gain benefit by continuous 
improvement at our manufacturing facilities through 
incremental process improvements, our current and future direction for significant improvements in waste 
reduction are driven by product and process technology 
redesigns. These efforts require priority, resources and 
collaboration within our business, sales, marketing, 
engineering and laboratory groups, in addition to our supply 
chain and manufacturing functions.
• 3M’s increase in the production of composite materials such 
as multilayered films — which provide significant advantages The Material Resource Division engages researchers and manufacturers at every stage of development to meet or exceed 3M’s 
2015 Sustainability Goals waste reduction targets. Green Chemistry is now a formal part of all scale-up efforts, most notably in an 
assessment of new programs as they move through research to full-scale production. These assessments are documented to enable 
rapid implementation and broad application of Green Chemistry advancements, regardless of their origin. These efforts enable the 
Material Resource Division to effectively introduce alternative sustainable options aligned with increasing regulatory trends and to 
minimize costs as petroleum prices continue to rise, giving 3M a considerable advantage in raw materials pricing.
GOALS & RESULTS
3M has been setting total waste reduction goals since 1990. Using 1990 as a base year, we’ve reduced our total waste by 68 percent 
(Indexed to Net Sales through 2013). A history of our waste reduction achievements are highlighted below. By continuing to improve 
our raw material usage globally, additional progress may be achieved despite continued growth. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   117 118   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
for our customers — pose a challenge in the ability to 
recycle the material using current technologies. 3M 
continues to explore options for recyclability.
• The Green Fence Initiative in China enforces limitations 
on materials imported and accepted for recycling in that 
country. This is resulting in more material, particularly 
recyclable plastics that must be processed domestically. 
Limited U.S. infrastructure has caused a reduced 
demand for material recycling and a lower price for 
material that could be recycled, making it a less viable 
option. 
VOC Emissions
3M’s commitment to managing and minimizing its VOC emissions 
is demonstrated with continued results. 3M has had an external 
VOC emission reduction goal since 1995, resulting in 98 percent 
reduction in VOCs emitted indexed to net sales. 3M’s results 
have been driven by plant activities, control device installation 
and lab reformulations. 3M has a 15 percent reduction goal in 
place for 2015 and is on track to meet this goal.
TOTAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (VOCS)
Indexed: Metrics Tons/ Net Sales (MM $USD)
2010
2011
2012
2013
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25
2010 2011 2012 2013
Indexed VOCs 0.23 0.20 0.20 0.17TOTAL VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (VOCS)
Absolute: Thousand Metric Tons
2010
2011
2012
2013
4.8 5.0 5.2 5.4 5.6 5.8
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total VOCs 6.1 6.0 6.0 5.46.0 6.2A Focus on Packaging
Identifying solutions to minimize product packaging impacts 
continues to be a raw material focus for 3M. 3M is committed 
to enabling 100 percent of its packaging to be environmentally 
sensible, responsibly sourced, and preferred by our internal and 
external customers, while providing added value and an economic 
advantage for 3M.
Our efforts are guided by key product packaging objectives:
• Cost-effective, practical, innovative material solutions 
through research, development, validation and sharing
• Responsible design and sourcing, while maintaining 
performance
• Clear and scientifically based substantiated benefits
• Regulatory compliance by 3M and suppliers
• Continued leadership and collaboration internally and 
externally
Improving Our Packaging Footprint
The commitment to drive innovative, sustainable packaging 
solutions occurs globally across all levels of packaging from 
primary to intermediate, as well as shipper and transport levels. 
The 3M global packaging team inspires and implements creative 
packaging designs that will function throughout the distribution 
environment and enable products to arrive safely to the customer.
The global packaging team works with business partners to define 
packaging strategies, ensure effectiveness and optimization for 
use, and search for ways to continuously improve packaging 
as business requirements or emerging technologies change or 
improve. Packaging improvements may involve increasing the 
recycled content of the material, changing to a package that 
users can recycle, integrating a renewable material or creating a 
package that is reusable. Before a new package is implemented, it 
receives a technical review and/or package ship test to ensure the 
new design will function throughout the supply chain.
3M’s diversity of products and packaging in a variety of global 
markets offer both key challenges and opportunities that include:U.S. EXISTING PACKAGE DESIGN WASTE REDUCTIONS
(Metric Tons)
2010 2011 2012 2013
Package Design 
Waste Reduction 
in Metric Tons981 848 1,126 1,187
Target 907 953 953 1,1340200400907953 9531,134
6008001,0001,200
• Diverse packaging requirements from marketing, 
manufacturing, supply chain, customers and 
merchandising
• Global materials and substantiation
• Different regulatory and industry requirements
• Waste stream and recycling infrastructure 
• Cost-effective and bio-material solutions
• Infrastructure and administration of reusable packaging
Continuous Improvement for Existing Packaging
One of 3M’s current primary packaging reduction metrics is 
to reduce the weight of packaging, enabling waste reduction 
in existing products. The weight savings data and sales 
volume are compiled monthly to calculate actual metric tons 
of material prevented from entering waste streams due to 
package structural design changes.
In addition to waste reduction, packaging metrics are recorded 
for other types of improvements such as increasing the 
number of recycled and/or renewable package materials 
and implementing reusable packaging. The package design 
improvements are entered into a 3M-developed packaging sustainability reporting tool, and packaging improvement 
data on all items is tracked for 12 months. 3M has expanded 
the process and tool set globally, and it will be able to track 
sustainability improvements worldwide starting in 2014. 
The chart below (U.S. only) provides packaging waste reduction 
volumes based on optimization improvement. The total 
packaging waste savings is dependent on how many packaging 
designs were optimized, the extent of the optimization and 
the volume of sales associated with the products. The annual 
reduction targets are set and based on a realistic stretch for 
continuous improvement. They are projected and estimated 
based on relative known opportunity for optimization.
For additional information, including 3M’s Waste Management 
Standard, view our sustainability policies and standards at 
www.3M.com/Sustainability .
Water Quality 
& Availability
OVERVIEW
Water is the most valuable natural resource for life and thriving 
ecosystems; therefore, our planet’s consumption must be 
nurtured and thoughtfully managed. We recognize that reducing 
water consumption in our operations and improving water 
quality are important elements of optimizing our environmental 
stewardship. Quantitatively, the availability of water must 
meet the needs of current and future consumer demands. In 
addition, water quality must comply with local regulations and 
be reliable in the long term.
Water is an important component to the manufacturing and 
support systems of several of our products. Because of this, 
3M continues to actively understand, manage and work toward 
reducing our corporate water footprint while providing innovative 
solutions to our customers. We respect our ecological and 
ethical responsibility and have a vested interest in preserving 
and improving water availability and quality relative to our 
operations and the communities we serve.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   119 120   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
OUR APPROACH
3M’s Water Management Standard provides a company-wide 
framework, including both general and specific elements for 
water management. The standard requires 3M operations 
to manage their water resources through understanding the 
balance of water use, compliance with regulatory requirements, 
systematic and prioritized conservation practices, and reporting 
usage. Water resources include water intake, effluent water 
discharge and rainwater.
To inventory, track and understand water use in our operations 
for improved efficiency, 3M sites are required to report water 
data quarterly into a corporate tracking system. Additional 
water source, use and discharge information is collected and 
provided through an annual assessment and survey process. 
Aggregated data is evaluated to determine our progress and 
identify opportunities for increased efficiency in higher-use 
focus areas.
GOALS & RESULTS
Understanding Local Water Use & Stress
To further mitigate water risks and focus where water is 
scarce and/or stressed, 3M’s Corporate Operating Committee 
endorsed a water conservation goal as part of the Company’s 
2015 Sustainability Goals. The goal is focused on water 
conservation planning, as well as reduction efforts where water 
scarcity and stress exists for 3M operations.
3M uses the definitions and tools established by the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to 
screen the Company’s various site locations and their affiliated 
water use with validated WBCSD water availability, population 
and biodiversity information both on a country and watershed 
basis. 3M has identified 24 sites located in water-stressed 
areas as defined by the Mean Annual Relative Water Stress 
Index (WBCSD-Global Water Tool). The identified sites have 
potential medium to high local water risks, and they use water 
for sanitary and process operations that is equal to or greater 
than 1,000 cubic meters annually. Each 3M site located in a water-stressed area is requested 
to understand its water use, associated business risks and 
impacts and to work with local water resources to understand 
potential impacts on the surrounding area. Identified sites are 
also requested to develop a water conservation plan outlining 
current and future water conservation efforts. Annual stress-
level screening evaluations are conducted for global operations 
using available updates from the WBCSD Global Water Tool, 
an analysis of site operations and water usage and local 
conditions. 
Water conservation planning is a continuous improvement 
process. In 2013, a majority of the identified sites have water 
conservation plans in place and water efficiency improvement 
projects in progress. We continue to work with remaining sites 
to develop plans and understand potential local impacts.
Future Water Goals
With an eye on our footprint and the strength of our technologies 
and collaboration, we acknowledge we can continue to make 
a difference in water availability and quality around the world. 
3M is in the process of evaluating future water goals relative 
to our operations, our products, and our collaboration with our 
communities and other stakeholders. 
OUR FOOTPRINT
Understanding our full supply chain water footprint is important. 
We know that today, 3M manufacturing sites account for 
a majority of 3M’s Environmental Operational Footprint. 
3M estimates an additional 4 percent of water use from 
nonmanufacturing sites, including laboratories, distribution 
centers and office facilities. The water data provided below 
includes manufacturing sites that produce more than 4.50 
metric tons (10,000 lbs) of product (97 percent of SVOP). 
Although 3M does not currently have a quantitative water 
goal, as our business continues to grow, conservation efforts 
indicate an 11.9 percent decrease in absolute water use and 
a 39.6 percent decrease in water use globally from 2005 to 
2013 (indexed to net sales).Further understanding of where water is originally sourced for 
use in our operations provides insight into our potential impacts 
within local watersheds. In 2013, based on 3M’s detailed 
water assessment and survey across sites, results indicate 
that 63 percent of water is sourced from groundwater sources, 
35 percent is sourced from surface water sources, and the 
remaining is from surface water and externally recycled sources. 
Results also indicate a majority of 3M water use in operations 
is for processing products in manufacturing and heating or 
cooling of those processes and associated operations. We 
estimate that approximately 37 percent of the total water used 
is also recycled or reused for secondary use within operations 
in 2013. We believe this data is extremely conservative given TOTAL WATER USE (ABSOLUTE)
Million Cubic Meters
2010
2011
2012
2013
44 43 42 41 40
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Water Use 42.98 41.13 43.51 43.18
our operations; therefore, we continue to improve our data 
accuracy through monitoring and measurement.
Water conservation efforts have been achieved through 
recycling, reuse, and improvements to our buildings and 
manufacturing processes. A majority of our water-intense 
manufacturing operations are located in the U.S. and Europe, 
in areas that are not water-stressed or water-scarce. However, 
they also contribute significantly to our conservation efforts. 
As the Company continues to grow globally, thoughtful 
consideration is placed on the type of operations and availability 
of water sources.
For more information about 3M’s Water Management Standard, 
visit www.3M.com/Sustainability .TOTAL WATER USE (INDEXED)
Million Cubic Meters/ Net Sales (MM $USD)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2010 2011 2012 2013
Indexed Water Use 0.0016 0.0014 0.0015 0.00140.0013 0.0014 0.0015 0.0016 0.0017
2013 WATER SOURCE
Absolute: (Million Cubic Meters)
% Groundwater (27.3)34.7%
0.7%
1.4%63.2%
% Recycled/Reclaimed from External Sources (0.6)% Stormwater (0.3)
% Surface Water (15)2013 WATER BY USE TYPE
Absolute: (Million Cubic Meters)
Heating/Cooling (26.9)0.2%
1.2%
6.7%
29.6%62.3%
Sanitary (2.9)Remediation (0.1)
Process Water (12.8)Other (0.5)122   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Responsible 
Sourcing
OVERVIEW
As part of 3M’s Sourcing Sustainability Standard , we set 
expectations for suppliers through our Supply Chain Policies . 
These policies apply to the selection and retention of all 
suppliers that provide goods and services to 3M worldwide, 
and pertain to the areas of environmental, health and safety 
(EHS); transportation; labor and human resources; and supplied 
materials.
All 3M suppliers are expected to comply with applicable laws, 
and those expectations are embedded in 3M contract and 
purchase order terms. In addition, our supply chain policies 
establish a framework that 3M considers important for: 
• Safe and healthy workplaces
• Maintenance of fair and reasonable labor and human 
resource practices, including the prohibition of slavery 
and human trafficking
• Management of manufacturing and distribution 
operations to minimize adverse environmental impact 
and compliance with material content and origin laws 
3M expects suppliers to establish programs that are consistent 
with those policies. We also selectively review supplier performance relative to 
these policies. When noncompliance is detected, 3M will 
attempt to work with the supplier to correct the situation. 
We expect the supplier to develop a corrective action plan to 
bring its operations into compliance, and if a supplier does not 
develop such a plan or fails to implement it, 3M will move to 
terminate the business relationship.
APPROACH
3M communicates its sustainability expectations to suppliers 
through contract clauses, specifications and links to 3M’s 
website, and in direct business meetings. Improving energy 
efficiency and reducing waste are common supplier meeting 
agenda items. 
In addition, 3M employees who have responsibility for sourcing 
suppliers and managing supplier relationships receive 
training on all aspects of supply chain sustainability, including 
slavery and human trafficking prohibitions. Most recently 
3M has provided training on understanding and managing 
environmental preference factors in supplier selection.
We use product responsibility databases and tools to better 
manage environmental and health and safety information 
related to 3M products. We’ve undertaken extensive efforts 
with 3M suppliers to gather product composition and origin 
information and other EHS data to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws wherever 3M does business.
Our
Engaging
Suppliers3M has implemented many compliance programs related to 
material composition and origin. The latest programs address 
legally harvested plant materials and U.S. SEC disclosure 
rules regarding the mineral origin of tin, tantalum, tungsten 
or gold (3TG) in our products (see the Ensuring Supply Chain 
Compliance section of this document for additional information).
Assessing Supplier 
Performance
OVERVIEW & APPROACH
3M periodically monitors supplier performance against its 
policy expectations. Assessing that performance is challenging 
because of 3M’s many thousands of suppliers and complex 
global supply chains. 3M has implemented a risk-based 
supplier assessment process to help assure that its suppliers 
meet expectations:
• Suppliers are ranked using a prioritization matrix tool.
• The matrix takes into account country, type of operations 
and annual 3M purchases.
• Prioritized suppliers may be asked to complete a self-
assessment survey (SAS).
• The SAS is used to understand supplier programs and 
whether they meet the intent of 3M policies.
• An on-site audit may be conducted.
• If any deficiencies are identified during an on-site visit, a 
correction plan is developed.
• 3M conducts follow-up audits or other communications 
to assure that deficiencies are corrected.
The supplier audit process covers EHS practices and training, 
general working conditions, emergency response procedures, 
and hazardous materials management, including transportation 
protocols and employment practices. 3M staff typically conduct 
on-site audits, but 3M may use third-party audit firms as needed. The assessment program has independent oversight 
from the 3M EHS Advisory Committee. Customer or general 
public concerns can be brought to 3M’s attention via phone or 
website, with contact information available online. 
GOALS & PROGRESS
More than 3,200 self-assessments or on-site audits of suppliers 
have been conducted in prioritized countries, including China, 
India, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Russia 
and Turkey over the past seven years. Suppliers reviewed in the 
last three years represent 80 percent of 3M’s 2013 spend in 
the listed countries. 
SUPPLIER REVIEWS
2010 2011 2012 2013
  Cumulative number of supplier reviews3000
2000
1000
0
Most suppliers met 3M’s expectations, and those requiring 
improvement were given specific corrective action in order 
to retain 3M business. Suppliers with corrective action must 
pass a 3M requalification assessment after completing the 
necessary steps.
The most common audit findings pertain to machine guarding, 
human resource documentation and pay controls. Most 
suppliers work very quickly to address any 3M findings. Those 
suppliers unwilling or unable to take the necessary corrective 
action in a timely manner have been terminated by 3M.
In addition to existing suppliers, many potential suppliers 
have been evaluated using the assessment tools. Several 
3M businesses have incorporated supplier EHS and labor 
considerations into life-cycle management reviews and have 
independently performed assessments of key suppliers.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   123 124   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
In May 2013, 3M arranged for an independent assurance of 
our supplier audit process. SGS North America, an industry-
leading program verification service validated the effectiveness 
of the process methodology through a review of key documents, 
interviews with relevant employees and validation with an 
external supplier. 
Although SGS validated that our program for evaluating 
supply chain sustainability risk is robust and effective, we are 
always looking for ways to advance this work and extend 3M’s 
sustainability initiatives within our sphere of influence. The UN 
Global Compact Principles will serve as a common framework 
to guide our sustainability efforts with suppliers. 
3M Health & Safety Family Alliance
3M Taiwan established the 3M Health & Safety Family alliance in 2013. This alliance brings together local suppliers, 
vendors and contractors to advance Environmental, Health and Safety knowledge and performance for all participants. 
3M hosted over 50 attendees from 16 firms at our Yangmei facility. This effort was recognized by the Taoyuan County 
government with a ceremony of certification as a Core Health and Safety Family, and 3M Yangmei was recognized as one 
of the Outstanding Health and Safety Organizations in Taiwan by the Taiwan Council of Labor Affairs.Ensuring Supply-Chain 
Compliance 
OVERVIEW
In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) adopted a rule mandated by 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act to require companies, beginning in 2014, 
to publicly disclose their use of conflict minerals (tin, 
tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 
3TG) originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo 
or a neighboring country. 3TGs are necessary to the 
functionality or production of some of the products that 
3M manufactures or contracts to manufacture. For 
more information, including a link to our SEC Form SD 
filing, see 3M’s Working with Suppliers webpage . 
Over the past several years, regulations addressing 
the harvesting of timber and other plant materials 
have been established in a variety of countries. Among 
these are the Lacey Act in the U.S., the European Union 
Timber Regulation and the Australia Illegal Logging 
Prohibition Act. Although the specific compliance 
requirements vary, in general, companies like 3M that 
use paper or other plant-based materials in products or 
manufacturing must demonstrate “due care” that these 
materials were obtained in a legal manner. 
APPROACH
In order to comply with supply chain requirements like 
those described above, 3M engages in many initiatives:• For existing relevant suppliers, we have implemented a 
prioritized supplier inquiry and verification process.
• Requirements are embedded in our supply chain policy 
and expectations for new and existing suppliers.
• We establish compliance language in supplier contracts, 
purchase orders and material specifications as 
appropriate.
• We develop our own policies to address the challenge 
represented by the compliance initiatives. For example, 
in 2013, 3M adopted a paper sourcing policy that 
defines 3M’s commitment to the responsible sourcing 
of paper.
Supplier Initiatives & Partnerships
3M strives to engage in a variety of initiatives that aim for a 
positive impact for our company, our supply chain and the 
communities where we live and work. Some examples of 
supplier initiatives and partnerships with organizations to 
influence supply chain-related issues are provided here. 
Supporting Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiatives
3M is a member of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative 
(CFSI), an organization established by the Electronic Industry 
Citizenship Coalition and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (EICC-
GeSI), which develops tools and guidance for companies on 
conflict minerals. In 2013, 3M was active in CFSI development 
of the industry white paper titled Reasonable Practices to 
Identify Sources of Conflict Minerals: A Practical Guide for 
Downstream Companies . 
CFSI also develops standards for assessing smelters and 
refiners to determine if processed materials originated from 
conflict-free sources. During the past year, 3M contributed 
to the CFSI audit. The fund supports responsible minerals 
sourcing and conflict-free compliance by providing financial 
assistance to smelters for first-year independent audits under 
the Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) Assessment Program, in order 
to certify conflict-free status.Driving Supply-Chain Sustainability
In 2013, 3M co-led the Global Environmental Management 
Initiative (GEMI) Supply Chain Work Group, which began 
development of a new Supply Chain Sustainability (SCS) Tool. 
The GEMI SCS Tool will provide much-needed insight and 
support for both sustainability and purchasing professionals by 
linking market-oriented sustainability claims, economic input-
output and life-cycle assessment (LCA) results, and supply 
chain sustainability performance metrics. The tool will take 
advantage of a top-down “hotspot” approach and bottom-up 
“attributional LCA” approach to prioritize environmental aspects 
within a firm’s supply chain while assessing the most relevant 
improvement opportunities for commonly purchased products. 
For additional information about 3M suppliers, please visit 
www.3M.com/Suppliers .“On the basis of the 
methodology described and 
the review performed, we are 
satisfied that the 3M Supplier 
Sustainability Standard Audit 
Program verified is robust and 
effective for the evaluation of 
the supply chain sustainability 
risk.” 
– SGS North America Inc.,
 May 15, 2013
Embracing Supplier Diversity 
in Germany
For more than 30 years, 
3M has partnered with 
Werkstatt für Menschen 
mit Behinderung (WfB), 
a sheltered workshop, 
as a service provider 
for 3M’s European 
Distribution Center in Jüchen, Germany. About 30 
people with disabilities from WfB work as fully integrated 
members of the team at 3M’s Jüchen warehouse. 
With the support of two group leaders, the team is 
engaged in customization and packaging activities, and is 
committed to having fun in the workplace, which enriches 
the work atmosphere for all employees at the warehouse. 
Due to the high quality and reliability of the WfB teams, 
3M has awarded them several 3M Supplier Awards over 
the years.
126   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
With Our
Collaborating
CommunitiesCollaborating With Our 
Communities
OVERVIEW
3M works hard to create a better world for everyone, and our 
sustainability approach revolves around philanthropy within 
global communities. We team with a variety of organizations to 
gain diverse viewpoints on sustainability, a better understanding 
of our stakeholders’ positions and a mechanism to learn from 
the successes and failures of our peers.
Impacting Lives Through 3Mgives
In June 2013, the 3M Foundation Board approved a new 
strategic plan for global philanthropy to support educational, 
community and environmental giving while aligning with 3M 
business drivers, such as innovation, portfolio management 
and business transformation. A Global Advisory Committee 
was formed to inform and influence the strategy, drive internal 
coordination and collaboration, as well as to leverage cash, 
product and volunteer time giving. 
Key accomplishments include the following:
- We rebranded the program as 3Mgives to make it more 
contemporary and engaging for stakeholders.
- We refocused giving priorities from five areas to three, 
with the objective of making larger strategic investments 
producing measureable outcomes. 
- Our giving targets now focus on Education (45 percent of investments), Community (40 percent of investments) 
and Environment (15 percent of investments).
- 3Mgives has enhanced partnerships with 3M businesses 
to create shared value for the Company and community. 
- We increased communication about the program’s 
results, sharing best practices across 3M and with other 
companies.
- We established the Global 3M Women’s Leadership 
Forum to drive global initiatives impacting the inclusion 
and advancement of women around the world.
- We integrated 3M Employee Resource Networks into 
3Mgives to advance diversity, inclusion and business 
growth opportunities across internal and external 
activities.
APPROACH
3M decentralizes global community giving and involvement so 
our subsidiaries in each country can develop and administer 
programs consistent with both the 3Mgives strategy and local 
cultures. For example, in the United States, 17 Community 
Relations Councils develop regional strategies and direct local 
charitable giving.
Since 1953, 3M and the 3M Foundation have invested over 
$1.3 billion in cash and product in 3M communities around 
the world. Significant international contributions add to this 
total. Today, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Brazil maintain their own 
foundations, and all other international subsidiaries manage corporate giving programs that benefit education, social 
services or the environment.
3M is not only a company that creates; it is a company that 
cares, improving lives each day. In 2013, 3M awarded more 
than $60 million to nonprofit organizations. These global 
donations were bolstered by many thousands of employee and 
retiree volunteers serving hundreds of thousands of hours.
Quality Education For Every Child from 
Cradle to Career
For 60 years, 3Mgiving has furthered STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Math) and Economics education by 
making investments in nonprofit, school and district initiatives. 
Success in these disciplines opens doors to higher education 
and future careers in current and emerging industries. 3M also 
invests in quality programs for youths ages 0–21 that lead to 
personal responsibility, school success, high school graduation, 
college readiness, post-secondary education and employment. 
The education programs we support reach over 7.6 million kids 
each year.
To advance education, 3M supports teachers and students 
through grants and volunteerism, helping them understand 
their roles in the global economy and the implications of 
personal and public policy decisions.
3M K–12 Focus:
• Spark student achievement in STEM and economics.
• Increase student readiness and access to post-
secondary education.
• Make learning relevant by making connections with 
everyday life and future careers.
• Engage employees and retirees as volunteers.
3M Higher Education Focus:
• Retain and graduate students pursuing careers 
in science, engineering and business, especially 
underrepresented groups.• Advance teaching and learning in science, Engineering 
and business.
• Build connections with K–12 education to help 
students prepare for college and to provide professional 
development for teachers.
Youth Development Focus:
• Lower the high school dropout rate by preparing kids for 
kindergarten, supporting quality out-of-school programs 
and engaging students in STEM disciplines.
• Promote youth development through preventive 
programs and quality out-of-school programs.
• Advance school readiness in early childhood programs.
Engaging Locally
The collaboration, discussions and interactions 3M has with 
its corporate, regional and local stakeholders strengthen the 
company’s connection to the community, help address local 
challenges and build on relevant capabilities.
As part of 3M’s 2015 Sustainability Goal to develop stakeholder 
engagement plans, we began work in 2013 to enhance the 
local and regional stakeholder engagement process to further 
align with corporate strategic focus areas. Approximately 
115 prioritized manufacturing facilities around the world have 
completed a stakeholder engagement plan. A framework that 
enables continuous progress and prioritization was developed 
with these key features:
• Local Stakeholder Identification and Mapping
• Local Sustainability Materiality Assessment and Alignment 
Prioritization
• Partnerships and Planning
• Impact Measurement for Engagement Effectiveness
• Reporting and Communications
3M is piloting this new framework and will implement it globally 
in the near future.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   127 128   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
2013 United Way Spirit of 
America Award
For its philanthropy, volunteer 
engagement and community impact, 
3M earned the 2013 United Way 
Spirit of America Award, United Way 
Worldwide’s highest national honor. 
We were recognized for setting the 
standard for improving educational 
outcomes and creating more 
sustainable communities. 
• 3M raised $8.5 million for 109 communities 
nationwide through its 3Mgives Campaign in 
partnership with United Way. In addition, employees 
volunteered approximately 200,000 total hours. 
Globally, 33 3M employees serve on United Way 
boards in the U.S., as well as in Brazil, Chile, 
Argentina, Colombia and China
• Education programs that 3M supports reach more 
than 7.6 million young people each year. Programs 
include sponsorship of FIRST Lego and Robotics 
teams; Sparticl, a science-learning site for teens; 
science fairs; and support of Generation Next, 
a community collaboration in our headquarters 
to help close the achievement gap among low-
income students. Thousands of 3M employees, 
including 1500 through the 3M/St. Paul Public 
School Partnership, volunteer nationwide to support 
education.Our Employees Care
Our employees have created many volunteer programs still going 
strong since 1973. We encourage volunteerism to enhance 
the quality of life in our communities, to share information 
about community needs and volunteer opportunities, and to 
recognize the sharing of time and talents to make a difference. 
Employees can participate in a variety of ways:
• Volunteer service on nonprofit boards or community 
projects
• Service on 3M advisory committees that shape funding 
priorities and assist with grant reviews
• 3Mgives Volunteer Match, which contributes to nonprofit 
organizations where employees volunteer at least 20 
hours per year and retirees volunteer at least 25 hours 
per year
• 3Mgives College and University Match throughout the 
year, with special matches for hunger relief and the 
environment
• 3Mgives Volunteer Award for outstanding volunteer 
service
Skills-Based Volunteering: Technical & Business 
Assistance for Collaborative Solutions 
• Finance workshops. Workshops by Finance volunteers 
help nonprofits with budgeting, ROI, cash flow and long-
term financial metrics. 
• Optimized production. 3M engineering experts use 
optimized lean production and warehouse layouts to 
help Food Banks operate more efficiently and collect, 
warehouse and distribute food.
• Loving math. 3Mers across the country coach 
MathCounts and FIRST® Robotics teams at local 
schools.
• Science encouragement. 3M Visiting Wizards, 3M STEP 
(Science Training Encouragement Program) and 3M TECH (Technical Teams Encouraging Career Horizons) 
motivate students with classroom science experiments, 
STEM career days and student mentoring.
• Board service. More than 200 employees and retirees 
serve on nonprofit boards to share leadership, financial, 
marketing, technical and legal skills.
• Child and student law. 3M Legal pro bono work includes 
partnerships with the Children’s Law Center of Minnesota 
and Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services. Work 
has led to clarification on all Minnesota students’ rights.
• Computer experts. 3M’s social media, marketing and 
e-Transformation experts help with projects such as 
inner-city school websites. 
Senior Leadership Involvement: Executives at 
all Levels Lead With Personal Commitment
• Side by side. Senior leaders volunteer alongside other 
employees at sponsor events during the United Way 
campaign. 
• Leading by example. Many Vice Presidents, General 
Managers and Operating Committee members lead by 
example, volunteering year-round.
• Championing causes. Senior leaders serve as champions 
for volunteer programs. 
• Rallying the troops. Our CEO and Senior Vice President 
rally volunteers and present annual 3Mgives Volunteer 
Awards.
• Board visibility. 3M leaders serve on nonprofit boards 
and committees.
Innovative Practices: Tapping Into 3M 
Innovation for Community Solutions
• 3Mgvies Alumni Volunteer new Store-to-Door program 
helps seniors remain independent by taking grocery 
store phone orders shopping for groceries and clipping 
coupons. 3Mgives Alumni Habitat for Humanity marked 18 years in 2013 with a total 64 homes built and 
substantial work on 92 more homes.
• 3M Sales Force for the Kids. A clever sales force 
program for volunteering at local Boys & Girls 
Clubs provides a way for 3M sales employees, 
who typically work from home and find it harder 
to participate in corporate volunteer programs, to 
give back.
• Science encouragement. With engaging science 
experiments, 3M Visiting Wizards spark kids’ 
excitement about how science affects their lives.
• Science training. 3M Science Training 
Encouragement Program (STEP) mentors coach 
students in science fields and offer summer jobs 
for real-life experience.
GOALS & RESULTS
Contributions from 3M and 3M Foundation support 
education, community and environmental organizations 
that meet the following requirements:
• Are established, well-managed nonprofit groups 
classified as charitable organizations for tax 
purposes and are located in, or within programs 
that serve, 3M communities
• Provide broad-based community support with a 
reputation for high-quality service delivery and 
measurable results
• Develop close relationships with community 
members to identify changing needs
• Maintain strategic partnerships with 3M 
businesses that advance corporate and 
community interests, such as investing in the 
future workforce
• Build the 3M brand and provide opportunities for 
employee engagement3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   129 130   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Sparticl: Making Science 
Fun for Teens
What makes science fun and relevant to teens, parents and teachers? That was the question 
3M and Twin Cities Public Television answered with the launch of Spartic l, a science website for 
teens that meets them where they are: online. Sparticl provides homework help and answers 
everyday science questions, engaging students through videos, games and sharing. Parents 
and teachers appreciate Sparticl’s thoughtful design, and quality content that is safe and easy 
to access. 
Developed by Twin Cities Public Television and sponsored by 3M, Sparticl is free to viewers of 
all ages and brings together the best science content, video and games online, framing them by 
topic areas that align with teen interests. Sparticl is accessible by computer or mobile device. 
Here’s what one teen has to say:
“From now on, I’ll definitely go on there and look for anything I need to research 
because it’s harder to go out on like Google, for instance, and choose. You have all 
these options and thousands and thousands of hits for each category, but it is hard 
to determine which ones are good. And so Sparticl has simplified the process and it 
says, okay, here are 10 articles on dog comprehension or something like that, and 
they have 10 articles on that specific category and you can choose from those 10 
and you know all of them are reliable, and they provide really detailed and specific 
information and they are useful. They are not just any old site, they have selected 
really high-quality ones.”
Sparticl launched October 1, 2013, and six 
months later there were over 250,000 visitors 
from 90 countries around the world using the 
site with new visitors each day. Super users 
can join Sparticl and access other features 
including avatars and sharing with friends. 2013 Giving Results
3M’s decentralized community giving information outside of the US is collected through a manual, self-reporting process rather than 
through traditional accounting systems due to the complex nature of giving. An internal reporting database accessible to all countries 
has been developed for 3Mgives data reporting. As of year-end 2013, 27 countries with charitable investment giving programs 
reported their data highlighting the additional giving in 2013 globally. 2013 TOTAL GLOBAL GIVING BY FOCUS AREA
GIVING AREA CASH IN-KIND TOTAL %VOLUNTEER 
HOURS
Education $14,194,008 $12,148,628 $26,342,636 43% 46,978
Community $14,098,422 $18,514,456 $32,612,878 53% 202,388
Environment $1,994,809 $656,758 $2,651,567 4% 4,746
Total Giving $30,287,239 $31,319,842 $61,607,081 100% 254,112
2013 TOTAL GLOBAL GIVING BY REGION
REGIONCHARITABLE 
CORPORATE CASH 
DONATIONS ($USD)CHARITABLE 
FOUNDATION CASH 
DONATIONS ($USD)IN-KIND PRODUCT 
DONATIONS ($USD 
FAIR MARKET VALUE)TOTAL DONATIONS 
($USD)
United States $6,200,000 $21,204,597 $30,643,803 $58,048,400
Asia Pacific $188,759 $602 $196,394 $385,756
Europe $407,387 $158 $217,166 $624,711
Latin America $828,257 $333,485 $42,679 $1,204,421
Middle East / Africa $6,300 – $4,800 $11,100
Canada $1,117,693 – $215,000 $1,332,693
Total Global 
Giving$8,748,396 $21,538,843 $21,538,842.52 $61,607,081Our Collaboration Impact3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   131 132   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Providing Healthy Smiles for 
Children in Argentina
The Sonríe program was developed by 3M Argentina in 2012 to facilitate oral care 
access to children ages 3–10. Oral diseases are the main cause of school absences 
among low-resources populations in Argentina, so 3M established the program with 
support from Fundación Caminando Juntos (United Way Argentina) and in collaboration 
with Buenos Aires University’s (UBA) Odontology School and Tigre’s municipality, 
targeting two schools in neighborhoods where visits to the dentist are infrequent.
Students and teachers from UBA’s Odontology School developed a system that allows 
oral care inside the school through 3M’s PRAT technique, a noninvasive technology for 
treating and healing cavities. Different from conventional treatment, PRAT is not painful, 
does not need local anesthesia nor expensive electrical equipment, and reduces treatment time and costs. 
In addition to providing medical care and treatment, the Sonríe program includes special classes to instill positive oral care behavior, such as the importance of 
brushing teeth, flossing and visiting the dentist regularly.
In 2013, more than 150 children benefited directly from oral care thanks to Sonríe, and for many children it was their first visit with a dentist. 3M Argentina is 
currently looking to scale the program to additional schools.
Improving Water Quality & Wildlife Habitat Through 
Education and Research
In late 2013, 3M provided a $49,996 grant to the  Catawba Science Center  in Hickory, North Carolina, for the 
organization to establish an ecological study of the upper section of the Catawba River basin. The project, which 
launched in January 2014, will engage local teachers and students in studying the stressors of water quality and 
ecosystems. 
As part of the study, the Catawba Science Center will outfit six great blue herons with special, solar-powered Global 
Positioning Systems (GPS). Students from local schools will adopt the birds and monitor each heron and its habitat, and 
they’ll learn about a variety of subjects along the way, including renewable energy, satellite tracking, geo-location, and 
mapping and triangulation as they follow the journey of their heron. Additional technology will be used for water quality 
sampling, data analysis, recording of water quality and invertebrate studies as they map their heron’s habitat.3M Brazil Institute: Formare 
School Collaborates With 
Iochpe Foundation to Foster Healthy 
and Safe Communities Through Youth 
Development 
The 3M Brazil Institute and Iochpe Foundation-Formare Professional 
Education Program partnered to develop a program for young students 
seeking vocational training to join the workforce in their communities. 
The Formare project began in August 2013 to offer professional 
education courses for youths ages 17–18 from low-income families. 
3M Institute administers classes and coordinates the program, which 
is hosted at the 3M Sumaré and Manaus sites. The courses, which last 
approximately seven months, help youths develop careers and prepare 
themselves for the job market. The production assistance coursework, 
which is certified by the Ministry of Education, includes 600 hours of 
theoretical and practical classes and is divided into basic, intermediate 
and advanced modules. In the advanced session, students participate 
in professional practice, where they take what they’ve learned outside 
the walls of a classroom. This unique partnership enables and prepares 
underprivileged youths with an opportunity to advance their skills and 
contribute to healthier, safer communities. In 2013, 15 3M volunteers 
contributed their time and talent to help 20 students complete the 
coursework and advance their skills.
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   133 134   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Providing Safe, Renewable Energy Sources in Kenya
For children around the world living in extreme poverty, the day ends when the sun sets. And with it, a chance for education. In the Kibera 
section of Nairobi, Kenya, every daylight hour is spent fighting for survival and collecting firewood, drinkable water and food. Education 
provides a way out, but with no access to electricity, studying 
after sundown is impossible. Ruston Seaman, President and 
CEO of New Vision Renewable Energy, had a plan to permanently 
improve the lives of people living off the grid. He used his 
renewable energy expertise to design a lamp that would be solar-
powered, easily assembled and cheaply made. There was only 
one problem: It wasn’t bright enough. Seaman collaborated with 
3M’s renewable energy division to identify a 3M reflective film  
that would improve the lamp’s performance. 3Mgives donated 
enough Solar Mirror Film for 44,000 lamps, giving Seaman the 
power to help 44,000 families living in darkness. The solar-
powered lamps created a lasting sustainable change in people’s 
lives, freeing families from the hazards and costs of using 
kerosene fuel. Parents feel safer at night, and children can finally 
pursue their studies. It’s light that will last for lifetimes.
Partnering to Conserve Natural Resources, Create 
Jobs, and Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions
The 3M Foundation is helping 
The Nature Conservancy  take 
on conservation priorities 
in Northern Australia by 
supporting its work on the 
457,000 acre Fish River 
Station. This property, which 
contains rare mammals, also 
encompasses the important 
floodplains of the Daly River, 
species and resources we 
must nurture to maintain 
biodiversity.
Since 2010, the Conservancy 
has worked with indigenous rangers and other partners to remove more than 2,500 feral animals from 
the property, reduce wildfires and abate more than 40,000 tons of potential greenhouse gas emissions 
through the overall project management. The Fish River Station program serves as a model for other 
indigenous-run conservation programs across Northern Australia.
The 3M Foundation and The Nature Conservancy also launched a program so indigenous people in 
Australia can earn carbon credits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions on their land. The community 
can then sell earned credits to people and businesses wishing to offset their emissions.
Tangible Impact: The Indigenous Land Corporation sold the first indigenous-produced Australian Carbon 
Credit Units last year and earned $517,000 for ongoing conservation management. The carbon credits 
will finance ongoing conservation work on their lands, helping to simultaneously stop deadly wildfires, 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide jobs for indigenous people.
Partnering to Drive Improved Workplace Safety and Skills 
WorldSkills International  is a nonprofit membership association open to companies and organizations that promote 
vocational education and training in their respective countries or regions. It is dedicated to achieving higher standards 
and status for vocational education and training on a worldwide basis.
3M’s Global involvement with WorldSkills began in 2011, when the Company became a global industry partner 
benefitting from a unique opportunity to work alongside 50-plus member countries committed to sustainable growth. It 
provides a forum for 3M to engage and influence workforce safety, best practices and 
skills enhancements within a multitude of vocational skills areas — from welding to 
floristry to automotive repair to catering.
3M has a strong sponsorship presence at WorldSkills local, regional and global events 
through in-kind donations such as welding shields, respirator marks, hearing protectors 
and more. The Company will support the next Global Competition in Sao Paulo in 2015.
136   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
•  For an industry-leading tenth 
consecutive year, 3M earned the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency’s 
ENERGY STAR® Partner of the 
Year-Sustained Excellence Award  
for its comprehensive worldwide 
energy conservation efforts.  No other 
company has achieved this distinction 
for that many consecutive years or as 
many as ten times.
• 3M has been included in the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index  every 
year since the inception of the Index 
in 1999 (14 years). We have achieved 
this by consistently being one of the 
leading companies in the Industrial 
Conglomerates sector. The Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) family is 
derived from and fully integrated with 
the Dow Jones Global Total Stock 
Market Index (DJGI). The top 10% of the 
They share the same methodology for 
calculating, reviewing and publishing 
the indexes. Members included in the 
index represent the 10 percent of the 
leading sustainability companies of the 
largest 2,500 companies in the DJGI 
across multiple industry groups and 
geographies. • 3M was recognized as one of 
America’s most community-
minded companies in “The Civic 
50,” an annual survey that identifies 
and recognizes companies for their 
commitment to improve the quality 
of life in the communities where they 
do business.  3M ranked fourth in the 
“materials” category. Developed by the 
National Conference on Citizenship, 
Points of Light and Bloomberg, the 
survey measures civic engagement 
programs of S&P 500 companies 
based on five factors: organizational 
commitment; strategic investment; 
business integration; fostering civic 
culture; and measuring impact
• 3M ranked No. 24 on Interbrand’s 
2013 Best Global Green Brands list 
of companies . Brand consultancy 
firm Interbrand commended 3M for its 
sustainability goals and performance, 
for making sustainability central to 
all its business activities, and for the 
numerous awards it garnered in 2013, 
Sustainability
Awards3M’s continued focus on innovation combined with enthusiasm, creativity, passion and hard work is creating a stronger 
company. These qualities are continually validated in the external recognition that 3M receives. This reinforces 3M’s 
reputation as a diversified technology company that continually strives to provide innovative and practical solutions while 
maintaining a commitment to sustainability. For a complete list of 3M awards, visit our  website . Featured Awards for 2013
 including the Sustained Excellence 
Award from the EPA. To make the 
list, companies must perform well in 
both sustainability performance and 
perception. 
• 3M ranked No. 5 on Booz & 
Company’s Global Innovation 1000 
study’s survey ranking of the 10 
most innovative companies . Booz 
& Company, a global management 
consulting firm, surveyed nearly 400 
innovation leaders from companies 
worldwide to determine which 
companies are seen as the most 
innovative. The study again found 
that higher R&D spending doesn’t 
guarantee better payoffs. The 10 most 
innovative  companies identified by the 
2013 study financially outperformed 
the world’s top 10 spenders, despite 
actually spending less on R&D. 
•  Top Companies for Leaders 
sponsored by the Hay Group, Best 
Companies for Leaders led by 
Hewitt and Associates , and 3M 
ranked in the top 10 on the 2013 Best 
Companies for Leaders, conducted by 
the Chally Group for CEO Magazine.
138   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
About
This ReportReport Scope & 
Boundaries
Report Schedule & Period
Current Issue:  May 23, 2014
Next Issue:  Scheduled for May 2015
Previous Issue: May 31, 2013
* Prior to 2010, 3M’s Sustainability Report was a fully 
integrated website. Therefore, copies prior to 2009 are not 
available.
This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal 
year 2013 (January 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013).
Organizational Boundaries
This report covers 3M’s owned manufacturing facilities 
and leased facilities worldwide, including joint ventures (if 
greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) and partially owned 
subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) where 
3M has full operational control. Acquisitions are included in 
data sets once legally owned and fully integrated onto 3M 
systems. All data included in the report is global data unless 
otherwise specified. Any significant organization changes 
are identified in 3M’s Proxy Statement.Data Collection, 
Adjustments & 
Verification
The data provided in this report through facts and figures 
is based on activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2013. For 
some performance indicators, previous year’s data is 
provided to allow for annual comparisons.
Report Data Collection
Due to the size and geographical extent of our operations, 
it is at times difficult to obtain all data points. Therefore, to 
the extent possible, limitations and assumptions are stated 
as information in the report. The data reported in this 
report has been reviewed for accuracy and completeness, 
including the reliability of the systems used to obtain the 
data. Corporate staff have also verified the implementation 
of policies and management systems through audits and 
self-reporting systems.
• Financial Data: Financial information referenced in 
this report is collected and reported in accordance 
with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission through the 2014 Annual Report.• Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Data: 
The EHS data in this report is related to release to 
the environment, safety performance, management 
systems implementation and regulatory compliance. 
Data collection systems are in place at applicable sites to 
track and collect environmental, health and safety data 
through the corporate-wide EHS reporting systems (e.g., 
Environmental Targets Database, Worldwide Incident 
Management System).
• Social Data: The data related to employee metrics , 
social practices, and community programs has been 
derived from various databases from within the Human 
Resources and 3Mgives organizations. This data 
has been reviewed and verified by the departments 
responsible for maintaining the internal reporting 
systems. 
Sites acquired by 3M are integrated into 3M programs and 
reporting systems via a prioritized functional integration 
schedule. Timeframe for integration varies depending on 
subject matter reporting requirements and site systems prior 
to being acquired; however, on average integration ranges 
between one to three years. 
Base Year & Other Adjustments
3M’s Annual Report (10K) and Investor Relations website 
document any changes to financial data. Several of 3M’s 
environmental goals are normalized per net sales. 3M does not 
adjust sales data for inflation.
3M generally does not adjust its base-year environmental 
metrics data to reflect changes in 3M’s organizational structure. 
As a result, 3M sets environmental targets that are normalized 
or indexed to production (tons emitted or net sales) to ensure 
the environmental progress we report publically is not unduly 
influenced by changes to our organizational structure. However, in the case of our greenhouse gas emissions data, 3M follows 
the World Resource Institute and World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development GHG Protocol. Consequently, we 
readjust our greenhouse gas emissions base-year data in the 
case of business acquisitions and divestitures.
In every case, 3M adjusts base-year and other years’ data if 
data collection methods change or data errors are identified. 
Any significant changes in the measurement methods and/or 
data values applied to key environmental metrics from previous 
years are documented within the report. Significant changes 
are defined by 3M’s Sustainability Report as changes greater 
than 5 percent of the original data point. 
In 2013, 3M identified and corrected data entry errors 
regarding our detailed water source and recycling metrics.  Water 
percentages were reversed for water sourced from surface 
water and recycled external sources.  Total water recycled was 
also entered incorrectly.  The correct percentages in 2012 were 
as follows:  Total water recycled (36.6%), Water sourced from 
surface water (0.1%) and Water sourced from recycled external 
sources (1.3%).
In 2011, 3M returned to a more conventional definition of 
waste that considered recycling as neutral (contributing neither 
toward total waste nor toward good output). Between 2005 and 
2010, 3M adopted a different definition of waste to drive the 
company’s waste reduction efforts toward more sustainable 
solutions, such as pollution prevention. 3M’s waste reduction 
goal and progress during this period included recycling. Waste 
data is reported in this report using both definitions. When total 
waste is discussed in general, a conventional neutral definition 
of recycling is used.
On June 5, 2014, 3M corrected a reference to Greener Post-it 
Notes (page 6) and the Sparticl launch date (page 130) in the 
original 2014 Sustainability Report.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   139
Data Verification
Internal Verification: 3M has conducted an internal verification 
of the information provided in this report. The objectives for our 
assurance process included:
• Accuracy and completeness of data
• Reliability of systems used to measure and record data
• Reliability of ratios compiled from underlying data
• Adherence to the GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines
• Implementation of internal policies and related management 
systems as reported
• Presentation of a complete and fair picture in the report as 
a whole
Third-Party Verification: ISOS Group [“Assurance Provider”] 
provided independent third-party assurance for this report 
covering activities January 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013. ISOS 
group verified environmental and social metrics. See Appendix A 
of this report for its assurance statement.Global Principles & 
Guidelines
Global Reporting Initiative 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-
based organization that includes representatives from 
business, government, labor, third-party advocacy groups 
and academia. The GRI organization has developed a 
framework for sustainability reporting. Following the 
GRI Sustainability framework advances two important 
objectives: transparency and the ability to compare results 
from one organization to another. 3M has developed this 
report using GRI G3.1 Guidelines. The following table 
outlines where specific GRI reporting elements and 
indicators are addressed in the report or other reporting 
sources including 3M’s Annual Report (10K) (AR), 2014 
3M Proxy Statement (PR) or other noted sources.
Our disclosure levels are noted in the GRI Index of this 
report (e.g., Full, Partial, Not Reported). 3M self-declares 
the 2014 report as a “B+” level report. 3M plans to align 
its 2015 Sustainability Report with the GRI G4 Guidelines.
United Nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress
The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for 
businesses that are committed to aligning their operations 
and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in 
the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-
corruption. 3M committed to the UN Global Compact 
principles in early 2014. This report includes an index 
of our Communication on Progress implementing the 10 
principles within the content of this 2014 Sustainability 
Report.
Contact 3M
Further information regarding this sustainability report 
can be obtained by contacting 3M Sustainability at 
Sustainability@mmm.com.  
IndexGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index & 
UN Global Compact Report on Progress 
Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines
3M has developed this report using the Global Reporting Initiatives’ G3.1 Guidelines. The following table outlines where specific GRI 
reporting elements and indicators are addressed in the report or other reporting sources including 3M’s 2013 Annual Report  (10K) 
(AR), 2014 3M Proxy Statement (PR) or other noted sources. Disclosure level are also provided: Full, Partial, or Not Reported.
UN Global Compact Principles
3M committed to the UN Global Compact principles in February 2014. Below is an index cross-linking progress 
elements related to the 10 principles within the content of this 2014 Sustainability Report.
Human Rights
• Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and
• Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 
Labour
• Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining;
• Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
• Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and
• Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 
Environment
• Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
• Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
• Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-Corruption
• Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 
3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   141 142   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Strategy and Analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO Letter 5-6
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities.CEO Letter
Our Strategy
Sustainability Materiality5-6
9-16
17-22
Organizational Profile
2.1 Name of the organization. About 3M 23
2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services.Our Products
3M Website-Our Products24
2.3Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 
operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures.About 3M
2013 Annual Report23-24
AR: 3-5
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. About 3M 23
2.5Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 
countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant 
to the sustainability issues.About 3M 23
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.About 3M
2013 Annual Report23
AR: 1
2.7Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and 
types of customers/beneficiaries).About 3M
Our Products
2013 Annual Report23-24
24
AR: 3-5
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. About 3M 23-24
2.9Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 
structure or ownership.2014 Proxy Statement
2013 Annual Report (Acquisitions/Divestitures)PR: 41-73
AR: 59-61
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Sustainability Awards 135-136GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   143 144   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Reporting Parameters
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Report Schedule and Period 137
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Schedule and Period 137
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Schedule and Period 137
3.4 Contact point for questions.About This Report
(Contact 3M)139
3.5 Process for defining report content. Stakeholders and Sustainability Materiality 17-22
3.6Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 
facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).Organizational Boundaries 137
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Organizational Boundaries 137
3.8Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 
outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 
comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.Organizational Boundaries 137
3.9Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 
assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the 
compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139
3.10Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in 
earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/
acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, 
measurement methods).Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139
3.11Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 
boundary or measurement methods applied in the report.Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Index 140-164
3.13Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 
for the report.Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification
Independent Assurance Report137-139
Appendix AGRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   145 146   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Governance, Commitments and Engagement
4.1Governance structure of the organization, including committees under 
the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as 
setting strategy or organizational oversight.Corporate Governance
2014 Proxy Statement25-34
PR: 9-18
4.2Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 
executive officer.Corporate Governance
2014 Proxy Statement25-34
PR: 10-11
4.3For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number 
and gender of members of the highest governance body that are 
independent and/or nonexecutive members.Corporate Governance
2014 Proxy Statement25-34
PR: 19
4.4Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.Shareholder and Stakeholder Input
2014 Proxy Statement (Annual Meeting of Stockholders)31
PR: iii-8
4.5Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 
governance body, senior managers and executives.2014 Proxy Statement PR: 41-73
4.6Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts 
of interest are avoided.Corporate Governance
2014 Proxy Statement25-34
PR: 9-18
4.7Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise 
of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, 
including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity.Corporate Governance
2014 Proxy Statement25-34
PR: 9-18
4.8Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 
conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social 
performance, and the status of their implementation.Governance, Values and Ethics 25-42
4.9Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 
organization’s identification and management of economic, 
environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and 
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed 
standards, codes of conduct and principles.Managing Enterprise Risks and Opportunities
2014 Proxy Statement  (Board’s Role in Risk Oversight)
2013 Annual Report34-35
PR:15
AR: 9-11
4.10Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 
performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and 
social performance.2014 Proxy Statement (Compensation Committee) PR: 23, 41-73GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   147 148   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
4.11Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 
principle is addressed by the organization.3M Environmental Policy (www.3M.com/Sustainability)-
Policies and Reports
Optimizing Our Environmental Footprint
Driving Growth through Sustainable Product Stewardship91-120
59-63
4.12Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or 
endorses.Human Rights
Code of Conduct
Engaging Our Stakeholders39-42
35-39
17-20
4.13Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 
national/international advocacy organizations.Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20
4.15Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 
engage.Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20
4.16Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 
engagement by type and by stakeholder group.Engaging Our Stakeholders
Frequency and level of stakeholder engagement is 
considered Business Confidential.17-20
4.17Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 
engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 
topics and concerns, including through its reporting.Sustainability Materiality Process and Outcomes 20-22
Performance Indicators
Economic
EC1Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 
operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 
community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital 
providers and governments.Financial Summary
2013 Annual Report
Revenues
Operating Costs
Employee Compensation
Community Investments
Payments to Capital Providers and Governments
Financial/Summary55-57
AR:19
AR:20
AR:48
AR:46-51
AR:46-51GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   149 150   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
EC2 Principle 7Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 
organization’s activities due to climate change.Energy & Climate
Managing Enterprise Risk and Opportunities97-110
34-35
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations.Financial Summary
2013 Annual Report55-57
AR: 76-88, 111-114
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government.3M does not receive significant financial assistance from the 
government. For some information about tax holidays and 
the U.S. research and development credit, refer to Note 8 
(Income Taxes) in 3M’s 2013 Annual Report  on Form 10-K.AR: 68-73
EC5 Principle 6Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared with 
local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.The differences in compensation by country/region 
contribute to global ranges that are not representative of 
compensation structures within the company.
EC6Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers 
at significant locations of operation.The proportion of spending on locally based suppliers is 
considered Business Confidential.
Engaging Our Suppliers121-124
EC7 Principle 6Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired 
from the local community at significant locations of operation.Globally Diverse Workforce   Details of hiring procedures /
selection criteria are considered Business Confidential.65-70
EC8Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro 
bono engagement.Strategy for Community Involvement
Global Contributions125-128
EC9Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 
including the extent of impacts.Sustainability Materiality Process and Outcomes 20-22
Environmental
EN1 Principle 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume.Due to the diversity and complexity of manufacturing of 3M’s 
products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not 
collected (by weight/volume) and aggregated to the extent it 
would indicate relevance at a corporate level.
EN2 Principle 8 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.Due to the diversity and complexity of manufacturing of 3M’s 
products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not 
collected (percent of recycled materials) and aggregated to 
the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level.
Please refer to Environmental Solutions Catalog for several 
examples of utilizing recycled content.
Environmental Solutions CatalogGRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   151 152   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
EN3 Principle 7, 8 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy Usage 110
EN4 Principle 8 Indirect energy consumption by primary source.Energy Usage   The costs for collecting additional detailed 
information is disproportionate to the results.110
EN5 Principle 8 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy 110
EN6 Principle 8, 9Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based 
products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 
result of these initiatives.Climate and Energy
Lifecycle Management and Analysis97-110
59-63
EN7 Principle 8, 9Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions 
achieved.Climate and Energy 97-110
EN8 Principle 7, 8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water Quality and Availability 118-120
EN9 Principle 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Water Quality and Availability 118-120
EN10 Principle 8 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Water Quality and Availability 118-120
EN11 Principle 8Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to 
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected 
areas.                                                      
EN12 Principle 8Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services 
on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 
outside protected areas.Due to the size and complexity of 3M, the costs for 
collecting impacts of activities, products and services is 
disproportionate to the results.
EN13 Principle 8 Habitats protected or restored. Collaborating With Our Communities 125-134
EN14 Principle 8Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on 
biodiversity.
EN15 Principle 8Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 
species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of 
extinction risk.
EN16 Principle 7, 8 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 102-108GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   153 154   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
EN17 Principle 8 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 102-108
EN18 Principle 8, 9Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 
achieved.Greenhouse Gas Emissions 97-110
EN19 Principle 7, 8 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.3M has an Ozone Depleting Chemical policy (applicable 
to all 3M operations), which prohibits the use of highly 
ozone-depleting chemicals from all products, manufacturing 
processes and new equipment worldwide. HCFCs are being 
phased out by 2015.
EN20 Principle 7, 8 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air Quality 112-117
EN21 Principle 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination.
EN22 Principle 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste and Recycling 115-116
EN23 Principle 8 Total number and volume of significant spills.3M did not have any significant spills in 2013 that met the 
GRI definition of reportable in the organizations financial report 
(due to resulting liabilities). Tracking Environmental Incidents95-96
EN24 Principle 8Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and 
VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
EN25 Principle 8Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water 
bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 
organization’s discharges of water and runoff.
EN26 Principle 7, 8, 9Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 
and extent of impact mitigation.Driving Growth through Sustainable Product Stewardship
Environmental Solutions Catalog59-63
EN27 Principle 8Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 
reclaimed by category.Focus on Packaging 117-118
EN28 Principle 8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.Tracking Environmental Incidents
2013 Annual Report95-96
AR: 6,11,105-109GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   155 156   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
EN29 Principle 8Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 
goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and 
transporting members of the workforce.
EN30 Principle 7, 8, 9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. This is considered Business Confidential.
Human Rights
HR1 Principle 2Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights clauses or that have undergone 
human rights screening.Investment agreements are subject to 3M Business Conduct 
Policies and Guidelines. Code of Conduct35-39
HR2 Principle 2Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business 
partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions 
taken.Engaging Our Suppliers 121-124
HR3 Principle 1Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 
concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 
including the percentage of employees trained.The 3M Human Rights Policy Statement was adopted in 
2013. Training is being developed as part of 3M’s training on 
Respectful Workplace Principles. It will be launched in 2014.
HR4 Principle 6Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken.This is considered Business Confidential.
HR5 Principle 3Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to 
exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at 
significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.Engaging Our Suppliers
Human Rights (Freedom of Association)121-124
41-42
HR6 Principle 5Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk 
for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 
elimination of child labor.Engaging Our Suppliers
Human Rights (Child Labor)121-124
41-42
HR7 Principle 4Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk 
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute 
to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.Engaging Our Suppliers
Human Rights (Forced and Compulsory Labor)121-124
41-42GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   157 158   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
HR8 Principle 1Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies 
or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations.All 3M-employed Corporate Security staff members are 
trained on 3M policies, which will include the Respectful 
Workplace Policy (including Human Rights policy elements) 
when that training content is offered in 2014. 
3M plant locations also hire third-party and external security 
personnel to restrict public access to our facilities.  They 
are contractually expected to comply with 3M policies when 
assigned to work at a 3M site . 
HR9 Principle 1Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 
people and actions taken.To the best of our knowledge, there were no incidents 
related to the rights of indigenous people in 2013.
HR10 Principle 1Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to 
human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.Employee Relation assessments have been implemented 
in 3M’s U.S., Canada, Asia and Western Europe operations. 
3M is working to implement these self-assessments in its 
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Latin America regions.
HR11 Principle 1Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and 
resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.This is considered Business Confidential.
Labor Proactice and Decent Work
LA1 Principle 6Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 
broken down by gender.Globally Diverse Workforce 65-70
LA2 Principle 6Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover 
by age group, gender and region.Globally Diverse Workforce
Turnover is considered Business Confidential65-70
LA3Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or 
part-time employees, by major operations.Globally Diverse Workforce 65-70
LA4 Principle 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.Approximately 29 percent of 3M’s global workforce is 
unionized.
LA5 Principle 3Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, 
including whether it is specified in collective agreements.3M follows all applicable local laws and regulations 
regarding notice periods in the event of business operations 
changes.GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   159 160   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 
management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor 
and advise on occupational health and safety programs.Approximately 75 percent of 3M employees are represented 
in formal joint management worker health and safety 
committees. This includes 3M employees working in 
manufacturing, laboratories and distribution centers. Some, 
but not all, administrative employees are covered by health 
and safety committees.
LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalities by region and gender.Global Health and Safety 81-96
LA8Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs 
in place to assist workforce members, their families or community 
members regarding serious diseases.Health and Wellness 76-77
LA9Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 
unions.
LA10 Principle 6Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by 
employee category.Although 3M tracks some training hours, it is not consistent 
globally. 3M believes indicators that align with results of 
the people to success of the Company are direct indicators 
of successful development programs (e.g. Leadership & 
Employee engagement, Retention, Brand Recognition, New 
Product Vitality Index)
LA11Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 
continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 
career endings.Investing in Our People 71-80
LA12 Principle 6Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews by gender.Investing in Our People 71-80
LA13 Principle 6Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 
employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership and other indicators of diversity.Corporate Governance
Globally Diverse Workforce25-34
65-70
LA14 Principle 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.3M administers performance-related compensation 
regardless of gender.GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   161 162   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
LA15 Principle 6 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.
Society
SO1 Principle 1Percentage of operations with implemented local community 
engagement, impact assessments and development programs.Sustainability Performance Summary
Collaborating With Our Communities51-52
126
SO2 Principle 10Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks 
related to corruption.Code of Conduct 35-39
SO3 Principle 10Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 
policies and procedures.Code of Conduct 35-39
SO4 Principle 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.Responding to Concerns (www.3M.Com/Business Conduct)
Investigations and Findings (www.3M.com/Business 
Conduct-Additional info)
SO5 Principle 10Public policy positions and participation in public policy development 
and lobbying.Public Policy and Engagement 43-44
SO6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 
politicians and related institutions by country.3M Political Activities Principle 
3M PAC Contributions (www.fec.gov)
Any political activities outside the United States require approval 
by the Executive Vice President of International Operations.
SO7Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust 
and monopoly practices, and their outcomes.
SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary 
sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.2013 Annual Report AR:102-110
SO9 Principle 1Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on 
local communities.
SO10 Principle 1Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with 
significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.Environmental Management System and Compliance
Safety and Health Management
Code of Conduct
Collaborating With Our Communities93-96
81-90
35-39
125-134GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   163 164   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
Product Responsibility
PR1Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 
services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant 
products and services categories subject to such procedures.Life-Cycle Management and Analysis 59-63
PR2Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and 
services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.
PR3Type of product and service information required by procedures 
and percentage of significant products and services subject to such 
information requirements.Life-Cycle Management and Analysis 59-63
PR4Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 
labeling, by type of outcomes.3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance 
with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use 
of products and services.
PR5Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 
measuring customer satisfaction.This information is considered Business Confidential.
PR6Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes 
related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion 
and sponsorship.3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance 
with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use 
of products and services.
See 3M’s Business Conducts Policy: Advertising and Product 
Representation Policy.
PR7Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
PR8Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data.
PR9Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance 
with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use 
of products and services.GRI Profile 
DisclosureUN Global 
Compact Principles 
(Cross-Reference)DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks) 
OR Direct AnswerPage(s)GRI Disclosure 
LevelFull Partial Not Reported3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   165
Thank you.3M 2014 Sustainability Report   |   167 168   |   3M 2014 Sustainability Report    
External Assurance
Statement
GRI Application Level: B+
Executive Summary
SCOPE OF ASSURANCE
ISOS Group [“Assurance Provider”] has been commissioned 
by the management of 3M, Co. [“3M”, “Company”] to conduct 
a limited assurance engagement on its 2014 Sustainability 
Report [“Report”] for the period of January 1, 2013 to 
December 31, 2013. The scope of our assurance covered 
the GRI Standard Disclosures: Profile [“Subject Matter”], and 
a selection of the GRI Standard Disclosures: Performance 
Indicators [“Subject Matter”]:  
• Environmental,  Health &  Safety  (EHS): volatile organic  
compounds  [“VOCs”]; water consumption,  wastewater  
and water conservation  efforts; waste levels, waste 
management  practices and waste reduction efforts; 
reported spills, fines  and  corrective  measures;  and  
health  and  safety  data  (recordable  incidents,  lost  
time  injury  and/or  illness cases); 
• Social:  employee  metrics,  labor  and  human  rights  
practices  (in/outside  operational  control),  and  
community engagement programs. 
ISOS assessed data related to all manufacturing and leased 
facilities worldwide including joint ventures (greater than 50% 
ownership)   and  partially   owned   subsidiaries   (greater   
than  50%  ownership)   where  3M  maintains   operational   
control. Financial   and   greenhouse   gas   information,  
already   externally   verified,   has   been   excluded   from   
the   scope   of   this engagement.   
OBJECTIVES
The objective of the assurance engagement was to 
independently express conclusions on the Subject Matter as defined within scope, validate claims, and analyze the final 
presentation of disclosures in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines.   
CRITERIA FOR ASSURANCE AND LEVEL OF 
ASSURANCE
Procedures selected were based on the Assurance Provider’s 
judgment and experience.  The focus of  all work performed 
was whether   any  matters   have  come  to  our  attention   
causing  us  to  believe  that  the  material   data  found  in  
3M’s  2014 Sustainability  Report  has  not  been  prepared  
in  accordance  with  the  Global  Reporting  Initiative’s  G3.1  
Guidelines,  GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI,  2004), SA8000 
(for issues of labor and human rights) and in adherence 
to the AA 1000AS Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and 
Responsiveness (for underlying reporting processes). A 
materiality threshold of 5% of the quantitative  assertions  
was  used  for this  review.  Comparisons  to previous  years’  
data  were  reviewed,  but  the  data  from baseline years did 
not undergo verification.  
METHODOLOGY
In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was 
undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following 
activities:  
• Performed  process  interviews  with  3M’s  reporting  
team  and  subject  matter  experts  to verify  consistency  
in the management approach for collecting, aggregating 
and reporting data and implementing internal quality 
control procedures;  
• Reviewed  original  sources  of data for the indicators  
in scope for three representative  facilities  (Hutchinson,  
USA; Tuas, Singapore; and Itapetininga, Brazil) to 
determine whether the data for these indicators, 
disclosed through the Sustainability Report is accurate 
and reliable;   
• Reviewed  key  data  management  systems,  procedures  and  controls  relating  to  the  collection,  aggregation  
and reporting processes of the selected Performance 
Indicators;   
• Conducted   investigations   of  publically   available   
records  and  databases   to  determine   the  legitimacy   
of  3M’s assertions in the Sustainability Report;  
• Reviewed  several  drafts  of  the  Sustainability   Report  
along  with  supporting  data  and,  as  necessary,  
provided recommendations  on discrepancies that might 
affect communication to stakeholders;  
• Prepared  an outcomes  log which  documented  the 
following  categories  of findings:  discrepancies  and/
or  gaps for data reported; inconsistencies  in the use 
and/or interpretation  of data contained in the data 
management systems; identification of statements 
in 3M’s 2014 Sustainability Report which did not 
match the supporting that was data provided;   and,  
nonconformities   of  reported   data  for  the  selected   
Performance   Indicators   to  the  definitions established 
by GRI.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there 
is no evidence that the assertions included in 3M’s 2014 
Sustainability Report  are  not  materially  correct  and  is  a  
fair  representation   of  the  data  and  information  for  the  
stated  period  and boundaries.  Therefore, we confirm that 
the GRI requirements for Application Level B+ have been met.
3M took immediate corrective action to address each 
issue identified by ISOS. Integrity through leadership 
and executed at all levels of the organization enables 
the Company’s to move beyond compliance and set the 
tone for its value chain.  The Company’s  commitment  to 
quality management  can only be enhanced  by infusing an 
additional  layer of internal review at the facility level on data 
and at the corporate level on assertions made within the 
Report.   STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE
ISOS Group is an independent professional services firm 
that specializes in sustainability reporting under the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and providing external assurance 
services. The Assurance Provider’s team members have not 
been involved in the development of the Report nor have 
they been associated with 3M’s sustainability program, 
data collection, or processes. We conducted this assurance 
engagement independently and, to our knowledge, there has 
been no conflict of interest.
ISOS Group ensures that the assurance team possesses the 
required competencies,  maintained neutrality, and performed 
ethically throughout the engagement. Further information, 
including a statement of competencies can be found at: 
www.isosgroup.com.
Signed on behalf of ISOS Group
San Diego | May 19, 2014
Nancy Mancilla  Alexandru Georgescu
Project Lead  Quantitative Analysis Lead
Christina Schwerdtfeger  
Environmental Analyst
	  
	  