2018 Sustainability Report
We tapped youth design apprentices at 
Minneapolis, MN based Juxtaposition Arts  
to interpret Sustainability at 3M and design  
this cover. Learn more inside.3D Text: Improve
Demond Rachon Bryant Jr., 2018
Juxtaposition Arts2 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report
A Sustainability story 
suitable for framing
This talented young trio immersed themselves in learning 
about Sustainability at 3M, and followed a formal design 
process, initiated by the report’s design agency BBDO, 
to generate an art concept that would capture the spirit 
of “Improving Every Life”. They developed dozens of 
potential concept “sketches”, worked with BBDO and 
3M to narrow them down and eventually collaborated 
with each other to refine and extend the chosen concept.Amanda Riley, BBDO Account Supervisor, says: 
“Right off the bat, JXTA asked us to treat them like we 
would any other vendor partner despite the age and 
experience level of the apprentices. While there were 
more ‘teaching’ opportunities than we would have for 
our typical vendor partners, we tried to stay true to our 
standard creative development and review process.”
Chris Corum, BBDO Creative Lead, agrees. “The 
apprentices didn’t disappoint. From the beginning, they 
were engaged with 3M as a client and the Sustainability 
Report as a creative challenge to solve. They embraced 
the challenge, bringing multiple options of concepts 
and executions throughout the entire process. Their 
proficiency with design software and the other tools of 
creative professionals was impressive, far exceeding my 
expectations for designers so young.”
About the experience, Demond, a high school junior who 
wants to someday work in visual development for video 
games, says, “This experience definitely pushed my 
abilities to the limit – and that’s a good thing.” Avahnii, a 
high school sophomore who may go into art, politics,  
or law, says, “I feel like 3M and BBDO helped us with 
all of our concepts, to make sure everything had a 
meaning.” Patricio, a college sophomore who is a 
passionate believer in telling stories with art, adds, “I’ve 
learned that no matter how well you can draw, you still 
need that core idea.”After completing their work on the 3M Sustainability 
Report project, the three apprentices will join about 70 
other youth in working this summer at JXTA on other 
client jobs, preparing themselves for what’s next in their 
professional lives – and working on projects that help the 
north Minneapolis community thrive.
Reflecting on the process, Demond says: “I’m going to 
be better prepared when I eventually go out into the real 
world, because this is what the real world is like.”
Patricio is in the same camp: “Getting this experience 
has been immense.”
And what about the finished product, Avahnii? “I think it 
really gets the message across that Sustainability is wise.”3M has a history of contributing to organizations that 
improve the lives of people in their communities.
This year, the tables have been turned. An organization 
that improves the lives of people in its community is 
contributing to 3M.
More specifically, Juxtaposition Arts (JXTA) has made a 
strong, artistic contribution to the cover and inside pages 
of this year’s 3M Sustainability Report.
Located in North Minneapolis, JXTA is an inner-city arts 
organization that provides young artists with paying jobs 
and a creative learning environment while championing 
the revitalization of the community that surrounds it.
JXTA students come from all over the Minneapolis-
St. Paul area to be employed here while learning 
professional design, production, and marketing skills in 
one of five educational studios.
“We have studios that train kids in Textiles & Screen 
Printing, Environmental Design, Graphic Design, 
Contemporary Art, and Tactical Urbanism,” says Bobby 
Rogers, JXTA Graphic Design Lab Lead. “The primary 
focus of these studios is to prepare each student beyond 
where they’re expected to be at their age, so when they 
complete their training they can move forward in their 
lives, whether they’re headed to college or into the  
real world.”
When 3M discovered the community-building mission 
of this institution, it asked three apprentices from JXTA’s 
Graphic Design studio to develop the original art used in 
this year’s Sustainability Report: Demond “DJ” Bryant, 
Avahnii Lewis, and Patricio De Lara.
(Left to right) Demond “DJ” Bryant, Patricio De Lara, and Avahnii Lewis
#improvinglives  | 3 2 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWhat We Create How We Work Who We Are Every Life Feature Stories Our Leadership About Report
6
8Message from our CEO
Message from our CTO12
24Innovating with Purpose
Purpose Inspired Impact44
46
48
54Introduction
Global Challenges
Materiality
2025 Goals180
182
188
198Introduction
Our Customers
Innovation Management
Our Products84
86
94
98Introduction
Corporate Governance
Enterprise Risk
Corporate Code of 
Conduct
Human Rights
Compensation
Employee Programs
Health and Safety
Environmental 
Management
SuppliersRaw Materials
Water
Climate and Energy106
114
118
130
138
144
152
156
16858
62Introduction
Our Values, Vision, and 
Strategies
Communities
Engaging Our 
Stakeholders
Diversity and Inclusion64
72
76204 Report Scope and 
Boundaries
Indices to GRI and 
UNGC
Assurance Statement
Metric Tables208
220
226Contents
#improvinglives  | 7
 6 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSD
1-2G4 In partnership with our customers, 3M uses 
science every day to improve lives and help 
solve society’s toughest challenges – from 
clean air and clean water, to advanced health care and 
food safety. We recognize the unique and inspiring 
opportunity we have: to grow our enterprise while 
making the world stronger, safer, and healthier.
To that end, we remain committed to making significant 
investments in Sustainability-inspired innovation. In 2017, 
3M invested $1.9 billion in research and development, as 
we continue inventing and manufacturing cutting-edge 
Sustainability solutions. Last year, in fact, 3M products 
helped our customers reduce their greenhouse gas 
emissions by 13 million tons.
Our commitment to Sustainability extends to our own 
operations, and has for decades. In 1975 we launched 
a pioneering program called Pollution Prevention 
Pays, which empowers 3Mers to find creative ways 
to make our company more efficient. This initiative 
continues today, and has led to 15,000 projects that 
have prevented two million tons of air, water, and 
waste pollution.
Last year we also continued to make progress on our 
2025 Sustainability Goals, which we laid out three years 
ago. These include investing in sustainable materials, 
increasing energy efficiency and water management, and doubling 3M’s pipeline of diverse leaders. Additional 
achievements from 2017 include:
• We convened customer conversations focused on 
Sustainability, and embedded Sustainability into our 
business strategies globally.
• We invested more than $70 million to support 
education, environmental, and other programs in 
our communities.
• We launched 3M Impact, a skills-based service 
program that sends 3Mers to communities around 
the world to help solve a pressing need.
• We received the prestigious Catalyst Award for 
our leadership in advancing diversity and inclusion, 
while receiving 100 percent scores on the LGBTQ 
Equality Index and Disability Equality index.
Going forward, we will continue to invest in developing 
products that help our customers reach their goals, 
while increasing our own Sustainability efforts in 
accordance with the United Nations Global Compact 
and its principles.
Thank you for joining us in this journey toward improving 
every life.
Inge G. Thulin
Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive Officer, 3MA message from  
Inge G . Thulin#improvinglives  | 93M Research and Development Lab
8 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportAs Senior Vice President of Research and Development 
and Chief Technology Officer, I have the opportunity 
each day to see how our technologies, our science, and 
our people help to solve some of the world’s greatest 
challenges and improve lives.
Whether it is through the incorporation of sustainable 
materials in our products or helping customers be more 
sustainable, we recognize that societal challenges both 
require and provide opportunity for game-changing 
innovation. At 3M, Sustainability serves to drive 
innovation – in our manufacturing, in our products, and 
in new technologies.
It’s inspiring to see how working toward a greater good, 
and doing so with creativity and collaboration, sparks 
new ideas and applying science to life, drives progress. 
Furthermore, it is inspiring to see how individual 
contributors can create positive change to drive business 
opportunities as well as personal fulfillment – something 
I see within 3M teams every day.
As we look to further leverage Sustainability to enable 
innovation across the company, in partnership with 
customers and partners, we are thankful to be doing so 
on a foundation of science and innovation. We continue 
today to be a leader in Sustainability, while recognizing 
our unique capability to innovate in ways that serve both 
business growth, advance every company, enhance 
every home, and improve every life.
John P. Banovetz
Senior Vice President,  
Research and Development and Chief Technology OfficerA message from  
John P. BanovetzFeature 
storiesInnovating with purpose
Playing it cool in data centers  12
For decades, holding securely to the concept of greener chemistry  14
3M facility spotlight: Stafford Springs, Connecticut  15
3M facility spotlight: Sumaré, Brazil and 3M Brazil Institute  16
3M facility spotlight: Tuas, Singapore  18
3M yellow carpet project puts students on the right path  19
Biodegradable mulch material gets field test 20
Stand up for less plastic in landfills  22
Breathing easier in the face of air pollution  23
Purpose inspired impact
Making an impact on individuals, communities, and the world  24
Support (and applause) for the next generation of vocational professionals  26
How a 3M community is attracting a skilled workforce  28
3M Pro Bono Committee advocates for the unrepresented  30
3M Brockville, Ontario plant a leader in emissions reduction  31 
Sustainability, as viewed from the summits  32
Consumer business group pilots Supplier Responsibility Code new assessment process  34
Turning trays into trees  36
Customer first partnership in West Europe: 3M and BASF  38
A partnership with students that helped produce something essential to 
remote Canadian communities: Fresh food 39
Conservation at 3M includes hearing  4012
24With the explosive growth of the internet, artificial 
intelligence, cloud computing, and high-performance 
computing (HPC), data centers are powering dramatic 
changes not just in business but in quality of life. 
However, with this constant use of data, it’s no surprise 
that data centers are working hard to keep up, presenting 
both great opportunities and great challenges.
One of the biggest challenges is the massive amount of 
energy that data centers consume in order to operate.  
In the U.S., for example, data centers consume some  
2 percent of the total energy consumption according to 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), much 
of it simply to run chiller units and fans to air-cool the 
computing hardware.
To help alleviate the cost of server cooling and its impact 
on the environment, 3M is helping lead the immersion 
cooling revolution for data centers. 
How does immersion cooling work?
Immersion cooling involves putting electronics directly 
in a non-conductive fluid, allowing heat to be transferred 
directly from components into the heat transfer fluid. 
In traditional cooling systems, heat must transfer 
through several levels of thermal interface materials, 
air, heat exchangers, and working fluids. Immersion 
cooling simplifies thermal design and increases heat 
transfer efficiency.
Liquid immersion cooling using 3M fluids contributes 
to a lower cost of ownership in many ways. As efficient 
heat conductors, they need less cooling machinery and 
less space between components. The improved cooling 
capacity means you can position electronics closer 
together – so you can fit 10 times the compute density 
in a given space. And with greater thermal efficiency, 
processing power can be increased dramatically.
Finally, liquid immersion cooling eliminates airborne 
contaminants and simplifies thermal design to reduce 
moving parts. This means data centers can run their 
electronics at full capacity with less wear and tear.
Learn more about the secret formula making a splash by 
helping protect your tech: herePlaying  
it cool  
in data 
centers
#improvinglives  | 13 12 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportStafford Springs, Connecticut3M facility spotlight: 
The 3M facility in Stafford Springs, CT manufactures 
filters and filter cartridges for the 3M Industrial 
Business Group and the Separation & Purification 
Sciences Division. 
One of those products, 3M™ Zeta Plus™ Series Filters,  
are used in the biopharmaceutical industry, increasing 
operating efficiencies over conventional plate and  
frame filters and improving the manufacture of critical, 
life-saving drugs.
Another product, 3M™ DF Series Filters are used in a 
wide range of process industries, from coatings to food 
and beverage, and provides up to three time more life 
than most conventional bag filters. This minimizes filter 
change-out and disposal cost, product loss, labor, and 
operator exposure to process fluids.Both of these products help 3M customers achieve 
high-quality end product, which supports our Vision of 
“3M technology advancing every company”.
And as much as our products do for people, Stafford 
Springs personnel also do for people. Our Connecticut 
Community Relations Council provides support to 
United Way, Invention Convention, Supplies for Schools, 
and Supplies for Non-profits. We also support our local 
schools with grants for STEM-focused development 
including the high school robotics team. And employees 
also participate in two volunteer events each year. For 
example, 20+ employee volunteers and family members 
participated at the local food shelf for a day, assisting in 
packing and delivering food for those in need.
For decades, holding 
securely to the concept 
of greener chemistry
For nearly half a century, the formula for success with 
Scotch® Brand adhesive products has involved more 
than their ability to stick. It’s based on green chemistry 
principles that have helped 3M move away from the 
solvents often associated with adhesives. 
In 1968, 3M replaced the solvent adhesive previously 
used in Scotch® Magic™ Tape and Scotch® Brand 
single-sided Home & Office Tapes with a water-based 
adhesive invented by 3M scientists. Scotch® Brand 
Packaging Tapes, meanwhile, have been made with a 
solvent-free adhesive for more than a decade, a rarity in 
the packaging tapes category.
The science of Scotch® Brand products hasn’t stopped 
there, either. Scotch® Greener Home and Office Tapes 
are made from 65 percent recycled or plant-based 
materials and all Scotch® Super 77™ and Scotch® Spray 
Mount™ Spray Adhesives sold in the U.S. comply with 
the lower VOC limits set by the California Air Resources 
Board (CARB) in January, 2017.
3M’s dedication to reducing the impact Scotch® Brand 
products have on the environment has been producing 
positive results for a long time. 
In short, it’s how we roll.
14 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 15Sumaré is a city of 250,000 located about 90 minutes 
northwest of São Paulo, Brazil’s largest metropolitan 
area. Almost 1,900 employees work at the 3M facility 
here, supporting abrasives, adhesives, tapes, consumer, 
automotive, and health care products. Among them 
are an increasing number of products that support the 
company’s commitment to Sustainability. Two examples:
•  Ponjita™ Natural Fiber Bath Sponge is made of 
natural malva and jute fibers plus recycled PET 
(polyethylene terephthalate) fiber, water-based 
resin, and mineral. Production of this sponge 
consumes fewer resources and less energy – and 
generates less waste – compared to a single-use 
exfoliating sponge. 
•  3M™ Transparent Multipack Tape 694 is a clean 
removal tape that replaces packaging films as a 
multipack solution. Compared to shrink wrapping 
film, Multipack tapes reduce the amount of energy 
consumed in production. In addition, experiments 
replacing customers’ shrink wrapped plastic 
packages with multipack showed a 25 to 30 
percent reduction in plastic waste per year. This 
product, which was originally developed in Sumaré, 
is now being replicated by 3M around the world.
The 3M Sumaré facility also houses the 3M Brazil 
Institute, a non-governmental organization (NGO) 
funded by 3M Brazil to promote the entrepreneurship of 
future generations, based on ethical values, citizenship, 
and Sustainability.
In 2017, 3M Brazil, in partnership with the 3M Brazil 
Institute and São Paulo University, sponsored the fifth 
annual Science Challenge and Exhibition, to boost student 
interest in science; and to prepare teachers to teach it.
Sumaré, Brazil3M facility spotlight: 
Most Brazilian students in public schools come from 
families with low income, which often impacts their 
perspective on careers and life. They assume they will 
follow in their parents’ footsteps. They do not see how 
far they can go by studying and working hard. But when 
they are motivated to do more in science, it can expand 
the limits of their world. 
The 2017 program started with 120 teachers from 
public schools in 32 cities around Sumaré and Ribeirão 
Preto who attended a course in Science Practice 
and Methodology. The course included online and 
in-classroom content, and, at the end, each teacher who 
completed the course was presented with a certificate 
recognized by the São Paulo government. There was also 
one other requirement for receiving those certificates: 
teachers must have at least one student share his or her 
project at the 3M Institute Exhibition. The projects are 
the students’ own innovative solutions to problems that 
occur in daily life. In 2017, 102 projects were chosen as 
finalists. Seventy-two 3M volunteers helped judge the 
projects, and awarded prizes to students they felt had 
the best three projects in each of seven categories. 
For this competition and other contributions, the 3M 
Brazil Institute has had a huge impact on students 
and teachers, who can often be the difference in how 
students view opportunities. In the last four years, 198 
teachers have been trained and certified as part of 
this program.
3M Brazil has been a subsidiary of 3M Company  
since 1946. 
16 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 173M has been improving lives in Singapore for more than 
50 years. After starting in the 1960s as a regional trading 
operation with eight employees, it has grown into a 
company with more than 1,600 employees, and has 
established local capabilities to serve the needs of local, 
regional, and global customers.
Nowhere is this stated more emphatically than at the  
3M Tuas manufacturing facility.
This facility, first opened in 2009 in the western region 
of Singapore, manufactures products for personal 
safety, traffic safety, automotive aftermarket, industry 
and health care customers, employing many innovative 
processes and technologies. Among them: extrusion 
coating, precision clean coating, microreplication, 
printing, and solventless adhesive coating.
And what is made here is matched by what is 
conserved here. 
The Tuas facility is a zero-landfill site – 100 percent 
of the waste generated is converted into energy or 
recycled. In the recycling category, 3M partners with a 
group of innovative vendors in this part of the world to 
turn waste into reusable items. One vendor, for example, 
takes waste plastic film, cuts it into sheets, and crushes 
the sheets into flakes to create a polycarbonate alloy 
resin that is then molded into trays (see photo above).Other plastic waste products are processed into 
different types of resins used to create wall switch 
covers, electrical casing, films and bags, stripping bands, 
stationery, and other household products.
Also at Tuas, 3M is in the process of voluntarily installing 
and operating a 2.2 megawatt photovoltaic solar system 
that, when complete, will provide up to 10 percent of the 
facility’s energy requirements. 
It’s probably no coincidence then that, since opening, 
Tuas has gained ISO 14001 (environmental management 
systems), ISO 9001 (quality management systems), ISO 
13485 (quality management systems – medical devices), 
and OHSAS 18001 (health and safety management 
systems) certification – and won numerous awards for 
everything from innovation to technical excellence, 
pollution prevention, ergonomics, and safety. In 2017, 
it was honored with a Singapore HEALTH Award, 
courtesy of the Singapore Health Promotion Board, 
in recognition of its strong commitment to promoting 
workplace health.
This is a location that seems to win at whatever it does.
3M yellow carpet project puts 
students on the right path
The safety of a child is a high priority for any parent. 
Whether it be at home, in a car, at play, or at school, 
mom and dad want their children surrounded by 
protective environments. 
In Korea, this is especially important at school crossings. 
According to The Korea Times, police data reveals 
that nearly 80 percent of fatal car accidents involving 
children were reported in or near school crosswalks. 
Experts suggest these accidents can either be caused by 
lack of attention to approaching vehicles on the part of 
students, or by speeding or lack of caution on the part  
of drivers.With that sobering statistic in mind, 3M Korea went 
to work to make crossings safer for students. They 
collaborated with local communities, the International 
Child Rights Center, and other non-government 
organizations through seminars and volunteer programs, 
to better understand the fundamental issues of road 
safety. Then they launched the Yellow Carpet project, 
creating bright yellow paths and signs with 3M graphic 
films, to catch the attention of both drivers and children. 
 Tuas, Singapore3M facility spotlight: 
18 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 19Biodegradable mulch 
material gets field test
The University of Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL) has specialty 
crop research plots in eastern and western Nebraska 
where the research has little to do with crops, and much 
to do with fabric of 3M-developed biodegradable mulch 
that covers the soil within each row of plants.
Biodegradable mulch, also known as biomulch, is a fabric 
that is made from polylactic acid (PLA), derived from 
corn, not petroleum. 
The research being conducted in these plots will 
determine whether this 3M fabric can work for 
USDA-certified organic vegetable production. More 
specifically, it is to determine whether the fabric will 
biodegrade after the crop is harvested, not remain in the 
soil over the long-term or have to be removed by hand. 
Dr. Sam Wortman, assistant professor of environmental 
horticulture in the UNL Department of Agronomy 
and Horticulture, says, “We are partnering with 3M 
Company’s Corporate Research Labs (CRL) to evaluate 
bio-based fabric mulches that provide season-long weed 
suppression, conserve soil moisture, and can be left 
in the field and incorporated into soil at the end of the 
growing season.” PLA material is not new. Among other applications, 
it’s used in medical sutures which are engineered to 
degrade over time. But the USDA has stringent standards 
for PLA-based biomulch. It must not contain any fossil 
carbon and it must be reasonably degradable in soil 
within two years. The study underway now in Nebraska 
will evaluate the rate of biomulch degradation in soil 
and track the ultimate fate of material as either carbon 
dioxide (CO2) or soil organic matter.
Research is timely for organic production practices 
because the demand for organic foods is growing 
faster than the supply. According to the Organic Trade 
Association, organic food sales in the U.S. increased 8.4 
percent in 2016, compared to an increase of 0.6 percent 
in total food sales. 
Final results of the UNL research are expected to 
be released in November 2019; two years after 
the biomulch was initially incorporated into the 
soil. However, periodic updates on the progress of 
degradation will be made available.
20 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 21Unfortunately, a lot of plastic ends up in landfills today. 
In fact, almost 80 percent of plastic that’s discarded 
goes there, compared to 12 percent that is incinerated 
and 9 percent that is recycled. Increasingly, however, 
companies like 3M are looking to create products that 
support a circular (“refurbish, reuse, recycle”) economy 
that helps keep a greater volume of discarded plastic in 
the recycled world.
One such example is the 3M™ Precision Standing Desk. 
Not only does this sit-stand workstation allow you to 
alternate between sitting and standing at work, its virtues 
can also be measured in environmental Sustainability. 
media is capable of filtering at least 90 percent of 
non-oil-based particles such as PM2.5, dust, pollen, and 
automobile exhaust particles. Our 9501V model filter 
media is capable of filtering at least 95 percent of those 
same particles. Of course, users have to follow the user 
instructions and select and use the product properly to 
obtain desired results.As a purpose-driven business, 3M is continually looking 
to apply its core technologies to challenges that affect 
peoples’ lives. One such challenge is air pollution. 
More than 7 million premature deaths can be linked 
to air pollution every year, according to the World 
Health Organization.
Air quality guidelines are not confined to Asia. Parts of 
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, India, and many other places 
around the world also face significant health risks due to 
air pollution – from vehicle exhaust, agricultural burning, 
power generation, and even natural occurrences such as 
volcanoes, sand storms, and forest fires.
It’s a cloud of concern that led 3M to launch a line of 
respirators that helps protect wearers from breathing 
in air pollution particles. Our 9001V respirator filter Stand up for less plastic in landfills
Breathing easier in 
the face of pollutionHere’s why: the 3M Precision Standing Desk is made 
with 45 percent postconsumer recycled content and, 
as such, can help a company achieve LEED® 2009 
Green Building Certification EB O&M MR Credit 2.2 
Sustainable Purchasing: Durable Goods, which requires 
a minimum of 10 percent postconsumer material. This 
is in addition to its height and tilt adjustability, which 
enables workers to precisely set their most comfortable 
standing work position. 
In other words, the more you see of the 3M Precision 
Standing Desk in offices, the less plastic you’ll see 
heading for landfills. Which is, from every perspective, 
something to stand up for.
3M’s line of respirators 
use filter media capable of 
filtering 90 or 95 percent 
of airborne particles.
22 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 23When 3M Senior Manufacturing Technology Engineer 
Michelle Ji was asked about the value of participating in 
the 3M Impact program in Vietnam, she answered with 
an African proverb: “If you want to go quickly, go alone. 
If you want to go far, go together.”
Going far and going together are what the 3M Impact 
program is all about.
This initiative, piloted in 2017, gives 3M employees an 
opportunity to lend their business skills, experience, 
and energy to local nonprofit organizations, social 
enterprises, and government agencies in markets 
where the need is great and the work is relevant to 
3M’s businesses. The idea was inspired by feedback 
from employees globally who said they were seeking 
impactful, skills-based community engagement 
opportunities.Making an impact on individuals, 
communities, and the world
How 3M Impact Makes an Impact
According to 3M Impact Program Manager Meghan 
Faricy, it offers benefits to at least three key 
stakeholders. “It helps our 3M participants develop 
leadership and cross-cultural skills. It helps the 3M brand 
expand its universe. And, most important, it helps local 
communities solve pressing problems.” 
The Participants 
For 2017, the 3M Impact program team sought 50 
employees who wanted to share their talents with  
the world. 
These final participants came from across the company 
– 3M Corporate as well as all five business groups. 
Applicants averaged 10 years of service at 3M with 
company start dates ranging from 1975 to 2015.
The Timeline
3M Impact is another way for 3Mers to embrace their 
opportunity to spend their time on a project of their 
choice as part of our 15% Culture. Before traveling to 
their destinations, 3M Impact program participants 
spent time for the preceding six weeks involved in 
team building and backgrounding on the social needs 
in their project location. Then they traveled to one of 
four locations – Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; 
Jakarta, Indonesia, or Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia – where, 
for two weeks, they helped local organizations develop 
solutions within the confines of real-world resources and 
local challenges.
Ideal partners for 3M Impact are small, community-level 
organizations, like HappyTap Co., Ltd. Based in Ho 
Chi Minh City, Vietnam, HappyTap is a young, social 
enterprise dedicated to promoting hand washing as 
a simple, inexpensive way to prevent the spread of 
disease, particularly among children. One of HappyTap’s 
solutions is a portable washing station named LaBobo 
(“washing sink” in Vietnamese). HappyTap aims to 
market LaBobo in 15 provinces in southern Vietnam, a market of 5.2 million households. Educational campaigns 
on the topic of hand hygiene are not unique, but, until 
LaBobo, there had been no handwashing device that 
helped people change “knowing” into “doing.” A four-
person 3M Impact team spent two weeks with HappyTap 
managers collaborating on a promotion, distribution and 
communications plan to market LaBobo, kicking off on 
Global Hand Washing Day, October 15.
About the experience, Kris Hansen, one of the 3Mers 
who worked with HappyTap, said, “The 3M Impact 
program serves the dual purpose of making a real 
and personal global impact at a company committed 
passionately to pursuit of a social mission, and providing 
the most significant and impactful professional 
development experience I’ve ever had.”
Future impact
According to Faricy, 3M is considering a number of 
possibilities for expanding 3M Impact in the future, from 
addressing needs in more regions across the globe to 
matching up 3M business groups, areas, or divisions 
with specific business or societal opportunities. Each possibility will be evaluated based on the success and 
outcomes of the 2017 program.
When asked to elaborate on her feelings about the 3M 
Impact program, Michelle Ji said, “We need to start 
thinking of each other as global citizens in a global 
community. As 3M is a global company, its employees 
should have a global mindset and experience teams and 
cultures outside of their own.”
Part of the credit for making the 2017 Impact program 
successful goes to our implementation partner, Pyxera 
Global. Pyxera is recognized and highly regarded 
globally for developing safe, effective, engaging 
business and community partnership projects.
To learn more on the 3M Impact program, including a 
video highlighting some of our 2017 teams, please see 
here .
#improvinglives  | 25 24 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSupport (and applause) 
for the next generation of 
vocational professionals
The Wall Street Journal  headline said it was “the thrill of 
victory in welding, baking and bricklaying.”
Officially, it was the Worldskills™ International 
Global Competition, the world’s largest vocational 
skills competition, comprised of 51 different skill 
categories, held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, in 
October 2017.
Since 1950, Worldskills has been raising the profile 
and recognition of skilled people, and showing how 
important skills are to achieving economic growth and 
personal success. Regional competitions are held in 
even-numbered years and winners move on to the global 
competition in odd-numbered years.
This year’s event, for which 3M was a Global Industry 
Partner, featured 1,300 competitors aged 25 and under 
from 77 different countries, each demonstrating her 
or his proficiency in a particular category. Categories 
included everything from hair dressing to mobile 
robotics to, yes, welding, baking, and bricklaying. 
Winners received gold, bronze, and silver awards.
In addition to the competitors, the event was attended 
by representatives from government, trade industries, 
educational institutions, and partners, who came to 
experience the competition and participate in an array of 
education and skill-focused conferences.For 3M, Worldskills aligns well with the company’s 
“Every life ambition,” says 3M European business 
manager for Sustainability, Rich Miles. “We both 
respect the social and physical environment, focus on 
Sustainability, drive global growth, and utilize innovative 
technology and superior quality to provide value and 
service to our customers.”
Worldskills also aligns well with 3M’s product portfolio, 
since approximately 80 percent of the skills categories 
in the competition make use of 3M personal protection 
equipment. And, in all, eight different 3M divisions have 
products that are used in various categories.
Beyond the competition, 3M was represented in 
three showcase spaces, which ran concurrently with 
the competition: a corporate Sustainability space 
showcasing 3M’s core technologies; a “try a skill” 
space for health and safety solutions; and a car painting 
and repair space, which featured a live demo of car 
wrapping. Further, 3M partnered with BASF to sponsor 
the first Sustainability award at Worldskills.
All of this seemed especially timely given the state of 
employment among youth around the world: 73.3 million 
youth are unemployed, and without the skills needed to 
acquire employment. The market needs advocates, like 
Worldskills, to promote the value of learning a skill.
26 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 27How a 3M community is 
attracting a skilled workforce
The buzz around vocational skills training today isn’t just 
the sound of welding equipment or electric saws. It is the 
demand being heard worldwide for job applicants that 
have vocational skills. 
Employers like 3M in small-to-medium sized 
communities everywhere have been facing an ongoing 
shortage of skilled-labor candidates. By all accounts, the 
gap between open positions and qualified job candidates 
will widen in the coming years. In Hutchinson, 
Minnesota, this challenge prompted businesses, 
educators, and city government officials to collaborate 
on a $1.36 million effort to educate students about 
manufacturing – a first of its kind effort in the state.
The three-year “TigerPath” initiative – developed by 24 
local businesses, along with Hutchinson High School, 
Ridgewater College and the Hutchinson Economic 
Development Authority – is designed to help build a 
talent pipeline between the high school in Hutchinson 
and local advanced manufacturing employers.Hutchinson High School already provides hands-on 
classroom training in welding and mechatronics, a 
combination of electronics and mechanical engineering. 
However, the community saw a need for additional 
strategies to expand the local talent pool.
Among them: enabling students to earn college and 
industry credentials before graduating from high school; 
changing stereotypes by showing students and parents 
what careers look like in the 21st century; cultivating 
school-employer relationships; dramatically upgrading 
career and technical education facilities at the high 
school; and creating Tiger Manufacturing, a real-world 
business, based in the high school, that makes real 
products for real customers.
Thanks in part to a donation from 3Mgives, students at 
the high school are now able to learn real-life skills they 
can use when they graduate and move on to a two-year 
vocational college or even a four-year college. Joe Nelson
Plant Engineering Manager, 3M Hutchinson
This initiative also helps fund professional development 
for teachers and provides scholarships for students 
focused on continuing their education in STEM (Science, 
Technology, Electronics, and Mathematics) careers. 
The program has had a significant impact on enrollment 
in “pathway” classes like welding and drafting, with 
student numbers increasing more than 500 percent in 
the last four years.
The City of Hutchinson has also received widespread 
recognition for its work on the TigerPath program. It 
has won a “City of Excellence” award from the League 
of Minnesota Cities, a “Local Government Innovation 
Award” from the Humphrey School of Public Affairs, 
as well as visits from U.S. senators and congressional 
representatives from Minnesota. Miles Seppelt, 
Economic Development Director for the city, has also 
made presentations throughout the state, explaining 
the rationale and mechanics of putting together such 
a program. 
“We’re really creating a new national model for how 
to address the need for a skilled workforce,” says 
Seppelt. “We identified a need for skilled workforce 
development, and the response from our local 
manufacturing community – including 3M – has 
been sensational.”
“3Mgives invests in initiatives like the TigerPath program 
not only to develop a diverse talent pipeline for 3M 
communities,” says Matt Ladhoff with 3Mgives, “but 
to raise interest, awareness, and exposure to relevant 
career opportunities that students can benefit from in 
their own communities.”
Adds Joe Nelson, Plant Engineering Manager at 3M 
Hutchinson, “There’s a pride that our company is 
stepping forward and supporting this. We want to see 
this become the template for communities and facilities 
like ours to be able to replicate to fill that pipeline.”
The 3M Hutchinson plant started manufacturing Scotch® 
Brand Cellophane Tape in 1947. Seven decades later, 
Scotch® Magic Tape, ScotchBlue™ Painter’s Tape, air 
filtration products, multiple films, and more are made 
there. 3M Hutchinson is the city’s largest employer, with 
more than 1,700 workers in the town of 14,000.
There’s a pride that 
our company is 
stepping forward 
and supporting this. 
We want to see this 
become the template 
for communities and 
facilities like ours to be 
able to replicate to fill 
that pipeline.
28 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 293M Pro Bono 
Committee 
advocates 
for the 
unrepresentedWhat do these four compelling stories have in common:
•  A young Syrian college student seeks help fleeing 
the brutal conflict occurring in his homeland. 
Attorneys, working pro bono, come to his aid, and 
eventually he is able to obtain a residency permit in 
Europe
•  After 11 years of advocating for their client, a legal 
team wins an appeal to vacate the death penalty 
previously imposed on a Texas man
•  At workshops in Germany and China, lawyers offer 
tailored legal training and legal advice to local social 
networks
•  In India, a lawyer speaks about professional ethics 
and values in a skills training program organized by 
an NGO that works for the underserved and people 
with disabilities
What these stories share, first of all, is their alignment 
with Goal 16 of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals, which calls for the promotion 
of peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, access to justice for all, and the 
establishment of effective, accountable institutions at 
all levels.
What they also have in common is the 3M Pro Bono 
Committee, a group that for decades has leveraged 
the legal skills and experience of 3M Legal Affairs 
professionals in the name of good corporate citizenship 
and community support. 
For the last four years, Maureen Harms, 3M associate 
general counsel, has led the committee’s volunteer 
efforts to educate and represent low-income and 
underrepresented clients through partnerships with 
“good works” organizations. In recent years, these 
efforts have expanded to include the U.S., Europe, Latin 
America, and Asia.
According to Harms, working outside the day-to-day 
confines of the corporate world opens up one’s mind 
to think differently. “Our lawyers gain significant 
experience learning how to work outside of their core 
competence. They can see themselves contributing 
in a real, significant way to make a difference. The 
feedback from clients is immediate and gratifying. 
At the same time, the experience exposes legal 
In January 2017, the Canadian province of Ontario 
introduced a carbon cap and trade system designed to 
reward businesses that reduce their greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions. 
Facilities in Ontario that emit 20,000 tons or more 
of CO2e each year are required by law to participate 
in this program, which supports the province’s 2020 
GHG pollution reduction goal. Facilities that emit 
10,000–20,000 tons of CO2e – such as the 3M tape 
manufacturing plant in Brockville – can voluntarily join.
Which 3M Brockville did. 
Volunteering to participate supports 3M’s 2025 
Sustainability Goals around climate and energy. In 
addition, it provides the tape manufacturing facility with 
a $657,000 benefit over three years. Facilities that don’t 
participate in the cap and trade system pay a “carbon 
tax” of 3.34 cents/cubic meter of gas purchased. 
3M Brockville will also serve as a pilot site for all aspects 
of Ontario cap and trade, which is expected to expand to 
other Canadian provinces in future years. 
But then leading is nothing new for Brockville.
Brockville became the first Canadian facility to reach  
the Superior Energy Performance® (SEP™) at the 3M Brockville, Ontario plant a 
leader in emissions reduction
Platinum level with ISO 50001 Energy Management  
Certification in 2012. 
It achieved this status in part by installing combined 
heat and power (CHP) engines, which allow 3M to 
generate power internally while still being connected 
to the grid. In cold weather months, the heat created 
by the CHP engines is used to warm the facility. Year-
round, it is used for manufacturing processes that 
require heat.
Other projects associated with Brockville’s ISO 50001 
platinum certification included light-emitting diode 
(LED) lighting, which improved light quality while 
reducing energy consumption by up to 90 percent; and 
an internal communications program designed to raise 
awareness of the importance of energy conservation, 
which won an award in 2016 from the Canadian 
Industry Program for Energy Conservation.
3M Canada is also the first company in Canada to attain 
enterprise-wide ISO 50001 certification.professionals to new areas of the law. It broadens 
perspectives while sharpening legal analysis and client 
communication skills.”
Harms also says pro bono efforts create opportunities 
for 3M legal professionals to make connections with 
peers at 3M who might be able to help them at work in 
the future.
In all, 125 3M legal professionals logged more than 1,900 
hours of service with several nonprofits in 2017. 
Harms says projects are selected based on two criteria: 
“One, is it a project of interest to the lawyers in the 
office? It needs to be a cause they believe in. And two, 
can we partner with an organization that will help us 
develop the legal confidence we need to address the 
subject at hand?”
She cites the legal department’s collective responsibility 
as the key to performing their highest quality work.
“The scientists here at 3M have really set that example,” 
Harms says. “Within two calls, you can get the world’s 
expert on a particular topic. We pride ourselves in 
offering the same quality of legal service within our 
global legal network.”
More on the Pro Bono Committee’s work can be found: 
here .
30 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report 30 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 31SustainabilityFor the third year in a row, 3M’s Health Care Business 
Group held its health care summit at the Innovation Center in St. Paul, Minnesota. This summit brought together thought leaders on Sustainability in health care to share best practices and help attendees identify new ways to secure economic, social, and environmental benefits from Sustainability programs.
Keynote speaker for the one-day event was Charlotte 
Ersbøll, Senior Advisor with United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary sustainable business initiative, with stakeholders in 165 countries and local networks in 73 countries. Ersbøll stated, “Finding the solutions that can really disrupt the way we are conducting our business, so that the business becomes the driver of positive change. The companies that are determined to be part of solution will be the winners in the future.” Other speakers covered a range of topics, including climate change and the impact to health care, health system operations, life cycle assessment research, and community recycling.
Attendees were exposed to the breadth of 3M through 
shared discussion around several 3M science-based solutions during the innovation center tour, as well as through interactive displays with packaging, environmental, health, safety, and business colleagues.3M Sustainability in Health Care Summit 3M Canada Sustainability Summit
Nearly 100 thought leaders from academia, industry, and the federal government gathered at the 3M Canada Sustainability Summit to examine Sustainability from different perspectives.
“For 3M, Sustainability is a core value that influences 
everything we do, but we know that we don’t have all the answers to protecting our planet,” said Mojdeh Poul, President of 3M Canada. “That’s why we work closely with our suppliers, our customers, and our communities – through events like this – to share ideas about how towork together to address the Sustainability challenges we all face.”
The event featured: keynote presentations by two 
distinguished professors on the megatrends affecting Sustainability practices, and the role of corporations in building a sustainable economy, case studies from industry leaders, and a panel discussion, featuring Canadian federal government officials, on the topic of what is being done to accelerate the country’s transition to a greener and more innovative economy.In recent years, 3M has been creating opportunities for customers and industry leaders to meet and share their insights and opinions on the many issues affecting Sustainability.
2017 was no exception. In October, the company hosted two Sustainability 
events: the 3M Canada Sustainability Summit, held in King City, Ontario, and the 3M Sustainability in Health Care Summit, held at the company’s Innovation Center in St. Paul.
as viewed from 
the summits
32 | 3 M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 333M isn’t just committed to environmental and social 
governance in our own business. We’re also committed 
to working with suppliers that share the same ideals.
To that end, the company issued a revised Supplier 
Responsibility Code  (SRC) in 2016. The SRC is based 
on our corporate values for sustainable and responsible 
operations and aligns with the 10 Principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact, of which 3M is a signatory. 
The SRC is also materially consistent with the Electronics 
Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, 
now known as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA).
To assure supplier alignment with the SRC, we actively 
verify their performance against our expectations on a 
risk-prioritized basis – using a Due Diligence Management 
System  that is modeled after the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
But this isn’t the end of the story. In 2017, 3M developed 
a new supplier review process that puts more emphasis 
on how suppliers are addressing social and environmental 
challenges. The new process was also positioned as 
a more collaborative assessment rather than an audit, 
aiming to build the capacity of its suppliers.
China was selected as one of the regions for testing the 
new process, and 3M’s Consumer Business Group (CBG) 
volunteered to participate in the assessments to provide 
feedback before it was implemented globally.
CBG engaged two key 3M suppliers for the pilot and 
completed assessments in June 2017, following these 
steps:
Self-Assessments
The suppliers were sent self-assessments, which they 
completed and returned to 3M prior to their on-site 
assessments. The responses were evaluated by 3M, 
and specific areas were highlighted for in-depth review 
during the on-site assessment.
On-Site Assessments
The on-site assessments included a tour of the 
manufacturing location, employee dormitory, and 
cafeteria. A 3M cross-functional assessment team 
conducted several employee interviews as well as 
a review of processes and records with the supplier 
management team. During the review, the 3M team 
checked to see that certain processes had been Consumer business 
group pilots Supplier 
Responsibility Code new 
assessment processimplemented and documented, including safety 
training and safety records, greenhouse gas emissions, 
and required environmental permits and reporting. 
Records evaluated included employee time cards versus 
employee payroll, verification of employee age, and 
maximum allowed workweek (including overtime).
Upon completion of the on-site review, the 3M team met 
independently to discuss and categorize the findings. 
The lead assessor provided a verbal review of those 
findings to the supplier’s management team. 
Corrective Action Prevention Action Plan Resolution
3M’s lead assessor provided the Corrective Action 
Preventive Action Plan (CAPA) to the suppliers, who 
then worked with 3M to document and assure adequate 
resolutions of the findings. 
Key elements of improvement
•  The scope of assessments has been expanded with 
the addition of questions related to labor/human 
rights and EHS, including two new segments 
covering ethics and management systems
•  The updated SRC pilot process aligns with 3M 
values, regulations, Key Accounts, and industry 
standards
•  There is cross-functional group participation in the 
assessment
•  The upfront self-assessment, which is completed 
before the on-site assessment, allows the team to 
focus on areas of concern
Above all, the SRC pilot process confirms alignment 
and conformance to 3M’s requirements, reduces the 
risk of disrupting business with suppliers, and assures 
continuity of 3M’s business with customers. Further, 
it helps us deliver on 3M brand equity and quality, 
and strengthens our supplier relationships through 
collaboration and education.
Similar pilot assessments were conducted in other 
countries to validate the new process and tools. 
Beginning in 2018, the SRC assessment process will be 
rolled out globally using an approach that prioritizes 
higher risk suppliers by a number of factors including 
geography, business category, and a measure of how 
essential a supplier’s solutions are to 3M’s and its 
customer’s business.
#improvinglives  | 35 34 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report”“
Turning trays into trees
If you’re the 3M manufacturing facility in Loughborough, 
England, you use science, creativity, collaboration, and 
an eye for Sustainability to turn those trays into trees. 
But let’s start at the beginning. The Loughborough 
facility was installing a new filling line that made the 
old trays and their lids obsolete. The trays and lids were 
initially put in storage, but this required a lot of space. 
In fact, if you placed the entire 18,000 on top of each 
other, the resulting stack would be almost twice the 
height of the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the world’s tallest 
building. So, after consulting with the plastic injection 
molding specialists who were making the new trays, 3M 
manufacturing technology engineer Paul Eastwood hit 
on a new idea.
Instead of sending the trays to a landfill, they would be 
recycled for use in manufacturing at the 3M facility in 
Gorseinon, 200 miles down the road. 
Paul consulted with MGS Technical Plastics, a company 
that has been supplying protective side shields for a 
production line at Gorseinon for several years. Neil 
Garrity, manufacturing director at MGS, explains: “The 
trays were made from a plastic polymer known as ABS 
(acrylonitrile butadiene styrene). Our materials team is 
very experienced in working with ABS and we arranged 
for the trays to be ground down into small pellets so that 
we could process them into shields.” The $10,500 savings achieved by recycling the trays 
was then donated to Earth Restoration Services, which 
works with schools across the United Kingdom to plant 
trees and wild flower meadows.
Schools in communities close to the 3M sites received 
native tree saplings, wild plants, and planting materials 
in 2017, providing students with a way to improve and 
learn from their environment.
What do you do with 18,000 plastic trays that are no longer usable in a 
drug delivery systems production line?
It’s a great solution for 
us, for the environment, 
and for the schools that 
will be benefitting from 
the plantings.  
Paul Eastwood
3M Manufacturing Technology Engineer
36 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 37According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the United Nations, around 90 percent of the 570 million 
farms worldwide are considered to be family farms, 
owned by individuals or families. Around 85 percent 
of the world’s farms are smaller than 2 hectares, and 
smallholder farmers and their families working small plots 
of land on almost every continent support the livelihoods 
of one-third of the world’s population. Although the word 
small may accurately describe their farm size it doesn’t 
do justice to the contribution they make to the world’s 
food supply. Fact is, small farmers produce nearly 70 
percent of all food consumed globally. 
BASF is a leading global supplier of chemicals used to 
help smallholder farmers protect and produce crops. 
In their world, the responsible use of their products 
and the health and safety of their customers are key 
Sustainability imperatives. 
According to Alessio Arcando, Key Accounts Director, 
West Europe, 3M had been working with BASF at 
different levels of their company, from procurement to 
the C-suite, in the area of Sustainability. “Sustainability 
activities are no longer just a ‘nice to have’”, Alessio says. 
“They are a major business requirement for delivering 
efficient growth. For BASF, Sustainability is core business 
and, like many international companies, they chose to 
partner with us because 3M has a strong reputation for 
being ahead of the curve on Sustainability issues.”The 3M Key Accounts team worked with BASF to 
develop a strategy for meeting the needs of smallholder 
farmers, particularly those in developing countries. 
The solution: a professional farmer safety kit that 
combines BASF’s knowledge of crop production 
techniques and know-how in the responsible use of plant 
protection chemicals with 3M’s personal protection 
equipment (PPE) solutions. 
“We want to ensure that all farmers have the opportunity 
to work in a safe environment. Smallholders have a 
specific need for information, advice and equipment 
when it comes to the responsible use of crop protection 
products,” said Andy Beadle, Global Sustainability 
and Product Stewardship Manager at BASF’s Crop 
Protection division. “With 3M, we are pleased to have 
a partner at our side whose expertise and inventiveness 
in producing high-quality protection equipment are 
unmatched. We partnered because we feel a strong 
connection based on values and a long-standing 
commitment to promote human health and safety.”
This kit, which has been distributed to 50,000 
smallholder farmers in Africa and parts of Asia, is 
designed to help farmers employ safe practices to 
minimize their exposure to crop protection products. 
Included in the kit are 3M disposable respirators, safety 
glasses and gloves, as well as easy-to-understand, 
picture-based instruction materials that show 
where, when, and how to use each PPE product, 
along with instructions on how to handle agricultural 
chemicals safely.
“Customer first means driving customer-centricity. 
Working in collaboration with BASF, we learned 
exactly what the customers’ needs were, and together 
we developed a solution that creates real value for 
smallholders and their families.”
3M and BASFCustomer first partnership in West Europe: 
In a Telefónica survey of 12,000 millennials in 27 
countries, a strong majority of respondents said  
they believe they can make a difference in their  
local communities.
One group that can very likely make an immediate 
difference is the Enactus team from St. Mary’s University 
in Halifax, Canada, which was honored at the 2017 
Enactus Canada National Exposition with the 3M Canada 
Problem Solving Project Partnership Award.
3M is a proud supporter of Enactus, a learning platform 
that cultivates entrepreneurial action among post-
secondary students, with the goal of transforming lives 
and creating a better, more sustainable world. 
As part of its 2017 Canadian national competition, more 
than 2,700 students created 280 community projects, 
guided by academic advisors and business experts. In 
a highly competitive field, the St. Mary’s team stood 
out. Addressing food shortages in Canadian Indigenous 
communities, they created an aquaponics system that 
makes it possible for isolated communities to grow their 
own fruits, vegetables, and fish year around. 
“Enactus students are innovative problem solvers and, 
thanks to partners like 3M, are ready to challenge the 
status quo for the benefit of social good,” said Nicole 
Almond, president of Enactus Canada. Liisa Sheldrick, 
communications and 3Mgives leader, 3M Canada, 
added, “Projects like this reflect 3M’s belief in applying 
science to improve lives – with our customers, partners, 
and communities.”
The award-winning St. Mary’s University Enactus Team.
A partnership with students that 
helped produce something essential 
to remote Canadian communities: 
Fresh food
Following the competition, the St. Mary’s team 
completed construction of a pilot system on the roof of 
a university building in September and is working toward 
construction of a 1,000-liter year-round aquaponics 
system they can replicate throughout Nova Scotia and 
beyond. The system would allow remote Indigenous 
peoples to raise tilapia and produce vegetables at an 
affordable price.
To learn more on the 2017 Enactus Canada Nation 
Finalist, see here .
38 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 39Conservation at 3M 
includes hearing
The 3M approach to hearing protection goes well 
beyond earplugs and earmuffs. It is a full complement 
of tools and resources designed to help governments 
and corporations move from a strategy that has 
been primarily hearing loss documentation to one of 
prevention or early intervention.
In other words, shifting from reactive to proactive. 
At the heart of this approach is the notion of 
collaboration.
Consider, for example, the Council for Accreditation 
in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC) and 
the University of Minnesota’s Midwest Center for 
Occupational Health and Safety.
The CAOHC is an independent credentialing agency 
that has developed certification courses covering the 
essential elements in hearing conservation programs. 
The “occupational hearing conservationist” course 
covers ear anatomy, physiology, and diseases of the 
ear; hearing testing including audiometers, audiometric 
techniques; noise measurement and control; hearing 
protection devices; employee training, recordkeeping, 
and program evaluation. Those that successfully 
complete the course can perform quality audiograms, 
deliver education, and conduct hearing conservation 
interventions. They are also able to screen audiograms 
for further review by an audiologist or physician.CAOHC also sponsors a certification course for 
physicians and audiologists who oversee an audiometric 
monitoring program.
3M’s internal policy is to use credentialed or licensed 
personnel to administer hearing tests. We currently have 
90-plus 3M employees with active certifications.
But many countries lack local alternatives for dedicated 
credentialing in hearing conservation skills. So, along 
with the Midwest Center for Occupational Health 
and Safety, we developed a pilot program consisting 
of a CAOHC instructional course and a standardized 
exam that fill the gap in these countries. Already, this 
program has brought the CAOHC Occupational Hearing 
Conservation course to China, resulting in certifications 
for 3M employees and health and safety professionals 
in multinational companies from China, India, Singapore, 
and Taiwan. A second course will be conducted in 
March, 2018 to expand the program. We expect to do 
the same in Latin America and other areas where staff 
certification can help facilities prevent or reduce the 
severity of noise-induced hearing loss.
The power of working together is coming through loud 
and clear.
#improvinglives  | 41 40 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur 
Every Life 
Ambition
Introduction  44
Global Challenges  46
Materiality 48
2025 Goals 54Our Every Life Ambition  | Introduction
44 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 45Sustaining our business, and our planet, means 
protecting natural resources and empowering individuals 
and communities throughout the world to encourage 
progress. And above all else, it means uniting under a 
common goal: improve every life.
Imagine a world where every life is improved—where 
natural resources are readily available, people have 
access to education and opportunity, and communities 
are safe, healthy, connected, and thriving.We aim to help make that world a reality. Improving 
every life is an exciting endeavor and our purpose.
This is the continued story of our purpose: 
#improvinglives.We are committed to 
improving our business, 
our planet, and every life.IntroductionOur Every Life Ambition | Global Challenges
#improvinglives  | 47 46 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSD
2, 14G4 As a company rooted in scientific exploration, 
and the belief that every problem has a solution, 
we are applying our technological expertise to 
help solve some of the world’s biggest challenges on raw 
materials, water, energy and climate, health and safety, 
and education and development. We frame our goals 
and actions around these shared global challenges.
Overcoming global challenges requires recognition 
of their interdependence, commitment across the 
company, and collaboration with partners, customers, 
and communities. We are looking at ways to build 
purpose into leadership and talent development across 
the company, to recognize business opportunities 
that help the company grow while addressing societal 
issues, and to expand and improve our partnerships with 
customers and suppliers by working together toward 
solving their Sustainability challenges.Raw Materials 
The world’s population is growing larger, 
living longer, and consuming more. With 
this increased pressure on our finite 
natural resources and materials, we must 
move beyond low-cost, recyclable 
materials to renewable products. Companies that 
address this issue not only help the planet, but they also 
gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Improving raw material usage through product design 
and operational considerations provides benefits 
throughout the supply chain in material use, energy, and 
transportation efficiency.
We will continue to innovate into the future, developing 
renewable alternatives for impacted resources, 
revolutionizing recyclable materials, and becoming 
more sustainable.Water 
People consume it, farm with it, and 
manufacture products with it. Reducing 
water consumption and improving water 
quality are important elements of water 
stewardship. Aging infrastructure and 
increased demand are at the forefront to assure socially 
equitable, environmentally sustainable, and 
economically beneficial use and treatment of water.
Some of our customers are finding it difficult to source 
or deliver clean, accessible water. We can help them 
solve this problem by developing technology that 
increases water efficiencies and improves quality.
We will continue to work to reduce our corporate water 
footprint and offer products that enhance water quality, 
thereby respecting this important resource.
Climate and Energy
Access to a dependable energy supply 
directly affects all businesses and 
communities. From air emissions to fossil 
fuels, 3M takes a proactive and 
collaborative approach to addressing 
energy demand and climate change – in our operations 
and for our customers. 
Energy usage and climate concerns require systematic 
change, and we’re here to help drive that forward. 
Partnering with our customers will help us understand 
their needs and address those needs. The issues around 
effective use of energy resources and climate change 
are complex and interconnected. 
We will continue to seek solutions that promote 
energy conservation, clean energy infrastructure, and 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 
Health and Safety
Global health and safety issues are 
prevalent in workplaces around the world. 
Governments, corporations, and 
consumers are driving global demand for 
safety, protection, healthcare, and food safety solutions. Creative innovation, technology, 
education, and collaboration are all critical if we are to 
tackle these human health and workplace 
safety concerns.
For decades, 3M has had entire business divisions 
focused on creating products and services for human 
health, protection, security, and safety. We are  
committed to helping improve the health and safety of 
people worldwide so we can all focus on what matters 
most to us.
We also embrace this commitment for our own 
operations, and to that end, will continue to take steps  
to protect our most important asset – 3M employees.
Education and Development
At 3M, we believe science is just science 
until you use it to improve the world with the 
products and services we offer. Our science 
not only impacts our customers, but also 
makes a difference in the way we work.
As a technology company, 3M recognizes the  
importance of well-trained science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) graduates as well as 
the critical need for a skilled workforce in advanced 
manufacturing and vocational skills – we need bright 
minds to step into specialized roles and help our  
company and our customers solve future challenges.
We will continue to support empowerment and 
enrichment to enable people everywhere the  
opportunity to live life to their fullest potential.At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of shared 
global needs and the future of our business.Global 
ChallengesOur Every Life Ambition | Materiality
48 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 49Our Commitment
SD
20-21, 48G4 At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of 
shared global needs and the future of our 
business. As the population grows, particularly in 
emerging economies, challenges like energy availability, 
raw material scarcity, human health and safety, education, 
and employment must be addressed to assure people 
across the globe can lead healthy, fulfilling lives. For 
additional information, see Global Challenges .
Our materiality assessment is a vital component of our 
Sustainability strategy and reporting, whether the issues 
are a result of our own activities or our business 
relationships and is based on a robust, stakeholder-driven 
approach. By understanding the critical issues from both 
internal and external perspectives, we can deepen our 
social license to operate and develop corporate strategy, 
goals, targets, programs, initiatives, and a stakeholder 
engagement strategy to advance Sustainability globally. Data provided in our Sustainability Report includes 
information on issues that were found through the 
materiality assessment to have the highest potential to 
impact our reputation and that are of great importance 
to internal and external stakeholders. Because we are a 
diversified company, several other environmental-
related topics and performance indicators relevant to 
various sectors of the company are also included in the 
report. 3M’s Senior Vice President and Chief Technology 
Officer reviews and approves our Sustainability Report.
Our 2025 Sustainability Goals  were developed in 2014 
based upon that year’s materiality assessment.MaterialityOur Every Life Ambition | Materiality
#improvinglives  | 51 50 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Actions
SD
2, 18-19, 27G4 Stakeholders increasingly expect companies to 
do things that benefit society in more direct 
ways and are not solely focused on benefits to 
the company. That is why we made such an active effort 
to involve stakeholders when we developed our 2025 
goals. These goals go well beyond advancing our 
environmental stewardship efforts. They are framed 
around global challenges. This is apparent when one 
considers how well our goals align with the United 
Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainability Development 
released in 2015. This Agenda, including 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), is designed to build upon 
the historic work of the Millennium Development Goals, 
and stimulate important action in three dimensions of 
sustainable development: economic, social, 
and environmental.
We set our goals with the perspective that we have to be 
successful as a company while also supporting the 
communities where we operate. It’s a two-pronged 
approach that is both practical and thoughtful – and 
filled with the integrity 3M is known for.
Our view of Sustainability is about finding those 
intersections where our goals move us forward toward 
growth while supporting the company Vision  to 
advance, enhance, and improve.
Sustainability at 3M also includes collaborating to find 
better solutions for customers. The way we see it, global 
challenges must be addressed together to assure we can 
all live healthy, fulfilling lives. That’s why we are 
committed to partnering with customers to identify and 
collaborate on solutions to help them address their goals.
Materiality—past, present 
and future
In 2014 and 2016, 3M commissioned GlobeScan, an 
independent research consultancy, to assist us in better 
understanding our stakeholders’ perspectives of key 
social and environmental issues, as well as assessing 
3M’s corporate reputation and leadership opportunities 
in the area of Sustainability.
One result of this work is our evidence-based 
Sustainability materiality matrix. From this matrix,  3M and the readers of this report can understand the 
degree of importance our stakeholders place on each 
issue, the ability of 3M to make a positive difference 
on the issue, and the level of impact an issue may have 
on our reputation.
Materiality with respect to Sustainability reporting, 
as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
guidelines, includes topics and indicators that 
reflect the organization’s significant economic, 
environmental, and social impacts or would 
substantively influence the assessments and decisions 
of stakeholders.
The Sustainability materiality assessment conducted 
by GlobeScan determined the material aspects 
for a wide range of 3M stakeholders outside of 
3M, encompassing geography, stakeholder type, 
and function.
All material aspects defined within this report 
are deemed material for all entities within the 3M 
organization. The prioritization for the different 
aspects may vary within 3M operations and 
geographies, but they are still material.
3M Materiality Aspect Categories:
Raw Materials 
Water
Climate and Energy
Health and Safety
Education and Development
Governance and Ethics
*New attributes added in 2016
2014 Tiers 2016
Energy use 
Community safety and health 
Reducing waste 
Reducing toxic substances 
Water shortages 
Water quality 
Working conditions 
Ethical business
Air quality
Climate change
Human rights
Treatment of workers
Transparency
Scarcity of raw materials
Human health
Employment EmploymentTreatment of workers 
Reducing toxic substances 
Water shortages
Reducing waste from operations 
Food safety*
Human health 
Workplace diversity* 
Improving access to education* 
Responding to natural disasters*Energy use 
Community safety and health 
Water quality 
Working conditions 
Ethical business 
Scarcity of raw materials 
Human rights 
Climate change 
Air quality 
Transparency
2
3Availability of products and services 
with Sustainability attributesAvailability of products and services 
with Sustainability attributes
Engagement with citizens on 
sustainable behaviorEngagement with citizens on 
sustainable behavior
Supporting community building Supporting community buildingAdvocating laws supporting 
SustainabilityAdvocating laws supporting 
SustainabilityTier 1 issues are highest priority 
to address. Of these, 3M should 
actively manage issues that have 
the highest degree of 3M control 
according to stakeholders.3M Materiality Tiers
1
Tier 2 issues are areas in which 
3M is expected to act, but that 
are perceived as less urgent.
Tier 3 issues are perceived as least 
urgent for 3M to address, but are 
still material and often still drivers 
of our overall reputation.Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality
#improvinglives  | 53 52 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportMateriality assessment results from 2014 and 2016 show 
similar issue tiers, but some shifts in importance for 
stakeholders. For example:
Transparency moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, 
suggesting that transparency is increasingly important 
in a global, interconnected world. Scarcity of raw 
materials, air quality, and climate change have also 
moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, joining existing 
environmental issues such as energy use and water 
quality, and further supporting the notion that these 
issues would benefit from holistic management. Human 
rights has also moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority. 
This issue is also linked with working conditions which 
are perceived to be within 3M’s realm of control, and Looking forward…
3M will continue to work hard on issues that are most 
material to the company and perceived to be most 
within our control: air quality, working conditions, ethical 
business, water quality, and transparency.
More specifically, we will focus on developing 
products that enable safer and healthier workplaces 
for customers, and assuring safe and healthy working 
conditions throughout our supply chain. We will do our 
part to assure that 3M business partners follow ethical 
business practices and that a strong business conduct 
and compliance system is in place at 3M. We will look thus are considered an area to leverage in terms of 
management of human rights.
In this context, community safety and health has 
become the greatest potential influencer of 3M’s 
reputation, followed by a related issue: supporting 
community building. In other words, there is great 
opportunity to make an impact in the areas where 3M 
products are made and people live.
It should be noted that none of the issues added to the 
GlobeScan study in 2016 – food safety, workplace 
diversity, improving access to education, and responding 
to natural disasters— were found to be a Tier 1 priority.to develop products that enable customers to improve 
water quality, and modify operations, as necessary, to 
reduce water discharges. Throughout, we will work to 
be transparent in communicating about 3M products 
and business practices.
Every two to three years, we will continue to 
complete a comprehensive third-party materiality 
assessment continuing our commitment as a purpose-
driven business. In addition, we will be looking at 
implementation of the GRI Standards and ways to 
measure and evaluate broader societal impacts.
3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2014
View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders
Import ance to StakeholdersImpact on 3M ReputationSupporting
community 
buildingClimate change
TransparencyTreatment
of workers
Human healthAir qualityWater Quality
Water
shortages Community
safety and 
health
Energy use
Reducing waste
Working
conditions Reducing toxic
substances
Ethical
businessHuman
rightsAvailability 
of products 
and services with 
sustainability attributes
Scarcity of
raw materialsEmployment
Engagement
with citizens on 
sustainable 
behavior
Advocating 
laws supporting 
sustainabilityPerceived ability of 3M to 
make a positive difference
Low High20143M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2016
View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders
Supporting
community 
building
Improving
access to
education
Food safety
Workplace
diversityResponding
to natural
disastersClimate change
Treatment
of WorkersWater quality
Air quality
TransparencyEthical
business
Water
ShortagesReducing
toxic
substancesCommunity
Safety and Health
Energy use
Reducing Waste
from operationsWorking
conditionsScarcity
of raw 
materials
Human
rights
Employment
Human healthEngagement with citizens 
on sustainable  behavior
Advocating 
laws supporting 
sustainability
Importance to StakeholdersImpact on 3M ReputationPerceived ability of 3M to 
make a positive difference
Low High2016
Availability 
of products and 
services 
with 
sustainability 
attributesOur Every Life Ambition | 2025 Goals
#improvinglives  | 55 54 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportBaseline Year 20153M 2025 Sustainability Goals
Raw Materials
Respect our planet’s resources and reimagine waste  
as a nutrient to ensure we have abundance for  
future generations.
Climate & Energy
Transform the way the world uses energy because it 
impacts the climate, and the climate impacts everyone.
Health & Safety
Improve the health and safety of people worldwide so 
we can all focus on what matters most to us.
Education  & Developement
Support empowerment and enrichment to provide 
people everywhere the opportunity to live life to  
its fullest.Water
Promote clean water for everyone, everywhere so that 
every person, business, and community has the water 
they need to thrive.We have been setting global environmental goals at 
3M since 1990. A strong part of our company history, 
these goals have helped dramatically reduce our own 
environmental footprint and established us as a leader in 
environmental stewardship. 
In 2017, we entered the second year of an ambitious 
10-year goal cycle. The 2025 Sustainability Goals  we 
are now pursuing reflect a heightened commitment 
to going beyond compliance and thinking holistically 
about how our operations and products affect the 
world and every life in it. We see the opportunity, in the 
next decade, to create systemic change that addresses 
global Sustainability challenges involving raw materials, 
water, climate and energy, health and safety, as well as 
education and development. For additional information 
on the development of our 2025 Sustainability Goals, 
see Our Materiality Assessment .
Our customers, and the communities in which we 
operate, deserve it. Our people are motivated by it.  
Our future will be all the better for it.GoalsInvest to develop more sustainable materials 
and products to help our customers reach their 
environmental goals
Reduce manufacturing waste by an additional 10%, 
indexed to sales
Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 30% of 
manufacturing sites
Drive supply chain Sustainability through targeted 
raw material traceability and supplier performance 
assuranceRaw Materials
Improve energy efficiency indexed to net sales  
by 30%
Increase renewable energy to 25% of total 
electricity use
Ensure GHG emissions at least 50% below our 
2002 baseline, while growing our business
Help our customers reduce their GHGs by 250 
million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions through 
use of 3M productsClimate & Energy
Provide training to 5 million people globally on 
worker and patient safetyHealth & Safety
Invest cash and products for education, community, 
and environmental programs
100% participation in employee development 
programs to advance individual and organizational 
capabilities
Double the pipeline of diverse talent in management 
to build a diverse workforceEducation  & DevelopmentReduce global water use by an additional 10%, 
indexed to sales
Engage 100% of water-stressed/scarce communities 
where 3M manufactures on community-wide 
approaches to water managementWaterWho  
We Are
Introduction  58
Our Values, Vision, and Strategies  62
Communities  64
Engaging Our Stakeholders  72
Diversity and Inclusion  76Who We Are  |  I ntroduction
#improvinglives  | 59 58 | 3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportA sense of purpose is at the heart of how we approach 
every business, every idea, every product, every life, and every community we touch. It is the foundation of all that follows. Reflecting our core purpose, 3M employees are empowered and encouraged to pursue purpose-driven innovation.
Working in a highly collaborative environment, our 
scientists use 46 core technology platforms , ranging 
from adhesives and abrasives, to sensors and electronics materials. They leverage these technologies to invent unique, customer-inspired products that are marketed through our five business groups.
Sustainability also permeates our culture. It is formally 
included in our leadership behaviors and our annual performance review process. What’s more, employees are educated and encouraged to “think sustainably”— at home, at work, and everywhere in between. Improving lives and making the world a better place is more than a frequent conversation, it’s become an expectation. Our Awards
Our people bring our vision to life in extraordinary ways. Here you can find information about some of the recognition programs honoring the outstanding contributions of 3Mers in 2017.
As we reported in 2017, 3M is one of three 2017 winners of the Catalyst Award, based on a rigorous assessment conducted by Catalyst Inc., which cited the company’s “I’m In. Accelerating Women’s Leadership” initiative, leadership development platforms, workplace flexibility, mentoring programs, and external community efforts on behalf of women. Our Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Inge Thulin, accepted the award in New York in March. The other two winners were Rockwell Automation and BMO Financial Group.
The World’s Most Ethical Companies® program, 
managed by the Ethisphere® Institute, honors companies 
that excel in “promoting ethical business standards and practices internally, enabling managers and employees to make good choices, and shaping future industry standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices today.” According to the Institute, honorees have also historically out performed other companies from a financial perspective, supporting the notion that sound ethical practices are appreciated in the competitive marketplace. This year’s honorees spanned 23 countries and 57 industries. It was the fifth consecutive year 3M made the list.
3M Brazil: Pró Ética Certification Award
For the fourth year, 3M Brazil was recognized by the Brazilian Government with the Pró Ética Certification It’s even become a selling point for current and potential 3M employees. Research has shown that Sustainability, and “making a difference in the world”, is one of the top areas of interest for 3M employees. This insight, in turn, has led us to develop programs that benefit employees, community partners, and 3M. For example, through our skills-based service program, 3M Impact , 
teams of employees have the opportunity to travel to communities around the world where they experience challenging and rewarding development opportunities that enable them to grow as leaders and share their skills to make a positive difference in the world. At the same time, community partners gain expertise, knowledge, and actionable plans from 3M teams. 3M benefits from developing globally-minded employees who are excited to explore innovative solutions and address challenges in new and growing markets.Award. The award, the first of its kind in Latin America, was created to promote ethics and encourage companies to take voluntary steps to prevent corruption, creating a more ethical, transparent, and honest business environment. 3M Brazil was recognized for top management’s commitment to ethics, their policies and procedures, and their risk monitoring and analysis.
Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most 
Reputable Companies” for 2017
3M has been named to Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most 
Reputable Companies” for 2017, which highlights the top 100 most reputable companies based on feedback collected in quarter one from approximately 170,000 consumers around the world who are familiar with the companies. 3M ranked 22nd on this year’s list— climbing eight spots from 30th place in 2016 (second place in the medical and equipment industry).
Barron’s Ranking of “Most Respected 
Companies” for 2017
3M placed ninth in Barron’s latest ranking of America’s 
most respected companies. To compile the list, Barron’s surveyed money managers about their view of the most (and least) respected companies among the 100 largest publicly held U.S. companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.
Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2017 Corporate Equality Index is the national benchmarking tool on corporate policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees. For the seventh straight year, 3M earned a perfect score of 100 percent and, along with it, the distinction of being named among the “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality”.
Best DEI Places to Work
In the third annual Disability Equality Index® (DEI®) 
survey, 3M earned a top score of 100 percent, making 3M one of the “Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion”.Introduction
Who We AreWho We Are | Awards
#improvinglives  | 61 60 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report50 Best Places to Work for New Dads
Fatherly.com named 3M on its list of 50 Best Places to 
Work for New Dads coming in at 28th.
DIVERSEability MAGAZINE
3M was recognized in the Fall/Winter 2017 issue of 
DIVERSEability magazine as being “Best of the Best Top 
Disability-Friendly Companies”.
LEAD2017 Award Winners
HR.com named 3M on its list of Best Experienced/
Senior Leaders Program and Best Global/International 
Leadership Program.
2017 Energy and Sustainability Award, 
American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers (AIChE)
3M’s Dual Brightness Enhancement Film team was 
recognized for a groundbreaking innovation with wide-
reaching and demonstrated benefits for liquid crystal 
display (LCD) manufacturers looking to reduce the 
environmental footprint of LCD devices. 
Environmental Leader 
Projects of the Year
3M Brookings, South Dakota was recognized for 
their efforts to minimize water consumption for their 
location’s vacuum pump system. With the new system, 
3M Brookings decreased annual water consumption for 
the vacuum system by over 18 million gallons annually, 
reducing the location’s water consumption in gallons per 
square foot by 32 percent. Other Featured 
Awards
Great Places to Work®
The following countries and areas were ranked by Great 
Places to Work® and awarded as a best place to work 
in 2017:
• 3M Bolivia
• 3M Brazil
• 3M Costa Rica
• 3M El Salvador
• 3M Greece (3M Hellas)
• 3M Guatemala
• 3M Honduras
• 3M Japan
• 3M Mexico
• 3M Panama
• 3M Panama Pacifico
• 3M Poland
• 3M Poland Global Service Center (GSC) Europe, 
Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)
• 3M Portugal
• 3M Spain
• 3M Turkey
• 3M Latin American (LATAM) Region, Best 
Multinational Workplaces
• 3M Central American and Caribbean Region, Best 
Workplace in Central America and Caribbean
Euronext and Vigeo Eiris included 3M, for 2017, in 
the Euronext World 120 and Euronext U.S. 50 based 
upon Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
performance. Index components are reviewed and 
updated twice a year, in June and in December. 
Companies included in this index have achieved the 
highest scores, as determined by review nearly 330 
indicators, assessed by the agency.
FTSE Russell confirms that 3M, in 2017, has been 
independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good 
criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a 
constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by 
the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good 
Index Series is designed to measure the performance 
of companies demonstrating strong ESG practices. The 
FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market 
participants to create and assess responsible investment 
funds and other products.
MSCI ESG Ratings
MSCI ESG Ratings provide institutional investors with a 
robust ESG integration solution. In 2017, awarded 3M an 
AAA rating, the highest rating.2020 Women on Boards Winner
3M was named a “V” company, with 18 percent of 
women on the board, by this organization whose goal is 
to increase the percentage of women on U.S. company 
boards to 20 percent or greater by the year 2020. On 
August 13, 2017 the percentage of women on the board 
increased to 25 percent with the election of Amy E. 
Hood to 3M’s Board.
Companies Where Top Millennials Most 
Want to Work
National Society of High School Scholars (NSHSS) 10th 
Annual Career Survey, conducted by Hanover Research 
identified 3M as the eighth most dream company to 
work for among respondents in 2017.
For the 18th consecutive year, 3M was selected as a 
member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a global 
stock index that recognizes and tracks the performance 
of leading Sustainability-driven companies worldwide.
EcoVadis awarded 3M a Gold Recognition Level for 
achievements in the top 1 percent of suppliers assessed 
in corporate social responsibility (CSR) in global Supply 
Chains.Who We Are | Our Values, Vision, and Strategies
62 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M’s actions are guided by our corporate Vision and 
values of uncompromising honesty and integrity. We 
are proud to be recognized worldwide as an ethical and 
law-abiding company. As a company, we are committed 
to sustainable development through environmental 
protection, social responsibility, and economic success.Our Values
• Act with uncompromising honesty and integrity in 
everything we do
• Satisfy our customers with innovative technology and 
superior quality, value, and service
• Provide our investors an attractive return through 
sustainable, global growth
• Respect our social and physical environment around 
the world
• Value and develop our employees’ diverse talents, 
initiative, and leadership
• Earn the admiration of all those associated with  
3M worldwideOur guiding values include:Our Strategies
To help achieve our corporate Vision, we have six 
strategies that are engrained across our business.  
The first four focus on growth, the fifth is around 
developing our people, and the last strategy is around 
operational excellence.
• Expand relevance to our customers and our presence 
in the marketplace
• Gain profitable market share and accelerate market 
penetration everywhere
• Invest in innovation, invigorate existing market 
opportunities, and focus on emerging megatrends
• Intensify capabilities to achieve regional 
self-sufficiency
• Build high performing and diverse global talent
• Drive consistent superior levels of operational 
excellenceEvery successful endeavor – whether it’s a social cause, 
a political movement, or a business – needs a vision. 
Something to reach for. Something to unite people 
around. 3M continues to be inspired and motivated by 
our corporate Vision that guides our work every day:Our Vision
Our Vision helps define what we do, how we do it, and 
where we do it. At the same time, it establishes a stretch 
goal for all employees at 3M. And it captures what 
differentiates us from competitors as an enterprise. 
What we do and have done for 115 years is advancing, 
enhancing, and improving. How we have done it, and 
continue to do it, is through technologies, products, 
and innovation. Where we do it is for every company, in 
every home, and for every life all around the world. 
In short, this Vision serves as a daily reminder to all of us 
of what the 3M brand stands for. 3M Technology Advancing Every Company
3M Products Enhancing Every Home
3M Innovation Improving Every Life
62 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 63Who We Are | Communities
#improvinglives  | 65 64 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
EC
7-8G4 3M helps build sustainable communities 
through strategic investments, business 
expertise, and the thoughtful engagement of 
3Mers worldwide, who volunteer and leverage their 
skills and experience to make a difference. 
The social investment arm of 3M, 3Mgives, is governed 
by the 3M Foundation Board of Directors and Corporate 
Contributions Committee comprised of senior level 
executives in the company. The 3M Foundation Board 
of Directors guides the social investment strategy by 
identifying focus areas, allocating budget, and giving 
strategy advice for execution by 3Mgives staff. The 
strategy includes partnering with leading community 
organizations that have a proven track record for 
delivering results.2025 Goal: Invest cash and products for education, 
community and environmental programs.
We continue to invest in increasing access and 
opportunity for people worldwide to succeed in STEM 
and business fields, and to improving lives through 
investments in environment and community programs. 
Cash, in-kind investments, and employee engagement 
remain core to our 3Mgives strategy. Since 1953, 
we have invested $1.58 billion in cash and product 
contributions in 3M communities.A three-part giving strategy
Education:  3M empowers the next generation of 
scientists and engineers through investments in 
initiatives that increase student interest and achievement 
in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
(STEM), and business, to help build a diverse pipeline of 
global talent.
Community:  3M enhances community vibrancy by 
assuring access to basic needs, preparing youth for 
life-long success, increasing access to quality and 
diverse arts opportunities, and contributing to global 
humanitarian relief efforts.
Environment:  3M invests in programs promoting 
Sustainability and environmental stewardship in the 
communities where 3M employees live and work.Our Actions
Education
As a company that thrives on applying science to life, 
we understand the importance of inspiring the next 
generation of scientists, innovators, and inventors. 
As part of our commitment to supporting STEM, 3M 
embraces programs that encourage students to develop 
a fascination and a love for science. We also partner 
with organizations that help young people understand 
how science impacts and improves lives. Our goal is to 
increase STEM and business opportunities, and advance 
equitable outcomes for all students. In addition, our 
investments are helping to build a diverse pipeline of 
talent by increasing access to quality education for 
communities around the world.3M investments and volunteers 
make a positive impact on our world.CommunitiesWho We Are | Communities
#improvinglives  | 67 66 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWorldSkills™
3M is a Global Industry Partner of WorldSkills 
International, a not-for-profit movement that brings 
together industry, government, organizations, and 
institutions to promote the benefits of and need 
for skilled trade professionals through grassroots 
community projects, skill competitions, and knowledge 
exchange. In 2017, 3M sponsored the WorldSkills 
competition in Abu Dhabi with more than 1,300 
competitors, 50 skills, and 75 member countries 
represented, all working together to help prepare the 
workforce and talent of today for the jobs of the future.
Learn more on WorldSkills: here .
Community
3M invests in a more vibrant world through partnerships 
that advance inclusiveness, diversity, and strength in our 
communities. We support the arts, youth development, 
and basic needs, and provide humanitarian aid in times 
of need.
Humanitarian Aid
In 2017, 3M responded to an unprecedented level of 
natural disasters, including earthquakes in Mexico 
and multiple devastating hurricanes and wildfires, by 
establishing a global relief fund. As part of this fund, 3M 
and 3M employees invested more than $4.5 million in 
cash and products to support communities in crisis – in 
the U.S., Mexico, Puerto Rico, and several other regions 
of the world. This support provided immediate relief to 
the people in those areas, and helped assure that those 
affected by a natural disaster received the care they 
needed to reestablish self-sufficiency.
3M Volunteers and Global Volunteer Day
In September 2017, 3M marked its fourth annual Global 
Volunteer Day in 3M communities around the world. 
Here are three examples of what took place:Frontline Sales Initiative
3M’s commitment goes beyond traditional philanthropy; 
during the summer of 2017, a record 60-plus university 
students from more than 20 universities across the U.S. 
participated in the 3M Frontline sales and marketing 
internship program. Their itinerary included a two-week 
introduction to 3M, eight weeks in the field selling 
products for one of 3M businesses, and a one-week 
review of their experience. At the end of the program, 
Frontline students are often offered and accept jobs 
with 3M.
Scholarships, Fellowships, and 
Non-Tenured Faculty Grants 
3M is helping students of diverse backgrounds 
pursue careers in STEM by providing undergraduate 
scholarships, undergraduate research scholarships, and 
fellowships to students at the University of Minnesota, 
University of Illinois, Georgia Tech, and other institutions 
of higher learning. In addition to providing student 
support, for more than 25 years 3M technical leaders 
have directed financial support to promising academic 
leaders to support the advancement of research and 
teaching in relevant STEM and business fields. In 2017, 
3M provided more than $500,000 in support to 54 
non-tenured faculty members.
3M Manufacturing and 
Academic Partnership 
3M launched the Manufacturing and Academic 
Partnerships (MAP) Program in 2017, to promote 
advanced manufacturing training and careers through 
thoughtful partnerships in our largest manufacturing 
communities. 3M works with partner technical colleges 
and surrounding high schools to provide exposure 
to advanced manufacturing. The program provides 
scholarships, educator training, and help with curriculum 
development. In 2017, 3M invested over $800,000 
toward this initiative and is planning to grow this 
collaboration in the coming years.
Learn more on 3M MAP: here .Young Scientist Challenge
The Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge, 
for grades five through eight, was launched in 1999 by 
Discovery Communications and has been co-sponsored 
by 3M since 2008. Its mission: to cultivate the next 
generation of American scientists at an age when 
interest in science often declines.
Through the years, the one-of-a-kind competition has 
sparked the imaginations of students and enhanced 
science exploration, innovation, and communication 
across the U.S. Students are invited to create a one 
to two minute video describing a new, innovative 
solution that could solve an everyday problem. All 
videos are judged by a panel of experts in science and 
communication including current and former teachers, 
scientists, and representatives from school districts 
across the country. After the judging, 10 finalists have 
an opportunity to participate in a summer mentorship 
program with 3M scientists, and travel to 3M 
headquarters to compete in the final event.
Learn more on Gitanjali Rao, a sixth-grader from Lone 
Tree, Colorado and 2017 Discovery Education 3M Young 
Scientist Challenge winner: here .
Higher Education
3M is also helping to develop the next generation of 
STEM and business leaders by providing scholarships, 
fellowships, and internships, in addition to supporting 
professors who are turning ideas into innovation. The 
company recently grew its commitment to advancing 
career pathways by increasing investments for advanced 
manufacturing training and skills development through 
partnerships with relevant vocational schools and skilled 
trades organizations.Saint Paul Public Schools 
In our corporate headquarters community, we are 
increasing Saint Paul Public School (SPPS) students’ 
access to STEM programs. Through a 40-year 
partnership with SPPS, thousands of 3Mers have served 
as mentors, science fair judges, and career speakers 
– in addition to providing 17,000 students with school 
supplies on the first day of school every year. Today, 
more than 12,000 students in SPPS are involved in a 
3M-sponsored STEM activity, such as FIRST LEGO 
League and FIRST Robotics teams, summer STEM 
Camp, and our signature program, 3M STEP (Science 
Training Encouragement Program), for high school 
juniors and seniors.
DonorsChoose.org
In addition to supporting students in St. Paul, Minnesota, 
3M partners with DonorsChoose.org to broaden the 
company’s support of STEM projects in classrooms 
across the country. Today, 3M’s U.S. locations invest 
more than $500,000 annually in classroom projects 
led by teachers. Since 2015, 3M has funded more than 
2,800 STEM projects impacting 276,000 students 
across the country.
3M Visiting Wizards
The 3M Visiting Wizards program, which started in St. 
Paul, Minnesota many years ago, continues to spark 
an interest in science among young people around 
the world. 3Mers provide science demonstrations and 
hands-on experiments on a variety of topics, such as the 
properties of light and color, cryogenics, microbiology, 
thermodynamics, and electricity.
This kind of exposure at an early age helps students 
understand how science impacts everyday life, and 
encourages young people to become interested  
in STEM.
In 2017, more than 33,000 students attended a Visiting 
Wizards demonstration. More than 800,000 have 
participated in presentations since the program’s 
inception in 1985.
See typical Visiting Wizards demonstrations for 
magnets, colors and lights, and the science of air at  
3M Visiting Wizards .Gitanjali Rao
Who We Are | Communities
#improvinglives  | 69 68 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M Brazil 
(as told by 3M volunteer leader Liliane Moura)
“We had 50 3M volunteers serve as judges for the 
final round of the VII University Student 3M Institute 
Award. The goal was to identify and support projects 
that promote social development in education, health, 
or environment. Every university student in Brazil 
could participate. The award criteria was low cost, 
easy replication, and the benefits it can provide to a 
community. The winners of the first award created 
a bread soup bowl that is still produced in three 
institutions, to serve soup to people who live in the 
streets and have no home. The bread soup bowl can 
be eaten and it is very nutritious. And after the soup is 
consumed, the bowl doesn´t produce any garbage and 
doesn´t need to be washed. The award for winning went 
to the sponsoring university, which uses the money to 
help the idea become a real solution for our community.”
3M Philippines
(as told by 3M volunteer leader Rika Sophia 
Kamibayashi)
“Employees of 3M Philippines and 3M Global Service 
Center Philippines kicked off celebrations for Global 
Volunteer Day in 2017 by supporting the Give2Achieve 
campaign, which aims to raise funds to rehabilitate 
and educate street children in the Philippines. Our 
community partner, Virlanie Foundation, has been our 
adopted community since 1997. In that time, Virlanie 
Foundation has given back smiles and dreams to over 
17,000 street children by providing developmental 
intervention for children and their families. Our 
volunteering efforts in 2017 included shirt sales to help 
raise funds, outreach activity, and both employee and 
family involvement. With Give2Achieve our employees 
were highly engaged and motivated to achieve a 
common goal – fight child poverty through education.”
3M Spain
(as told by 3M volunteer leader Ana Brage)
“On Global Volunteer Day, we welcomed 25 young 
people from Aldeas Infantiles, an organization 
dedicated to nurturing vulnerable children, to spend a 
fun evening with us in our Innovation Center and learn 
science applied to life. The children were divided into 
teams to complete a science circuit, performing six 
tests as they searched for the best ‘nanoscientific’.  Global Pro Bono Engagement
3Mers provide skills-based, consulting services to 
social enterprises and nongovernmental organizations 
around the world through 3M Impact and 3M 
Catalyst Leadership Way programs, in partnership 
with PYXERA Global. The 3M Impact program, 
established in 2017, deployed employees from around 
the world to Southeast Asia to address Sustainability 
and community challenges in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh 
City, Vietnam, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Jakarta, 
Indonesia. Through the 3M Catalyst Leadership Way 
Program, 3M deployed senior executives to support 
communities in Bangalore, India and Shanghai, China. 
Learn more on the 3M Impact Program: here . 
Just as 3M is committed to improving 
lives through our products and science, 
our 3M workforce is dedicated to making 
a difference in our communities. The 3M 
Impact program was launched by 3Mgives 
to empower our employees – including 
leading scientists, engineers, and business 
leaders – to collaborate with game-changing 
NGOs, and social enterprises in addressing 
the world’s greatest challenges.
Michael Stroik
Director, 3Mgives
Another way 3M recognizes the importance of good 
corporate citizenship, and supporting the communities 
in which we operate, is through 3M Legal Affairs. 
By leveraging legal skills and experience, 3M Legal 
Affairs helps bridge the gap and strengthen both the 
community and the justice system. Learn more on 
these efforts: here .
Local investments. Global impact.
To maximize positive social impact in the communities 
in which we operate, 3M manufacturing facility 
locations receive an annual budget to invest in their 
own backyards. To help support their efforts, 3Mgives 
recently introduced four programs that collectively 
provide approximately $1.50 million of additional 
funding to organizations that demonstrate the ability 
to create a long-term, sustainable impact in their The winning team received a science award and all of 
the children received a snack and a scientific pack of 
3M products, including masks.”
3Mgives Volunteer Match
Throughout the year, the 3Mgives Volunteer Match 
encourages volunteerism by donating to schools and 
organizations where 3Mers and alumni volunteer their 
time. Since 2000, in the U.S., 3Mgives has provided 
more than $7.10 million on behalf of over 30,000 
volunteers to 3,770 organizations in 50 states. 
Collaborative Community Engagement
3M works with innovative nonprofit partners like 
GlobalGiving.org to digitally crowdsource investment 
decisions. For example, 3M empowered 3Mers to 
direct corporate contributions to global nonprofits 
aligned to 3M Sustainability priorities. In response to the 
devastation of several disasters, 3M matched employee 
contributions through key partners, like GlobalGiving.org 
and American Red Cross, to inspire 3Mers to double 
their impact in affected communities.
MENTOR: The National Mentoring 
Partnership 
Every young person needs supportive relationships 
to guide them as they develop and grow into thriving, 
productive, and engaged adults. 3M partners with 
MENTOR to make sure this kind of support is in place, 
by providing quality programming to local organizations, 
and to train mentoring leaders. In 2017, 3M presented 
MENTOR with our Inaugural Global Volunteer Partner 
Award, as an organization that aligns with 3M’s values in 
volunteerism.communities. These programs address improving basic 
standards of living in the community, making a lasting 
impact on Earth’s ecosystems, improving science-based 
education for youth, and contributing to the efforts 
of critical partners in the community, especially those 
that provide economic development to underserved 
populations.
Learn more on some of these efforts in Canada  and 
England , under our featured stories.
3M Austin, Texas – Tarmac TX 
Tarmac TX is a nine-month accelerator program that 
supports Austin-based social entrepreneurs who are 
developing community-enhancing technology solutions, 
by connecting them with 12 3M employees who have 
expertise in marketing, business development, and 
information technology to help with critical strategic 
issues. As a free accelerator, Tarmac TX provides 
pathways to economic opportunity and promotes 
inclusiveness and diversity in tech entrepreneurship. 
Among their many solutions, Tarmac TX 2017 startups 
are working to improve the quality of life in the Austin 
community, protect the environment, and serve children 
and students in schools, foster children, and the blind 
community.
Environment
EN
13G4 3M invests in initiatives that foster sustainable 
communities. This includes projects that 
protect threatened ecosystems, support local 
economies, enhance livelihoods, and promote science-
based environmental education.
Closed Loop Fund 
Cities across the U.S. spend billions of dollars sending 
recyclable materials to landfills. The Closed Loop 
Fund (CLF) is a collaborative social impact fund 
that gives cities access to capital needed to build 
comprehensive recycling programs. At the same time, 
it gives companies like 3M access to an important 
supply of recycled materials for use in packaging. 
3M’s $5 million commitment to the CLF has already 
helped fund 12 projects that have improved recycling 
access and diversion for 4.1 million households, and 
provided $17 million in economic benefit to participating 
municipalities. This partnership is one of 3M’s innovative 3M Spain Global Volunteer Day, Winning Science Circuit Team
Who We Are | Communities
#improvinglives  | 71 70 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportapproaches to strategic social investing. It is the 
company’s first program-related investment that will be 
paid back to 3M Foundation to recycle funds back into 
the community in the future. 3M is also supporting CLF 
with a scoping grant to explore international regions that 
could receive the greatest impact from their approach to 
environmental stewardship.
Looking forward… 
In 2018, 3Mgives will continue to strengthen our 
culture of service by engaging our most impactful 
asset – our people. We will continue to implement a 
new volunteer technology platform to help employees learn about more opportunities to support local 
organizations through volunteerism. In addition, we 
expect to expand our newest volunteer program, 3M 
Impact, which deploys some of 3M’s most talented and 
engaged employees to global markets to work with 
social enterprises, nongovernmental organizations, 
and universities focused on solving the world’s largest 
problems. And we will continue expanding our focus on 
STEM education to develop specific programs relating 
to advanced manufacturing skills positions. Our goal is to 
expand the pipeline of manufacturing talent, particularly 
among veterans and groups underrepresented in the 
manufacturing industry.
2017 Giving by Focus Area
Cash In-Kind Total Volunteer Hours
Community $17,700,000 $24,800,000 $42,500,000 190,000
Education $15,100,000 $12,800,000 $27,900,000 83,700
Environment $2,980,000 $66,700 $3,050,000 22,000
Total $35,900,000 $37,600,000 $73,500,000 296,000
Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still subject to change.EC
7G4
2017 Global Giving by Region
Cash In-Kind Total Volunteer Hours
Asia Pacific $1,810,000 $2,240,000 $4,060,000 6,740
Europe/Middle East/Africa $621,000 $312,000 $933,000 6,700
Latin America $2,990,000 $979,000 $3,970,000 3,230
Canada $1,500,000 $680,000 $2,180,000 2,050
United States $27,700,000 $29,800,000 $57,500,000 277,000
OUS, Region Not Defined $1,230,000 $3,680,000 $4,910,000 –
Total $35,900,000 $37,600,000 $73,500,000 296,000
Values presented in this table represent the most current values, but are still subject to change.
 Health Care#improvinglives means enabling 
better patient outcomes, lifelong 
oral health, and a safer food supply.
Our innovative solutions help customers, from hospitals and clinics,  
to food and pharma companies, improve sustainability and  
patient health.Who We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders
72 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 73See how our stakeholder-driven approach to 
Sustainability materiality serves as a foundation  
for our Sustainability strategy and reporting.
SD
15-16G4 Stakeholder engagement can help guide 
companies on doing business the right way. It 
can also have a direct impact on a company’s 
financial success (sales, share price, and investments), 
on its operations, and on its reputation. 3M has created a 
robust, stakeholder-driven approach to Sustainability 
materiality that serves as a foundation for our 
Sustainability strategy and reporting. Through 
understanding critical Sustainability issues from both 
internal and external perspectives, 3M can strengthen 
its social license to operate and develop corporate 
strategy, goals, targets, programs, initiatives, and a 
stakeholder engagement strategy to advance 
Sustainability globally.As a science-based company, our stakeholders include 
customers and consumers, investors, government 
agencies, industry organizations, subject-matter 
experts and academia, non-government organizations, 
other corporations, and more.
It is through collaboration and partnerships that 
3M can accelerate Sustainability in our company 
and in the world. We value our partnerships with 
numerous stakeholders as a way to not only address 
our Sustainability issues, but to help our partners 
address their Sustainability challenges. 3M has 
joined numerous organizations globally to advance 
Sustainability through collaboration with the 
organization and its members. Memberships  
have provided a forum for working on key 
Sustainability issues that are relevant to both  
3M and our stakeholders.
Memberships and partnerships help provide us 
with diverse viewpoints on Sustainability, a better 
understanding of the positions of our stakeholders, Engaging Our 
StakeholdersWho We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders
#improvinglives  | 75 74 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportand a mechanism to learn from the successes and 
failures of our peers contributing to our commitment to 
purpose-driven business.
We rely on a robust business conduct assessment 
process to help assure the external organizations that we 
partner with share our commitment to business integrity. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Strategy
3M’s stakeholder engagement strategy continues to 
evolve. We continually look to our stakeholders to help 
us increase understanding, broaden our awareness, 
seek technical input and expertise and evaluate possible 
collaborations, and strategic partnerships. We rely 
on their counsel and expertise to help guide us. We 
believe stakeholder engagement should be based on 
candid and authentic dialog, grounded in the company’s 
values, and should contribute to the evolution of our 
strategic priorities.
Levels of engagement with stakeholders vary greatly 
by geography, type, and function. For example, 3M 
employees globally are engaged frequently through 
Sustainability communications and events with diverse 
topics based on our material aspects, while we may 
engage annually for an industry association meeting,  
we may also have engagements around a specific issue.
We engaged with many internal and external 
stakeholders in setting our 2025 Sustainability Goals . 
Our 2014 and 2016 materiality assessments both 
demonstrated that our 2025 goals remain aligned with 
our stakeholder expectations – see the Materiality  
section for more information. Our goals are aligned 
with the key global challenges, as well as the United 
Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. As such, 
they present unique opportunities for partnerships and 
collaboration, which 3M is actively seeking.Suppliers, Contractors, 
Industry Associations
• Partnering with suppliers and contractors that meet or 
exceed expectations
• Supporting collective efforts to deliver business results
• Collaborating to identify, resource and amplify 
Sustainability initiatives
• Respecting human rights for workers across our  
value chain
• Air & Waste Management Association
• Alliance to Save Energy
• American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham)
• American Chemistry Council (ACC)
• American Industrial Hygiene Association
• The Conference Board
• The Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)
• European Chemistry Industry Council (CEFIC)
• Green Chemistry & Commerce Council (GC3)
• The Institute of National Pact (InPACTO)
• Minnesota Chamber of Commerce
• National Association of EHS Managers (NAEM)
• National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)
• National Climate Coalition (NCC)
• Pressure Sensitive Tape CouncilWhy
• Engaging on technical scientific research to develop 
innovative solutions for society
• Harvard Medical School, The Center for Health and the 
Global Environment
• Iowa State University, Center for Bioplastics and 
Biocomposites
• University of Minnesota, Center for Sustainable Polymers
• Environmental Initiative
• Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
• Society of Environmental Toxicology and ChemistryAcademia and  
Scientific Organizations
• Respecting human rights and diversity
• Supporting, optimizing, and promoting development  
and growth
• Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment
• Ensuring equal opportunity
• Providing competitive compensation and benefits
• Attracting and retaining the highest talent by being a 
company for which employees are proud to workEmployees
• Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy
• The League of American Bicyclists
• The Science Museum of Minnesota
• U.S. Business Leadership Network• Delivering profitable returns on investment
• Disclosing timely, concise, and relevant information 
(related to Economic, Environmental, and Social Issues)
• Responding to inquiries
• Upholding corporate valuesInvestors
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index
• CDP
• MSCI
• National Investor Relations Institute• Partnering to understand societal concerns
• Providing support to advance and solve global issuesNonprofit Organizations 
and NGOsWho Who Who
Who
Who
WhoWho
WhoWhy Why Why
Why
Why
WhyWhy
Why• Alliance to Save Energy
• American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy 
(ACEEE)
• Forum for the Future
• Friends of EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS)
• TFT (The Forest Trust)
• The Nature Conservancy
• Net Impact
• PYXERA Global
• The RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP
• World Resources Institute (WRI)
• WorldSkills™• Complying with laws, regulations, and policies
• Supporting and engaging on development and 
modification changes
• United Nations Global Compact
• U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
• U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership
• U.S. EPA Energy Star ProgramGovernment/
Regulators
• Supporting and engaging in citizenship activities across 
our value chain
• Providing economic and social value to communities while 
minimizing environmental impact
• Supporting safe and healthy communities
• Innovative cash investments in evidence-based nonprofit 
organizations
• Skills-based service opportunities leveraging the rich  
set of skills in the 3M workforce
• Transformative product donations that improve  
lives globally
• More information can be found in the Collaborating with 
Our Communities  section of this reportLocal CommunitiesCustomers
• Providing diverse innovative product solutions that help our 
customers deliver on their promises
• Offering a diversified portfolio of high quality products
• Providing products with Sustainability attributes to address 
and help solve global environmental challenges
• Corporate Eco Forum
• Retail Industry Leaders Association
• Sustainable Brands
• World Business Council for Sustainable DevelopmentHowHow
How
How
How
HowHow
HowWho We Are | Diversity and Inclusion 
#improvinglives  | 77 76 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
At 3M, we foster an inclusive environment where 
employees feel safe, engaged, and free to create and 
innovate. Our diversity and inclusion strategies are 
inextricably linked to our corporate strategies.
The way we look at it, a diverse, global workforce – 
people with different experience, ethnicity, age, gender, 
faith, sexual orientation, personalities, styles, and ways 
of thinking – helps us relate more closely to the needs 
of all 3M customers, suppliers, and channel partners 
around the world.
Just as important, it’s the right thing to do. Diversity and 
inclusion are about creating intellectual and emotional 
oxygen for all people to flourish and feel comfortable to 
collaborate, agree, disagree, and respectfully exchange, 
learn, and create.where all employees can do their best, and are free to 
report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation 
or reprisal”.
To foster this kind of workplace, we follow our Equal 
Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies , which prohibit all 
forms of discrimination or harassment against applicants, 
employees, vendors, contractors, or customers on the 
basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, 
age, disability, veteran’s status, pregnancy, genetic 
information, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship 
status, status with regards to public assistance, gender 
identity/expression, or any other reason prohibited by law. 
Our affirmative action policies and programs are designed 
to assure equal opportunities for qualified minorities, 
women, covered veterans, and individuals with disabilities, 
and also to provide reasonable accommodation to 
individuals with disabilities.
2025 Goal: Double the pipeline of diverse talent in 
management to build a diverse workforce.
Increasing diversity in every region in which we 
operate is a core part of our Sustainability strategy. That’s why the 3M Code of Conduct  includes  
this guideline: 
Be Respectful:  We strive to have a work environment 
that reflects and values the best in all of us, where we 
treat each other respectfully and professionally, and 
where individual differences are valued.
3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle  states that 
“everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in 
the 3M workplace. Being respectful means being 
treated honestly and professionally, with each 
person’s unique talents, background, and perspectives 
valued. A respectful workplace is free from unlawful 
discrimination and harassment, but it involves more 
than compliance with the law. It is a work environment 
that is free of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior 
and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values – a place Doubling our diverse talent in management/leadership 
positions will ultimately help build a diverse pipeline for 
executive leadership as well. That said, we recognize 
that definitions of diversity vary between countries and 
cultures. In the U.S. and in many other countries, we 
provide our people with the opportunity to opt-in and 
confidentially provide information such as disability 
status, veteran status, sexual orientation, race/ethnicity, 
and gender.
The 3M definition of diversity includes gender, race/
ethnicity/nationality, people with disabilities, U.S. 
military veterans, and people who identify as lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and intersex 
(LGBTQI). To measure progress against our 2025  
goal, we use a Diversity Index which represents the  
total number of diverse future leaders within the  
company globally. 
Note:  In the U.S. and in many other countries, we 
provide our people with the opportunity to voluntarily 
self-identify and confidentially provide information such 
as disability status, veteran status, sexual orientation, 
and race/ethnicity.At 3M, diversity and inclusion are  
essential and inseparable to our success.Diversity and 
InclusionWho We Are | Diversity and Inclusion 
#improvinglives  | 79 78 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWatch an interview with Mr. Thulin and Deborah Gillis, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Catalyst: here .
Catalyst Award
For 30 years, the Catalyst Award  has been a prestigious 
honor presented to select companies that distinguish 
themselves in accelerating progress for women in the 
workplace. 3M was one of three 2017 winners of this 
award, based on a rigorous assessment conducted 
by Catalyst Inc., which cited the company’s “I’m in. 
Accelerating Women’s Leadership” initiative, leadership 
development platforms, workplace flexibility, mentoring 
programs, and external community efforts on behalf of 
women. Inge Thulin accepted the award in New York  
in March.
Employee Resource Networks
3M Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) are grassroots 
organizations designed to nurture leadership skills, and 
collaboration across cultures, lifestyles, and genders, 
through networking. Open to all employees, these 
organizations help 3M recruit, engage, and retain diverse 
talent and work with our businesses to provide relevant 
customer insights that can expand our marketplace reach.
• 3M Pride (LGBTQ and allies)
• A3CTION (Asians and Asian-Americans Coming 
Together for Innovation and Opportunity Network)
• African American Network
• disAbility Awareness Network
• Latino Resource NetworkOur Actions 
Every day, we work to assure that the 3M workforce is 
representative of the people with whom we do business. 
This entails:
• Strengthening 3M’s reputation as a great place for 
diverse people to work
• Seeking and attracting diverse and qualified 
candidates globally
• Building our global pipeline of diverse candidates
Beyond our day-to-day efforts to support diversity in 
2017, we also actively promoted initiatives to engage our 
people, attract the best talent, and make everyone feel 
safe and included.
Different Minds Inspire Campaign
At 3M, we know that inclusion is the key to unlocking 
the power of our diversity. An inclusive culture is one 
that supports and appreciates differences, and provides 
fair and equal opportunities for everyone. It is a culture 
where people realize they are respected for their whole 
and unique selves, and that they belong. Inclusion leads 
to engagement, which in turn fosters the collaboration, 
creativity, and innovation that drive long-term growth for 
3M as well as for our people and our customers.
In the inaugural 2017 Inclusion Index (a measure of 
how included employees feel in the workplace, based 
on responses to questions in the 3M Standard Opinion 
Survey), a large majority of responding employees felt 
included in the workplace. Moving forward, we will work 
to engage all employees as we enhance our culture of 
inclusion. 
At the 3M Global Inclusion Day event on October 30, 
2017, the Diversity and Inclusion team launched a new 
campaign: “Different minds inspire”. This campaign 
is centered on three actions employees can take to 
strengthen our inclusive environment:
Reflect:  Identify your own unique strengths.
Connect:  Understand and appreciate the unique 
perspectives of others.Wonder:  Imagine what we can accomplish together.
The company is developing global communication, 
events, and training, inspiring employees to activate the 
“Different Minds” campaign.
Meaningful innovation and relevant brand 
experiences are no longer driven by great 
individuals but by great teams that embrace 
diversity in thought and collaboration.
Eric Quint
3M Vice President and Chief Design Officer
Catalyst CEO Champions For Change
Inge Thulin, our Chairman of the Board, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer, became a founding member 
of the Catalyst CEO Champions For Change initiative 
focused on accelerating diversity, inclusion, and gender 
equality in the workplace. Mr. Thulin signed on to this 
initiative at the 2017 Catalyst Awards ceremony, where 
3M was recognized for our proven approach to expand 
opportunities for women and business.
As part of this commitment, Mr. Thulin, along with more 
than 40 other Chief Executive Officers and industry 
leaders, made a personal pledge to advance women’s 
representation over the next five years, particularly at 
the senior level and within the Board of Directors, and 
actively sponsor a diverse group of women. The initiative 
is also intended to encourage more organizations to 
make commitments around increasing gender equality in 
the workplace.• Military and Veterans Support Network
• Native American Network
• New Employee Opportunity Network (NEON)
• Women’s Leadership Forum
In 2017, two ERNs celebrated over 40 years of 
continuous employee engagement: the Women’s 
Leadership Forum and the African-American Network. 
Also, the Native American Network, a circle of 
people from American and First Nations Indian tribes, 
celebrated its 25th anniversary.
Diversity-Focused Recruiting Events
During 2017, we participated in several recruiting events 
to connect with people and talk about employment 
opportunities at 3M, including:
• American Indian Science and Engineering Society
• Grace Hopper Celebration
• Reaching Out MBA
• National Black MBA/Prospanica
• National Organization for the Professional 
Advancement of Black Chemists and  
Chemical Engineers
• National Society of Black Engineers
• Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers
• Society of Women Engineers (National and 
Regional events)
Invent a New Future Challenge 
Each year since 2014, 3M has sponsored the Invent a 
New Future Challenge, a business case competition that 
celebrates the extraordinary thinking of college students 
around the world. Third- or fourth-year undergraduate 
students and those pursuing an advanced degree in 
marketing, sales, supply chain/logistics, engineering, 
science, and/or technical studies are encouraged to 
participate. In 2017, students in 13 countries competed 
in the local round. Fourteen finalists were then flown to 
the U.S. for the global case competition finals at 3M’s 
world headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota. Members 
of the final winning team each received a six-month 
mentorship with a 3M senior leader in their respective Different minds 
inspire.
At 3M, great mids don’t think alike.
Different minds inspire.
Every one of us has the power to 
make a difference and strengthen 
our culture of inclusion.Reflect
Connect
Wonder
The chairs and co-chairs of the ERNs lead development and 
community-based events within their own networks – as well as 
collaborate across networks to champion inclusion at 3M.
Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion
#improvinglives  | 81 80 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportcountries. Another positive outcome of the competition: 
more than 25 students were hired for full-time 3M 
positions in their local countries.
Working With Those Who Have Served 
3M is a strong supporter of initiatives that provide 
employment help to veterans of U.S. military service.
Hiring Our Heroes is a nationwide initiative that assists 
veterans, transitioning service members, and military 
spouses find meaningful employment opportunities. The 
effort is backed by an advisory council comprised of 25 
of America’s biggest employers, including 3M. Elements 
of the campaign include:
• Establishing best practices for employing veterans
• Providing mentors to help transitioning veterans 
and their spouses
• Enlisting a similar commitment from small and 
medium-sized business
Hirepurpose provides career guidance and a recruiting 
portal for transitioning military service members. Its 
overall mission is supported by Hirepurpose’s employer 
partners – Fortune 1000 companies that understand the 
impact and value of hiring veterans, including 3M.Military Bowl
Over the past 10 years, the Military Bowl football game 
has served as a premier regional event benefiting 
the United Service Organizations (USO) and other 
groups that support members of the Armed Forces 
and their families. In 2017, 3M announced a three-year 
sponsorship agreement with the Military Bowl and, along 
with other corporate sponsors, helped raise $100,000 
at the December 2017 Military Bowl game played in 
Annapolis, Maryland. At the game, 3M also presented 
the 3M Play to Win award to George Garcia III, the son 
of two active-duty U.S. Air Force service members, who 
took on important family responsibilities while both his 
parents were deployed.
For additional information, see: Military Bowl , a game 
with a larger purpose.
National Industries for the Blind (NIB)
3M has partnered with NIB, the nation’s largest resource 
for jobs and training for people who are blind, for 
more than 30 years. In 2017, the company sponsored 
an individual for an eight-month NIB Fellowship for 
Leadership Development, working with the web  
services team of the 3M Business Transformation / 
Information Technology group. There he was involved 
in several projects including digital planning, consumer 
analysis, AB Testing, and providing daily feedback on 
electronic formatting.On the Hirepurpose career portal, candidates can 
research companies, receive job search advice, and make 
sure their applications reach veteran advocates at each 
employer partner. A team of Hirepurpose career coaches 
also provides personalized guidance and support online, 
over the phone, and at bases across the U.S.
Minnesota National Guard Women’s 
Leadership Forum
On September 16, 2017, more than 700 members 
of the Minnesota National Guard attended the third 
annual Women’s Leadership Forum at 3M corporate 
headquarters. Topics included emotional intelligence, 
leadership, high performing teams, and a championship 
culture. Among the speakers: Maureen Bausch, 
Minnesota Super Bowl LII Host Committee Chief 
Executive Officer, as well a range of local business and 
government leaders, and representatives from five of 
Minnesota’s professional sports teams (Lynx, Twins, 
Wild, Vikings, and Timberwolves).
Rally at the Wall Events
At the Military Support Network Wall located at 3M 
headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota, the company 
sponsored six Rally at the Wall events throughout 2017 
to demonstrate support for the men and women who 
have transitioned from the military to 3M. These events 
focused on networking and recognition of veterans hired 
at 3M.Best Places to Work for Disability 
Inclusion 
3M earned a top score of 100 percent on the 2017 
Disability Equality Index®, making 3M one of the 
‘Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion’. We have 
improved our score every year over the three years the 
index has been in place. Participating in the index helps 
us identify ways we can further enhance our policies 
and practices around disability inclusion. Reaching a top 
score strengthens our reputation as a great place for all 
people to work, and helps us attract more candidates 
with different abilities, backgrounds, and experiences.
Representing people with disabilities is an important 
dimension of our Sustainability goal to double the 
pipeline of diverse talent in management by 2025. And 
it’s part of our commitment to be an inclusive culture and 
workplace where people of all abilities can thrive.
On October 23, 2017, 3M held a disAbility Employment 
Awareness Month Celebration in honor of being 
named a Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion. 
The celebration included a presentation from Believet™ 
Canine Service Partners, which provides highly skilled 
assistance dogs, free of charge, to disabled veterans.
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 
For the seventh year in a row, 3M scored 100 percent 
on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI) for 2018, making 
the company one of the ‘Best Places to Work for LGBTQ 
Equality’. The CEI is administered by the Human Rights 
Campaign and benchmarks corporate policies including 
non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic 
partner benefits, and transgender-inclusive health care.
Looking forward…
In 2018, we will continue our journey of steady progress 
toward our goal of increasing the pipeline of diverse 
talent in management. In addition, through the “Different 
minds inspire” campaign, we will engage 3Mers in 
activities and behaviors that strengthen inclusion and 
create space for respecting diverse perspectives. In 
2019, we will focus on integrated collaboration, by 
combining diverse capabilities and people on teams, to 
share knowledge and discover breakthrough outcomes.Left to right: 
Vamshi Voruganti, USA, Pennsylvania State University,  
Industrial Engineering
Eunseo Jean Kim, South Korea, Hanyang University,  
Industrial Engineering
Bruno Ferreira de Oliveira, Brazil, Universidade Federal da Bahia, 
Chemical Engineering
Annu Mann, India, Xavier School of Management, MBA
Abdulkhaleq Ahmed Al-Mansaf, King Abdullah University of 
Science and Technology (Kaust), Chemical Science
From left to right: Skip Driessen, Ingar Grev, Kevin White, and 
Rory YanchekHow  
We WorkIntroduction  84
Corporate Governance 86
Enterprise Risk  94
Corporate Code of Conduct 98
Human Rights  106
Compensation  114
Employee Programs  118
Health and Safety 130
Environmental Management  138
Raw Materials 144
Water 152
Climate and Energy 156
Suppliers  168How We Work  |  I ntroduction
#improvinglives  | 85 84 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportSustainability is embedded firmly at the core of 3M 
and in the strategic planning process we use for every region, every market, and every business.
In each of our business groups and regions we have 
dedicated Sustainability leaders who develop a relevant and well-informed strategy specific to their market demands and business goals.
Annually, like many companies, we go through a 
strategic planning process during which our divisions and regions develop their business strategies for the next few years. However, unlike others, we formally require that each plan address Sustainability factors relevant to their market needs and business opportunities.
R&D at 3M is a little different: 
we separate the R and the D.
First, the R. Scientists in our central laboratory are free 
to focus on pure research, in search of unscripted, unexpected opportunities for breakthroughs. Our unique “15% Culture” gives them the freedom to follow their instincts. At the same time, our Tech Forum is a key enabler of collaboration. This self-directed, self-organized group unites 10,000-plus scientists and engineers who work together to solve problems across oceans and continents, regardless of which business they’re from.
For the D, 3M development teams within each of our 
business groups draw upon our core technologies to create products for targeted markets and geographies.
Moving forward, we will continue to expand beyond our 
own operations and focus more on 3M Sustainability goals and the needs of our customers and communities. While we recognize the importance of what we do in our own businesses, and will continue to innovate there, we see that far greater impact can be realized when we partner to understand and overcome the challenges we face together.How We WorkIntroductionHow We Work  |  C orporate Governance
86 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 873M believes that good corporate governance practices 
serve the long-term interests of stockholders, strengthen the Board and management, and further enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than a century of operating with uncompromising integrity and doing business the right way.
Our Commitment
SD
34-41G4 3M’s Board of Directors has adopted Corporate 
Governance Guidelines  which provide a
framework for the effective governance of the 
company. The guidelines address matters such as the respective roles and responsibilities of the Board and management, the Board’s leadership structure, the responsibilities of the independent Lead Director, director independence, the Board membership criteria, Board committees, and Board and management evaluation. The Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the Guidelines at least annually and recommending any proposed changes to the Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of 
Incorporation  and Bylaws , the charters of the Board 
committees, the Director Independence Guidelines , and 
the Board of Directors Code of Conduct  provide the 
framework for the governance of the company and are available on our website at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations— Governance .
The Board’s current leadership structure is 
characterized by:
•a c ombined Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer;
•a  strong, independent, and highly experienced
Lead Director with well-defined responsibilities thatsupport the Board’s oversight responsibilities;Corporate 
GovernanceHow We Work  | Co rporate Governance
#improvinglives  | 8 9 88 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report•a robust committee structure consisting entirely
of independent directors with oversight of various
types of risks; and
•an engaged and independent Board.
The Board of Directors believes that this leadership structure provides independent Board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefits of having our CEO also serve as Chairman of the Board. As the individual with primary responsibility for managing the company’s day-to-day operations and with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the company, our CEO is best positioned to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss key business and strategic issues. Coupled with an independent Lead Director, this combined structure provides independent oversight while avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the Board’s oversight responsibilities and the day-to-day management of business operations.
On March 5, 2018, the Board appointed Michael F. 
Roman CEO, effective July 1, 2018. He succeeds Inge G. Thulin, who is appointed to a newly created position, executive chairman of the Board, also effective July 1, 2018.
Board’s Role in the Company’s 
Long-Term Strategy
Each year management presents to the Board, and 
the Board discusses and approves, detailed long-term strategic plans for the company, the international business, and each of the company’s business groups. Each presentation includes an overview of the business group, the financial performance, an assessment of the portfolio for growth opportunities using a SWOT analysis (i.e., strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats); strategic priorities to drive the three key value creation levers—Portfolio Management, Investing in Innovation, and Business Transformation; plans to drive the four corporate fundamental strengths—Technology, Manufacturing, Global Capabilities, and Brand; and the projected long-term financial performance.
Our company’s long-term strategy is outlined in the 3M 
Playbook, which consists of five elements: our Vision, Strategies, Code of Conduct, Leadership Behaviors, and Key Levers.In combination, the five elements outlined in the Playbook serve as the foundation for our strategy. We are focused on succeeding in attractive global markets ensuring we deliver value to our customers, shareholders, and employees.
Lobbying and Political 
Activities Principle
As a concerned member of our communities, 3M 
actively participates in public policy and legislative advocacy, or “lobbying.” As appropriate, 3M also participates in political activities to elect and work with elected representatives and government officials. 3M’s Government Affairs organization coordinates and oversees 3M’s lobbying and political activities. 3M Political Activities Board, which is made up of senior 3M executives, oversees 3M’s political contributions and the activities of 3M’s Political Action Committee (3M PAC). 3M PAC is a nonpartisan fund comprised of voluntary employee and stockholder contributions that is used to make contributions to U.S. federal, state, and local candidates as permitted by law. These activities must always comply both with applicable laws and 3M’s Lobbying and Political Activities Principle .Our Vision captures our aspirations and guides our corporate direction – 3M Technology Advancing Every Company, 3M Products Enhancing Every Home, 3M Innovation Improving Every Life. For 115 years, we have advanced, enhanced, and improved companies, homes, and lives around the world. Our six strategies provide the roadmap for achieving our goals. They guide us to actively identify and align to external opportunities including customers, markets, and macro trends while continuously investing in our internal capabilities such as technology, manufacturing, global reach, and the 3M Brand. Our Leadership Behaviors (Play to win, Innovate, Foster collaboration and teamwork, Prioritize and execute, Develop others and self, Act with integrity and transparency) describe how leaders lead at 3M.
Our Code of Conduct serves as a constant reminder 
of our core values. The Code is structured around six core values – Be Good, Be Honest, Be Fair, Be Loyal, Be Accurate, and Be Respectful.
Our Playbook also defines three Key Levers that we use 
to operationalize our Playbook throughout the company and create value across 3M – Portfolio Management, Investing in Innovation, and Business Transformation.
Portfolio Management seeks to align resources behind 
the best opportunities, investing in attractive, high-value markets, while de-emphasizing or exiting less attractive spaces. Investing in Innovation is an important element in delivering premium value for our customers and premium returns for our shareholders. Business Transformation starts and ends with our customers and is fundamentally transforming the company and how we do business. We are optimizing and standardizing our global business processes to generate scale and leverage, deploying a single instance global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system that provides data transparency across the enterprise, and creating a global service model to optimize our supply chain and business services operations. All of these activities significantly enhance customers’ experiences with 3M, making our customers more efficient and competitive, while also improving our internal efficiency and productivity in everything that we do, in a sustainable way – making us more competitive and profitable.
SD
40G4
Our Actions
Board Refreshment
We regularly a dd directors to infuse new ideas and 
fresh perspect ives into the Boardroom. In the past five 
years, seven new independent 
directors have joined 
our Board. In recruiting dir ectors, we foc us on how the 
experience and skill set of each individual complements 
those of their  fellow direct ors to create a balanced 
Board with diverse viewpoints and backgrounds, deep 
expertise, and strong leadership experience. Amy E. Hood joined the Board in August 2017. Amy Hood is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Microsoft Corporation, responsible for leading the worldwide finance organization, including acquisitions, treasury activities, tax planning, accounting and reporting, and internal audit and investor relations. She brings tremendous skill and experience to the Board, especially in strategic business development, finance, and digitization.1 . All Rights Reserved. 5 April 2018© 3M
Investing in InnovationPortfolio Management
Business Transformation
Our playbook is workingHow We Work | Corporate Governance
#improvinglives  | 91 90 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportStockholder Engagement
We maintain a vigorous stockholder engagement 
program. During 2017, members of senior management 
met with a cross-section of stockholders owning 
approximately 35 percent of our outstanding shares 
or approximately 50 percent of our institutional 
stockholders. The meetings included an overview of the 
company and a discussion of the company’s practices 
on corporate governance. Staff from our Sustainability organization also attended these meetings and 
summarized 3M’s more than 40 years of environmental 
stewardship. The feedback from these meetings was 
shared with the Board of Directors and helped inform the 
Board on corporate governance practices and trends.3M Board of Directors
Corporate Operating
CommitteeChairman of the Board,
President and 
Chief Executive Officer
Crisis Management
CommitteeOther Committees & 
Centers of ExcellenceBusiness Conduct
CommitteeBoard Committees
• Nominating and Governance Committee
• Audit Committee
• Compensation Committee
• Finance CommitteeCorporate Auditing
Compliance and Business Conduct
3M Foundation Board
(Independent Corporate Contributions)
Business Group Management
• Consumer
• Electronics & Energy
• Health Care
• Industrial
• Safety & GraphicsArea Management
• Asia Pacific
• Canada
• Europe/Middle East/Africa
• Latin America
• United StatesCorporate Staff Functions
• EHS
• Sourcing/Supply Chain
• Finance
• Information Technology
• Engineering/Packaging
• Human Resources
• Community Affairs
• Office of General Counsel
• Public Affairs
• Marketing/Sales/Communications
• Research and Development
• Strategy and Corporate Development
• Security3M Shareholders
Corporate Environmental,
Health & Safety
(EHS) CommitteeCorporate Governance Guidelines
98%Board Size and Independence Independent Lead Director Meeting Attendance
11 out of 12 Directors 
are independent
The Corporate Governance Highlights above reflect the Board’s current 12 directors. One of the directors, Vance D. Coffman, is no
longer eligible to stand for re-election as he has reached the mandatory retirement age.Independent Lead Director with 
robust authorityOverall attendance at Board and 
committee meetings
There were seven Board meetings 
in 2017Combined Chairman and 
CEO positions••
••
•
Director Tenure Director Age Other Public Company Boards
0-4 years
10-14 years5-9 years
15-18 years< 59 years
66-70 years60-65 years
71-73 years0 boards
2 boards1 board
3 boards3
1
352
4 42
2 2
3 5Corporate Governance Highlights
7.3 64.31.4
years yearsAverage
Board 
positionsHow We Work | Corporate Governance
#improvinglives  | 93 92 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportDiversity
LA
12G4 For 3M, diversity, in its myriad manifestations, 
is fundamental to innovation, performance, and 
relevancy. 3M employees reflect that diversity. 
The Board of Directors regards diversity as an important 
factor in selecting Board nominees to serve on the 
Board. Although the Board has no specific diversity 
policy, when selecting nominees, it actively considers 
diversity in recruitment and nomination of directors, 
such as gender, race, and national origin. The current 
composition of our Board reflects those efforts and the 
importance of diversity to the Board.
An inclusive culture at 3M is built on our Be Respectful 
Principles — to respect the dignity and worth of 
individuals; encourage the initiative of each employee; 
challenge individual capabilities; and provide equal 
opportunity. 3M is continuously focusing on building and 
maintaining an inclusive culture. Additional information 
on our inclusive culture can be found in the Diversity and 
Inclusion  section.
Commitment to Sustainability 
SD
43-46G4 At 3M, we are working hard to advance every 
company, enhance every home, and improve 
every life. We apply our expertise, and 
technology to solve problems collaboratively, and with a 
focus on long term, sustainable solutions that 
demonstrate our commitment and societal purpose. 
Sustainability is fundamental to our business – from 
Sustainability-inspired innovation to product 
stewardship to Sustainability in our operations. As we 
seek to improve every life, we see partnerships to help 
our customers and communities achieve their 
Sustainability goals as key to that ambition.
Our corporate vision states: “3M technology advancing 
every company... 3M products enhancing every 
home... and 3M innovation improving every life.” It 
is that vision – carried out in collaboration with our 
customers, communities, and partners – that guides our 
Sustainability strategies and goals and aspirations.
In January 2013, our CEO elevated the company’s 
focus on Sustainability, with emphasis in two areas: (1) 
developing and commercializing products which help 
our customers solve their Sustainability challenges; Governance Actions
Our committees are designed to assure the execution 
of 3M’s vision for the future. The Board currently has 12 
directors and the following four committees following 
their charter: Audit , Compensation , Finance , and 
Nominating and Governance . During 2017, the Board of 
Directors held seven meetings. Overall attendance at 
Board and committee meetings was 98 percent.
Director Independence
SD
41G4 The Corporate Governance Guidelines and 
Director Independence Guidelines provide that 
independent directors must comprise a 
substantial majority of the 3M Board. A director is 
“independent” if the Board affirmatively determines that 
the director has no material relationship with the 
company directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer 
of an organization that has a relationship with the 
company and otherwise meets the requirements for 
independence of the listing standards of the New York 
Stock Exchange. The independent directors will make 
the Board decisions on corporate governance matters.
The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the 
independence of our directors will be determined, 
including strict guidelines for directors and their 
immediate family members with respect to past 
employment or affiliation with the company or its 
independent registered public accounting firm. The 
Guidelines also prohibit Audit and Compensation 
Committee members from having any direct or indirect 
financial relationship with the company, and restrict 
both commercial and not-for-profit relationships of all 
directors with the company. Directors may not be given 
personal loans or extensions of credit by the company, 
and all directors are required to deal at arm’s length 
with the company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose 
any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict 
of interest.and, (2) driving Sustainability within 3M operations and 
supply chain. Sustainability is now embedded across 
the company with dedicated teams in research and 
development (R&D), Supply Chain, business groups, and 
regions across the globe. Recently, the establishment 
of an executive committee, the Science, Technology, 
and Sustainability Committee, elevates the visibility 
and focus on science, technology, and Sustainability 
across the enterprise. The Committee demonstrates a 
commitment to each of these three focus areas as core 
to the advancement of 3M; research and development is 
the heartbeat of our company, and Sustainability drives 
and enables innovation – in our manufacturing, in our 
products, and in new technologies. The committee will 
assess and advance strategic growth areas, long-term 
investments, and Sustainability – inspired innovation 
opportunities. Committee members are: Inge Thulin, 
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive 
Officer; Michael Roman, Chief Operating Officer 
and Executive Vice President; H.C. (Hak Cheol) Shin, 
Vice Chair and Executive Vice President, (Committee 
Chair); Nicholas Gangestad, Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer; and John Banovetz, Senior 
Vice President, Research and Development and Chief 
Technology Officer.
Additional information can be found in our  
2018 Proxy, Commitment to the Environment and 
Sustainability: here .
Lobbying and Political 
Activities Principle
All 3M PAC receipts, disbursements, and contributions 
are publicly disclosed as required by law. 3M’s reports 
are available on the Federal Election Commission 
website. Corporate contributions directly to candidates, 
political committees, ballot measures, Section 527 
organizations, and issue advocacy or “lobbying” 
are outlined in our Political Activities and Issue 
Advocacy report .
In 2017, 3M’s top priority public issues were:
• Tax reform
• Health care reform
• Defense
• Transportation and infrastructure investment• International trade policy, agreements, and 
enforcement
• Immigration and workforce development
• Regulatory relief and economic development policy
• Cyber security policy
• Patent Protection and legal reform
• Sustainability and environment policy
Detailed information on each can be found in our 2017 
U.S. “Top-10” Priority Public Policy Issues .
Governance Links
For more information on corporate governance at  
3M, see:
• Corporate Officers
• Board of Directors
• Committee Composition
• Governance Documents
• Annual Reports and Proxy Statements
Looking forward…
We regularly post governance news, events, and 
presentation information in the Investor Relations section 
of our website. See 3M Events and Presentations .How We Work  | Enterprise Risk
94 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 95Our Commitment
At 3M, we continually evaluate our approach to potential 
risks facing the company. The concept of risk appetite 
and tolerance is an essential component of our strategic 
planning, and it’s the responsibility of our senior business 
leaders to plan accordingly.
It is our firm belief that good corporate governance 
practices serve the long-term interests of stockholders, 
strengthen the Board and management, and further 
enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than 
a century of operating with uncompromising integrity 
and doing business the right way. Governance includes 
broad risk oversight by the Board and its committees. 
Risk analysis is reported to the full Board, the General 
Auditor, and Chief Compliance Officer. Both the General 
Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer are appointed by, 
and report to, the Audit Committee of the Board.Risk Oversight
SD
46G4 The Board has delegated primary responsibility 
for the oversight of risks facing the company to 
the Audit Committee. The 3M Company Board 
of Directors Audit Committee Charter  states that the 
committee will “discuss policies and procedures with 
respect to risk assessment and risk management, the 
company’s major risk exposures, and the steps 
management has taken to monitor and mitigate 
such exposures.”
The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate 
Auditing, whose appointment and performance is 
reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee, is 
responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and 
management process within the company. The Auditor, 
consulting with the company’s senior management, 
annually assesses the major risks facing the company 
and works with those executives responsible for 
managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically Enterprise RiskHow We Work  | Enterprise Risk
Global ERP  Deploy ment S trategy and Tim eline
Foundation Dep loy and O ptimize
2011
Estab lished 
meth odology
Ramp ed-up 
organization 
Developed
blueprint
Today
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020Pilot Co untries
Globa l Service Centers (GSC)
West Europ e
U.S.
Latin Am ericaAPAC
Supply Chai n Ce nters of Experti se (COE)Cent ral & East Eur ope/Middle  East Afr ica2012 –2020  
#improvinglives  | 97 96 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportreviews with the Audit Committee the major risks facing 
the company and the steps management has taken to 
monitor and mitigate those risks.
While the Board’s oversight of risk is primarily performed 
by the Audit Committee, the Board has also delegated to 
other committees  the oversight of risks within their areas 
of responsibility and expertise.
We believe this governance of risks by Board 
committees, who share information with the full 
Board, is appropriate for a diversified technology and 
manufacturing company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K , Item 1A, 
outlines risk factors applicable to the company.
Our Actions
Corporate-Level
3M’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) initiative, 
launched in 2001, has helped assure adequate 
recognition and ownership of the most significant 
potential risks to the company’s shareholder value, using 
a process that proactively identifies and communicates 
enterprise risks within the company. This includes: 
confirming that appropriate plans and oversight exist 
for all major risks; providing for ongoing review and 
assessment of risk; and aiding in generating awareness 
and engagement of general risk matters throughout 
the company. The approach provides a customized 
capability that leverages 3M’s comprehensive, 
experience-based global knowledge and capabilities 
rather than tools often used in financial- or insurance-
oriented businesses.
To assure long-term success, we are committed to 
discovering and preparing for all potential threats to 
our Vision . Risk owners familiar with the environmental, 
economic, and business aspects within the company 
are interviewed and requested to complete a thorough 
assessment for their respective risk(s). Together, with 
subject-matter experts and senior management, the 
outcomes are mapped to demonstrate the relative level 
of risk and likelihood of risk. This ‘heat map’ identifies the 
highest risk areas to focus internal efforts on. In addition, 
external resources and data are continuously reviewed 
to assist in the risk identification process. The results of 
our various risk assessment exercises are shared with the site is ultimately ranked based on the risk they pose to 
the company, and necessary steps are taken to minimize 
potential risks. Acquisitions are of particular focus as 
we bring each new sight under 3M’s protocol with the 
proper training.
In addition to EHS risk analysis, we have a crisis plan for 
every single 3M plant in the world. Although we hope 
to never use our Crisis Management Plans, it’s critically 
important that we have them in place, keep them up to 
date, and drill often to make sure everyone understands 
what to do should an emergency occur. We care about 
the safety of our people and communities around 
the world.
The Crisis Management Planning Guidelines are 
designed to provide a common framework for 
integrating crisis management into the standard 
operations of each 3M facility. All plans must be 
prepared in accordance with good engineering 
practices and with the full approval of management. 
Also, to evaluate the effectiveness of the plans, scenario 
exercises are conducted periodically at facilities.Corporate Operations Committee and the company’s 
full Board of Directors.
3M places particular emphasis on protecting our 
company against emerging risks in an ever-changing 
world. Case in point: cybersecurity. Strong cybersecurity 
programs are essential, and we continue to invest in 
information technology systems and activities around 
cybersecurity training and awareness, especially 
when it comes to avoiding phishing and other threats 
targeting 3M.
1:1 Board Member-General 
Auditor Meetings
In 2017, the Vice President, General Auditor met with 
each independent 3M Board member, to discuss risk 
management in general as well as specific risk-related 
topics facing the company. These meetings gave Board 
members an opportunity to share what risk issues were 
top-of-mind for them, and which should be reviewed 
and addressed by the Board. For most Board members, 
the most critical risk in 2017 and into the future 
was cybersecurity.
Business-Level
3M serves customers through five business groups. 
Annually, leadership from each business group 
presents to the Board, and the Board discusses and 
approves, detailed long-term strategic plans for the 
company, both at the area and business group level. 
Each presentation includes an overview of the business 
group, short- and long-term financial performance and 
goals, an assessment of portfolio growth opportunities; 
strategic priorities to drive the three key value creation 
levers—Portfolio Management, Investing in Innovation, 
and Business Transformation; and plans to drive the 
four corporate fundamental strengths—Technology, 
Manufacturing, Global Capabilities, and Brand.
Facility-Level
Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
organization looks carefully at each 3M site and new 
acquisition, and performs a crisis risk analysis that 
considers factors such as potential impact to the 
environment, the community, and 3M employees. Each Looking forward…
3M will continue deploying a single enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) system on a worldwide basis, to provide 
a consistent, comprehensive, and discrete information 
platform for our businesses everywhere. It’s another 
example of our commitment to continual growth and 
adaptation to emerging risks in an ever-changing world.How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct
98 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 99Our Commitment
SD
6, 10, 56-57G4
HR
1G4
 The Code of Conduct is part of our 3M 
playbook and is critical to driving 
sustainable growth. We know that 
building an ethical foundation protects the corporation 
and increases corporate value. 
We owe it to ourselves, our shareholders, and our 
customers to do the right thing. 
Through the years, 3M has built a reputation globally for 
taking an ethical approach to business. That said, with 
91,500 employees and subsidiary operations in 70-plus 
countries, it’s no easy task to do business the right way, 
everywhere, every day. 
To make it as simple as possible, we have developed 
one Code of Conduct  that applies globally. Our Code 
of Conduct summarizes 3M’s compliance principles 
and raises awareness for doing business “the right way, 
always, and everywhere.” The Code is our guide for answering questions and providing direction when the 
right choice may not be clear.
Living by our Code of Conduct enhances our reputation 
and promotes trust with our customers, in our company, 
and in the quality of our products. 
3M’s Code of Conduct defines how we work:
Be Good
Be Honest
Be Fair 
Be Loyal
Be Accurate
Be Respectful 
3M employees, including all supervisors, managers, 
and other leaders, are responsible for knowing and 
following the ethical, legal, and policy requirements 
that apply to their jobs and for reporting any suspected 
violations of law or the Code. Executives and managers 
are accountable for creating and promoting an inclusive For 3M people, there is only one  
ethical road to travel. The high road.Corporate Code 
of ConductHow We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct
#improvinglives  | 101 100 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportconnection logs containing Internet Protocol (IP) 
addresses. Web-based reports are made through a 
secure internet portal, which does not trace or show 
user screen names. 3M has a strong position against 
retaliation as is reflected in the Non-Retaliation Policy 
and within 3M’s Employee Obligations and Reporting 
Principle. 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone who 
raises a business conduct concern or cooperates in a 
company investigation. 
The Compliance and Business Conduct Department 
has the responsibility to review every business conduct 
concern that is reported. After review, the Department 
determines which reports require an investigation and 
if an investigation is needed, assigns the appropriate 
investigation resource. For concerns that are 
substantiated, disciplinary action is taken. Discipline 
calibration comes, when needed, in a range of forms 
consistent with similar past violations, from warnings, 
to suspensions, to termination. Disciplinary actions may 
impact one or more persons associated with a single 
substantiated violation. Below is a graph illustrating workplace environment where compliance and ethical 
business conduct are expected and encouraged.
The Code is available in 22 languages and sets 
clear expectations for not only employees, but also 
relevant stakeholders and business partners. All new 
employees receive a copy of the handbook and it is also 
available electronically.
Business Conduct Committees
The 3M Business Conduct Committee is composed 
of several senior executives and is chaired by 3M’s 
Chief Compliance Officer. The Committee has 
oversight for 3M’s various compliance efforts and, 
as appropriate, updates the Audit Committee of the 
3M Board of Directors  and Corporate Operating 
Committee. Additionally, similar committees exist at 
country or regional levels to operationalize and prioritize 
compliance activities. 
Global Compliance Program
3M’s global compliance program is managed and 
administered by the Compliance and Business Conduct 
Department, led by the Chief Compliance Officer and 
Vice President of Compliance and Business Conduct. 
The department is staffed with compliance professionals 
stationed at company headquarters and around the 
world. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly 
to the Audit Committee of the 3M Board of Directors, 
which assists the Board in oversight of 3M’s legal and 
regulatory compliance efforts. This direct reporting 
line assures the independence of the Compliance and 
Business Conduct Department, which is responsible for 
overseeing and administering strategic, systematic, and 
operational components of 3M’s compliance program. 
The compliance program is designed to meet the U.S. 
Federal Sentencing Guidelines and, as designed, meets 
similar global standards and the general requirements of 
other countries’ anti-bribery laws. The program has the 
following attributes:
• A core set of business conduct principles
• Education, training materials, and the schedule 
upon which compliance training is conducted
• Periodic evaluations, audits, and measurements of 
the compliance program’s effectivenessReporting Concerns
SD
58G4
SO
5G4 Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and 
values is the responsibility of everyone 
acting on 3M’s behalf. We encourage 
our employees to ask questions or report their concerns 
to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, 
3M Legal Counsel, their Human Resources Manager, or 
their management. 3M makes clear that speaking up is 
the right thing to do. We know our employees care about 
the company and want to do the right thing.
In addition, 3MEthics.com  is a 24-hour confidential and 
anonymous (where permitted by local law) helpline and 
online reporting system. It is managed by a third-party 
vendor and is available both internal and external to 
3M. Reports are reviewed and responded to by the 
Compliance and Business Conduct Department or other 
responsible staff departments.
The system does not trace phone calls or use caller 
identification, nor does it generate or maintain internal • A 24-hour helpline and website through which 
employees and others can report concerns and ask 
questions
• Programs to conduct appropriate due diligence on 
business partners, potential and new acquisitions, 
and candidates for hiring and promoting
• Investigation expertise
• Incentives and discipline to address compliance 
successes and failures
Compliance Training 
and Education
SO
4G4 3M offers a comprehensive online compliance 
training program to all employees worldwide. 
The program’s training modules are assigned to 
employees based on their role and area of responsibility 
within the company. Most courses are mandatory for 
approximately 46,000 global employees, who are 
required to take modules on a two- to four-year cycle, 
depending on the course. Offered in 22 languages, the 
training modules include:
• Data Privacy and Protection: The Real World
• Understanding Information Security  
and Protection
• Gifts, Entertainment, and Travel
• Avoiding Bribery and Corruption:  
A Global Overview
• Understanding Global Competition
• Creating a Harassment-Free Workplace
• Code of Conduct and Ethical Decision Making
• Recognizing Conflict of Interest 
The Compliance and Business Conduct website on 
3M’s intranet offers additional on-demand online 
training courses. In addition to online training, the 
Compliance and Business Conduct Department, in close 
collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, local compliance 
contacts, finance, and human resources, provides 
frequent, tailored in-person training to businesses, 
subsidiaries, staff groups, and third parties. Some of this 
training occurs as part of an annual schedule and other 
training occurs as requested or deemed appropriate.0200
100300600
500800
700
400
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013
Disciplinary Actions Substantiated Allegations Allegations Reported3M Global Allegations and Disciplinary Actions
Total NumberHow We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct
#improvinglives  | 103 102 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M’s Non-Retaliation Process
3M does not tolerate retaliation against anyone for 
raising a concern. To monitor for this risk, several months 
after an investigation closes, the investigator contacts 
the reporter to discuss if the person has experienced 
any form of retaliation. This is done either by phone or 
via email for non-anonymous reporters. For anonymous 
reporters who used 3MEthics.com to raise a concern, 
the follow-up is handled through 3MEthics.com to 
maintain anonymity. If claims of retaliation are identified, 
the investigation team will follow up on them. All 
concerns raised are expected to be made in good faith.
Assessments
SO
3G4 A dedicated team within 3M’s Compliance and 
Business Conduct Department conducts 
periodic compliance and anti-bribery 
evaluations in various 3M subsidiaries and operating 
units each year. These evaluations are selected using 
objective and subjective risk factors, and include reviews 
of financial transactions, compliance records, interviews 
with business personnel, and audits of selected third-
party intermediaries. In 2017, we interviewed over 550 
non-production employees as part of the evaluation 
process. Additionally, in 2017, we introduced an 
enhancement to this program called “local evaluation.”  
A local evaluation uses the same methodology of the 
existing evaluation program but has smaller teams, a 
more focused scope, and is completed in half the time. 
Finally, the Compliance and Business Conduct 
department had an internal assessment of the program 
completed by 3M’s Internal Audit function. The results 
of the assessment have been used to create prioritized 
action items to drive further improvements and 
enhancements to our compliance program.
Not only do audits, evaluations, and risk assessments 
help detect opportunities for improvement and gaps 
in processes or procedures, they also reinforce the 
importance of operating in an ethical, compliant manner.five-year metrics for business conduct-related reports 
raised using our reporting tools found at 3MEthics.com.
In 2017, the number of questions or concerns reported 
to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department 
increased by 31.4 percent. We believe this increase 
reflects employees’ greater awareness of their reporting 
obligation and the available reporting channels. This 
increased awareness reflects various activities in 2017, 
including deployment of executive videos encouraging 
employees to “Speak-up”, and providing enhanced 
“Speak-up” Posters
3M encourages all employees to “Speak-up” to raise a 
concern or suspected violation of the Code. The posters 
are available in 21 languages.investigation metrics and communication tools to 
management to help facilitate employee discussions. 
This communication campaign is supported by 
“Speak-up” posters with a fresh brand design that is 
electronically made available in 21 languages. Employee 
awareness to “Speak-up” also increased through 
periodic risk-based compliance evaluations of our 
business operations and regional initiatives by our local 
compliance teams.Commitment to 
Anti -Corruption
SD
15G4
SO
4-5G4 As a member of the United Nations 
Global Compact, 3M is committed to 
support Principle 10 on Anti-
Corruption. Our commitment and involvement in a 
working group associated with Principle 10 give us the 
opportunity to learn best practices related to anti-
corruption from peer companies. In addition, 3M 
actively conducts benchmarking with similar companies, 
and helps educate other professionals working in anti-
corruption through the participation of our Chief 
Compliance Officer and other Compliance and Business 
Conduct Department professionals in anti-corruption 
conferences and organizations.
3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle  requires compliance with all 
applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and local 
laws where 3M operates. It applies to 3M employees, 
as well as to our business partners. In addition, 
anti-corruption policies and procedures have been 
communicated to all employees, and “Global Bribery and 
Corruption Awareness” training is required of employees 
in higher-risk roles, including those in Legal, Audit, 
Sales, Marketing, Export and Global Trading. The Chief 
Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on all 
activities to the Audit Committee of the Board.
3M’s commitment to anti-corruption is also reflected 
in our management of third-party intermediaries and 
other business partners. Based on an assessment of 
transaction, geography, and other risk factors, 3M 
conducts due diligence reviews of our third parties. 
Depending on the outcome of the review, we respond 
to any identified risks with training, inclusion of relevant 
contractual terms, and other risk-mitigating controls.
Further, the Compliance and Business Conduct 
Department collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs on due 
diligence processes related to potential new venture 
investments and mergers and acquisitions. These 
processes help identify risks in the target company 
before acquisition or investment and accelerate our 
efforts to integrate an acquired company’s employees 
to 3M’s compliance program and culture. Ultimately, 
the Compliance and Business Conduct Department is 
charged with conducting a complete risk review and 
implementing any necessary remediation activities 
Trung thực là chính sách 
tối ưu của chúng ta.Chính Sách Ứng xử Kinh doanh và Tuân thủ của 3M
Hãy trở thành thành viên của 3MHãy lên tiếng.
Hãy đặt câu hỏi.
Hãy nói ra những mối quan ngại.  
Truy cập 3M-Ethics.com
Bạn cũng có thể liên hệ với giám đốc, Bộ phận Tuân thủ & Tiến hành Kinh doanh, Pháp chế hay Nhân sự.Tiếng Việt 120-11067How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct
#improvinglives  | 105 104 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportwith employees about compliance. Among the items 
provided were flash cards featuring case studies from 
actual investigations where poor ethical decisions 
were made, highlighting best practices and available 
resources. The kit included other items that remind our 
leaders of their important role in promoting a culture of 
compliance and the commitment to doing business the 
right way.
In addition to the flash cards, executives received a 
series of more detailed case studies to create additional 
dialogue with employees about how to identify and 
manage potential ethical concerns. The studies were 
based on real events and were created in a format that 
allowed them to be used easily in standard employee 
presentations and communication packages. These 
case studies were issued on a periodic basis to keep the 
content relevant and current.
Looking forward…
We are focused on enhancing our culture of compliance 
and improving our controls to drive process efficiency 
and further mitigate risk.
We are launching new strategies to support our 2018 
focus of “Everyone Living the Code,” throughout the 
world. We will build upon our established culture of 
ethics and compliance, by initiating programs to reach 
key employees with compliance messaging pertinent 
to their roles. For example, we will conduct one-on-one 
in-person training sessions for global employees in 
critical leadership roles, incorporate more case studies in 
employee communications and training, and review and 
test different communication channels and methods to 
reinforce key messages or raise employee and business 
partner awareness of compliance expectations and 
concern reporting mechanisms at 3M. Additionally, we 
will continue to enhance our third-party due diligence 
process. We will work to simplify the design and process 
to minimize touchpoints and reduce cycle times. We 
will also continue to assess the scope of our third-party 
diligence process and make necessary adjustments 
to address current global risks. Finally, we will focus 
on analyzing data captured through our compliance 
program to better identify, prevent, and mitigate risk. We 
will leverage this information to improve metric reporting 
packages provided to our stakeholders and inform future 
evolution of our compliance and ethics program.Global Compliance Days
Around the globe, 3M celebrates Compliance Days 
or other types of interactive sessions, to engage 
employees on the topic of ethics and doing the right 
thing. For the first time in 2017, the U.S. held an event 
at corporate headquarters, “Bringing the Code to Life,” 
which featured our Chairman of the Board, President, 
and Chief Executive Officer, Inge Thulin, as well as 
keynote speaker Allan McDonald, who spoke about the 
ethical and leadership lessons learned from the Space 
Shuttle Challenger  disaster. The day also featured Veena 
Lakkundi, Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President 
as well as Ivan Fong, Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel of 3M. In addition, representatives from various 
compliance departments from around the company 
were stationed at booths to engage employees.
Leadership Communications 
Aids and Toolkits
Executives and Managing Directors around the globe 
this year received a leadership kit designed to reinforce 
our commitment to compliance by providing resources 
and tools for leaders to help facilitate discussions Our Actions
Conflict of Interest 
Certification
Approximately 47,000 non-production employees 
are required to complete an annual conflict of interest 
certification. In addition, all employees are required to 
disclose potential conflicts of interest on an on-going 
basis. Starting this year, an enhancement was made 
to 3M’s Employee Management System (EMS) to 
support and centralize the record keeping of all 
employee disclosures, in compliance with local laws. 
Centralizing the record keeping eliminated storage in 
multiple disparate systems and supporting processes. 
The enhancement further improves governance of 
these matters and promotes transparency and a culture 
of compliance. Now, supervisors have visibility to 
employee disclosures and the management system 
automates the annual review and update processes. 
The Compliance and Business Conduct Department 
oversees the new process and provides training and 
guidance to supervisors, employees, and other local 
resources who assist with this process. 3M has also 
incorporated conflict of interest disclosure requirements 
as part of the due diligence process for third-party 
intermediaries.
Executive Videos
To further enhance our culture of compliance, we 
created a series of short videos featuring 3M executives. 
In these videos, the executives share personal stories 
about ethical situations they have faced in their careers 
and how they handled them. The videos were translated 
into 10 languages and distributed globally.upon the closing of every acquisition, using an 
established protocol and expert staff. In 2017, as part 
of our compliance integration process, we piloted a 
compliance culture survey to help identify areas or 
topics that should be prioritized during our compliance 
integration process.
Political Values
SO
6G4 3M respects our employees’ right to engage in 
the political process and, at the same time, 3M 
is committed to prevent potential corruption. 
When allowed by law, any corporate political 
contributions outside the United States require approval 
by the Area Vice President and assigned legal counsel.
For additional information on our Code of Conduct 
please visit: 
https://www.3m.com/3M/en_US/company-us/
about-3m/compliance-business-conduct/code/
Third Party Brochure
To enhance our communications and expectations with 
third parties, 3M has an online training course and has 
created a brochure for our business partners. The online 
training course covers anti-bribery and is available in 
22 languages. The brochure, available in 27 languages, 
provides another way for 3M to communicate with our 
business partners regarding our commitment to combat 
global bribery.
Doing business the right way is a key element 
of sustainable growth. Our customers want 
to do business with companies they trust and 
employees want to work for a company with 
purpose and values.
Veena Lakkundi
3M Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President 
Compliance and Business Conduct
How We Work | Human Rights
106 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 107Our Commitment
3M is committed to assuring human rights in our own 
operations and in any business that works on our behalf. 
Our Human Rights Policy  applies to all 3M employees, 
contingent workers, anyone doing business with or on 
behalf of 3M, and candidates for hire at 3M. In 2014, 
we became a participant of the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC), thereby committing to align our 
operations and strategies with the UNGC principles on 
human rights.
The principles that guide us
HR
4-6G4 Within our own business, 3M’s approach for 
managing and assuring human rights aligns with 
3M’s Code of Conduct , which recognizes the 
right of employees to have a respectful workplace. We 
continue to implement our human rights program through our global policy statements, a management 
system utilizing self-assessments, audits, training, and 
ultimately, metrics tracking. Our audit process is truly 
global, and we are increasing the number of assessments 
we are performing, which gives us a global perspective 
on our own internal locations, particularly our 
manufacturing locations.
We support the United Nations Guiding Principles 
(UNGP) on Business and Human Rights, and its “protect, 
respect, and remedy” framework. Our human rights 
management system helps us manage salient human 
rights issues. We support the principles of due diligence 
outlined in the UNGP. Furthermore, our Code of 
Conduct requires compliance with all applicable laws 
and respect for internationally recognized human rights 
in all of our global operations.
We also recognize the International Labor Organization 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work. Adopted in 1998, the Declaration commits At 3M, there is only one way to do 
business. The right way.Human RightsHow We Work  |  H uman Rights
#improvinglives  | 109 108 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportMember States to respect and promote principles and 
rights in four categories, whether or not they have ratified the relevant conventions: freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of forced or compulsory labor; the abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Human Rights Elements  
Our commitment to upholding human and workplace rights is embodied in the 3M Human Resource Principles, which respect the dignity and worth of all individuals, encourage the initiative of each employee, challenge individual capabilities, and provide equal opportunity for development.
Respectful Workplace 
3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle  states that 
“everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in the 3M workplace. Being respectful means being treated honestly and professionally, with each person’s unique talents, background, and perspectives valued. A respectful workplace is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment, but it involves more than compliance with the law. It is a work environment that is free of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values— a place where all employees can do their best, and are free to report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation or reprisal.”
Working Hours and Living Wages
3M complies with minimum wage legislation globally, and we make every effort to exceed legal minimum wage. Our competitive compensation reflects our practice of establishing competitive salary ranges based on actual pay data from benchmark peer companies in manufacturing. 3M also complies with all applicable laws relating to overtime and breaks.Forced and Comp ulsory Labor
HR
6G4 3M complies with all applicable laws and 
employment regulations and does not engage orparticipate in forced labor. We have those same 
expectations for all vendors doing business with us.
Human Trafficking
Our approach to human trafficking, sometimes referred to as “modern slavery,” is very simple: we do not tolerate it.
Our Human Rights Policy contains our prohibition on 
human trafficking. We are committed to using effective systems and controls to prevent human trafficking  
from taking place anywhere within our business or supply chains.
The prohibitions apply to 3M and its subsidiaries as well 
as to our federal contracts and subcontracts for either commercial or non-commercial items.
Expectations regarding labor and human resource 
practices also apply to our suppliers (see the Supplier  
section of this report for more details). They apply to the selection and retention of all suppliers worldwide. 3M suppliers must comply with all local country labor and human resource laws and cannot use labor that is obtained through mental or physical coercion, physical punishment, slavery, or other oppressive labor conditions and cannot engage in any form of human trafficking.
Filing, Address ing, and 
Resolving Workplace Concerns  
When concerns related to human rights, labor practices, environmental, or safety issues arise, our employees are encouraged to raise questions or report misconduct or potential misconduct to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, 3M Legal Counsel, their Human Resources Manager, their management, or to 3MEthics.com . See 3M’s Business Conduct  website for 
more information regarding how to report a concern. Additional information on reporting concerns can be found in the Code of Conduct section.
3M has a strong position against retaliation as is reflected 
in the Non-Retaliation Policy and within 3M’s Employee Obligations and Reporting Principle. 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone who raises a business conduct concern or cooperates in a company investigation.Freedom of Association and  
Collective Bargaining
SD
11G4
HR
4G4 3M works diligently to create a work 
culture that affords all employees theopportunity to work without fear of 
intimidation, reprisal, or harassment, in an environment where employees are able to get their questions addressed in a fair and timely manner. In all locations, the company’s relationship with employees, whether union or nonunion, is a key responsibility of all leaders, assisted by human resources representatives. Human resources professionals work with all employees to maintain positive employee relations.
Our Human Rights Policy has a specific subdivision 
on the freedom of association, which assures that we respect “the ability of employees to choose whether or not to join unions and engage in collective bargaining, as permitted by applicable laws in the countries where 3M does business.” In the event of business operations changes, we follow all applicable local laws and regulations regarding notice periods for both union and non-union employees.
Approximately 16 percent of 3M’s global workforce 
is unionized. We are aware that in some countries, collective bargaining rights are not protected or recognized. Nevertheless, 3M assures that freedom of association and collective bargaining aspects of our Human Rights Policy apply to all 3M employees worldwide.
Child Labor/Minimum  
Hiring Age
HR
5G4 The permissible hiring age for employees may 
vary based on the laws of different countries.However, 3M has adopted global expectations 
regarding the hiring of minors. Even if local law permits it, 3M will not hire any employee or contingent worker (individual provided by a third-party staffing agency to perform temporary work) below the age of 16 for any job. If the applicable laws impose a higher minimum age requirement than 16, 3M follows the stricter standard in compliance with the law.In addition, we conduct audits of site workplace and human resource practices, as well as assessments and audits of suppliers to assure compliance with 3M’s expectations related to labor practices (see the Supplier section of this report for more details).
Assuring Human Rights 
through Training
HR
2G4 We perform global training to assure that all 3M 
employees comply with the law, 3M’s Code of
Conduct and supporting policies, standards, 
and procedures. 3M Compliance and Business Department has created a Compliance Training and Certification Program that assures all 3M employees are aware of and understand their responsibilities and obligations. 3M’s Compliance and Business Conduct Department is responsible for the management and administration of the Compliance Training and Certification Program.
Our Global New Employee Compliance Course 
Program is based on employee records in the 3M Human Resource (HR) system. Employees are assigned courses based on their job function, country location, production/non-production, and supervisor/non-supervisor status. Email notifications are sent to the employee’s 3M internet email address informing them of their course requirements and timeline for completion. New employee courses are due within 60 days of assignment.
Human Resource 
Security Standard 
HR
7G4 With the alarming rise in corporate security 
breaches worldwide, this standard presents thegeneral information technology security 
controls required to achieve Human Resource Security based on industry standards and best practices.
Roles and responsibilities of information security 
employees, contingent workers, and suppliers must be defined and documented in accordance with the 3M Information Security Management System (ISMS). Background verification checks on all candidates for employment, contingent workers, and suppliers must be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations How We Work  |  H uman Rights
#improvinglives  | 111 110 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability Reportand ethics, and be proportional to the business 
requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed, and the perceived risks.
As part of their contractual obligation, employees, 
contingent workers, and suppliers must agree to and sign the terms and conditions of their employment contract, which states not only their own, but their organization’s responsibilities for information security.
Management must require employees, contingent 
workers, and suppliers to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures. All 3M employees and, where relevant, contingent workers and suppliers, must receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.
Our Actions
We will continue to develop products and procedures to promote safety for 3Mers, our customers, and suppliers. At the same time, we have a strong business conduct and compliance system in place at 3M, and will continue to work to assure that 3M business partners follow ethical business practices.
Human Rights Charters
SD
15G4 3M continues to support several 
human rights charters.  
Among them: 
• United Nations Global Compact
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business andHuman Rights
• International Labor Organization’s Declaration onFundamental Principles and Rights at Work
• OECD—Organization for Economic  C o-operation
and Development Guidelines for MultinationalEnterprises, including OECD Due DiligenceGuidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Mineralsfrom Conflict-Affected and High Risk AreasWithin our own b usiness
Within 3M, our approach to managing and assuring human rights aligns with the 3M Code of Conduct, which recognizes the right of employees to have a respectful workplace.
To protect that right, our Field Employee Relations 
(ER) Assessment tool enables any 3M location to self-assess its policies and practices. Using the tool, and tracking data throughout the assessment process, local managers can review practices related to 3M’s Human Rights Policy, identify strengths and opportunities for improvement, and develop an action plan for closing any potential gaps. 
In 2017, a stakeholder asked 3M to demonstrate its 
commitment to the 3M Human Rights Policy in China. We explained that for the past eight years, the ER Assessment tool has been used at all 3M locations in China to evaluate the workplace environment. As a result of those evaluations, we have identified and addressed more than 100 action items. Every year in China, we also provide training for production supervisors, production leaders, and lead operators on critical aspects of emergency room assessment. In addition, we collaborate across locations through a monthly ER forum, an event in which ER professionals can discuss relevant topics and share best practices and processes. 
For additional details on our employee processes, 
see the Diversity and Inclusion  and Employee  
Programs  section.
Others acting  on 3M’s behal f
Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and values is the 
responsibility of everyone acting on 3M’s behalf. Multiple processes are in place to assure 3M’s principles are being upheld by others acting on 3M’s behalf. Case in point: our approach to health and safety.
Under our Workplace Environmental, Health and 
Safety Principle , 3M’s Code of Conduct requires 3M 
employees to select and retain suppliers, contractors, or outsourced manufacturers and service providers who comply with all applicable laws and regulations and meet 3M’s environmental, health, and safety values. In addition, at 3M locations, all visitors, vendors, and • Agenda 21—United Nations Convention
against Corruption
Human Rights Due Diligence
SO
2G4 The 3M Code of Conduct describes the 
company’s business conduct principles , or core
values, which set forth global corporate 
expectations for all 3M employees and certain third parties who act on 3M’s behalf. Those values have not changed over time. The principles in this Code remain consistent with 3M’s longstanding business conduct principles, its values, and our shared ethical standards for conducting business with uncompromising honesty and integrity.
In our view, human rights due diligence requires a 
holistic approach. So we assess our own business, others acting on our behalf, suppliers, government relationships, acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures – to identify the salient human rights issues applicable to our business. We have a grievance mechanism in place, 3MEthics.com, which can be used to raise a concern regarding any adverse human rights impacts. We also comply with all applicable laws, and honor the principles of internationally recognized human rights when faced with conflicting requirements.
Human Rights Assessments
HR
4-5, 9G4 Our assessment on human rights aligns with our 
corporate Human Rights Policy, as outlinedunder Our Commitment, and includes: safe and 
healthy workplace, respectful workplace, workplace security, work hours and wages, freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, or recruitment fees to obtain employment. Evaluations are integrated into other assessment and management processes, based on material issues regardless of where they’re identified within the value chain. 
3M continues to implement our human rights program 
through our global policy statements, a management 
system utilizi ng self-assessments, audits , and training . 
Based upon th is assessment p rocess, we h ave 
determined that in our var ious spheres of influence 
(our own busi ness and othe rs acting on 3M's behalf),  
the sphere with the greatest potential for human r ights 
impact is within our supply chain.contract workers are held to the same safety and health requirements as 3M employees.
See the Health and Safety section for additional 
information on this assessment process.
Our suppliers
At 3M, we recognize the choices we make for our 
material and service providers must also reflect our 
values. W e want our suppliers t o share our comm itment 
to maintaining c ompliant, r esponsible, a nd sustainable 
operations and practices.  In addition to full compliance 
with all applicable l abor an d huma n resource l aws,  we 
expect our suppliers to be  committed to upholding 
the human rights of workers,  and to treating them with 
dignity an d respect a s understood b y the in ternati onal 
community. T his ap plies t o all workers in cluding 
temporary, mig rant, s tudent, c ontract, an d direct  
employees. These expectations are laid out in the 3M 
Supplier R esponsibility C ode.
We have a 2025 goal to drive supply chain Sustainability 
through targeted raw material traceability and supplier performance assurance. For details on our prioritized supplier assessment process, see the Supplier section.
Government Relations
HR
6G4 Under our Be Fair Principle , 3M is committed to 
being a responsible company withuncompromising integrity in all its dealings with 
local, state/provincial and national governments, and their prime contractors and subcontractors around the world. In all of our activities with governments, we carefully follow all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Before entering into any government contract, or any 
agreement related to a government customer, 3M employees must consult 3M’s Government Contract Compliance Department or their business unit’s assigned legal counsel.
Human Trafficking and forced labor-related provisions 
are also included in 3M’s government contract flow-down requirements for suppliers. In the United States, the government has adopted a regulation (FAR 52.222-50) prohibiting human trafficking, including How We Work | Human Rights
#improvinglives means applying our 
science to protecting people and 
enhancing communication.
We create products that inspire creative communication and visual impact and 
assure safety across diverse industries and applications – from workers to roads, to 
facilities and security—we provide sustainable solutions in an ever-changing world.
Safety & Graphics
112 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportPartnering with Local 
Communities and Customers 
Under our Be Respectful Principle , 3M’s core values 
include treating each other and our stakeholders 
with respect and respecting our social and physical 
environment.
With our Every Life Ambition , we work to imagine a 
world where every life is improved. The power is in 
partnership. As a global corporation, we believe that we 
have a significant responsibility to society in general, and 
especially to the communities in which we live and work.
We have created a robust, stakeholder-driven approach 
to Sustainability materiality that includes human 
rights. Our materiality assessments and stakeholder 
engagements are vital components of our company’s 
strategy and reporting. Details of our materiality 
assessment can be found in our Materiality  section. Our 
2025 Sustainability Goals  were developed from the 
materiality assessment. For additional information on 
our stakeholder engagements, see the Engaging Our 
Stakeholders  section.
Looking forward…
In 2017, 3M issued our first statement under the United 
Kingdom Modern Slavery Act , which expects companies 
to disclose their efforts to eradicate modern slavery 
and human trafficking in their own operations and 
their supply chains. 3M is committed to furthering the 
principles of this law, and our first statement details 
how. We will continue to strengthen our due diligence 
management system to identify and address any salient 
human rights issues within our sphere of influence, and 
stay aligned with internationally-accepted frameworks 
like the United Nations Guiding Principles.slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labor, and 
coercion to induce a commercial sex act or to procure 
the same – all of which result in the deprivation of a 
person’s liberty by another in order to exploit them for 
personal or commercial gain. 3M has implemented 
processes to assure compliance with the U.S. FAR, 
including a Human Trafficking Prevention Standard.
For more information, see Doing Business with 
Government Agencies and Contractors Principle .
Acquisitions, Mergers, 
and Divestitures
SO
2G4 3M regularly pursues the sale and purchase of 
business interests. For each business that may 
be acquired or divested, human rights issues are 
prioritized and addressed relative to risk and compliance 
during the acquisition integration or divestiture process.How We Work | Compensation
#improvinglives  | 115 114 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
3M is committed to providing competitive market pay 
and comprehensive benefits. In addition to providing a 
professional work environment that promotes innovation 
and rewards performance, 3M’s total compensation 
for employees includes a variety of components for 
sustainable employment and the ability to build a strong 
financial future.
Executive Compensation Policies 
and Practices
3M is a pay-for-performance company. In addition 
to base salary, executives are compensated for their 
contributions to the company's growth, profitability, 
and other goals. This compensation falls into one of two 
categories: short-term cash incentives in the form of an 
annual performance-based award opportunity, as well 
as long-term equity incentives in the form of annual 
awards of performance shares and stock options, and in 
certain circumstances (for purposes of hiring or retaining 
key talent, for example), grants of restricted stock or 
restricted stock units.compensation. Anyone who owns shares of 3M common 
stock can vote at the company’s annual stockholder 
meeting, using a proxy. The proxy can be submitted by 
phone, by mail, or on the internet. The Proxy statement 
that accompanies the actual proxy itself describes 
the matters that are to be voted on, and provides 
information on those matters so stockholders can make 
an informed decision. Results of votes are filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission within four 
business days of the annual meeting, and are made 
available on the 3M website.
Director Compensation
SD
51-52G4 The Nominating and Governance Committee  
periodically receives reports on the status of 
Board compensation in relation to other large 
U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to 
the Board changes in compensation for non-employee 
directors. In developing its recommendations, the 
Committee is guided by the following goals:
• Compensation should fairly pay directors for work 
required in a company of 3M’s size and scopeAs detailed in the 3M Board of Directors Compensation 
Committee Charter , all aspects of this compensation are 
reviewed regularly by the Compensation Committee , 
which is composed solely of independent nonemployee 
directors. The committee, along with an independent 
compensation consultant, assesses the design and 
risks associated with executive compensation, 
and recommends changes when appropriate. Its 
recommendations related to compensation for 3M’s 
Chief Executive Officer are subject to ratification by all 
of the independent members of the Board of Directors.
The Compensation Committee reviews stakeholder 
proposals relating to executive compensation matters 
and recommends to the Board the company’s response 
to such proposals.
Like most of 3M’s U.S. employees, 3M executives 
are also eligible to participate in three deferred 
compensation plans, which enable them to save for 
retirement or other reasons, and receive certain other 
benefits. Approximately 100 executives participated 
in this program in 2017, including all of the Named 
Executive Officers.
3M’s 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy 
Statement  provides additional detail on executive • A significant portion of the total compensation 
should be paid in common stock to align 
directors’ interests with the long-term interests 
of stockholders
• The structure of the compensation should be 
simple and transparent
Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic 
W. Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director 
compensation at other large U.S. companies and 
provides expert advisory support to the Committee on 
the compensation of non-employee directors.
Leadership Behaviors 
Compensation for 3M employees is not just tied to what 
they do, but how they do it. This holds true for general 
leadership responsibilities as well as performance 
related to Sustainability issues. Leadership Behaviors 
establish what is expected, and also how everyone can 
demonstrate and meet those expectations through their 
actions and interactions.CompensationHow We Work | Compensation
#improvinglives  | 117 116 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSix behaviors of effective leaders at 3M:
Play to win
Foster collaboration 
and teamwork
InnovatePrioritize and execute
Develop others 
and self
Act with integrity 
and transparency
3M innovation takes a lot of people who are constantly 
searching for new and better ways to make innovation 
happen. People who challenge the status quo and 
welcome change. And people who know how to 
leverage internal and external networks to create 
win-win solutions.
To make sure we are constantly innovating, our leaders 
must create an environment that allows and challenges 
people to seek out new ideas and process improvements 
that drive success. Our “Innovate” Leadership 
Behavior includes an expectation to support 3M’s 
Sustainability goals.
Ratings of achievement of measurable targets impact 
employees who are eligible for variable compensation. 
Ratings of Leadership Behaviors impact long-term 
variable compensation for those employees in 
senior positions.
Employee Compensation
All employees have the opportunity to grow through 
challenging work and rewarded on their efforts. 
Our employee performance review process directly 
connects to an individual’s compensation. The intent of 
the process is to align individual goals and performance 
with business objectives and outcomes, creating a 
win-win situation for the employee and the company. In 
addition, the process helps identify and develop leaders 
to meet 3M’s ongoing talent needs.
Additional information on 3M’s employee development 
and compensation can be found in our Employee 
Programs  section.Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The 3M General Employee Stock Purchase Plan continues 
to be seen as a model among companies worldwide. The 
company offers a 15 percent discount on stock purchases 
to eligible employees worldwide through convenient 
payroll deductions. In 2017, participation among 
employees was 33 percent worldwide.
New Self-Service HR Platform
In 2017, 3M moved to a new global human resources 
software platform. This easy-to-use, self-service 
platform enables managers to make better and faster 
decisions using real-time business insights. For both 
managers and employees, the platform provides more 
transparency, efficiency, and accuracy regarding 
compensation practices.
Looking forward…
HR Manager Sessions
Following up on similar events in 2016, a series of virtual 
HR manager sessions will be held worldwide in 2018 
to provide managers and supervisors with a refreshed 
understanding of 3M’s approach to competitive pay, 
pay-for-performance, Chief Executive Officer pay ratio, 
and to help them communicate to employees where 
they stand in the pay range for a given grade compared 
to peers and employees at other companies. The aim 
is to increase transparency about each employee’s 
compensation and the processes 3M uses to make sure 
their pay is competitive.Our Actions
Compared to peers, 3M has an industry-leading formula 
for compensation that helps provide equitable pay 
for all employees. We compare 3M salary data and 
compensation practice annually, and make both market 
and competitive adjustments as needed, to assure our 
pay levels at each grade level are competitive. If they 
are not, we adjust accordingly, by market, to keep 
pace with other global enterprises. Ultimately, we 
factor in performance accelerators based on an annual 
performance review and the Leadership Behaviors 
discussed above under Our Commitment .
Our performance compensation includes short-term 
variable pay and long-term equity and cash incentives 
for some employee categories. Multiple employees fall 
within each employee category, and their respective 
performance-related compensation may vary.
At 3M, the proportion of total rewards aligned with 
variable (incentive) pay increases with job level and is 
reflective of the job level’s influence on both short- and 
long-term results. Eligibility for Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are based 
on job level, considering both the job level’s ability to 
influence the incentive period being measured and market 
competitiveness for these types of compensation.
Additional information on 3M Total Rewards can be 
found in our Employee Program section.
Global Market Pricing Project
According to company surveys, 66 percent of global 3M 
employees believe they are being paid competitively. 
To drive consistency and transparency in compensation 
practices across all regions, we implemented the global 
market pricing project work completed in 2016. Using 
common job descriptions and grades throughout the 
world, this project used data from three global surveys 
to benchmark pay levels, map job grades, and create a 
consistent short-term incentive plan, which helps take 
manager discretion out of compensation.
Additional information on the project launch can be 
found in Looking forward.Short-term Incentive Plan
3M has the same annual incentive plan (AIP) design 
for everyone, from the Chief Executive Officer all the 
way down through the organization – the same payout 
curves, thresholds, maximums, metrics, and metric 
weightings. By direction from the Compensation 
Committee of the Board of Directors and our continuous 
improvement efforts, we are evaluating ways to 
maintain better competitiveness and alignment with our 
competitors.How We Work | Employee Programs
#improvinglives  | 119 118 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
Our science not only impacts our customers around the 
world, it makes a difference in the way we work.
Engaged employees, we believe, are more satisfied with 
their work, tend to stay longer, and are more productive 
and committed. So we foster and reinforce behaviors 
that support engagement on many levels, including 
networking, collaboration, and diversity and inclusion. 
We focus on the quality and the impact of professional 
development and career growth. 
To bring our corporate Vision to life, we have six 
strategies that are engrained across our businesses:
• Expand relevance to our customers and our 
presence in the marketplace
• Gain profitable market share and accelerate market 
penetration everywhere
• Invest in innovation: invigorate existing market 
opportunities and focus on emerging megatrends• Intensify capabilities to achieve regional 
self-sufficiency
• Build high-performing and diverse global talent
• Drive consistently superior levels of operational 
excellence
To learn more, visit Our Corporate Values and Vision  and 
Diversity and Inclusion  sections.
If you want to develop as an individual, there are many 
things that make 3M the place to be.
Our company touches nearly every industry in every 
market around the world. If you work at 3M, you 
have a range of development opportunities few other 
companies can offer. Our people can live in different 
countries, learn different cultures, and develop different 
skills across different industries.
It’s possible for someone to go from a lab, to marketing, 
to sales, to business development, and all the way up to 
the C-suite. 3M is so diverse that people can reinvent 
themselves and their career all within one company.When people grow,  
our company grows.Employee 
ProgramsHow We Work  |  E mployee Programs
#improvinglives  | 121 120 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportIt is also a priority for our executives – from the Chief 
Executive Officer on down – to develop the company’s future leaders. 
Our job is to lead the development of 
our leaders.
Inge G. Thulin
Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive Officer, 3M
2025 Goal: 100 percent participation in employee development programs to advance individual and organizational capabilities.
Our employees are encouraged and supported to 
pursue areas of interest and develop career paths and opportunities aligned with those interests.
Our Actions
Our most valuable resource is our people, and we invest in their success. We offer a wide range of benefits and discounts designed to help our people live their best. We also provide tools, opportunities, and support for people who want to grow their careers.
3M Total Rewards
EC
3G4
LA
2, 10G4 3M Total Rewards includes a range of 
plans and programs that are intendedto attract, retain, and motivate the 
high-performing employees we depend on for growth and success. 3M regularly benchmarks its compensation and benefits with those of companies that are comparable in size and scope to assure that we remain highly competitive.
3M Total Rewards break down into three areas: pay, 
benefits, and life at 3M.Medical Plan Enhancements
In 2016, Omada  became available for 3M employees 
and adult dependents enrolled in the 3M Medical Plan. Omada is a program aimed at reducing the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes and heart disease through weight loss, improved diet, and exercise. Since the program was launched, over 4,800 members have lost a collective 32,000 pounds, significantly reducing their risk of developing chronic disease.
Livongo , a diabetes management program for 
employees and adult dependents with Type 1 or Type 2 
diabetes, was introduced in 2017. This program includes an unlimited supply of test strips at no cost, a blood glucose monitor that also provides tips and alerts, and the support of one-on-one coaching. By the end of 2017, nearly 800 employees and dependents enrolled in the program.
Best Doctors  was also introduced in 2017 and provides 
an expert medical review and second opinion service 
to help employees and dependents receive the right diagnosis and treatment plan.
Telehealth  services have been available to all 3M 
Medical Plan members for the past several years. 
Telehealth allows employees and their dependents to receive same-day, online, or telephone-based medical care for dozens of common health conditions.
Life at 3M
3M employees can grow through challenging work by leading important projects, working with diverse, talented people and finding endless opportunities to develop skills – while enjoying access to many perks, programs, and resources.
3M Healthy Living Pro gram
The 3M Healthy Living Program offers a variety of resources, rewards, and incentives to help employees live a more active and healthy life. A sampling of opportunities available includes:
• 3M Medical Plan premium discount for beingtobacco-free and taking steps to improve health
• On-site fitness centers at select locationsPay
We offer a competitive base pay and, depending on position, variable incentive pay linked to company and individual performance.
While base pay applies to all employees, variable pay is 
offered to eligible employees and may include annual incentives, sales incentives, or other incentives. See the Compensation  section for more details.
Benefits
LA
3G4 Medical, dental, and vision plan options, 
savings and retirement plans, a 3M employeestock purchase plan and many other resources 
can enhance a 3M employee’s life, both physically  
and financially.
All regular full-time employees in the U.S. are eligible for 
these benefits— regular part-time employees who work at least 20 hours/week are also eligible. Some programs and benefits may differ internationally due to local laws and regulations.
As we reported in 2017, we updated our parental leave 
policy for U.S. employees in 2016 to enable each parent to play an active role in nurturing his or her family, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. The policy offers the flexibility to make it work for both one’s job and family. Mothers and fathers of newborn or newly adopted children are entitled to up to 20 weeks of Parental Leave – 10 weeks of paid leave (four weeks at 100 percent and six weeks at 50 percent) and 10 weeks of unpaid leave. Working part-time is also an option using one of the 3M standard part-time schedules. While there can be different definitions for “parental leave”, in the U.S. during 2017 a total of 1,077 employees took advantage of all or part of this time offered to them with this new benefit.
Further information on 3M’s wide range of benefits and 
discounts designed to help employees live their best can be found at: Benefits .• Fitness center discounts
• Weight management programs
and reimbursement
• Confidential Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
• Tobacco cessation offerings and incentive
• Resources to help manage medical care and makeinformed health care choices
• Consultation and referral around child and eldercare, as well as financial and legal services
• Parenting groups, scholarship programs, andpersonal growth resources
• Access to on-site health and personal services inour headquarters location, including an on-sitepharmacy, medical center, vision center, and afull-time dietitian
• 3M Club that provides discount tickets andan avenue to share hobbies and interests withother employees
Additional resources and opportunities offered: 
• Tuition reimbursement for employees andscholarships for eligible dependents
• Adoption assistance
• Flexible work arrangements
• Diverse career and development opportunities
• Group auto and home insurance
• Employee store to purchase 3M products online orat many 3M locations
• Support for community involvement: MatchingGifts, Volunteer Match, 3Mgives (our communitygiving program)
Education and Career Growth
Today’s business environment demands that we become faster and more flexible in anticipating and exceeding the needs of our customers, shareholders, and employees. Creating a high-performance culture built on continuous learning helps 3M achieve business growth for the company and professional growth for employees.How We Work | Employee Programs
#improvinglives  | 123 122 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportThe Standard Opinion Survey program enables us to 
regularly assess the state of employee engagement and 
other workplace factors critical to high performance and 
being a great place to work. We provide in-depth reports 
for the leaders of the business units surveyed and assure 
their leaders and top 3M leadership are aware of these 
survey results. This is a cycle of continuous improvement 
for us, year after year.
Each unit that surveys must review their results, present 
them to their employees, and execute an action plan 
to address the issues that arise from the results. We 
built supports into our process that make it easier to 
bring about successful change through action planning 
– such as accountability checks, and specific tools to 
action results. We identified key drivers of employee 
engagement and developed and deployed learning 
opportunities for leaders (e.g., multiple on-demand 
instructional videos on engagement). We continually 
assess survey content and update as needed to assure 
alignment with company strategy and major initiatives. 
Thus our surveys support strategy and business 
objectives directed at supporting sustainable corporate 
success through our employees’ behavior on the job.
Employee Turnover
LA
1, 4G4 Our global voluntary turnover rate continues to 
be under 6 percent, a source of great pride for 
our company. Compared to most companies, 
3M employees love working here, and they rarely leave 
the company. We calculate voluntary turnover 
separately from retirements, company initiated turnover, 
and reductions in force. Voluntary employee turnover is 
defined as turnover due to employee initiated reasons 
(e.g., returning to school, going to another job in a 
different company).
Total turnover includes voluntary turnover and all 
other forms of turnover (e.g., termination as a result 
of restructuring, termination for poor performance, 
retirements). Our total employee turnover rate is an 
annualized rate that measures employees who have 
terminated or retired from 3M during the calendar 
year, excluding foreign service employees and 3M 
temporary employees.
Temporary employees are 3M employees hired 
temporarily with intent to be employed short-term.  
They do not include contingent workers.and achieve sustainable growth. In addition, 3M has long 
prioritized taking a well-rounded view of an individual’s 
performance, assuring that employees are treated in a 
fair and consistent manner:
• Performance goals, linked to higher-level 
organizational goals, are set jointly between the 
individual and his or her leader
• Tools provided to leaders facilitate conversations 
between leaders and employees to assure 
mutual understanding of expectations and 
desired behaviors
• Feedback on progress toward these goals is 
provided formally, twice a year, and supervisors are 
taught and encouraged to provide routine feedback 
to help employees adjust performance and meet or 
exceed goals
• Management Team Reviews function not only 
to provide comprehensive information about an 
employee, but also to further the goal that rating 
considerations will be consistent for employees 
within an organization
Each year, all 3M non-production employees identify 
their contributions in meeting their specified goals 
through an employee performance process. 3M strives 
to have 100 percent of non-production employees 
complete the entire performance review process. In 
2017, all eligible employees were rated through the 
calibration meetings, and these employees and their 
supervisors received tasks to complete the year-end 
process in the performance system.
Employee engagement and 
continuing improvement of 
the workplace
For more than 50 years, 3M has been conducting 
surveys to solicit employee observations, attitudes, 
and opinions. Our Standard Opinion Survey program 
covers the entire globe and provides specific and 
relevant feedback to major units within the company 
(e.g., divisions, locations, countries). All employees have 
the opportunity to complete the 3M Standard Opinion 
Survey and our average response rates are typically 
about 85 percent.including Leadership Behaviors, 3M-defined functional 
competencies, Lean Six Sigma (LSS), Sustainability, and 
supervisory content. Develop U provides access to tens-
of-thousands of unique, just-in-time learning resources 
in over 15 languages; allowing 3M’s global workforce to 
engage in employee development.
Leveraging a technology platform launched in early 
2016, employees create or update development 
plans that include activities to elevate individual skills 
and further career development. Employees can use 
additional skill-mapping tools in collaboration with their 
supervisors to identify long-term desired goals and 
define actions needed to help reach those goals. 
3M has recently completed a process to define and 
communicate global functional competency models. 
These models clarify expectations regarding the 
knowledge, skills, and abilities to be developed over 
a career within a specific function. Based on shared 
expectations, career paths are aligned with investment in 
training and development resources. Each function with 
a completed competency model leverages 3M’s new 
learning platform to direct employees to relevant training 
opportunities. Functions also provide development 
suggestions that can grow the competency through 
on-the-job activities or social learning through a coach 
or mentor. Currently, the competency-based resources 
cover approximately 95 percent of the non-production 
professional employee population.
Performance Assessment 
and Contribution 
LA
11G4 Throughout the year, employees meet with their 
supervisor to evaluate progress on current goals 
and adjust them as needed to align to any 
changes in priorities.
Our process includes two components: measurable 
targets agreed upon by each employee and his/her 
supervisor; and Leadership Behaviors ratings, which 
reflect the extent to which the employee engaged in 
core behaviors that allow 3M to execute our strategies 
and meet our objectives.
The performance assessment process helps hold each 
of our employees accountable for their contribution and 
everyday behaviors. The process aligns personal goals 
with organizational goals— we strive to achieve our 
goals in ways that support and strengthen our culture Investing in our People
LA
9-11G4 The growth of our people is essential to the 
growth of our business. Although we achieved 
over 25 hours per year of training and 
development per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee, 
those hours are only one part of the picture. We leverage 
a 70-20-10 development model which indicates that 
over the course of a career, 70 percent of learning is 
done on the job, 20 percent comes through other 
employees, and only 10 percent of meaningful 
development is reached through formal training.
Our learning orientation and philosophy focuses on 
experiential learning and skill building rather than 
classroom-style training. While we can estimate that 
our training numbers are close to averages found 
in other large manufacturing companies, measures 
such as training hours or costs per employee are not 
leading human capital performance indicators for 3M. 
We believe indicators that align people’s results to 
the success of the company are direct performance 
indicators of development programs. Leadership and 
employee engagement, employee retention rates, brand 
recognition, acquisition integration milestones, and Lean 
Six Sigma project value are a few examples of indicators 
that contribute to 3M's recognition as an industry and 
global leader.
3M has prioritized learning and career development 
opportunities not only for leaders, but for all 
employees. Further, 3M has separate processes for 
employee performance and career development. 
This permits employees the freedom to create 
meaningful development plans without performance or 
compensation implications. 
Employee Development 
Effective employee development programs are crucial to 
enable our goal of 100 percent of employees engaging 
in development activities. With the global launch of our 
new employee learning platform, Develop U, employees 
are easily able to access development resources to 
support their career aspirations and advance strategic 
capabilities within 3M. Develop U provides employees 
with a personalized experience by recommending 
relevant content based on their role within the 
organization. Additionally, content is organized and 
aligned to directly support 3M’s organizational priorities: How We Work | Employee Programs
#improvinglives  | 125 124 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M follows all applicable local laws and regulations 
regarding notice periods in the event of business 
operations changes.
3M’s Human Resources (HR) department is unique in 
that we have one global system to track HR information. 
At every 3M location around the globe, we have 
instant access to this information – using our global 
reporting tool.
New Employee Onboarding
3M invests in onboarding and developing new 
employees so that they have the tools, resources, and 
networks they need to succeed. Our onboarding process 
begins at the time a candidate accepts a job offer and 
continues through the first year of employment.
A consistent, comprehensive onboarding platform 
provides pre-start information delivery and engagement 
for new employees on the front end, and clear metrics, 
reporting, and tracking for 3M on the back end. This 
investment sets new employees up to be successful and 
to make meaningful contributions from the start.
Accelerated Leadership 
Development
Leadership development is a competitive advantage 
at 3M. To maintain this competitive advantage, we are 
leveraging new technologies and delivery methods, 
thereby ensuring impact, consistency, and global 
inclusivity.
Through various stages in a leader’s career journey, there 
are many development opportunities and programs 
available, across every geographic region and 3M 
business. Most programs are available at no additional 
cost to employees and include a range of online and self-
paced offerings that cover core skill development aligned 
to the 3M Leadership Behaviors, ranging from personal 
effectiveness to financial acumen. These programs 
are also focused on the future – embedding inclusive 
leadership strategies, development through corporate 
social responsibility, and mentoring opportunities.
In 2017, 3M was honored to receive two LEAD Awards  
hosted by HR.com – for global leadership programs and 
for experienced senior leader programs.Spark
Launched for the first time in 2017, Spark is a yearlong 
development journey for individual contributors and 
frontline leaders with potential to reach manager level. 
For the first time, 3M has leveraged the power of 
technology to offer leadership development and bring 
together (virtually) more than 3,700 leaders from around 
the world under one journey.
Development for People Leaders
In 2017, 3M launched a refreshed suite of development 
offerings for People Leaders. With focus on the critical 
skills that leaders need to be successful in managing 
others, the Essentials for People Leaders program 
emerged as a multi-module program with flexibility to 
be delivered as face-to-face classroom training or as 
online, virtual training. This flexible delivery format is key 
to scaling a consistent development experience for all 
leaders of 3M while still allowing for needed localization 
to fit the needs of local people leaders.
In addition, new development channels were launched in 
Develop U with additional content for aspiring, new, and 
experienced People Leaders. Here, leaders can access, 
at no-cost, curated content including:
• Transition toolkits
• Annual performance and development timelines 
and support
• Self-paced eLearning and videos available in up to 
14 languages
Leadership Coaching
3M is building a stronger coaching and development 
culture. As a new opportunity for our leaders, 3M has 
invested in an internal team of certified Leadership 
Coaches to support and accelerate the development 
of leaders throughout the world. Starting in 2017, these 
coaches worked 1:1 with 3M leaders over the course of 
three-month engagements to focus on key development 
goals. Leadership Coaching unleashes leaders’ full 
potential, empowering them to positively impact their 
team, organization, and ultimately, grow the business.
More than 2,000 leaders have already been through this 
coaching skill-building program that allows leaders to 
learn and apply a simple coaching framework.Global Executive and 
Leadership Development
3M Leadership Way
The 3M Leadership Way is a suite of high potential 
leadership development journeys within the 3M Global 
Academy of Innovative Development. It brings one 
consistent approach to how 3M develops leaders across 
all geographic areas, business groups, and functions. 
Each program is an integration of customer-focused, 
results-driven, and experience-based learning that takes 
leaders outside the classroom walls to sharpen their 
skills with leadership challenges for our customers and 
in our global communities. Common threads run through 
the development journeys, and includes core content 
(i.e., 3M Playbook including our Vision) tailored to each 
level of leadership.
Our 3M Leadership Way promise is to develop our top 
talent to unleash their full potential, and add value to the 
company, our customers, and the world we live in.
3M Leadership Way Journeys:
Catalyst
Catalyst is a 12-month journey focused on developing 
the company’s top 250 leaders. These individuals are 
game changers with aspiration, potential, performance, 
and with a pace even beyond their high potential peers 
to make a step change impact for 3M and the world we 
live in.
Amplify
Amplify is a nine-month journey for leaders with 
potential to reach the director level. Similar to the 
Catalyst journey, Amplify is scaled to the leadership 
challenges faced by future directors. These individuals 
already lead teams and organizations across every part 
of 3M.
Ignite
Ignite is a six-month journey for leaders with potential 
to reach senior manager level. These individuals are 
transitioning to lead teams and development is focused 
on critical challenges such as vertical and horizontal 
management savvy and building and leading high 
performing teams.Networks and Collaboration
3M has numerous pathways to support organizational 
communications, learning, and knowledge management. 
There are a variety of corporate and job functional 
systems to methodically help information and 
knowledge emerge and flow to the right people at the 
right time to add value. For example:
Formal Learning Networks: Develop U, our employee 
learning platform, allows 3Mer’s access to development 
resources to support their career aspirations and 
advance strategic capabilities within 3M; additional 
information included above under Employee 
Development . In addition, our Corporate Learning 
System continues to support employees to enroll in, 
deliver, track, and report on learning activities and 
has served the learning needs of 3M business units, 
locations, and learning organizations globally.
Intranet Knowledge Platforms Databases : 3M’s intranet 
site structure is set up so that each employee has a Work 
Center as one of the quick-link tabs following login. 
Each Work Center is a collection of tools, systems, and 
processes that are used routinely in daily work practices 
to successfully complete projects and work assignments 
in an employee’s functional work area. Company 
news for employees is available on a global news site, 
3M Particles .
Best Practice Descriptions/Processes : As a diverse 
technical company, 3M shares best practices several 
ways. Two of the most widely used internal mechanisms 
are the 3M Tech Forum and the 3M Engineering and 
Manufacturing Technology Organization. These two 
organizations provide an extensive network of expertise 
through specialized chapters focused on 3M’s core 
technologies and other emerging markets.
Company Education: In addition to a variety of general 
courses, webinars, etc., 3M offers specialized extended 
courses to increase skills leadership coaching.
Idea Sharing: Idea management is driven differently 
across the company depending on organizational 
needs and what works best for the area of work. Some 
platform examples include Yammer, Wiki Enterprise, and 
various 3M internal and external social media channels. 
Systems are implemented and available globally to share 
best practices and ideas. Additionally, since about 1948, 
we’ve encouraged our employees to spend 15% of their How We Work  |  E mployee Programs
#improvinglives  | 127 126 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Footprint
SD
9-10G4
LA
1, 12G4 The employee metrics in the charts are 
reflective of employee headcount as of
December 31, 2017 (total number of 
3M full-time and part-time employees) not 3M full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. Due to acquisition integration schedules onto 3M’s human resources systems, detailed employee information below may differ from employee totals in 3M financial reports.
Looking forward…
Work will continue toward our 2025 goal of 100 percent employee participation in development programs, by continuing to leverage the transformative power of technology. This will enable us to increase the reach, and speed, of development and transcend the uncertainty surrounding our global landscape. working time on their own projects and sharing those ideas with colleagues.
Employee Awards 
and Recognition
3M sponsors many corporate award programs to honor 
individuals and teams that make significant contributions to the company. In addition, many divisions also have their own specific ways of recognizing and rewarding people. Across 3M, management can choose from a variety of monetary and nonmonetary awards to show appreciation for exceptional contributions. Examples of corporate awards include:
• Awards for specific professionals, such as theGlobal Marketing Excellence Award and the Circleof Technical Excellence and Innovation Award
• Awards for cross-functional teams, such as theGolden Step Award
• Awards focused on employees who improve safetyor pollution prevention
• Two prestigious lifetime achievement awards: theEngineering Achievement Award and the CarltonSociety recognition, which honor employees fortheir scientific achievements
030,000
20,000
10,00050,00070,00080,000100,000
90,000
60,000
40,000
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global Employees by Region
Full and Part-Time, Total020
1030
2016 2015 2017 2014 20133M Global Females in Management
Percentage of TotalHow We Work | Employee Programs
#improvinglives  | 129 128 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report030
20
105060
40
2015 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global Female Hires by Region
Percentage of Total Hires
030
20
105060
40
2015 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global Female Hires by Region
Percentage of Total Hires030
20
1050
40
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global Female Employees by Region
Percentage of Total Employees
030
20
1050
40
2015 2014 2016 2013 2012Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global Female Employees by Region
Percentage of Total Employees
030
104070
50
208090100
60
Asia
PacificCanada Europe/
Middle East/
AfricaLatin
AmericaUnited
StatesGlobal3M Regional and Global Employee Age Distribution
2017 Percentage
Baby Boomers
(1943-1960)Generation X
(1961-1981)Generation Y
(1981-1994)Generation Z
(>1994)
030
104070
50
208090100
60
Asia
PacificCanada Europe/
Middle East/
AfricaLatin
AmericaUnited
StatesGlobal3M Regional and Global Employee Age Distribution
2017 Percentage
Baby Boomers
(1943-1960)Generation X
(1961-1981)Generation Y
(1981-1994)Generation Z
(>1994)06,000
4,000
2,00010,00014,000
12,00016,000
8,000
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global New Employee Hires by Region
Total
06,000
4,000
2,00010,00014,000
12,00016,000
8,000
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013Asia Pacific
Canada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa
Latin America
United StatesGlobal3M Global New Employee Hires by Region
TotalHow We Work | Health and Safety
130 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 131Our Commitment 
SD
10G4 As a company that makes a vast array of 
products designed to protect workers, 3M is 
front and center in the global effort to bring 
new science and innovation to workplace safety. At the 
same time, as an enterprise with 91,500 employees 
working around the world, we are always taking steps to 
further advance the safety of our employees.
Employee Health and Safety
The 3M Safety and Health Policy  applies to 3M 
operations everywhere, including new acquisitions. 
Hazards in 3M's workplaces must be well understood 
and effectively managed to protect 3M employees, 
visitors, locations, and surrounding communities.
In addition, in the spirit of continuous improvement, 
much is being done to evaluate opportunities to raise our safety standards. We visit locations, perform audits 
of record-keeping practices, and review incident 
data, the quality of our investigations and corrective 
actions taken.
To assure consistent reporting and metrics globally, 
3M, like many multinational companies, follows the U.S. 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
recordkeeping rules and formulas to record and measure 
injury and illness rates worldwide. At all facilities within 
3M’s operational control, 3M employees and contingent 
employees are covered by our injury and illness 
recordkeeping rules.
Contractor and Visitor Health 
and Safety
3M requires all visitors, vendors, contingent workers, 
and contract workers at 3M locations to follow 
all applicable 3M workplace safety and health 
requirements. For example, contractors must complete a pre-qualification process before they may perform 
work on 3M premises. That process includes, among 
other things, reviewing the contractor’s employee injury/
illness rates, Experience Modification Rates (EMR), 
employee training records, and safety committee 
activities. Pre-construction safety reviews also are 
conducted to address potential hazards and controls 
related to the work. Contractor performance evaluations 
also include safety reviews.
Each 3M location has a Contract Coordinator who is the 
main 3M contact for working with contractors on safety 
issues. The Contract Coordinator is empowered to 
participate in pre-bid meetings and pre-qualifications for 
contractors. He or she is on-site and therefore available 
for contractor meetings and safety reviews as necessary 
and appropriate.
Contractors are asked to submit notification to 3M 
of worker hours and any injuries occurring while 
performing work in accordance with a 3M contract. Any 
contractor incidents are reported in the 3M Worldwide 
Incident Management System (WIMS), including injuries 
and contractor worker hours. In 2017, a contractor 
fatality occurred as a result of injuries sustained during 
an arc flash explosion. Additional preventive measures 
were implemented to further strengthen the safety of 
the operation.
Process Hazard Management
3M is committed to rigorously managing the risks 
associated with hazardous processes, such as those with 
potential to result in catastrophic fires, explosions, and 
sudden release of toxic materials. We use a Hazardous 
Process Evaluation Tool (HazPET) to categorize 
hazardous processes. Process hazard analyses (PHAs) 
are used to assess the effectiveness of existing 
safeguards. Layers of Protection Analysis (LOPA) is also 
used in some instances to evaluate safety critical devices 
and systems, providing more attention to independent 
protection layers. In 2018, facility sitting assessments 
will help us identify and mitigate “maximum credible 
event” scenarios that could impact workers at some 
facilities, and a global initiative will build on 3M’s existing 
guidance to our facilities around effectively managing 
potential combustible dust hazards.Since 2006, worldwide lost time rates have 
decreased 42 percent for 3M employees.Health  
and SafetyHow We Work | Health and Safety
#improvinglives  | 133 132 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportstandards related to safety and health. 3M utilizes a 
variety of tools to manage risks from hazards in the 
workplace. We’ve used specialized tools successfully 
for a number of years in the areas of process safety, 
industrial hygiene, and ergonomics. Each of these 
disciplines uses a risk management approach to 
categorize hazard levels and define appropriate levels  
of control.
As part of our continuous improvement efforts, in 2017, 
some GSHP elements were reviewed and updated 
including new site self-assessment questions.
Significant Injury/Illness  
or Fatality Assessments  
and Rates
At the end of 2017, over 78,000 risk assessments had 
been completed which resulted in the identification and 
reduction of risk associated with more than 23,000 
higher hazard activities. This development has been 
accompanied by a steady decrease in severe incidents 
over the past four years.
Since 2012, the SIF (Significant Injury/Illness or 
Fatality) rate at 3M has resulted in a net reduction of 
37.2 percent. This represents fewer significant injury/
illness incidents per year. The following chart shows 
the worldwide SIF rate trend for all 3M employees, 
contingent workers, and contractor workers combined.In 2013, 3M instituted a new approach to dealing with 
hazards that have the potential to result in fatalities or 
serious injuries. In 2014, we implemented metrics to 
measure our progress toward a five-year goal of 100 
percent conformance to the following six standards for 
managing risk in certain high-hazard activities:
• Safety and health hazard recognition and risk 
assessment
• Incident and potential hazard reporting, record 
keeping, investigation, and follow-up
• Powered industrial vehicles
• Machine guarding
• Work at height
• Process hazard analysisOur Actions
LA
6G4Global Safety and  
Health Plan Tool
The 3M Global Safety and Health Plan (GSHP), which 
is part of 3M's Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
management system, is required to be implemented 
by global 3M locations. This approach utilizes a well-
developed self-assessment process that is categorized 
into multiple elements addressing various areas and 
00.020.060.100.140.18
0.080.160.20
0.040.12
2016 2015 2017 2014 20133M Global Serious Injury/Illness Incident (SIF) Rate
Total 3M, Contingent, and Contractor Employees0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Worldwide
Asia Pacific
Latin America
United StatesCanada
Europe/
Middle East/
Africa3M Regional and Global Lost Time Incident Rate
Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours)
8088
86
84
8290929498
96100
Safety and 
Health Hazard 
Recognition 
and Risk 
AssessmentIncident and 
Potential 
Hazard 
Reporting, 
Record 
Keeping, 
Investigation 
and Follow-upPowered 
Industrial 
VehiclesMachine 
GuardingWork at 
HeightProcess Hazard 
Analysis
Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada
Latin America United States Europe/Middle East/AfricaGlobal Health and Safety Plan High Hazard Standards By Region
2017 PercentageHow We Work  | He alth and Safety
#improvinglives  | 1 35 134 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportStatic Discharge 
Improvement Plan
With continuing growth in electronic devices and 
technology, static discharge is a potential hazard at more than 80 percent of 3M facilities. At each location where there is potential for static discharge incidents, a competent, trained coordinator is required. In 2017, we continued our static discharge control efforts through improved procedures, instructions, and related documents, as well as training for operators, management, environmental, health, and safety (EHS) personnel, and engineers who are responsible for design and mitigation efforts. In addition, the Electrical and Management of Change (MOC) sections of the Global Safety and Health Plan Standard have been updated to include new audit questions and explanations. At the end of 2017, 98 percent of applicable locations had a fully competent, trained coordinator and were fully engaged in a static discharge improvement plan. 
Electrical Work Precautions
At 3M manufacturing locations, we use live electrical current in a variety of different ways, including electroplating, electrochemical processes, and creating heat for furnaces using raw current. The company requires each location to implement an Electrical Safety Program to assure equipment is designed, installed, used, and maintained to minimize electrical hazards in the workplace. 3M requires that work conducted on or near energized electrical parts or circuits must be performed by qualified individuals. In addition, the company mandates that all workers whose jobs may expose them to the risk of electrical shock are trained in electrical safety. In 2017, to raise the level of protection for employees working around these processes, we took proactive steps to define the processes and, where appropriate, implement stronger safety controls.
Ergonomics Risk Management  
Significant changes have been made to the Ergonomic Risk Reduction Process (ERRP) at 3M, to better understand ergonomic related risks and identify sustainable controls for jobs across all operations. A more efficient and effective ergonomic risk assessment analytical tool has been developed and deployed OSHA. Noise exposures were so successfully reduced (12 - 14 dBA across 24 different areas and departments) that in 2015, 22 of the 24 areas in hearing conservation had been removed, and 199 of 203 employees were no longer required to be included in the 3M Alexandria Hearing Conservation Program. In 2016, 3M Alexandria initiatives were recognized for statistically driven noise exposure assessments, cost-effective noise reduction efforts, documentation of results, and the implementation of Buy-Quiet principles, when the facility was awarded the NHCA/NIOSH Safe-In-Sound™ Award by the National Hearing Conservation Association (NHCA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety & Health (NIOSH).During the month of September 2017, the Alexandria location achieved a significant milestone by removing the last of the 24 targeted areas successfully leaving the facility at 100 percent hearing conservation free.
Moving forward, 3M Alexandria will continue to evaluate 
noise on new and existing processes, and implement Buy-Quiet principles to assure that noise exposures remain reduced and controlled. While the extent of an individual facility’s risk or opportunities may differ, 3M Alexandria’s success story demonstrates that significant advances in noise control can be achievable and economical in both short- and long-term.globally to assist ergonomic subject matter experts. This new tool is being used to better understand ergonomic risks and define equipment or process changes that could reduce risks. 3M also defined a new system to perform ergonomic assessments for potentially high-risk work tasks. That new system is planned for phased global implementation in 2018. 
Online ergonomic training is also available 24/7 to any 
employee who wants to learn more and has access to the 3M Intranet. All of these efforts have paid off in reduced numbers of ergonomic recordable injury cases; see Recordable Incident Rate chart.
Chemical and No ise 
Exposure Risk M anagement 
To accurately assess exposure management programs and activities, 3M uses the comprehensive approach outlined by the American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA). In the past decade, over 95 percent of all chemical agents and noise baseline exposure risk assessments have been completed for all jobs, including annual air and noise sampling plans, exposure assessment validation plans, hearing conservation programs, and respirator and personal protective equipment programs. The results of these assessments help us determine whether any changes in exposure management programs are warranted.
These concerted risk assessment and management 
efforts are paying off. One example: the 3M facility in Alexandria, Minnesota.
Over the past six years, 3M Alexandria has taken on 
the challenge to reduce noise and eliminate hearing conservation areas in its facility, as prescribed by 
0.000.100.300.50
0.200.400.60
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Physical Agent 
Exposure
Transportation Accident Noise ExposureExposure, Biological AgentExposure, Chemical
Miscellaneous Slip, Trip, FallContact with Object/Equipment
Ergonomics3M Global Recordable Incident Rate Category
Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours)
3M Alexandria, Minnesota
How We Work  |  H ealth and Safety
#improvinglives  | 137 136 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportGlobal Safety Co nference
3M reinforced its dedication to employee safety 
by holding a Global Safety Conference in May, 2017. Attended by nearly 200 3M health and safety professionals from 14 countries representing all 3M operational regions, this conference featured inspiring keynote speakers Deborah Hersman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Safety Council, and Jim Spigener, Senior Vice President of Dekra Insight, pioneers in behavior-based safety. Content for the main conference was generally structured around managing risks for process and personal safety, with a focus on prevention of fatalities and severe incidents. use nonionizing radiation sources evaluate facility performance around managing hazards during routine use and maintenance of radiation sources, security of radiation sources, training of personnel, and regulatory compliance. 
Details of 3M’s Healthy Living Program and other health 
and safety employee programs can be found in our Employee Program  section.
Global EHS Team
LA
5G4 3M’s global EHS team continues to evolve to its 
current operational state which we believe setsus apart from our peers. Comprised of 
business-level EHS committee members, regional EHS managers, and Corporate subject matter experts, this committee will work with EHS facility staff globally to address and replicate best practices, solve problems and drive worthy EHS initiatives to operational-level.
In 2017, 100 percent of 3M manufacturing locations 
worldwide had active employee safety and health committees.
Looking forward…
Employees and those working on 
3M’s behalf
An important initiative during 2018 will be to improve existing behavioral safety processes, with the aim of assuring that gains from these improved processes can be sustained over time. Our strategy is to use the core components of behavioral safety – namely, observations and data collection – and integrate them into existing Lean Six Sigma (LSS) and Risk Management processes to further engage employees performing day-to-day tasks where higher hazards are present. We see a unique opportunity to document and understand how workplace decisions are being made by operations and maintenance personnel when faced with circumstances that could place them at increased risk of an injury or illness. Additional Steps to Protect 
Employees 
3M’s Corporate Radiation Protection and Compliance 
group (CRPC) assures the safe, legal, and ethical use of sources of radiation. This includes uses of radiation in both manufacturing and research and development, ionizing radiation sources such as radioactive materials and x-ray emitting devices, and non-ionizing radiation sources such as lasers, microwave and radiofrequency radiation, magnetic fields, ultraviolet, infrared, and visible light. CRPC provides hazard evaluations, including radiation surveys and recommendations on control measures, to assure that 3M employees are safe and that radiation sources are used in full compliance of federal and state regulations. CRPC develops and provides training for both radiation source users as well as facility Radiation Safety Officers to help protect 3M employees, our customers, and the public. Annual program audits for facilities that use ionizing radiation sources and similar periodic audits for facilities that Hearing Conservation
3M is participating in a global pilot program with the Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC). Looking forward, we expect to expand CAOHC certifications in Latin America, Asia, and other areas where staff certification can help facilities prevent or reduce the severity of noise-induced hearing loss.
Learn more on CAOHC certifications: here .
Ergonomics
For ergonomics, a new global system for identifying 
and addressing ergonomic risks is being developed on a new platform for global deployment in 2018. The new system will allow anyone in the world to perform initial ergonomic risk assessments through a computer or hand held device.
Environmental, Health, and Safety
In 2018, we are also focusing on increased synergy between Environmental, Health, and Safety, engineering and supporting functions. One tactic for this will be an Environmental, Health, and Safety Summit including representatives from each of these functions. The goals of the Summit will be to identify and create opportunities to more efficiently and effectively implement engineering controls, resulting in improved and accelerated Environmental, Health, and Safety program performance.0.001.50
1.00
0.502.50
2.00
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Worldwide Asia Pacific
Latin America United StatesCanada Europe/Middle East/Africa3M Regional and Global Recordable Incident Rate
Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours)How We Work  | Environmental Management
138 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
SD
14G4 3M formalized its commitment to environmental 
stewardship when the company’s Board of 
Directors adopted the 3M Environmental Policy  
in 1975. This policy established the framework for our 
approach to responsible environmental management and 
conservation of resources, emphasizing prevention of 
pollution at the source.
Since then, we have created supporting policies using a 
needs-driven process. When we identify potential risks 
to the environment, health, and safety of our employees, 
products, and communities, we take steps to modify 
processes and standards that address these risks.
Our strategy and resulting actions are demonstrated 
in the following policies, positions, and standards: 
Acquisition, Divestures, and Mergers Standard; 
Environmental Policy; Energy Policy; Greenhouse 
Gas Management Operations Standard; Disposal of Chemical Waste Standard; Waste Management Program 
Standard; Water Management Standard; and our Global 
Climate Change Position Statement . 
3M's strategies for sustainable development encompass 
the pursuit of customer satisfaction and commercial 
success within a framework of environmental, social, 
and economic values. We are committed to complying 
with all applicable environmental requirements 
worldwide. Beyond compliance, the company 
continues to make significant investments to reduce 
the environmental footprint of our operations; and our 
products with sustainable attributes help customers 
reduce their environmental footprint and help to 
meet their Sustainability goals. Always, 3M believes 
environmental policy and regulations should be guided 
by science-based decision making.
#improvinglives  | 1393M has long recognized the necessity for 
responsible environmental management and 
conservation of resources.Environmental 
ManagementHow We Work  | Environmental Management
#improvinglives  | 141 140 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Actions
EN
27G4 Setting and implementing global environmental 
policies, management systems, and key 
performance metrics enables 3M to continually 
integrate and drive environmental stewardship into each 
of the company’s five business groups globally, assuring 
consistency and innovative environmental thinking. As 
reflected by our environmental performance indicators 
and 2025 Sustainability Goals , environmental 
stewardship is a core corporate commitment backed by 
decades of proven performance.
Management
SO
8G4 3M’s Environmental Management System 
(EMS) framework provides structure and 
consistency for overseeing daily activities, and 
puts the company in proactive, rather than reactive, 
mode regarding its environmental focus. We have 
extensive global systems in place to identify, track, and 
manage relevant information on corporate-wide 
environmental management and performance. This 
includes covering a full range of environmental 
compliance and operational performance metrics 
relevant to 3M operations, some of which are provided 
in this report.
Information and performance data on a majority of 
these program elements are tracked and reported 
through corporate electronic reporting systems. 
Quarterly scorecards report data at the facility, division, 
business group, and corporate levels. Scorecards are 
reviewed by executive management for performance on 
selected indicators, enabling 3M to monitor and identify 
successes, risks, and opportunities for performance 
improvements and footprint reductions worldwide.Environmental Management 
Implementation
Implementation of our EMS continues to increase 
throughout the world and has translated into reduced 
costs through operating efficiency, improved 
environmental compliance, reduced monitoring costs, 
reduced energy and waste disposal costs, and increased 
employee activity. Our EMS is also expanding our 
Sustainability image around the globe, which has strong 
financial benefits.
Our approach calls for each site to establish, implement, 
and maintain documented environmental objectives 
and targets. When establishing an EMS plan, each 
3M location must address financial, technological, 
operational, and business considerations. The objectives 
and targets should be measurable and consistent with 
our environmental policy, including our commitments 
to prevent pollution and be compliant with applicable 
regulations and other requirements.
3M’s multifaceted strategy for implementing 
environmental management systems and global auditing 
of environmental compliance for our operations is 
key to understanding any potential gaps and gaining 
resolution quickly. All manufacturing locations, and 
new acquisitions based on their integration progress, 
are required to complete a Global Environmental 
Management Self-Assessment (GEMSA) at least 
annually. In 2017, GEMSA updates consist of a detailed 
evaluation of the location’s systems alignment for 
assuring environmental compliance and management 
system performance. 
GEMSA elements reflect procedures, systems, and 
processes that are comprehensive and mandatory to 
maintain compliance with legal or other requirements. 
Additional ISO 14001 elements and associated questions 
are provided to enable sites to conduct further review 
of their EMS. Data from the assessments are validated 
through audits, site visits by subject matter experts, and 
other data systems.
Environmental Site Assessment
EN
11-13G4 Outside 3M’s EMS and GEMSA, 3M has 
completed environmental site assessments at 
most locations with the goal of identifying 
potential historical liabilities. As a result of these Environmental Incident 
Management
EN
24, 29, 34G4 Since 2010, all 3M locations globally are 
required to internally report environmental 
exceedances, spills, agency notices, and fines 
through one dedicated system – 3M's Worldwide 
Incident Management System (WIMS). This includes:
• Exceedances: emissions or other environmental 
parameters above permitted or allowable 
regulatory levels
• Significant Spills: spills that are above a designated 
risk-level based on the more stringent of a 
regulatory requirement or an internal company set 
volume and threshold
• Agency Notices: notices received by 3M for alleged 
deviations from an environmental regulatory or 
permitting requirement
• Fines: compensation paid by 3M to address an 
administrative fine or penalty imposed by an 
environmental regulatory agency
WIMS has led to continuous improvement related to 
increased awareness of responsibilities, understanding 
of the holistic system, and more consistent reporting 
requirements for 3M’s global operations.
Environmental Investments
EN
31G4 In 2017, 3M expended about $33 million for 
capital projects related to protecting the 
environment. This amount excludes 
expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing 
matters caused by past operations that do not contribute 
to current or future revenues, which are expensed. 
Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have 
included pollution control devices – such as wastewater 
treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment 
structures, solvent recovery units, and thermal oxidizers 
– at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded 
in the normal course of business. Consistent with the 
company’s emphasis on environmental responsibility, 
capital expenditures (other than for remediation 
projects) for known projects are presently expected to 
be about $66 million over the next two years for new or 
expanded programs to build facilities or modify 
manufacturing processes to minimize waste and 
reduce emissions.assessments, biodiverse areas may be identified. Where 
applicable, a public database search is completed, which 
includes a wetland database. Site visits also identify 
areas such as rivers, creeks, and potential wetlands that 
are on or near the location.
Additional biodiversity assessments are conducted 
during our annual evaluation utilizing the definitions 
and tools established by the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to screen the 
company’s various uses of water. Additional details on 
this process can be found in the Water  section.
Applying ISO 14001
The ISO 14001 Environment Management System (EMS) 
standard is an internationally-recognized approach for 
managing the immediate and long-term environmental 
impacts of an organization's products, services, and 
processes. In 2017, 3M continued working with an 
outside consultant to help individual locations learn how 
to transition and recertify to the latest version of this 
standard, which was established in late 2015. 3M is on 
track for timely recertification of all relevant sites to the 
updated ISO 14001 standard.
To aid facilities in becoming recertified to the new 
standard, three new training modules were developed 
in the 3M Global Learning System. The modules are 
used by learning coordinators to create courses, manage 
learner roles, process certifications, and run reports; 
by learners to search for courses and launch e-learning 
classes; and by supervisors to view the learning activities 
of their direct reports and pre-book courses.
As of the end of 2017, approximately 70 percent of ISO 
14001-certified 3M locations successfully completed 
third-party certification audits for the new version of the 
standard. Altogether, our ISO 14001-certified locations 
account for approximately 96.7 percent of 3M’s total 
product output.
The remaining locations, which will go through 
certification audits in early 2018, are recent 3M 
acquisitions and/or 3M office/logistic centers. The ISO 
14001 certification scope is specific for each location. 
Our approach is to champion ownership at individual 
locations to produce the best possible EMS results.How We Work  | En vironmental Management
2025 Goals Scorecard
3M Goal Goal Progress
Increase Global Renewable Energy
25%25
2025
Percentage of Total Electricity Purchase0.50 7.60
2015 201617.9
2017at more than  30% of ma nufactu ring sitesAchieve30
2025
Percentage of Total Manufacturing Sites2015 201626.6 28.2 27.9
201710%Reduce Global Manufacturing Waste
Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales2015 20165.21 5.33 5.03
2017 2025
10%Reduce Global Water Use
0.00139
Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales2015 20160.00149 0.00145
2017 2025
30%MMBtu per MM USD Net Sales2015 2016937 962 935
2017 2025
#improvinglives  | 1 43 142 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportThird-Party Assurance 
of Sustainability Metric Reporting
Bureau Veritas (BV) provided independent third-
party verification of 3M’s 2017 environmental data (volatile organic compound emissions, water, waste, environmental compliance metrics, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions) included in this 2018 Sustainability Report. For additional information on our third-party assurance, see Bureau Veritas’ Assurance Statement .
Facility Self-Assessments 
and Auditing 
3M verifies regulatory compliance and alignment with prioritized sections of the self-assessment, conducting environmental-related audits on a risk-prioritized basis. In 2017, we updated the EHS Auditing Standard and EHS Auditor Guideline. In all, our facility audits covered sites that manufactured 22.6 percent of total product output. Key objectives of audits:
Maintain
complianceDevelopenvironmental professionalsManage risk
Share best practicesIdentify common areas for improvementBuild common understanding of requirementsManaging Global Risk and Compliance
What comprises the auditing process:
• Manufacturing, distribution, and laboratory
operations are audited for environmentalcompliance on a frequency based on relative risk
• At least annually, all global operations are assessedagainst a variety of criteria to establish a prioritizedlist of locations for compliance auditingEHS Professional Training
As part of our ongoing training efforts, in 2017, 3M conducted monthly webinars for environmental management employees on topics that have global interest. The webinars were recorded and placed on a website that allows convenient access for those who couldn’t attend the live events. The webinars included such topics as ISO 14001:2015, The Transition; What’s New with Environmental Policies and Standards; Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan Overview; Refrigerant Management Update; Recent Facility Audit Trends; and Waste Resources and Vendor Auditing, to name a few.• 3M uses a variety of tools and resources forcompliance auditing, including:
–  Internally developed compliance protocols,
created by subject matter experts in regulatoryprograms and 3M processes
–  3M’s GEMSA as an evaluation tool
–  Externally purchased compliance protocols,
especially for operations outside the UnitedStates, to assure local compliance obligations areunderstood and met
–  Internal environmental compliance experts from
around the company
–  External environmental consultants, as needed,
to provide additional expertise and third-partyverification of our auditing protocols
–  Complete and robust documentation of audits
–  Findings, with assignments of responsibility and
due dates for closure
–  Detailed reviews of findings, to assure corrective
actions are complete
3M’s environmental auditing program is audited periodically by 3M’s Corporate Auditing department. 
All EHS auditors, with the exception of 3M EHS 
professionals who are guest auditors, are required to take a certification test. 3M EHS professionals are assigned to an audit team or lead auditor to provide support on the auditing process and/or a specific subject during the audit.
Compliance Analysis and 
Documentation
In an effort to create more consistency in global auditing 
of locations, 3M has refined its Compliance and Auditing Management and Metric Systems (CAMMS). CAMMS is the corporate system for maintaining environmental compliance documents and determinations. It allows us to conduct internal compliance audits in the context of applicable regulatory requirements and company policies and standards. In addition, CAMMS utilizes a risk assessment tool for prioritizing resources to implement corrective actions. Looking forward…
In the coming years, we will be working on increasing efficiency across the organization through Business Transformation, a global platform of standardized business processes, and the integration of related tools with our environmental management processes. We will also drive the continued evolution of our global environmental regulatory programs, with the aim of translating complex or ambiguous requirements into clear compliance directives for 3M facilities.How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials
#improvinglives  | 145 144 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
SO
2G4 The world’s population is growing larger, living 
longer, and consuming more – which puts a 
strain on finite natural resources. To address 
this challenge, 3M continuously looks for ways to 
recover, reuse, and recycle by-products and other waste 
material. We are moving from recyclable to renewable 
materials in our product and package design. Improving 
our raw material usage through product design and 
operational considerations provides cost benefits 
throughout our supply chain, in material use, energy, and 
transportation efficiency.
The 3M Waste Management Standard  applies to all 3M 
locations and provides a framework for managing all 
waste types from the time of generation until reused, 
recycled, treated, or disposed. The Standard sets a 
baseline for several core waste program elements and encourages waste minimization and recycling whenever 
possible. Per the Standard, each 3M location has a 
Waste Management Coordinator who is responsible 
for coordinating appropriate waste training for all 
personnel. Compliance with all 3M and other regulated 
waste requirements is evaluated through the internal 
environmental auditing program.
Our Disposal of Chemical Waste Standard  calls for 
appropriate management and disposal of chemical 
waste, to manage risks and protect the environment. 
This includes efforts to reduce the amount and hazards 
of waste materials generated, to recycle or reuse those 
materials whenever practical, and to control waste 
disposal through final disposition.2025 Goal: Reduce manufacturing waste by an 
additional 10 percent, indexed to sales.
We’ll continue to drive ‘zero waste’ thinking with our 
product designs and process technologies, as well as 
waste reduction work at our manufacturing operations.
3M Corporate Environmental Operations identifies 
opportunities for efficiency improvement and measures 
progress toward raw material usage and waste reduction 
goals for locations within our global manufacturing 
footprint. The results and raw data are used to identify, 
quantify, and prioritize projects to improve, utilizing Lean 
Six Sigma (LSS) methodology.
Results are reviewed quarterly and annually within 
regions, businesses, and divisions against goals and 
tracking metrics. Specialized teams work on a variety 
of projects and programs, ranging from basic office 
recycling to more complex projects such as developing 
and capturing intrinsic waste materials generated off a 
manufacturing line. Through an evaluation process, all 
aspects of waste reduction benefits or risk are reviewed.2025 Goal: Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 
30 percent of manufacturing sites.  
In addition to our waste reduction goal, we plan to 
increase repurposing, reusing, and recycling of potential 
waste materials to divert from landfill disposal.
A location receives "zero landfill" status when it has gone 
a full calendar year without sending any manufacturing 
operations waste to a landfill. It will continue to be a zero 
landfill location as long as no manufacturing operations 
waste is sent to a landfill. Waste, as defined here, does 
not include ash generated from 3M material sent to a 
waste-to-energy or incineration location controlled by a 
third party.
Our Actions
In 2017, we continued with our company-wide strategy 
on reuse, reduction, and internal recycling, as well 
as collaboration with our own technical community, 
channel partners, and civic and conservation leaders in 
communities where 3M operates.
Earth’s natural resources are limited. 
Our drive for preserving them is not.Raw Materials How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials
#improvinglives  | 147 146 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWaste from manufacturing locations accounts for the 
majority of waste in 3M’s environmental footprint. 3M’s 
waste metrics include 3M manufacturing operations 
with total output greater than 4.54 metric tons per 
year (10,000 pounds) which represents 98 percent of 
Sales Value of Production (SVOP) of our manufacturing 
locations.
3M practices waste minimization whenever practical 
to reduce the amount and hazards of waste materials 
generated. Between 2015 and 2017 there has been a 
3.52 percent reduction in absolute total hazardous waste 
or a 9.29 percent reduction as compared to total waste. 
3M is also dedicated to operating in accordance with 
all regulations and managing waste materials safely and 
responsibly. All 3M locations are required to manage all 
returned, recycled, and waste materials from the time of 
generation until reused, recycled, treated, or disposed.
We work closely with Corporate LSS to increase waste 
reduction across all locations. Our waste indexed to net 
sales has decreased 26.4 percent since 2005.
Maximizing beneficial use of 
raw materials 
EN
23, 28G4 Raw material usage is a measurement of overall 
product and process yield throughout our 
manufacturing processes and is a key metric for 
3M. It’s indicative of operational excellence in our 
product design and manufacturing processes. Our raw 
material usage includes the product, the process, and all 
by-products.
The diversity of manufacturing technologies, processes, 
and products at 3M provides opportunities for creative 
waste usage solutions for the company. Accurate 
waste identification is a continuous education process 
and provides a foundational opportunity to further 
advance waste minimization and recycling at all our 
locations. One business’s by-product may connect as 
another business’s raw material. As we continue to grow 
internationally, integrating consistent, yet resourceful, 
waste management practices in accordance to 3M 
standards remains a key objective.As such, we continuously look for ways to recover, 
reuse, and recycle by-products and other waste material 
when feasible. And when it’s not usable, we responsibly 
dispose of waste materials. The concept of maximizing 
beneficial raw material use is important both internally 
and externally to address the global challenge of 
resource efficiency and scarcity.
3P (Pollution Prevention Pays)
The 3M Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program is based 
on the belief that a prevention approach to pollution 
is more environmentally effective, more socially 
acceptable, and more economical than treatment. Begun 
more than 40 years ago, the program has prevented 
more than 2.36 million short tons of pollutants and saved 
over $2.1 billion based on aggregated data from the first 
year of each 3P project. Success has been achieved 
thanks to voluntary participation from employees across 
the company, including research and development, 
manufacturing, logistics, transportation, and packaging. 
Innovative projects are submitted and then reviewed and 
selected based on defined criteria by a 3P committee 
representing Research and Development, Engineering, 
Environmental, Health and Safety, Manufacturing, 
Sustainability, and Supply Chain organizations. 
As part of the program, select projects are honored 
based upon their exceptional achievement. In 2017, 
one division, one country, and several facilities were 
recognized for their 2016 achievements at the July 2017 
Executive Conference. 
• The 3M Commercial Solutions Division was named 
3P Division of the Year, for preventing 3,780 tons of 
pollution, at a cost savings of $12.5 million
• United Kingdom received 3P Country of the Year 
honors, for preventing 4,740 tons of pollution at a 
cost savings of $3.3 million
• Exceptional Awards went to 3M Rockland (Air 
Emission Reduction), 3M Nevada (Greenhouse 
Gas Reduction), 3M Tilton, 3M Kamen (Waste 
Reduction), and 3M Brookings (Waste and Water 
Reduction)1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
Total Water Pollution 
Prevented �Total Air Pollution 
Prevented Total Waste Pollution 
Prevented3P Global Pollution Prevention Achievements: 1975-2017
First Year Total Pollution Prevention Cumulative Totals, Short TonsHow We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials
#improvinglives  | 149 148 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportZero landfill
Zero landfill is a goal that resonates with our local 
communities as well as our suppliers and customers. 
However, it has various definitions for different people 
and locations. We’ve spent a lot of time during our goal 
development process benchmarking peer companies 
that span relevant business sectors and industries. 
And we’ve chosen a holistic definition: zero landfill 
means no waste is sent directly to a landfill from a 3M 
manufacturing location in a calendar year. While we 
want to have all locations divert waste from landfills and 
increase beneficial reuse, this goal may not be financially 
or technically feasible for all locations in 3M.
Our location waste data are reported in a corporate 
database quarterly. The data are third-party validated 
at select locations and at the corporate level. We also 
require locations meeting this goal to complete an 
internal assessment to assure accurate reporting.
By the end of 2017, 27.9 percent of 3M locations had 
attained zero landfill status.Dumpster diving to reach zero
In 2017, 3M Cynthiana, Kentucky, which manufactures 
such iconic 3M products as Post-it® Notes and Scotch® 
Packaging Tapes, joined 52 other 3M locations in 
achieving zero landfill status.
3M Cynthiana originally set a goal to be “landfill free” 
in 2010. Step one in achieving this goal was creating an 
employee team focused on reducing waste sent to the 
landfill and increasing recycling efforts. Since then this 
team made many trips – or “dumpster dives” as team 
members call them – to the local landfill to identify 
waste streams that could be recycled.
Between 2010 and 2016, landfill waste was reduced by 
over 70 percent (per pound of product), and the facility 
was recycling or reusing over 95 percent of its waste. To 
eliminate the last waste being sent to landfill, the facility 
leveraged a local waste-to-energy operation.0.02.05.06.07.0
1.03.04.0
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Waste
Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales
*Waste no longer includes waste-to-energy0150,000
50,000200,000350,000
250,000
100,000300,000
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Global Waste Diversion by Type
Metric Tons 
Waste-to-Energy Offsite Recycle Offsite Reuse* Onsite Recycle + Reuse*
*Does not include Onsite Recycle & Reuse and Offsite Reuse from 3M's Industrial Mineral Product (IMP) Division
0150,000
50,000200,000
100,000
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Global Waste by Disposal Type
Metric Tons
Treatement/Incineration Landfilled
*Waste no longer includes waste-to-energyHow We Work  |  E nvironmental Management  |  R aw Materials
#improvinglives  | 151 150 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportThe facility had its first zero waste to landfill quarter 
in the fourth quarter of 2016 and has successfully maintained that status throughout all of 2017.
This achievement contributes to our Sustainability goal 
to achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 30 percent of manufacturing sites by 2025.
Kaizen waste reduction events
Kaizen is the Japanese word for “continuous improvement.” In 2017, in a continuation of previous efforts, teams at 12 3M U.S. locations held kaizen events to prioritize efforts that will reduce manufacturing waste. The events included facility walk-throughs, waste-by-cause analyses, and identification of opportunities for improvement. With our learnings from these events, we developed a LSS Sustainability Tool Kit with templates and examples for replication use at our global locations. 
Part of the solution requires utilizing LSS within a 
location to segregate and manage material flow for waste streams and analyze the availability of internal and external waste handling alternatives.
As locations identify opportunities to divert waste 
streams, we protect 3M’s reputation while managing waste, and set up contracts with our haulers, recyclers, and waste-to-energy companies to confirm that our material is handled appropriately.
Aligning with Business Transformation
Aligning with 3M’s LSS as a basis for driving continuous improvement, the True Cost of Waste Black Belt project was designed to assist in achieving our 2025 goal of reducing manufacturing waste by 10 percent indexed to sales. By using the LSS tools, the project team quickly determined that a primary issue for manufacturing locations is lack of visibility regarding the quantity and cost of waste streams. The project used Business Transformation and our global Enterprise Resource Planning System to gain visibility into each manufacturing location’s waste, thereby allowing them to better use LSS tools for project identification and prioritizing, and ultimately reducing waste.Looking forward…
As we look ahead, 3M is focusing on initiatives that  
will help us engage more of the value chain. We’re looking to get high yields and reuse waste in other locations, processes, and products. We’re testing disruptive technology that makes clean-up easier, using fewer solvents.
#improvinglives means changing
how industry works, from purification to aerospace.
We provide thousands of innovative products, from tapes and  abrasives, to adhesives and filtration systems; helping solve some of the world’s biggest challenges across diverse markets.
IndustrialHow We Work | Environmental Management | Water
#improvinglives  | 153 152 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
With an eye on our footprint and the strength of our 
technologies and collaboration, we acknowledge we 
can continue to make a difference in water availability 
and quality around the world.
Water Quality and Availability
EN
22G4 Water is the most valuable natural resource for 
life and thriving ecosystems; therefore, our 
planet’s consumption must be nurtured and 
thoughtfully managed. We recognize that reducing 
water consumption in our operations and improving 
water quality are important elements of optimizing our 
environmental stewardship. Quantitatively, the 
availability of water must meet the needs of current and future consumer demands. In addition, water quality 
must comply with local regulations and be reliable in the 
long term.
Water is an important component for the manufacturing 
and support systems of several of our products. Because 
of this, 3M continues to actively understand, manage, 
and work toward reducing our corporate water footprint 
while providing innovative solutions to our customers.
We respect our ecological and ethical responsibility and 
have a vested interest in preserving and improving water 
availability and quality relative to our operations and the 
communities we serve.
3M’s Water Management Standard  provides a company-
wide framework, including both general and specific 
elements for water management. The standard requires 
3M operations to manage their water resources through 
understanding the balance of water use, compliance 
with regulatory requirements, systematic and prioritized 
conservation practices, and reporting usage. Water 
resources include water intake, effluent water discharge, 
and rainwater.2025 Goal: Reduce global water use by an additional 
10 percent, indexed to sales.
3M operations must manage their water resources 
through compliance with regulatory requirements, 
conservation and reuse, and reporting of water 
usage internally. 
2025 Goal: Engage 100 percent of water-stressed/
scarce communities where 3M manufactures, on 
community-wide approaches to water management.
Partner with local communities to advance water 
recycling and conservation. Ultimately, we aim to help 
these communities build and manage their own clean 
water efforts into the future. 
Risk-Mitigation Planning
EN
9, 11-12,  14G4
SO
2G4 At 3M, we continually evaluate our 
approach to opportunity and risk. We 
believe the whole concept of risk 
appetite and tolerance is an essential component of 
strategic planning. This includes a broad risk oversight by 
the Board and its committees, with committee-level risk 
analyses reported to the full Board and executive-level 
internal auditor and Chief Compliance Officer appointed 
by, and reporting directly to, the Audit Committee .3M uses the definitions and tools established by the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) to screen the company’s various locations and 
their water use with validated WBCSD water availability, 
population, and biodiversity information both on a 
country and watershed basis. In 2017, 25 sites with 
annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic 
meters were located in water-stressed areas as defined 
by the extremely high baseline water stress value 
according to the WBCSD-Global Water Tool.
Each 3M site located in a water-stressed area is required 
to understand its water use, associated business risks 
and impacts, and to work with local water resources to 
understand potential impacts on the surrounding area. 
Those sites are also requested to do water conservation 
planning, outlining current and future water conservation 
efforts. Annual stress-level screening evaluations are 
conducted for global operations using available updates 
from the water tool, an analysis of site operations and 
water usage and local conditions.
Our Actions
EN
8, 10G4 We are continuously evaluating our water use 
footprint with a consistent, company-wide 
focus on reuse, reduction, and internal 
recycling, as well as collaboration with our own technical 
community, channel partners, and civic and conservation 
leaders in communities where 3M operates.
WaterHow We Work | Environmental Management | Water
#improvinglives  | 155 154 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M’s total water usage includes sanitary, process, 
heating, cooling, remediation, and other miscellaneous 
sources. Water usage data are tracked and reported 
annually on a global basis for manufacturing sites that 
produce greater than 4.54 metric tons (10,000 pounds) 
of product per year. The reported data accounts for 
98 percent of Sales Value of Production (SVOP) which 
provides solid coverage of water use considered 
material to 3M’s operational environmental footprint.
Total water consumption has decreased 37.2 percent 
between 2005 and 2017 indexed to corporate-wide 
net sales. Results also indicate that a majority of 3M 
water use in operations is for processing products in 
manufacturing and heating or cooling of those processes 
and associated operations. We continue to improve our 
data accuracy through monitoring and measurement.
Water conservation efforts have been achieved through 
recycling, reuse, product redesigns, and improvements 
to our buildings and manufacturing processes. A 
majority of our water-intense manufacturing operations 
are located in the U.S. and Europe, in areas that are not 
Corporate Water Stewardship Team
In 2017 our Corporate Water Stewardship team, with 
executive management sponsors, continues to review 
policies, programs, and procedures while expanding 
our global internal systems, to create, identify, and 
share best management practices related to water 
conservation.
As part of this team, we are closely working with our 
Corporate Energy Management group to evaluate 
the synergy between water and energy. Through this 
work we are implementing water reduction projects at 
targeted facilities. For further information on our actions 
in energy, see Climate and Energy .
Evaluating Opportunities in Industrial 
Water Reuse and Cost of Water
3M is a part of a team, working under the auspices of 
the Water Environment & Reuse Foundation (WERF), 
on a scorecard to evaluate opportunities in industrial 
water reuse. The team is working to develop a tool that 
can provide a facility-level estimate of the true cost of 
water, provide flow/cost breakdown by water use area 
and consistency in data requirements based on process-
specific changes.water-stressed or water-scarce. However, they also 
contribute significantly to our conservation efforts. As 
the company continues to grow globally, thoughtful 
consideration is placed on the type of operations and 
availability of water sources.
As part of these efforts, we are looking at alternative 
ways to evaluate baseline water usage and the potential 
water cost and savings provided by capital expenditures 
at our facilities, including efforts to pilot the tool at one 
of our U.S. facilities. We are taking our learnings from 
this tool and looking at ways to implement them within 
our water strategy.
Looking forward…
A 10-year plan to address global 
water challenges.
Our 10-year strategic plan will focus not only on 
water use reduction, but also on collaboration and 
social innovation in search of solutions for emerging 
global water challenges. In addition, we will consider 
the counterbalance between water reduction, water 
quality, and water-related risks to reflect the concept of 
‘respecting every drop’.
During the first part of 2018, as part of our Corporate 
Water Stewardship Team, we are currently evaluating 
and looking to update our Water Management Standard 
to reflect our efforts throughout our value chain.0102530404550
35
51520
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Water Usage
Million Cubic Meters0.0000.0010.003
0.002
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Water Usage
Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales
Groundwater
46.2%Surface
22.8%
Other 
Sources
10.5%Public Municipal
20.6%Global Water Withdrawal
2017 Percentage
Groundwater
46.2%Surface
22.8%
Other 
Sources
10.5%Public Municipal
20.6%Global Water Withdrawal
2017 PercentageHow We Work  | En vironmental Management  | Cl imate and Energy
#improvinglives  | 1 57 156 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
A steady foc us on climate and energy 
conservation.
T
hrough the years, 3M has been a proactive leader in 
addressing both the challenges and the opportunities 
presented by climate change and energy conservation.
Our proactive leadership is best defined by five areas 
of action:
• Executive-level commitment to these important
topics and our related principles, commitments,and risk-mitigation planning efforts
• Industry-leading efforts to reduce our owngreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions• Extensive public policy engagement on bothclimate change and energy conservation
• A decades-long track record of improving energyefficiency at our locations
• Serving our customers through a wide range ofinnovative products that help them improve energyefficiency and reduce their carbon footprints
Executive-Level Commitment
SO
2G4 Climate change and energy efficiency are high-
priority issues throughout 3M, up to theCorporate Operating Committee and Chief 
Executive Officer. The Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee has been empowered by company leadership to take proactive steps and be responsible for all final decisions on climate change and energy strategy, including setting company reduction goals and policies. For climate change strategy and GHG emission guidance, the Corporate EHS Committee has appointed a corporate Climate Change Steering Team.
Public Policy Engagement
3M endorses voluntary approaches to GHG emissions management. Any mandatory GHG emission reductions should be developed through international negotiations and follow these policy principles:
• Apply broadly to countries or groups of countriesand GHG emission sources
• Be guided by science-based decision making
• Utilize a consistent, market-based approach
• Encourage investment and protect intellectualproperty to facilitate technology breakthroughs
• Include provisions for carbon emissionstrading and/or alternative investment andcompliance programs• Provide full credit for early reductions in
GHG emissions
• Balance multiple country-level priorities, includingenergy reliability and independence, nationalsecurity, and economic growth and employment
• Include provisions that promote the efficientallocation of emissions reductions and assure allsectors contribute to reduction targets, with theeffect of allowing fair competition and avoidingmarket distortions within industrial sectors oracross national boundaries
3M is actively engaged in public policy development to address climate change concerns. For additional information, see our Engaging Our Stakeholders  section.
Climate and 
Energy How We Work  | En vironmental Management  | Cl imate and Energy
#improvinglives  | 1 59 158 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportRisk-Mitigation Planning
EC
2G4 Severe weather and long-term trends could 
affect 3M’s operations and supply chain. To
address these and other risks, 3M maintains a 
systematic Business Continuity and Planning Process and Crisis Management Program which coordinates efforts of local crisis management teams maintained at each 3M location and international subsidiary.
Corporate and local plans take into account the risk of 
natural disaster, infectious disease, employee safety, protection of assets, customer service, and other business continuity requirements.
Supply c
hain risks are mitigated using a variety of 
ma
nagement practices, including:
• Multi-sourcing of raw materials
• Pre-qualification of potential outsourcemanufacturers
• Maintaining appropriate stocks of raw materials
• Contingency plans with key suppliers to assureallocation to 3M in the event of supply disruption
Science-Based Targets
3M, as a science-based company, supports a proactive approach of science-based GHG emission reduction targets. We have a long record of being proactive on this issue, as demonstrated by our 68.1 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 (Location-based) GHG emissions from our operations through 2017, from a 2002 baseline. This ambitious reduction currently aligns with the concept of science-based goal setting, in that it far exceeds the reductions called for to date in the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). See Looking forward  below 
for additional information.
2025 Goal: Improve energy efficiency indexed to net 
sales by 30 percent. 
Energy efficiency improvements help reduce energy 
use, associated costs, and GHG emissions.3M has taken a broad approach to managing our energy footprint, which includes evaluating the impact of new products and manufacturing processes as well as new equipment and locations; and reducing the energy footprint of our manufacturing and administrative locations. In addition, we actively share information about our energy management program with external stakeholders, such as suppliers, customers, and other interested organizations.
2025 Goal: Increase renewable energy to 25 percent 
of total electricity use. 
Achieving this goal will mean adding nearly 800,000 
MWh of renewable energy use globally. The primary sources of this renewable energy will be wind and solar.
2025 Goal: Ensure GHG emissions at least 50 percent 
below our 2002 baseline, while growing our business. 
3M is in a leadership position due to our early actions, 
starting more than 10 years ago, to reduce our GHG emissions. We are committed to continuing that leadership even as we grow the company in order to help our customers address the issue of climate change.
By conserving energy, reformulating products, and 
prioritizing opportunities, 3M has been able to achieve industry-leading GHG emission reductions. Other companies are setting goals to move closer to the achievements we have already realized.
2025 Goal: Help our customers reduce their GHGs by 
250 million tons of CO
2 equivalent emissions through 
use of 3M products.
While 3M has made significant GHG emission 
reductions across our global operations, we realize we can make far greater contributions by helping our customers reduce their GHG emissions through the use of our products. For additional information on how we work with our customers, see Our Customers .on September 1, 2017, includes 69 turbines on a 14,000-acre site. 
This is the second wind energy agreement for 3M within 
the last two years. With this agreement, our total wind energy purchases now have reached 579 megawatt hours of wind energy or 17.9 percent of our company’s total global electricity use.
Holding treasure hunts to find 
conservation opportunities 
In 2016, 3M conducted energy treasure hunts at eight 
3M locations, focused on building up energy-based project hoppers and, ultimately, making continuous improvement toward the company’s 2025 goals.
In 2017, 16 more sites joined in the hunt. These sites 
identified approximately $5.0 million in energy savings opportunities, an average of 12.3 percent of their energy spend. Several more sites are scheduled in the future.
To see our efforts in action, see additional information 
under Energy Summit .
Combined heat and power
We also identified areas of focus that will make a step-change in the energy and carbon intensity of our operations. The implementation of combined heat and power systems and heat recovery systems at certain 3M locations has a large potential to improve efficiency and reduce our combined direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions. The implementation of advanced energy information systems in our manufacturing locations is expected to give operations personnel information they can use to more effectively manage energy use. 
Learn more on how we are implementing these systems 
at our facilities: here .
ISO 50001
The internationally recognized ISO 50001 standard and the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Superior Energy Performance (SEP™) certification program, help 3M locations become attuned to recognizing and seizing opportunities to increase energy efficiency in site  Our Actions
Energy Management
EN
3, 5, 6G4 Energy management at 3M goes beyond 
energy-efficiency efforts in factories andbuildings. It is a team effort guided by the global 
Corporate Energy Policy  and coordinated by the 
Corporate Energy Management team, with oversight by 3M’s Corporate Energy Manager and Engineering Vice President, and active support from the Chief Executive Officer. The group based in St. Paul, Minnesota regularly engages with company-wide stakeholders to expand their global footprint and grow a culture of energy, forming a Corporate Energy Leadership Team. Members of this inter-departmental team come from Environmental Operations, Location Operations, Finance, Sourcing, Engineering, Energy Management, Corporate Marketing, and Public Affairs. Each department provides cross-functional contributions, assuring that:
• Energy-efficient technologies are being used
• Opportunities are being identified in thedesign process
• Renewable energy opportunities are identified andfinanced
• Data are tracked routinely and consistentlyby locations
3M reviews its Strategic Energy Management Plan annually to prioritize programs and meet global goals. The plan uses input from stakeholders, including manufacturing directors, plant managers, operations employees, and executive management. Goals of the plan include to continuously improve results, leverage engineering expertise and advances, drive facility-level efficiency improvements, maintain top management support, and protect 3M’s reputation.
Catching Wind
In a continuing effort to increase the use of renewable energy sources, 3M signed an agreement to purchase 100 megawatts of wind energy from Akuo Energy. This agreement includes the sale of wind energy from a 150 megawatt wind turbine plant located near Rocksprings, Texas. This Akuo Energy project, which began operation How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy
160 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 161operations, and move from delivering energy projects 
in a loosely-organized fashion to a structured system of 
management. By integrating the systematic ISO-based 
framework of “plan-do-check-act” for the management 
of energy in on-site operations, our locations have seen 
savings in energy costs and consumption, expansion 
of employee engagement, and increased visibility to 
the tracking of site energy performance. 3M has been 
busy increasing its ISO 50001 and SEP-certified profile, 
with 28 locations now certified or working toward 
certification under those two programs.
In 2017, we were recognized by the Clean Energy 
Ministerial (CEM) Energy Management Leadership 
Awards program. 3M was one of 34 organizations, 
across 21 countries, to receive the Energy Management 
Insight Award. The award recognizes 3M’s role in 
building awareness of ISO 50001 and contributing 
to global knowledge of energy management 
implementation. 3M has been invited to speak at two 
related events: joint China-U.S. Energy Efficiency forum 
at Denver in October; and the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) Workshop on Energy Management 
Systems and Digital Technologies for Industrial Energy 
Efficiency and Productivity, at Paris in December.
We are transforming the ways we use 
and evaluate energy
In 2017, 3M piloted a project at select facilities focusing 
on energy reduction opportunities in heating, ventilation, 
and air conditioning (HVAC) technology. We realized 
approximately $175,000 in savings with optimization of 
HVAC units completed at no cost. With the successful 
demonstration of this project, we seek to introduce this 
process at more 3M facilities in 2018.
Also in 2017, we have seen energy monitoring getting 
increased visibility and support within engineering 
on new projects and upgrades. This new metering 
technology will aid in the identification of energy costs 
associated with the manufacturing process and allow 
for better analysis to reduce energy costs both during 
production and non-production time periods.
In addition, we developed an energy analysis tool for 
use by all 3M locations. The tool is designed to provide 
quick analysis and identification of energy projects, and 
estimated payback periods. It uses actual site energy 
costs and weather data for analysis of energy costs in 
lighting, motors, makeup air, and compressed air.Hunt  training session. The 3M Corporate Environmental 
team gave its first live and in-person group training with 
a global team of participants, using tools, resources, and 
training for successful treasure hunt events. At the end 
of the day, participants identified an estimated $190,000 
in annual energy cost savings.
Energy Excellence Awards
The Energy Excellence Award honors individuals and 
teams that incorporate the goals of the Corporate 
Energy Program in engineering projects. The projects 
and individuals nominated actively demonstrate their 
commitment to include energy efficiency in the design 
of projects, in equipment selection, or in the use of 
alternative energy supplies. The award is one of global 
recognition within the 3M Engineering community. 
In May 2017, three awards were given at the 2017 
Engineering Awards ceremony in St. Paul, Minnesota:
• 3M Greenville, South Carolina for eliminating 
solvent from the curing process for box  
sealing tapesWe continued our Lighting Challenge in 2017, focused on 
3M locations upgrading their lighting systems to light-
emitting diode (LED) technology. It is estimated that over 
250,000 lamps have been purchased for installation 
in 2017, producing a cost savings of approximately 
$3.2 million.
Plant Engineering and Energy Global 
Leadership Summit
In June 2017, leaders of our growing energy network 
met in St. Paul, Minnesota as a part of the Plant 
Engineering and Energy Global Leadership Summit. For 
the first time, 3M included a specific energy track, with 
inspirational results. More than 160 energy professionals 
who work at various levels throughout the corporation 
attended.
Over the course of three days, we had 12 energy-
specific 3M presenters and seven poster session 
participants, with an electrical meter vendor and the 
Department of Energy offering unique breakout session 
opportunities. Topics covered included:
• How to Build a Cross-Functional Energy Team
• On-Site Solar at 3M Locations
• The Value of Energy Metering
• Energy Programs in Canada
• Energy Project Prioritization
On the final day of the conference, the 3M Cottage 
Grove, Minnesota facility hosted an Energy Treasure • 3M Taiwan, for increasing solvent recovery 
efficiency and reducing steam consumption in 
solvent recovery units
• 3M India, for energy cost reductions related to the 
installation of a rooftop solar system that meets 10 
percent of the Ranjangaon facility’s power needs
2017 Plant Energy Award
At the conclusion of each year, the Corporate Energy 
Management team recognizes the top facilities in our 
program for their results in energy metrics. To qualify, 
these facilities must demonstrate an active culture of 
energy management practices on-site, as evidenced 
by their delivered project savings, their energy team 
assessment score, and the resulting improved efficiency 
in energy intensity on-site. Fourteen platinum awards, 
six gold awards, and three silver awards were presented 
to facilities with the most impressive results.
020,000,000
10,000,00030,000,000
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Energy Use
MMBtu
2017 Plant Engineering & Energy Leadership Summit
June 13, 2017
How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy
#improvinglives  | 163 162 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportDirect Emissions (Scope 1) and 
Indirect (Scope 2)
EN
15-19G4 Since 2002, 3M has reduced Scope 1 GHG 
emissions by 76.4 percent, providing a direct 
and immediate reduction in our impact on the 
environment. During this same timeframe, we have 
achieved a 68.1 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1 
and 2 Location-based GHG emissions. What makes 
these reductions even more impressive is that they 
occurred even as the company grew sales and 
production during this timeframe.
The GHG inventory has been calculated from 2002 
to the current year by the 3M EHS Laboratory in 
accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI)/ 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate Greenhouse Gas 
Accounting and Reporting Standard. The 3M EHS These quality system elements coupled with third party 
review of our emissions have assured that 3M’s GHG 
inventory is always in line with the five core principles 
of relevance, completeness, consistency, accuracy, and 
transparency.
GHG emission reductions are achieved through a 
variety of methods: improving process and equipment efficiency, upgrading equipment, reducing our demand 
for energy use, increasing our use of renewable energy, 
and implementing and maintaining pollution control 
technologies. These methods, and more, are integral 
to the company’s overall success and assist us with 
the challenge of helping to address global climate 
change concerns.
Laboratory maintains an accreditation to ANSI/ ISO/
IEC 17025 through A2LA, an ILAC MRA signatory, 
for a number of laboratory methods. Although it is 
not possible to put 3M’s GHG inventory methodology 
on the lab’s scope of accreditation, our calculation 
methodology has been improved by working with a 
number of the quality system elements required by 
ANSI/ISO/IEC 17025, including:
• Defined responsibilities and interrelationships of all 
key staff
• Documentation of key personnel qualifications
• Control over quality system documents 
and procedures
• Control of records
• Corrective and preventive action system
• Internal audit program
• Documented and approved calculation procedures06
2814
10
412161820
2002** 2005 2010 2012*New 
Methodology
2013* 2014* 2015* 2017* 2016*Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2
Million Metric Tons CO 2 equivalents
Scope 2 Location Based 
GHG Emissions 
(AR5/MRR Method)Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(AR4 Method)Scope 2 Location Based 
GHG Emissions 
(AR4 Method)Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(AR5/MRR Method)
*2012-2017 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting
*Under U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology, >95% of total reported emissions are from Kyoto gases
**2002 Inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% Increase over original reported value)01503004506007509001,0501,2001,350
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Energy Use
MMBtu per MM USD Net SalesHow We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy
#improvinglives  | 165 164 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportsell, and the diversity of their uses by businesses and 
consumers across the globe. Many of our approximately 
55,000-plus product lines are “intermediates” with 
many potential downstream applications, each with a 
different GHG emissions profile, making it impossible to 
reasonably estimate downstream emissions associated 
with the use of these products.
Evaluating Customer GHG 
Emissions Reductions 
EN
7G4 3M has a process in place to develop 
reasonable estimates for reductions in customer 
GHG emissions associated with use of 3M 
products. This process is based on the ISO 14064-2 
standard for determining GHG emissions reductions. 
The standard compares emissions from the project 
scenario (3M product scenario) against a 
baseline scenario.
The boundary of the 3M product scenario is nature 
to end-of-use or nature to grave. Where reliable 
information is available, we include emissions associated 
with disposal of 3M products. The 3M product 
scenario uses high-level estimates and averages for 
manufacturing emissions (e.g., energy per pound 
of product produced at a location rather than more 
specific information). 
The boundaries of the baseline scenario match the 3M 
product scenario, except that we apply conservative 
assumptions. Conservative is defined as a choice 
that creates a minimum in the GHG emissions of the 
baseline scenario. For example, if data does not exist 
for a chemical in the baseline scenario, we assume 
the emissions to be zero. In some cases, there is no 
equivalent to the 3M product, so the baseline scenario is 
the absence of the 3M product entirely.
The uncertainty for these studies is ±50 percent, which 
approximates data of fair to good quality as defined in 
the WRI/ WBCSD Product Life Cycle and Accounting 
Standard Quantitative Inventory Uncertainty Guide.
According to our calculations, in 2017 alone, our 
customers avoided emitting about 13 million metric 
tons CO2 equivalents through use of various 3M 
product platforms calculated in accordance with 
the ISO 14064-2 and 3M EHS Laboratory standard 
operating procedures.GHG Emissions from Our 
Suppliers and Customers 
(Scope 3)
EN
4, 17, 30G4 3M has been developing our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions inventory since the publishing of the 
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard in 
October 2011. We place a high value on sound science 
and decision-making. When the complexity of the supply 
chain does not allow for direct calculation, an input/
output model calculation method is used.
We continuously evaluate our methodology and auditing 
practices to assure meaningful, consistent, and accurate 
comparison of emissions over time. At this time, a 
base year has not yet been established for Scope 3 
GHG emissions.
For this report, the model for our Scope 3 Category 1 
(Purchased Goods and Services) and Category 2 (Capital 
Goods) GHG emissions changed. The new model is 
based on the 2017 EPA United States environmentally-
extended input-output model (USEEIO) factors (USEEIO: 
A new and transparent United States environmentally 
extended input-output model, Yi Yang, Wesley W. 
Ingwersen, Troy R. Hawkins, Michael Srocka, David 
E. Meyer. Journal of Cleaner Production  158 (2017) 
308-318). 
Recalculation of prior year’s Scope 3, Category 1 and 
2 GHG emissions, using this new model, is reflected in 
this year’s report. Prior published Scope 3 data are not 
directly comparable to this report.
During an internal audit of these prior-year values, we 
identified a separate underreporting error for the 2016 
reported values for our Scope 3 Category 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions of 7 percent and 4 percent, respectively. 
This error arose from incorrect raw data used in prior 
calculations using the old model. The recalculated data 
for 2016 corrects this error. It is reasonably likely that 
similar raw data input errors exist in previously published 
Scope 3, Category 1 and 2 data for 2015 and prior years. 
For 3M, Categories 9 (Downstream Transportation 
and Distribution), 10 (Processing of Sold Products), 11 
(Use of Sold Products), and 12 (End of Life Treatment 
of Sold Product) pose a unique challenge. This is 
due to the number and complexity of products we Greenhouse Gas Quality System
Completeness Consistency Accuracy Transparency Relevance
Clearly defined 
boundariesStrive to calculate 
and report all GHG 
emissions; data 
coverage 99+ 
percent of inventoryData based on 
approved scientific 
methods; should 
methods change, 
3M will, wherever 
possible, recalculate 
prior years’ inventoryAudit (internal and 
external) GHG 
emissions and 
calculationsClear disclosure 
of processes, 
procedures, 
assumptions, and 
limitations of the 
GHG inventory0400
2006008001,200
1,000
2002** 2005 2010 2012*New 
Methodology
2013* 2014* 2015* 2017* 2016*Indexed Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2
Metric Tons CO 2 equivalents per MM USD Net Sales
Scope 2 Location Based 
GHG Emissions 
(AR5/MRR Method)Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(AR4 Method)Scope 2 Location Based 
GHG Emissions 
(AR4 Method)Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(AR5/MRR Method)
*2012-2017 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting
*Under U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology, >95% of total reported emissions are from Kyoto gases
**2002 Inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% Increase in absolute emissions over original reported value)How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy
#improvinglives  | 167 166 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportAir Quality Management
EN
21G4 An important component to 3M’s Sustainability 
strategy is our commitment to improving air 
quality globally.
As a company that uses many solvent-based materials, 
3M inherently releases volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) from many of our manufacturing processes. 
Because of this, many of our locations require permits 
with rigorous VOC tracking requirements. Even where 
tracking is not required from a regulatory perspective, 
3M voluntarily tracks VOC usage and emissions from 
major sources of emissions in order to identify further 
opportunities for reduction. 3M has developed internal 
programs to minimize its VOC emissions. We track 
and report emissions based on raw material usage, 
engineering estimates, and stack test data.
For many 3M manufacturing processes, NOx, SO2, 
CO, and PM are emitted as products of combustion. 
These pollutants are tracked and reported externally 
where required by federal, state, or local regulations for 
individual locations. 3M internally tracks all fuel usage local regulations. We evaluate all equipment options, 
select those that are the most environmentally effective 
and cost-effective, and assure proper operation of 
emission control equipment. Technologies include 
Thermal Oxidization, Solvent Recovery, Carbon 
Adsorption, Biofiltration, Electrostatic Precipitators, 
Baghouses, Scrubbers, and Cyclones.
Ozone Depleting Substances
EN
20G4 The Montreal Protocol is the first worldwide 
agreement designed to protect human health 
and the environment against the adverse effects 
of the depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer. The 
Protocol identifies the list of ozone depleting substances 
(ODS) that are targeted for control practices, reductions, 
or total phase-outs and provides a phase-out schedule. 
In addition, some countries have established regulations 
regarding the management of refrigeration appliances.
3M has set forth requirements in order to provide a 
framework for how 3M operations are to manage their 
refrigeration appliances containing ODS in the context 
of applicable international protocols, local regulations, 
and current and future economic impacts. These 
requirements include conformance to the Montreal 
Protocol when applicable.
Clean Air Assistance Project Funding
In November 2016, 3M made a financial contribution 
to support the Environmental Initiative’s Clean Air 
Assistance Project (CAAP) in Minnesota. The primary 
objective of this project was to assist small businesses 
with emission-reduction initiatives, primarily those 
involving volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In 
2017, two solvent-based auto body shops in St. Paul, 
Minnesota were converted to waterborne paint systems. 
This change eliminated an estimated 2,950 pounds of 
VOC emissions annually. Public project funding, which 
leveraged 3M’s initial contribution, was provided by 
government, community organizations, and companies 
connected to the two businesses.and calculates the combustion emission rates using 
accepted emission factors.
Main VOC by Source Type
• 3M’s VOC emissions are primarily attributed to 
coating lines
• Reactors and mixing are also significant sources of 
VOC emissions
VOC by Location 
• 90 percent of our locations emit less than 100 tons 
per year VOC 
• 30 percent of our locations emit less than 1 ton per 
year VOC
Implementing and maintaining 
pollution control
3M has made significant progress in reducing air 
emissions – at the source, and by improving process 
efficiencies. Where emissions cannot be reduced within 
the process, 3M installs and maintains air emission 
control equipment as required by federal, state, and Looking forward…
3M is supporting the further implementation of ISO 
50001 though a collaborative effort with the Canadian, 
Mexican, and U.S. governments.
We will continue work to understand and evaluate 
methodologies for setting a science-based GHG 
emission target. One challenge is the current gap 
in availability of a certified reduction scheme for all 
entities. We have evaluated the methods currently 
provided by the Science Based Targets Initiative 
(SBTI) and determined that these may not support 
the operations of a large, highly diversified entity 
such as 3M. So we are now actively working to find a 
science-based approach that could be appropriately 
applied to a company with our broad set of product 
categories and markets served. Moving forward, we will 
continue to track how the SBTI expands its methodology 
offerings, and evaluate other options that may become 
available. However, above all, we will continue to work 
toward achieving our four existing climate and energy 
related goals.
We will continue to track the evolution of climate change 
related regulations globally. Through understanding 
from both internal and external perspectives, we can 
strengthen and develop corporate strategy, goals, 
targets, programs, initiatives, and engagement to 
advance Sustainability globally.0.0000.1000.2500.3000.350
0.0500.1500.200
2014 2016 2017 2013 2015 2010 2005Global Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Metric Tons per MM USD Net SalesHow We Work | Suppliers
#improvinglives  | 169 168 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report Our Commitment
2025 Goal: Drive supply chain Sustainability through 
targeted raw material traceability and supplier 
performance assurance.
SD
12G4 We understand that our Sustainability impacts 
extend beyond our own operations. By 
purchasing raw materials and services from 
small and large companies all over the world, we 
participate in a global, complex, supply chain. And it 
doesn’t stop there. Our suppliers have their own 
suppliers, extending back to the original source of  
each material we use.
At each step in the supply chain, there are benefits 
(like employment and community-building) as well 
as the potential for negative impacts (like pollution or 
unsafe or unfair labor practices). Our commitment is to maximize the positives and mitigate the potential 
negatives by aligning our supplier expectations with 
our own corporate values. We expect our suppliers to 
be transparent about their environmental and social 
practices, provide improvement ideas, and work with us 
to transform our shared supply chain when needed.
We actively verify our new and existing suppliers’ 
performance against our expectations on a risk-
prioritized basis, using our Due Diligence Management 
System, which is modeled after the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Our Due Diligence Management System consists of 
the following elements, which aid with our continuous 
improvement efforts.Defining and aligning Sustainability expectations 
for our supply chain around the world.Suppliers How We Work | Suppliers
#improvinglives  | 171 170 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportStrong Policies aligned with 
our Values
EN
32G4
HR
10G4
LA
14G4
SO
9G4 The 3M Supplier 
Responsibility Code  
(SRC) outlines 3M’s 
foundational social and environmental expectations in 
the following areas:
• Labor: requirements align with the 3M Human 
Rights Policy , and includes important concepts like 
freely chosen employment (no forced, bonded, or 
trafficked labor), restrictions on working age (no 
child labor), and appropriate working hours and 
wages. Setting these expectations helps assure 
our suppliers’ actions will reflect 3M’s values on 
human rights as well as the values underlying the 
International Labor Organization (ILO), and laws 
such as the California Transparency in Supply The SRC is based on the 3M corporate values for 
sustainable and responsible operations and aligns with 
the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, 
of which 3M is a signatory. The SRC is also materially 
consistent with the Code of Conduct of the Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA), formerly known as the 
Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). 
The SRC, as with our previous 3M Supply Chain 
Policies, establishes 3M’s expectations for new and 
existing suppliers anywhere in the world, and for any 
supplied material or service. Our new supplier vetting 
process includes review of the SRC expectations and 
confirmation that their programs and practices, as well as 
their subcontractors, involved in the supply of products 
and/or services conform to standards that are consistent 
with the SRC. Our contract agreements have included 
expectations from our Supply Chain Policies, and are 
now being updated to phase in and incorporate the SRC.
We expect our suppliers to establish and implement 
their own relevant policies and programs in alignment 
with this SRC, and to enforce these expectations with 
their own suppliers, thereby propagating our high 
Sustainability standards up our supply chains.
3M’s Vice President of Strategic Sourcing and 
Packaging Solutions is accountable for 3M’s Responsible 
Sourcing program. Executive leaders from Supply 
Chain, Compliance & Business Conduct, Strategic 
Sourcing, Legal, Sustainability, Human Resources, and 
Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) are updated at 
least semi-annually on the program’s status and have the 
opportunity to provide input on the various programs 
and activities.
Supplier Risk Assessment & 
Supply Chain Transparency
EN
33G4
SO
2G4 Our general supplier performance 
verification process begins with a self-
assessment questionnaire (SAQ). The 
SAQ is used to understand supplier programs and 
whether they are in conformance with 3M expectations. 
An on-site assessment may be conducted, by 3M or 
third party, and any deficiencies are ultimately corrected 
through a Corrective Action Preventive Action (CAPA) 
process, which may include announced or unannounced 
follow-up assessments.Chains Act, the United Kingdom Modern Slavery 
Act, and the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations 
(FAR) on forced labor and human trafficking.
• Environment, Health, and Safety: we expect our 
suppliers to care as much about the safety of their 
workers and their communities as 3M does, and 
to implement proper procedures and controls to 
protect them. 
• Ethics: expectations align to the 3M Code of 
Conduct  holding our suppliers to the same high 
standards of honesty and integrity. Suppliers are 
to prohibit any form of bribery and corruption, and 
prevent conflicts of interest.
• Management Systems: we expect our suppliers to 
have processes in place to systematically conform 
to the 3M SRC, as well as all legal requirements, 
and to commit to continuous improvement.If the assessment identifies gaps or findings, a Supplier 
Corrective Action Request (SCAR) is established to 
assure appropriate resolution and conformance with 
3M’s requirements. If a supplier is unwilling to work with 
3M on the identified gaps or not able to close the issues 
within a reasonable timeframe, alternative actions are 
determined with a cross-functional business team to 
escalate and resolve the situation.
Additional Expectations for 
Higher-risk Supply Chains
EN
13G4
EN
33G4
LA
15G4 In addition to the global SRC 
expectations for all suppliers, 
certain areas warrant 
additional and specific formal expectations to drive more 
sustainable responsible practices. In particular, our use 
of certain minerals that have the potential to be sourced 
from conflict areas, and our use of timber-based 
products and other plant materials (pulp and paper). 
Focus: Conflict Minerals
Another prioritized area in our raw material supply 
network is the responsible sourcing of minerals. 3M 
deplores the violence and inhumane treatment that has 
occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo, adjoining 
countries, and other high-risk regions as defined by 
global regulatory bodies, and is committed to supporting 
responsible sourcing of 3TG (tin, tantalum, tungsten, 
and gold) from all such regions. In 2017, 3M refreshed 
its Conflict Minerals Policy , as well as 3TG-related 
objectives for our suppliers as part of our responsible 
sourcing expectations. 3M expects its suppliers to adopt 
a similar policy and due diligence management system, 
and require the same of their suppliers.
In addition, 3M is an active member of the Conflict-Free 
Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), now known as the Responsible 
Mineral Initiative (RMI), which develops tools and 
guidance for companies on conflict minerals. 
Our membership in RMI and various sub-teams such 
as the Smelter Engagement Team (SET), Plenary Team, 
and special activities like the Due Diligence White Paper 
update have provided an opportunity for 3M to offer our 
ideas and learn from other member companies as we all 
work together on this important journey. Transformation Verification Report
design and 
implement a strategy 
to respond to 
identified risksaudit supply chain 
due diligencereport on supply 
chain due diligence 
activitiesTransparency Values
establish strong 
policies and 
management 
systemsidentify and assess 
risks in the supply 
chain3M Supply Chain Due Diligence Management System
3M Supplier 
Responsibility Code
3M Conflict 
Minerals Policy
3M Pulp and Paper 
Sourcing PolicyOur Commitment
90K suppliers
120 countries
200 sub-categoriesOur Action
Paper Supply Chain 
Traceability ProcessOur Action
Cumulative Supplier 
Assessments
Technical 
Capabilities Close 
to CustomersOur Action Our Action
California Supply 
Chain Transparency 
Act Disclosure
UK Modern Slavery 
Act Statement
Form SD
Conflict Minerals 
Report
3M Sustainable 
ForestryHow We Work | Suppliers
#improvinglives  | 173 172 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportFocus: Pulp and Paper
3M has prioritized pulp and paper products as an 
area that warrants additional formal expectations, 
due to potential environmental risks like deforestation 
and habitat loss, potential human rights issues like 
infringement of indigenous peoples’ rights, and potential 
unsafe labor practices. As a global paper purchaser and 
Sustainability leader, 3M is well-positioned to positively 
influence practices throughout the forest products’ 
supply chain. We adopted our current Pulp and Paper 
Sourcing Policy  in the spring of 2015 to set standards of 
excellence for our suppliers and their suppliers through 
all tiers of supply to the forest. 
This policy makes it clear that we want to source 
paper products from suppliers who share our values 
and are committed to protecting the world’s forests. 
Annually we evaluate our suppliers of pulp and paper 
raw materials, pulp and paper-based third-party 
manufactured products, and paper-based packaging 
to prioritize engagement with those most significant to 
our business, and those with the possibility of supply 
chain entities of higher environmental or social risk. Our 
engagement hinges on extensive communication and 
education of our suppliers on our policy expectations, 
and inquiries regarding our suppliers’ policies and 
systems to assess the Sustainability of their supplier 
network and conformance to our code and policy. We 
also expect our suppliers to disclose the entities in their 
supply chain, all the way to the forest source. We believe 
that only through transparency can we truly identify 
potential Sustainability risks and collaborate to raise the 
performance of our shared supply chains.
We partner with The Forest Trust (TFT) for their 
expertise in developing and implementing responsible 
sourcing policies, and improving forest management 
practices across global supply chains. We also 
actively collaborate with other TFT responsible paper 
members, our suppliers, and peer companies to advance 
Sustainability in the global paper supply chain. In the 
big picture, our goal is to assure that the virgin wood 
fiber used in our pulp and paper-based products and 
packaging comes from sources that protect forests and 
respect the rights of workers and people who live in or 
may depend on forests for their livelihood.4. Further disrupt the status quo by working to 
move some of our tier two dollars to tier one and 
focusing on diverse suppliers in our request for 
proposal (RFP) activity
In 2017, 3M spent $1.42 billion with small businesses, 
representing 26.4 percent of our U.S. domestic spend. 
We also spent $223 million with diverse suppliers, which 
represents 3.96 percent of U.S. domestic spend. Our 
progress is routinely communicated to leadership across 
the organization.
We remain committed to supporting small business 
and diverse suppliers and their positive impact on the 
economic viability of communities. 3M continues to 
reassess elements of our approach, working across the 
industry to glean best practices.
More on our Supply Diversity program can be found in 
the Partners and Suppliers Diversity section, here .Supplier Diversity
EC
9G4 Equal access to business opportunities is not 
just deserved, it’s a priority. Regional self-
sufficiency is a focus area for 3M, and we 
recognize its importance for business reasons as well as 
in building connections with local communities. 
Although we collect data around the proportion of 
spending on local suppliers at our significant locations of 
operation, this information is business confidential.
3M has a long-standing commitment to sustainable 
business practices and supporting the economic success 
of our communities, including working with both diverse 
and small-business suppliers. For 3M purposes, a diverse 
supplier is any supplier who qualifies for one or more of 
the following classifications: Minority-owned business, 
Women-owned business, Small Business (including 
Small Disadvantaged, HUBZone, Woman, and Veteran/ 
Service Disabled Veteran).
3M proactively identifies diverse suppliers to procure 
goods and services, strongly encourages the use of 
diverse suppliers across our sourcing organization, 
and reaches out through our involvement with various 
organizations, including the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Metropolitan 
Economic Development Association (MEDA), Small 
Business Administration (SBA), and others.
3M establishes goals and regularly tracks the dollar 
value of goods and services purchased from small 
businesses and diverse suppliers in concert with goals 
set annually with the U.S. Federal Government as part 
of our Subcontracting Plan for Federal Government 
contracting.
To achieve our goals, 3M has implemented a four-part 
strategy aimed to:
1. Increase our spend with current diverse suppliers 
by reviewing our existing diverse suppliers by 
diversity category 
2. Identify additional diverse suppliers in our existing 
supply base by reviewing our top non-diverse 
suppliers by spend category
3. Find “new-to-3M” diverse suppliers Our Actions
Responding to risks, 
transforming our supply chains
SD
12G4
SO
2G4 We are constantly managing changes 
in supply markets both where there is 
an opportunity to extract value and 
defensively where necessary to secure supply. As 
described above, we focus efforts on the salient issues in 
categories where human rights and environmental risks 
are the greatest. More broadly, we conduct robust risk 
prioritization to determine other suppliers we will engage 
via an assessment against our SRC, which includes 
policy and contract conformance.
3M has historically used industry indices to identify 
higher-risk supply chains and has recently adopted the 
use of a data-driven software solution in conjunction 
with industry information and Lean Six Sigma (LSS) 
tools to optimize and strengthen its risk management 
processes. The criteria matrix helps rank global 
suppliers, using multiple factors like: geographic, 
category, and business critical elements to determine 
where assessments should be performed.
02,0005,0006,000
1,0003,0004,000
2016 2015 2017 2014 2013Cumulative Supplier Assessments, since 2008
Total numberHow We Work | Suppliers
#improvinglives  | 175 174 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportVerifying our Supplier 
Performance
EN
32G4
HR
10-11G4
LA
14-15G4 Applicable for all suppliers, 
we apply our supply chain risk 
assessment process to 
prioritized suppliers, each of which must complete a 
SAQ and/or be subject to an on-site assessment as 
specified in our SRC. 
Through 2017, over 5,000 self-assessments or on-site 
audits of suppliers have been conducted in prioritized 
countries, including China, India, Korea, Malaysia, 
Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, and Turkey in 
the past six years.
Forced Labor and  
Human Trafficking
3M's efforts to eradicate forced labor and human 
trafficking from its direct supply chains are discussed in 
more detail in 3M's California Transparency in Supply 
Chains  disclosure and 3M’s United Kingdom Modern 
Slavery Act Statement. These disclosures communicate 
our commitment to legal and ethical practices through 
our membership in the United Nations Global Compact 
and implementation of 3M’s Code of Conduct, and 
working with others to abolish human rights atrocities, 
especially as it relates to human trafficking, forced 
labor, modern slavery, etc. 3M is committed to doing 
our part to eradicate human trafficking in any form from 
the global supply chain. We have robust policies and 
systems in place to control these practices in our own 
operations and with our suppliers. As 3M sets a high bar 
for itself regarding labor and employment, it expects the 
same from its suppliers as articulated in the SRC.We’re continuing to stay abreast of emerging and 
recent legislation such as the European Commission’s 
regulation on conflict minerals, to assure that our 
conformance and due diligence management system 
are aligned. Members of our European Government 
Affairs team have been closely aligned with industry 
and government to understand the scope, impacts, and 
timing of the new European regulation. The team has 
proactively assessed potential applicability so 3M will be 
best prepared to implement the new rule.
Additional information can be found in the 3M Conflict 
Minerals Securities and Exchange Commission filings 
found on 3M Supplier Direct, Supplier Responsibility 
Expectations .
Pulp and Paper Actions
Pulp and Paper Policy implementation 
on the ground 
Throughout our policy implementation, we have 
seen several examples of marked improvements 
in responsible sourcing practices as a result of our 
engagement with suppliers. These include:
• Meeting with suppliers’ senior corporate executives 
on the importance of assuring responsible and 
sustainable supply chains, and agreeing to 
collaborate on that goal
• Suppliers establishing new Sustainability positions 
within their companies
• Significant increases in supply chain traceability 
and transparency 
• Increased engagement by our suppliers with their 
upstream supply chain
Through an online survey, our suppliers can provide 
complete supply chain information all the way to the 
forest sources, or they can easily forward parts of the 
online survey to their suppliers (paper or pulp mills, for 
example) for completion. We aim to work with suppliers 
and peer companies to document as much of our global 
paper supply chain as possible, to amplify our efforts to 
drive sustainable practices throughout the supply chain.Conflict Mineral Actions
Forging ahead with continuous 
improvement
3M’s Conflict Minerals program, now in its fifth year, 
has gone through continuous improvement, based on 
learnings from past campaigns and identifying ways 
to optimize and increase the effectiveness of program 
activities.
A 3M Six Sigma project was initiated in 2017 to define, 
measure, analyze, implement solutions, and define 
controls that will sustain gains in the Conflict Minerals 
program. As a result, numerous improvements were 
implemented including contracting with a Conflict 
Minerals third party provider to accelerate the process.
We make use of the RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting 
Template (CMRT) to help our prioritized 3TG suppliers 
gather and report information on the smelters and 
refiners in their supply chains. Our requests include 
links to 3M’s Conflict Minerals website, which covers 
our Conflict Minerals Policy, and 3M training on how 
to attach their CMRT to 3M’s website survey tool. 
In addition, the website directs suppliers to training 
resources available through the RMI. TFT helps us review information we obtain from our 
supplier surveys, and combines that with geography 
and industry-specific knowledge to conduct “desktop” 
risk assessments of our supply chains. We use these 
assessments to prioritize further engagement to learn 
more about our suppliers’ responsible sourcing and 
sustainable forestry practices. This deeper engagement 
could take the form of a series of web conferences, 
in-person meetings, or field assessments at the mill and/
or forest level. We do not limit this engagement to our 
direct suppliers. In fact, as appropriate, we will work 
directly with tier two or tier three suppliers on policy 
conformance verification work, with a goal of involving 
our direct (tier one) supplier(s) in these activities 
whenever possible. 
With TFT, we have conducted 11 field assessments so 
far across all regions. Three of those assessments were 
of tier two pulp mills, which were also attended by a 
tier one supplier. 3M’s participation on supplier field 
assessments with TFT helps us to understand first-hand 
the challenges faced by pulp and paper companies and 
forest managers around the world. This in turn enables 
us to actively participate in developing solutions and 
pushing forward conversations about responsible 
sourcing and sustainable forestry.Traceable to Forest 
Source or 100% 
Recycled
34%Not Yet Engaged 
or Traceable
16%
Traceable to 
Pulp Mill
29%Traceable to 
Paper Mill
21%Paper Supply Chain Traceability Process
2017 Percentage
RMAP 
Not Enrolled
17%
RMAP Conformant
81%RMAP Active
2%Conflict Mineral Traceability Progress
*based on Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP)How We Work | Suppliers
#improvinglives  | 177 176 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportCollaboration for change
3M Brazil is a signatory to The National Pact to Eradicate 
Slave Labor, which was established in 2005, and is 
now institutionalized in InPACTO (the Institute for the 
National Pact) a trade association focused exclusively 
on collaborative efforts among members, including 3M, 
committed to the goals of the National Pact.
Supplier of the Year Award 
In 2017, 3M recognized 15 top suppliers among 
thousands in its global supply base, for world class 
performance in providing products and/or services. 
These suppliers were identified and rated based on 
strategic spend, contract compliance, actions taken 
to improve 3M’s relevance, and overall supplier 
performance (quality, delivery, responsiveness, cost, 
technology, and Sustainability roadmaps). 
Learn more about the Supplier of the Year Award: here .Each assessment results in a comprehensive report 
detailing the supplier’s performance against our 
policy requirements, and action items to address any 
performance gaps. We expect each supplier to develop 
corrective action plans with reasonable timelines, 
and continue to collaborate with 3M on resolution of 
identified opportunities. More information on these 
assessments can be found in our Pulp and Paper 
Sourcing Policy  progress reports. 
Conservation in the Carolinas
In May, 3M helped launch the Carolinas Working Forest 
Conservation Collaborative (CWFCC) along with the 
American Forest Foundation, International Paper, and 
The Procter & Gamble.
We have joined this collaboration to engage directly with 
family woodland owners in the U.S. Coastal Carolinas 
Plain to support sustainable forestry, conservation of 
bottomland hardwood forests, and the enhancement 
of habitat for at-risk species. Through the CWFCC, we 
intend to accomplish the following objectives:
• Increase awareness and understanding of the 
importance of sustainable forestry and active 
management among 30,000 woodland owners 
who collectively own 2.4 million acres of forestland 
in the Coastal Carolinas Plain region• Work with at least 450 landowners across 36,500 
acres in the project counties to connect them with 
technical assistance and resources to get them 
started in forest management
• Engage at least 160 woodland owners within 
the project area to enhance, restore, or expand 
bottomland hardwood forests and quality habitat 
for at-risk species on at least 13,000 acres
• Certify at least 120 landowners in a recognized 
forest certification standard
Responsible Paper Summit  
in Shanghai
In November 2017, 3M co-sponsored a Responsible 
Paper Summit in Shanghai, China. Over 40 
representatives from more than 20 pulp and paper 
product producers in the greater China area attended 
two days of discussions on what it means to be part 
of a responsible and sustainable global paper supply 
chain, and how to advance sustainable forestry and 
responsible paper sourcing in the Asia Pacific (APAC) 
region. An impressive list of ideas and proposed actions 
were generated during this summit, and has resulted in 
momentum toward more engagement and sustainable 
practices throughout these organizations and their 
supply chain partners. Looking forward…
Using LSS methodologies, a project is being conducted 
to develop a more efficient and effective way of 
obtaining, managing, and storing supplier-related 
information. The new 3M SRC Supplier Declaration 
will be included as part of this project. All suppliers 
will be required to complete the declaration, stating 
they understand the SRC and that they and their 
subcontractors will have programs and practices 
that are consistent with the SRC. The process will be 
rolled out globally in 2018, reflecting the increased 
supplier expectations related to Labor, Ethics, EHS, and 
Management Systems.
We recognize there are risks in the supply chains of 
other materials. Through our partners like RMI, TFT, 
and InPACTO, we are continuing to increase our 
understanding and options to mitigate risks through 
collaboration. For example, RMI is actively working on 
formulating risk mitigation tools for the cobalt industry. 
3M is committed to expanding our due diligence efforts 
for higher risk materials to further mitigate risk to our 
business and advance responsible supply chains. 
060
40
20100
80
2015 2016 2017OverallProduct Paper
Packaging PaperPulp and Paper Sourcing Policy
Engagement Status, Percentage
Pulp and Paper Assessment
Planned
• Brazil
• Chile
• RussiaCompleted
• Austria (1)
• Brazil (1)
• Canada (2)
• China (3)
• Japan (1)
• Sweden (1)
• Taiwan (1)
• United States (1)178 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 179What We 
Create
Introduction  180
Our Customers 182
Innovation Management  188
Our Products 198What We Create  | In troduction
180 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 1 81Our customers’ challenges are our challenges. Using our 
46 technology platforms  and collaborative culture, we 
invent products that help our customers solve the issues they are facing in many areas, including health, safety, and energy.
We are not stopping here. We have established 
aggressive goals for 2025, ranging from investing in sustainable materials and energy efficiency, to community-wide approaches to water management and helping our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We have also set 2025 goals around building a diverse workforce and educating individuals on worker and patient safety in healthcare and industrial settings.What We CreateIntroductionWhat We Create | Our Customers
#improvinglives  | 183 182 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
We leverage our 46 core technology platforms to 
improve lives in a variety of ways. 3M is:
• The light management technology making road 
signs brighter and easier to read, and electronic 
displays more vivid and colorful…while drawing 
less power
• The adhesive technology holding your car, hotel, 
and cellphone together; our adhesive platform is 
applied in many other areas, from medical dressings 
and dental fillings to Scotch® tapes and Post-it® 
notes
• The filtration technology that protects people’s 
health and safety, from respirators and masks for 
industrial and health care workers to air filters and 
water treatment systems for home3M has the resources, reach, and responsibility to 
improve the marketplace and society.
Where many companies view the topic of Sustainability 
in product development as a challenge, at 3M we have 
taken an offensive approach, working to identify and 
understand future Sustainability needs, and to expand 
our portfolio of products with Sustainability advantages.
By embedding Sustainability into our research and 
development (R&D) process, our brands and the mindset 
of our suppliers and customers, we’re able to move 3M’s 
growth to new levels and advance our commitment to 
improving our business, our planet, and every life.
2025 Goal: Invest to develop more sustainable 
materials and products to help our customers reach 
their environmental goals.3M science impacts the world around 
us in real ways every day.Our CustomersWhat We Create  |  O ur Customers
#improvinglives  | 185 184 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportWe recognize some of our greatest positive impact 
can be realized by helping our customers improve their environmental footprint. For that reason, an increased focus on delivering more sustainable materials and components is core to our innovation and Sustainability strategy.
2025 Goal: Provide training to five million people 
globally on worker and patient safety.
We will continue to support empowerment and 
enrichment for global health and safety issues through our commitment to improve the health and safety of people worldwide so we can all focus on what matters most to us. To measure progress against this goal, we will track the number of training instances through our Health Care and Personal Safety Academies.
Our Actions
We have an initiative called Customer First that’s all about understanding our customers’ business models, what they have promised their customers, and what our role is in the value chain. Found throughout our 3M Playbook, it is helping our customers deliver on their promises. It is our Vision, as we aspire to advance every company, enhance every home, and improve every life.
Here are some examples of our Customer First approach 
in action.
Business Transformation starts and ends 
with our customers
3M Business Transformation leverages our strengths 
in technology, manufacturing, and global capabilities, to provide a more positive overall experience for our customers. This transformation centers around the creation of one global, seamlessly integrated platform coupled with standardized business processes, resulting in:
• Improved service delivery
• On-demand capabilities
• Better responsiveness
• Enhanced collaboration
• Increased customer intimacy3M’s market-leading medical Tegaderm™ transparent dressings, which fit snug, breathe easy, and allow for painless inspection.
“Insights to Innovation” (i2i)
3M works “eye-to-eye” with end-user customers to invent solutions to their unique problems.
This model often makes use of the 3M Insights to 
Innovation process, a process that involves exploration, optimization, validation and ideation, and ultimately allows new business teams to move from “I think” to “I know.”
Insights to Innovation includes a close focus on both 
global and local megatrends. The way we look at it, with new market needs come new opportunities to deliver value to our customer.
Technical capabilities close
to custom ers
As an organization, we believe that the best way to acquire insights is to be close to the customers. With that in mind, we have built a large global presence and infrastructure as well as technical capabilities close to our customers.In short, Business Transformation is helping us build strength on strength, drive to higher levels of customer satisfaction, and to:
• Move to a simpler, more automated environment
• Standardize global, end-to-end processes
• Leverage Lean Six Sigma (LSS)
• Strengthen governance
Leveraging unique capabilities to create 
value for our customers
Technology itself is not sufficient to create differentiated 
products and solutions. Our innovation truly comes from the confluence of customer and market insights, technology, and our culture of collaboration and entrepreneurship. We strive to invent things that are not only new, but useful. That is why collaborating with customers is essential. It assures we are in tune with their needs. Our most successful products are infused with strategic customer insights throughout the entire product development process.
Two different models for 
gathering insights
“Customer-inspired innovation”
Back in the 1920’s when one of our scientists visited 
the local body shop of a customer, he watched workers struggling to get clean lines for two-tone paint jobs. His observation led to the invention of Scotch
® masking tape.
Today, in 36 international labs – and in 54 technical centers – our scientists work directly with local customers to solve their unique challenges. We take the time to get to know them, to learn how they live and work – and to understand what we can do to improve their lives. 
This includes challenges our customers have come 
to us for help with, as well as challenges they didn’t even know they had, as the 3M scientist behind our creative medical dressings can tell you. His division had a program that allowed scientists to be embedded in a hospital for an entire week. While there, he observed nurses repeatedly lifting up bandages to inspect wounds and intravenous (IV) sites. A simple idea struck him: Why not make the bandage transparent? That led to We have 54 customer technical centers across the globe where our customers can experience firsthand the breadth of 3M technologies and how they can benefit from them. We also have labs in 36 countries where our scientists work closely with our customers to develop solutions for their specific problems.
Some of the problems addressed in our technical centers 
and labs are connected to regional and local megatrends. Globally, for example, rapid population growth in urban areas is creating challenges related to energy efficiency, clean water, and environmental protection. Our local scientists leverage our technologies to develop relevant solutions that are unique to their region, often collaborating with local customers.
Addressing customer 
Sustainability expectations
We know many of our customers have strong 
Sustainability and corporate responsibility expectations for their suppliers, just as we do for ours. 3M always wants to be the supplier of choice for our customers. As demonstrated in this report, we set our sights on world-class performance in Sustainability and corporate 
Customer
technical center
LaboratoryTechnical Capabilities Close to Customers
54 customer technical centers and labs in 36 countries.
More than 100,000 customers visited this year.What We Create | Our Customers
#improvinglives  | 187 186 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportresponsibility, and we believe we meet or exceed 
customer requirements in these areas.
As proud as we are to share our Sustainability story 
with our customers, we are also motivated to influence 
and encourage alignment and harmonization among the 
proliferation of industry standards and partner to drive 
real Sustainability improvements where they are needed.
Education that inspires, 
credibility that empowers
Proper use of health and safety products is critical to 
infection prevention, personal safety, and overall health. 
Building on our existing customer education program, 
we seek to enhance access to training on worker and 
patient safety in both healthcare and industrial settings.
Through the 3M Academy, learning is designed to 
suit the users: on-demand education, live webinars, 
in-person events, and education resources. Our site or 
yours, training delivered where and when you want it 
and in the way you need it.
As a manufacturer of health care devices and supplies, 
3M not only provides great products, we also deliver 
education and training on worker health and safety and 
to health care professionals at hospitals and clinics, 
professional conferences, and via online webinars – all 
around the world, through the 3MSM Health Care 
Academy . In 2017 alone, we offered over 350 learning 
modules. That’s not only important to helping customers 
get the most out of our products, it’s our commitment 
to helping professionals improve outcomes for their 
patients and customers.
The same holds true for our Personal Safety Division  
where we understand the most important part of 
every product is keeping people safe and healthy. In 
a rapidly evolving business and occupational health 
and safety landscape, one thing remains the same, 
the need for effective training and education to help 
create and maintain a healthy and safe workplace. Our 
education and training programs can instruct workers 
on: workplace safety hazards and health risks; regulatory 
personal protection equipment (Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration, OSHA); and proper use and 
maintenance of 3M products. This includes a mobile 
training and demonstration center  in the U.S. that will 
appear at numerous locations thought out the year.Looking forward…
To succeed in today’s fast-moving world, we must 
continue to see around the corner to where the market is 
going. We gain insights by understanding megatrends:
• Reimagining natural resources: supply and demand 
of natural resources, including fossil fuels, minerals, 
renewables, water, and food will experience a 
powerful transformation
• Shifting demographics: a gradual but powerful 
shift in the composition, location, and sheer size 
of the Earth’s population is at the core of nearly all 
observable global trends
• Expanding digital economy: digitization is 
fundamentally changing how businesses and 
individuals interact, make decisions, and conduct 
daily operations
• Evolving economic landscape: the center of world 
economic influence is transitioning from dominance 
of developed countries toward an increasingly 
multipolar environment
We will continue to leverage our diversified technology 
portfolio to create innovative solutions for our customers 
and markets. We are evolving our technology platforms 
for the changing and anticipated needs of high-growth 
markets, and we are augmenting our material science 
expertise with digital where appropriate to create value 
for our customers and for 3M.
Educating customers on worker and 
patient safety
We will continue our efforts to drive growth by engaging 
our customers in a trusted, best-in class education 
offerings and delivery systems. In 2018 and beyond, our 
focus is to provide our customers and partners relevant 
and timely education in a contemporary, flexible format. 
We look to create value for our customers and partners 
through workforce development and retention, and 
personalization, through an efficient global platform. 
This will expand upon current online and in-person 
events via eLearning webinars, modules, and product 
application training. This efficient global education 
platform also will help promote accurate and transparent 
reporting as we strive toward our 2025 worker and 
patient safety training goal.
Consumer#improvinglives means making 
life easier and more productive at 
home and at work.
We are creating innovative products that keep homes clean,
offices organized, and buildings well-maintained.What We Create  | Innovation Management What We Create  | Innovation Management
#improvinglives  | 189 188 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Commitment
At 3M, we believe science is just science – until you  
use it to improve the world. That is  
3M Science. Applied to Life.™
We are a company rooted in scientific exploration and 
discovery. We believe that every problem has a solution. 
All our businesses are connected by our fundamental 
strengths – technology, manufacturing, global 
capabilities, and our brand – which allow us to invent, 
build, and sell products across our vast global network. 
Research and development (R&D) is our heartbeat. We 
continue to invest in R&D, in close partnership with our 
customers and the marketplace. R&D fosters a constant 
stream of unique and cutting-edge products, which drive 
organic growth. In fact, in 2017, we invested 1.87 billion 
(USD) or nearly 6 percent of our sales back into R&D. We 
are committed to continue our investment in R&D.
There are no silos – our 46 technology platforms  are 
shared and combined across businesses and regions to invent unique products for a variety of industries. No 
single business owns any of these platforms. They are 
owned by the company and can be leveraged by any 
of the businesses to serve their respective customers 
or markets.
Our “15% Culture” – instituted six decades ago – inspires 
creativity, risk-taking, and collaboration. It gives 3Mers 
the freedom to take risks, and learn from our mistakes. 
That freedom is essential to scientific discovery. 3Mers 
have the freedom to spend 15% of their time on projects 
that interest them. Out of that time come new ideas that 
might eventually become successful new 3M products.
3M has earned more than 109,000 patents over the 
years, a testament to the strength of our innovation 
engine. Every year, on average, 3M earns 3,000 patents.
We are in nearly 200 countries, with two thirds of 
our workforce and sales outside the U.S. Employing 
integration and collaboration across businesses, 
geographies, and scientific disciplines helps us effectively 
and efficiently bring new ideas and products from the lab 
to the factory to customer’s homes and businesses.Applying science to solve problems 
and improve lives.Innovation 
ManagementWhat We Create  | Innovation Management
#improvinglives  | 191 190 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWith operations in about 70 counties, we can serve 
our customers wherever they are. We are expanding 
our technology capabilities around the world. We 
collaborate with customers to discover solutions 
together and identify challenges that they may not be 
aware of, finding answers by utilizing 3M’s technology, 
manufacturing, and global capabilities.
The policies and standards that guide the design, 
manufacture, and marketing of 3M products share a 
common foundation: the 3M Code of Conduct .
The Code of Conduct  is an overarching guide to the 
appropriate decisions and actions of 3M individuals and 
teams as they go about their work. It defines our values 
and the responsibilities 3M employees and 3M suppliers 
have to live up to them. 
Under this broad umbrella of values are principles that 
more specifically outline what 3M believes is the ethical 
approach to various work situations, including situations 
that involve innovation management of 3M products.
Product Safety, Quality, and 
Stewardship Principle
SD
14G4
EN
27G4
PR
1-3, 6G4 In the Code of Conduct, one 
principle reinforces our 
commitment to product 
safety, quality, and stewardship: the Product Safety, 
Quality, and Stewardship Principle . Product safety, 
quality, and stewardship must always be primary 
considerations during design, manufacture, marketing, 
and sales of 3M products. 3M employees must know 
and follow all applicable laws, regulations, and 3M 
policies, standards, and procedures for product safety, 
quality, and stewardship and must report and respond to 
concerns in a diligent manner. 3M management is 
responsible for addressing reported concerns and 
ensuring that 3M employees are properly trained in 
applicable laws and regulations and 3M policies, 
standards, and procedures.
As well, we look at it as our responsibility to produce 
products with superior environmental performance 
across their entire life cycle, and to work with our 
suppliers and business partners so that their operations 
support these same objectives.Alternatives to Animal Testing
3M is a major advocate for the use of alternative test 
methods (non-animal) to help develop safe products 
wherever practical. 3M is currently utilizing many of 
these alternative methods, such as computational 
toxicology and in vitro testing using isolated tissues or 
cells. We are also investing in the internal and external 
development of new methodologies that replace animal 
testing. Where animal testing is required, we follow our 
Animal Welfare in Testing and Research Policy . 
Additional policies
PR
3, 6G4 • Human Subject Research Policy
• Advertising/Product Representation PolicyProduct Safety, Compliance, 
and Stewardship Policy 
3M’s Product Safety, Compliance, and Stewardship 
Policy  underscores our commitment to commercializing 
and selling products that are safe for their intended 
use(s), compliant with all applicable Environmental 
Health and Safety (EHS) regulations and 3M 
expectations, and developed with a goal to continuously 
improve the EHS performance of products and 
corresponding manufacturing processes. Other 
elements of this policy:
• Each 3M Business Unit must maintain processes 
for the effective global review of product safety, 
compliance, and stewardship requirements. This 
includes consideration of EHS aspects relevant 
throughout the life cycle of a product, including 
raw material selection, product design, formulation, 
manufacture, marketing, sale, intended and 
anticipated use or misuse, recycling, and disposal.
• Business processes must be incorporated into New 
Product Introduction (NPI) and Management of 
Change (MOC) procedures, and product safety, 
compliance, and stewardship requirements 
must be integrated into the development, 
commercialization, and sale of 3M products.
Hazard Communication and 
Composition Disclosure
PR
2-3, 6G4 Communicating the potential hazards of 3M 
materials supports 3M's core values and is an 
integral part of keeping stakeholders informed 
about 3M materials. The vehicles for communicating 
these hazards and product chemical components 
include Safety Data Sheets  (SDS), product labels, 
product literature, transportation classification 
documentation, and other communications tools. Each 
business unit must evaluate the potential hazards of 3M 
materials and transmit, in local country language(s), 
information about the hazards to employees, 
contractors, and customers, to meet all regulatory 
requirements and 3M standards and guidelines, and to 
promote informed decisions about the materials’ proper 
and safe handling, use, and disposal.Our Actions
To understand 3M you have to understand our four 
fundamental strengths which are leveraged across the 
entire enterprise: technology, manufacturing, global 
capabilities, and our brand. 
We are not a conglomerate with distinct and 
disconnected businesses. Our model is different. All our 
businesses are connected by these four strengths which 
allow us to invent, build and sell products across our vast 
global network.
3M’s Fundamental Strengths
Ability to share and 
combine elements of 3M’s 
broad technology portfolio 
to produce unique, 
differentiated products, 
translating to premium 
margins.Utilization of 3M 
manufacturing footprint 
and technology, including 
process trade secrets, 
leading to higher-
performing products and 
lower unit costs.Subsidiary front and 
back office footprint that 
allows for the effective 
development, adaptation, 
and commercialization of 
products.Brand equity in the 3M 
brand and in strategic 
brands that are shared 
across business groups.Technology Manufacturing Global Capabilities BrandWhat We Create  | Innovation Management
#improvinglives  | 193 192 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportOur Technology
These technology platforms are owned by the company. 
Development teams within each of our businesses 
and corporate research laboratories draw from these 
technologies to develop unique solutions for their 
customers and markets.
Here’s an example of how one 3M technology platform, 
adhesives, is applied to different markets through our 
various businesses.
We engineer our adhesives to be strong enough to hold 
planes, cars, and hotels in one piece.
At the same time, we engineer them to be gentle  
enough for human skin… as you’ll find in our medical 
tapes and dressings.And versatile enough to virtually eliminate the needs 
for screws inside your smartphone, making it stronger, 
lighter, and more durable.
And of course, our adhesives are found in the 3M 
products you’re most familiar with like Post-it® Notes, 
Scotch® Tape, and Command™ Strips.
Imagine:  that’s just one technology. There are similar 
stories with each of the 46 platforms.
Imagine, too:  if a single technology platform can be 
leveraged in that many ways and across that many 
markets, think of the endless possibilities when we 
combine them.Leveraging Technologies Across Our Business
Electronics & Energy Industrial Safety & Graphics Health Care Consumer
Structural 
adhesives and 
bonding tapesScotchlite™ reflective 
material and car wraps Medical tapes and 
dressingsElectronics assembly 
liquid adhesives and 
tapesPost-it® notes, Scotch® 
tapes, Command™ 
stripsAdhesivesAd
ApplicationsTechnology Programs
Process Design
and ControlFlexible Converting
and PackagingBiotechAcoustic Control Flexible Electronics Microbial Detection 
and ControlEnergy
ComponentsMechanical
FastenersMedical Data 
Management
Optical 
CommunicationsFiltration, Separation, 
PurificationAnalytical Radiation
ProcessingMolding Nonwoven
MaterialsAdvanced 
CompositesNanotechnology CeramicsFluoromaterials Advanced
MaterialsFilms AdhesivesAbrasives
Dental and 
Orthodontic Materials
Electronic Materials Specialty Materials Particle and
Dispersion ProcessingPrecision Processing Vapor Processing Electronics and 
SoftwareIntegrated Systems 
and DesignAccelerated 
WeatheringDisplay Light Management Wound
ManagementPorous Materials
and MembranesMicroreplication Polymer 
ProcessingSurface
ModificationApplication
SoftwareInspection and 
MeasurementSensors Drug Delivery Imaging Track and TracePredictive Engineering 
and ModelingAb
Ad
Am
Ce
Co
Do
EmNw
Po
SmMo
Mr
PdPe
Pm
PpRp
Su
VpAn
As
EsFc
In
IsPr
Se
WeBiAc
Dd
DiFsFe
Im
LmOpMiEc MfMd
Tt
WoNtFlFi
Materials Processing Capabilities3M science is comprised of 46 technology platforms, ranging from adhesives 
and abrasives, to microreplication, and nonwoven materials.
New-to-the-World Solutions from Combining Technologies
High-Performance
Window FilmMedical Dressings Filtek™ Dental Adhesives,
Restoratives and Crowns
Specialty MaterialsSmNonwoven
MaterialsNw
Flexible Converting
and PackagingFc
Polymer 
ProcessingPmAdhesivesAd
FilmsFi
Surface
ModificationSu
Wound
ManagementWoAdvanced
MaterialsAm
CeramicsCe
NanotechnologyNt
Advanced 
CompositesCoDental and 
Orthodontic MaterialsDo
Particle and
Dispersion ProcessingPd
Surface
ModificationSu
BiotechBiAdhesivesAd
FilmsFi
NanotechnologyNt
Light ManagementLmWhat We Create  | Innovation Management
#improvinglives  | 195 194 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportnew ideas that fuel the 3M innovation pipeline. The 
collaborating takes place at an annual global event, spring 
symposiums, recognition programs, and many chapter 
events held throughout the year. Included among our 
Tech Forum chapters are the Global Product Stewardship 
and the Green Chemistry chapters.  
 
Deliver efficient growth
By leveraging strategic partnerships with several 
stakeholders internally and externally, 3M is able to 
transform diverse ideas and creativity into superior 
technologies, business assets, and innovative 
product platforms.
Our New Technology Introduction (NTI) framework 
helps us manage the design and development of a new 
technology which may be used in several different 
new products.
Meanwhile, our seven-phase New Product Introduction 
(NPI) process provides the robust framework for 
developing products from idea to launch.
Together, 3M’s NTI and NPI processes provide a 
common framework for technology and product 
commercialization for all global business. Information 
is required at every step, or gate, in the process, along 
with deliverable tasks. Having consistent practices 
throughout the company for technology and product 
creation assists in risk analysis by providing a common 
language from which to share tools and best practices 
and manage project portfolios.
Life Cycle Management
Life cycle management (LCM) is 3M’s approach 
to assuring that EHS and associated regulatory 
considerations are integrated into the development 
and commercialization of 3M products through 3M’s 
NPI process. At each of the seven phases of NPI, our 
business teams provide LCM deliverables. Likewise, 
we evaluate LCM impacts from product modifications 
through our corporate Management of Change process. 
We leverage these LCM processes to continuously 
improve the EHS performance of our products.Driving success today, while 
building for the future.
We are always making investments to make our 
company even stronger, which includes our technology 
capabilities. That is why we invest close to 6 percent of 
our sales in R&D, which in 2017 equaled $1.87 billion.
As our Chief Executive Officer says, he leads 3M 
with one eye on the microscope – driving results day 
to day, month to month, quarter to quarter –and the 
other eye on the telescope, making sure we are making 
investments for five, 10, 15 years down the road.
Product Design Criteria
In 2017, we have been working to bring additional clarity 
and consistency to the policies and standards that 
support the Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle.
Product Stewardship Audits
3M has been on the leading edge of product 
stewardship audits, beginning with self-assessments in 
international regions in 2007, and incorporating global 
on-site audits in 2014. These audits evaluate, among 
other elements, product hazard and risk assessment, 
chemical control, lifecycle management, and consumer 
product safety. The goal of these audits is to assure that 
regions are meeting corporate standards, and to share 
best practices globally.
Collaboration
One of many things that makes 3M a singular company 
is our commitment to collaboration. There are no silos 
here. We collaborate with each other. Across businesses. 
Across technologies. Across oceans and continents.
Case in point: the 3M Tech Forum, a self-directed and 
self-organized catalyst for the 10,000-plus people in 3M’s 
technical community. Begun more than 60 years ago, 
the Tech Forum gives 3M researchers the opportunity to 
compare notes with global colleagues, collaborate around 
the company’s 46 technology platforms, and develop Product Stewardship
PR
1G4 Responsibility for product stewardship at 3M is 
shared across a broad spectrum of functions 
positioned within businesses, regions, and 
corporate staff groups. Together, individuals across this 
spectrum work to support 3M's core value of respect for 
our social and physical environment.Product Responsibility Liaisons (PRLs) or Product 
Stewards, embedded within 3M businesses and countries 
of operation, act as champions of EHS, regulatory, and 
Sustainability. They help assure our products meet 
or exceed requirements stemming from 3M policies, 
governmental regulations, and from our customers.
In 2017, we continued our efforts to further enhance 
the extent to which our new products improve lives in 
socio-environmental terms. For example, we introduced 
a Sustainability Attributes Analyzer tool to educate 
cross-functional teams on how to think about improving 
the Sustainability attributes and applications of products 
from before a new idea even gets drawn out on paper 
all the way through the finalization of the manufacturing 
scale-up and product launch. This builds on our long-
standing LCM process to further integrate Sustainability 
into the core of who we are at 3M.
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA)
In addition to the LCM program which applies to all 3M 
products, we also complete ISO 14040-compliant LCAs 
for select 3M products. At 3M, we primarily complete 
cradle-to-gate LCAs, since the majority of our products 
have use and disposal life cycle stages that are difficult 
to characterize. We also complete cradle-to-gate LCAs NTI Framework
NPI FrameworkIdentify
the market
opportunity
Identify
the market
opportunityIdentify
superior product 
concepts to meet 
customer needs
Identify
superior product 
concepts to meet 
customer needsDevelop 
the technical 
solution
Develop 
the technical 
solutionOptimize product 
and test customer 
acceptancePrepare for launchExecuteManage changesExplore Qualify Deploy
Idea Concept Feasibility Develop Scale UpLaunchPost-Launch
Create MakeCommercialize
Raw Materials
Acquisition
Distribution &
TransportationDisposal
RecyclingManufacturing
& ProductionResearch &
Development
Protect Use
& ReuseLife Cycle ManagementWhat We Create  | Innovation Management
#improvinglives  | 197 196 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportPackaging Solutions provides continuous support 
throughout the value chain: collaboration with 3M R&D 
on potential packaging solutions; work with suppliers to 
optimize incoming packaging; work with supply chain to 
minimize scrap packaging and support sourcing’s efforts 
to audit; and tracking conformance of top suppliers.
Looking forward...
In 2018, we will be implementing our newly adopted 
Chemical Management Policy. This policy reflects the 
evolving values of 3M and our stakeholders. Under this 
policy, to continually improve the EHS attributes of our 
products, 3M had identified specific chemicals whose 
use in products and manufacturing processes is subject 
to approval by the Corporate EHS Committee. 
Building on our legacy of environmental stewardship, 
we are actively enhancing Sustainability in 3M product 
development, new product introduction (NPI), and 
a redesigned version of Life Cycle Management 
(LCM). As part of this effort, we are looking at global 
Sustainability issues as a source for innovation, more 
sustainable component selection as well as chemical 
and Sustainability touchpoints in NPI. In 2018 and 2019, 
we expect to be able to identify 3M products that carry 
Sustainability advantages and to enhance customer 
visibility of 3M chemical management achievements.
We will continue to deploy our “7 R” approach to 
sustainable packaging – remove, reduce, reuse, 
recycle, renew, revenue, and research – and identify 
opportunities to integrate life cycle thinking and 
processes into packaging development. We will also 
work with key suppliers to identify opportunities on 
Sustainability initiatives and continue collaboration 
efforts with cross-functional stakeholders.for a number of internally-produced chemicals that 
are used in manufacturing of 3M products. While it is 
not possible to complete full LCAs for all 55,000-plus 
unique 3M products, evaluation of these intermediates 
allows us to have a better understanding of the 
potential environmental impacts of key components 
and processes.
Global certification of our  
LCA process
In 2017, 3M LCA teams in the U.S. and Europe renewed 
their process certifications from The International EPD® 
System to demonstrate that appropriate procedures are 
in place to produce scientifically-sound, technically-
defensible LCAs and EPDs (Environmental Product 
Declarations). Rather than conduct independent 
third-party reviews for each individual product LCA 
or EPD, the teams will continue to undergo an annual 
recertification process which evaluates conformance of 
the underlying management system with the program 
rules and ISO standards. This global certification of 
the LCA process for multiple parts of our organization 
is thought to be the first of its kind. It streamlines our 
processes and reduces time and cost, which enables 
us to complete LCAs for a larger portion of our diverse 
product portfolio.
Lifecycle approach in 
packaging design
EN
28G4 In 2017, we continued our long-standing 
commitment to efficient paper and packaging 
use. Over the last four years, globally, we have 
reduced designed packaging weight of more than 
12,000 metric tons, over half of which has come from 
paper-based packaging.
Packaging Solutions support starts early at 3M, with 
engagement within our NPI and LCM processes. In an 
effort to help 3Mers design packaging using a lifecycle 
approach, a new model was piloted in 2016 through 
2017. This model demonstrated encouraging results and 
will be deployed in 2018. 
#improvinglives means enabling a 
connected world from energy and  
the grid to electronics.
We are dedicated to creating products that improve not just the  
electronics we have today, but our ability to innovate and advance  
the technology of tomorrow - from efficient electronic devices,  
to assuring reliable sources of power.
Electronics & EnergyWhat We Create | Our Products
#improvinglives  | 199 198 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSD
4, 8G4      We bring all of our solutions 
to different markets through 
our five business groups, which 
increases speed and efficiency 
by sharing technology, 
manufacturing, marketing, 
and other resources across all 
business groups.Our Products
Consumer
Supplying an array of innovative products that 
keep homes cleaner, offices organized, and 
buildings well-maintained, our consumer business 
is home to some of our most iconic brands and 
well-known products, including Post-it,® Scotch,® 
Scotch-Brite,® Filtrete,™ O-Cel-O,™ Nexcare,™ 
and Command.™  Making life easier and more 
productive at home and work
$31.7 billion sales
$4.59 billion salesWhat We Create | Our Products
#improvinglives  | 201 200 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportIndustrial Electronics & Energy
Safety & Graphics Health CareWe provide thousands of innovative products 
including tapes, abrasives, adhesives, specialty 
materials and filtration systems to dozens of 
diverse markets – from aerospace and automotive 
to purification and construction to general 
manufacturing. All, with a transformed approach 
to customer engagement.We turn 3M technology into difference-making 
solutions for customers in electronics and energy 
markets around the world. We contribute to 
reliable sources of power including solutions that 
improve the dependability, cost-effectiveness, 
and performance of electronic devices; electrical 
products, including infrastructure protection, and 
power generation and distribution helping connect 
the world’s power grid.
Our products – personal protective equipment, 
safety and security products, track and trace 
solutions and more – increase the safety, security, 
and productivity of people, locations and systems 
around the world. Also, we inspire creative 
communication and design with a broad portfolio 
of graphic solutions that enhance visual impact.Supplying innovative and reliable products that help 
health care professionals improve the quality and 
efficiency of care, we are a global leader in medical 
and oral care products, and drug delivery and health 
information systems. We are also bringing enhanced 
contaminant screening technology to the food 
safety table. From purification to aerospace, we 
change how industry worksAdvancing a connected world
From protecting people and 
improving road safety and  
mobility to enhancing visual and 
design communicationFrom preventing infections and 
protecting wounds, to improving oral 
health and ensuring food quality
$5.16 billion sales
$5.81 billion sales$10.9 billion sales
$6.15 billion salesAbout 
Report
Report Scope and Boundaries  204
GRI Index and UNGC 208
Assurance Statement  220
Metric Tables  226About Report  |  R eport Scope and Boundaries
204 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 205Report Schedule and Period
Current Issue: May 8, 2018  
Next Issue: Scheduled for May 2019  
Previous Issue: May 9, 2017
Before 2010, 3M’s Sustainability Report was a fully 
integrated website. Therefore, copies before 2010 are not available.
This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal 
year 2017 (January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017).
Organizational Boundaries
This report covers 3M’s owned manufacturing facilities and leased facilities worldwide, including joint ventures (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) and partially owned subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) where 3M has full operational control. Acquisitions are included in data sets once legally owned and fully integrated onto 3M systems. All data included in the report is global data unless otherwise specified. Any significant organization changes are identified in the Annual Report 2017  and 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting 
& Proxy Statement. 
Data Collection, Adjustments, 
and Verification
The data provided in this report through facts and 
figures is based on activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2017. For some performance indicators, the previous year’s data are provided to allow for annual comparisons.
Report Data Collection
Due to the size and geographical extent of our operations, it is at times difficult to obtain all data points. Therefore, to the extent possible, limitations and Report Scope and BoundariesAbout ReportAbout Report | Report Scope and Boundaries
#improvinglives  | 207 206 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Reportassumptions are stated as information in the report. 
The data reported in this report has been reviewed for 
accuracy and completeness, including the reliability of 
the systems used to obtain the data.
Unless noted below, corporate staff have also verified 
the implementation of policies and management systems 
through audits and self-reporting systems.
• Financial Data: Financial information referenced in 
this report is collected and reported in accordance 
with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission through the Annual Report 2017
• Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Data: The 
EHS data in this report is related to release to the 
environment, safety performance, management 
systems implementation and regulatory 
compliance. Data collection systems are in place at 
applicable sites to track and collect environmental, 
health and safety data through the corporate-wide 
EHS reporting systems (e.g., Environmental Targets 
Database, Worldwide Incident Management 
System, etc.)
• Social Data: The data related to employee 
metrics, metrics, social practices, and community 
programs has been derived from various databases 
from within the Human Resources and 3Mgives 
organizations. The data have been reviewed 
and verified by the departments responsible for 
maintaining the internal reporting systems
• Responsible Sourcing Systems and Data: The 
policies and management systems implementation 
in this area has been reviewed and verified by 
the departments responsible for maintaining the 
internal reporting systems
Sites acquired by 3M are integrated into 3M programs 
and reporting systems via a prioritized functional 
integration schedule. Timeframe for integration varies 
depending on subject matter reporting requirements and 
site systems before being acquired; however, on average 
integration ranges between one to three years.
Base Year and Other 
Adjustments
3M’s Annual Report 2017 and Investor Relations  website 
document any changes to financial data. Several of 3M’s Data Verification
Internal Verification:  3M has conducted an internal 
verification of the information provided in this report. 
The objectives for our assurance process included:
• Accuracy and completeness of data
• Reliability of systems used to measure and  
record data
• Reliability of ratios compiled from underlying data
• Adherence to the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines
• Implementation of internal policies and related 
management systems as reported
• Presentation of a complete and fair picture in the 
report as a whole
Third-Party Verification: Bureau Veritas [“Assurance 
Provider”] provided independent third-party assurance 
for this report covering activities January 1, 2017 to 
December 31, 2017. Bureau Veritas provided moderate 
level of assurance in accordance with AA100AS-2008, 
Type 2. Bureau Veritas’ assurance letter can be found in 
the report under Assurance Statement .
Global Principles and 
Guidelines
Global Reporting Initiative
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-
based organization that includes representatives from 
business, government, labor, third-party advocacy 
groups, and academia. The GRI organization has 
developed a framework for Sustainability reporting. 
Following the GRI Sustainability framework advances 
two important objectives: transparency and the ability 
to compare results from one organization to another. 
3M has developed this report using GRI G4 Guidelines. 
The following GRI index outlines where specific GRI 
reporting elements and indicators are addressed in the 
report or other reporting sources including the Annual 
Report 2017, 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting & Proxy or 
other noted sources on 3M’s Investor Relations website.
Our material aspects are identified in the GRI Index and 
reflected in our 2025 goals with focus on raw materials, 
water, climate and energy, health and safety, and environmental goals are normalized per net sales. 3M 
does not adjust sales data for inflation.
3M generally does not adjust its base-year 
environmental metrics data to reflect changes in 
3M’s organizational structure. As a result, 3M sets 
environmental targets that are normalized or indexed 
to production (tons emitted or net sales) to assure the 
environmental progress we report publically is not 
unduly influenced by changes to our organizational 
structure. However, in the case of our greenhouse 
gas emissions data, 3M follows the World Resource 
Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development GHG Protocol. Consequently, we readjust 
our greenhouse gas emissions base-year data in the case 
of business acquisitions and divestitures.
Whenever feasible, 3M adjusts base-year and other 
years’ data if data collection methods change or data 
errors are identified. Any significant changes in the 
measurement methods and/or data values applied to key 
environmental metrics from previous years are disclosed 
in the report. Significant changes are defined by 3M’s 
Sustainability Report as changes greater than 5 percent 
of the original data point.
Reporting year 2017 unionized global workforce value is 
45 percent lower than previously reported in last year’s 
Sustainability Report. This change is due to an improved 
internal global database system and potential historical 
calculation error. This change was identified during an 
internal audit.
Between 2005 and 2010, 3M adopted a holistic 
definition of waste to drive the company’s waste 
reduction efforts toward more sustainable solutions, 
such as pollution prevention. 3M’s waste reduction goal 
and progress during this period included recycling. In 
2011, 3M returned to a more conventional definition of 
waste that considered recycling as neutral (contributing 
neither toward total waste nor toward good output).
3M’s 2025 goal program utilizes 2015 as the base-year. 
Starting with this program, waste disposed and waste 
by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. 
Total hazardous and total non-hazardous includes 
waste-to-energy.
Reporting year 2016 offsite reuse values represented 
in this report are 5.8 percent lower than previously 
reported in our 2017 Sustainability Report. This change 
is due to a data error identified during an onsite audit and 
review of our internal definition for offsite reuse values.education and development. 3M self-declares the 2018 
report as “In Accordance-Core”.
United Nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress
The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy 
initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning 
their operations and strategies with 10 universally 
accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, 
environment, and anti-corruption. 3M committed to the 
United Nations Global Compact principles in early 2014. 
This report includes an index of our Communication 
on Progress implementing the 10 principles as well as 
alignment with the United Nations 2030 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) within the content of this 
2018 Sustainability Report.  
Global Reporting Initiative  
Reporting Guidelines
3M has developed this report using the Global Reporting 
Initiatives’ G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index table  outlines 
where specific GRI reporting elements and indicators 
are addressed in the report.
United Nations Global Compact 
Principles and 2030 Sustainable 
Development Goals
Refer to the GRI Index table for cross-references of 
content in this report with the 10 Principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact, as well as alignment with the 
United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).
Contact 3M
It is through collaboration and partnerships that 
3M can accelerate Sustainability in our company to 
improve every life. You can contact 3M Sustainability at 
Sustainability@mmm.com .About Report | GRI Index
#improvinglives  | 209 208 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSDGeneral Standard Disclosure
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker  
of the organizationMessage from our Chief Executive Officer 6
G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 
opportunitiesMessage from our Chief Executive Officer
Global Challenges
Materiality 6
46
48
Organization Profile
G4-3 Name of organization 3M Company
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Our Products
Annual Report, 10-K , pages 4-7198
G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 3M Company
3M Center
St. Paul, Minnesota, United States
G4-6 Number of countries operating in, and countries 
with significant operations70-plus
Corporate Code of Conduct
Annual Report, 10-K , page 1098
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report, 10-K , page 4
G4-8 Markets served Our Products
Annual Report, 10-K , pages 4-7198
G4-9 Scale of organization Employee Programs
Sustainability Metric Tables
Annual Report, 10-K , pages 4-7118
226
G4-10 Total number of employees 91,500
Corporate Code of Conduct
Health and Safety
Sustainability Metric Tables
Annual Report, 10-K , page 498
130
226UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 8
G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 
bargaining16 percent
Human Rights 106UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 8
G4-12 Description of supply chain Suppliers 168
G4-13 Significant changes in organization during 
reporting periodAnnual Report, 10-K , pages 74-78
G4-14 Precautionary approach Global Challenges  
Environmental Management
Innovation Management  46
138
188
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 
and UN Global Compact Report on ProgressGRI Index
Standard 
DisclosureSD
EconomicEC
EnvironmentEN
Human RightsHR
Labor 
PracticesLA
Product 
ResponsibilityPR
Society  SOAbout Report | GRI Index
210 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportGRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-15 External Sustainability charters, principles or 
initiativesStakeholders
Human Rights72
106 
G4-16 List memberships of associations and 
organizationsStakeholders 72
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Entities in consolidated financial statement Annual Report, 10-K , pages 4-10 and 71-75
G4-18 Process for defining the report content and 
aspect boundariesMateriality 48
G4-19 Material aspects Materiality 48
G4-20 Aspect boundary within Materiality 48
G4-21 Aspect boundary outside Materiality 48
G4-22 Effect of restatement of information About Report 204
G4-23 Report significant changes in the scope and 
aspect boundariesNo significant changes to applicable 
operational boundaries, scope, or  
measurement methodology.
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged Stakeholders 72
G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification Stakeholders 72
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders 72
G4-27 Key topics of concern raised by stakeholders Materiality 48
Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period About Report 204
G4-29 Date of most previous report About Report 204
G4-30 Reporting cycle About Report 204
G4-31 Contact point for questions About Report 204
G4-32 In accordance option About Report 204
G4-33 External assurance for report About Report
External Assurance Statement204
220GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure Corporate Governance 86
G4-35 Delegation of authority for Sustainability topics Corporate Governance 86
G4-36 Executive level position for Sustainability topics Corporate Governance 86
G4-37 Process for stakeholder feedback to highest 
governance bodyCorporate Governance 86 SDG 16
G4-38 Composition of board Corporate Governance
3M Board of Directors
and Committee Composition86 SDG 5, 16
G4-39 Chair is executive officer Inge G. Thulin, Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer
Corporate Governance6
86SDG 16
G4-40 Nomination and selection process for board Corporate Governance
3M Company Board of Directors
Nominating and Governance
Committee Charter86 SDG 5, 16
G4-41 Conflicts of interest avoidance for board Corporate Governance 86 SDG 16
G4-42 Governance body’s role in development of 
values, mission statement, etc.Corporate Governance 86
G4-43 Measures to improve board’s understanding of 
Sustainability impactsCorporate Governance 86
G4-44 Evaluation of board with respect to  
Sustainability impactsCorporate Governance
Nominating and Governance  
Committee Charter86
G4-45 Board’s role in identification and management of 
Sustainability risksCorporate Governance 86 SDG 16
G4-46 Board’s role in reviewing organization’s risk 
management for Sustainability risksCorporate Governance
Enterprise Risk86
94
G4-47 Frequency of the board’s review of  
Sustainability risksCorporate Governance 86
G4-48 Highest governing body’s role in reviewing  
report and material aspectsCorporate Governance 86
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns  
to boardCorporate Governance 86
G4-50 Nature and number of concerns reported  
to boardThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.
G4-51 Remuneration policy for board Compensation  
Proxy Statement , page 29 and 56114
#improvinglives  | 211About Report | GRI Index
212 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives  | 213GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration of board Compensation
Proxy Statement , page 31114
G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought for board 
remuneration policiesCompensation
Annual Report, 10-K114 SDG 16
G4-54 Ratio of annual compensation for highest  
paid individual versus median  Proxy Statement , page 70
G4-55 Percentage increase of compensation  
for highest paid individualThe ratio of Chief Executive Officer pay
to other positions is not a labor indicator
currently tracked and disclosed. Our practice
is to set pay targets at all levels, from the
Chief Executive Officer on down, based on
competitive external market data.
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles  
and standardsCorporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC 
Principle 10
SDG 16
G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on  
organizational integrityCorporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC 
Principle 10
SDG 16
G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about 
unethical behaviorCorporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC 
Principle 10
SDG 16
ECEconomic
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2017 Metrics
3M Interactive Analyst Center226 SDG 2, 5, 7, 
8, 9
G4-EC2 Financial risks due to climate change Climate Change and Energy
Annual Report, 10-K , page 11156 SDG 13
G4-EC3 Coverage of benefits plan obligations Employee Programs
Annual Report, 10-K , pages 89-100118
G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 3M does not receive significant financial 
assistance from the government. For some 
information about tax holidays and the U.S. 
research and development credit, refer to 
Note 9, Income Taxes, in Annual Report, 10-K , 
pages 86 to 90.
G4-EC5 Ratio of entry level wage by gender  
compared to local minimum wage3M sets and administers compensation based 
on external market competitiveness without 
regard to gender.
G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired  
from local communityThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-EC7 Development and impact of  
infrastructure investmentsCommunities 64 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9
G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts,  
including extentCommunities 64 SDG 8, 10, 17
G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier spend by location is considered 
Business Confidential.SDG 12
ECEnvironment
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume Due to the diversity and complexity of 
manufacturing of 3M’s products and 
associated materials portfolio, this data is not 
collected (by weight/volume) and aggregated 
to the extent it would indicate relevance at a 
corporate level.
G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are  
recycled input materialsDue to the diversity and complexity of 
manufacturing of 3M’s products and 
associated materials portfolio, this data is not 
collected (percent of recycled materials) and 
aggregated to the extent it would indicate 
relevance at a corporate level.
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156
226UNGC 
Principle 7, 8
SDG 7, 8, 12, 
13
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of  
the organizationClimate and Energy
2017 Metrics156
226UNGC 
Principle 8 
SDG 7, 8, 12, 
13
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156
226UNGC 
Principle 8 
SDG 7, 8, 12, 
13
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156
226UNGC 
Principle 8 
SDG 7, 8, 12, 
13
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of  
products and servicesClimate and Energy 156 UNGC 
Principle 8, 9 
SDG 7, 8, 11, 
12, 13
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water
2017 Metrics152
226UNGC 
Principle 7, 8 
SDG 6About Report | GRI Index
#improvinglives  | 215 214 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportGRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-EN9 Water sources significant affected  
by withdrawalWater  152 UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 6  
G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 
and reusedWater 152 UNGC 
Principle 8 
SDG 6, 8, 12
G4-EN11 Operational sites near protected or high 
biodiversity areasWater 152
G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Environmental Management
Water
Significant impacts on biodiversity would be 
discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K  .138 
152
G4-EN13 Habitats protected Communities
Environmental Management
Supply Chain64 
138 
168UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 6, 14, 15
G4-EN14 Endangered species habitats near  
operational sitesWater
3M conducts environmental assessments of 
our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas 
may be identified. Where applicable, a public 
database search is completed, which includes 
a wetland database. Site visits also identify 
rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc. that are 
on or near the facility being assessed.152
G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 7, 8  
SDG 3, 12, 13, 
14, 15
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 7, 8  
SDG 3, 12, 13, 
14, 15
G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 7, 8   
SDG 3, 12, 13, 
14, 15
G4-EN18 GHG consumption intensity Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 13, 14, 15
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 8, 9  
SDG 13, 14, 15
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Climate and Energy 156 UNGC 
Principle 7, 8  
SDG 3, 12
G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant  
air emissions  Climate and Energy 156 UNGC 
Principle 7, 8  
SDG 3, 12, 
14, 15GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-EN22 Total water discharged by quality  
and destination3M 2025 water goals are focused on water 
conservation and community engagement.    
The 3M Business Conduct requirements and 
the Environmental Policy require compliance 
with all applicable jurisdictional laws and 
regulations, including those on water 
discharge.
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and  
disposal methodRaw Materials
2017 Metrics144 
226UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 3, 6, 12
G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills  Environmental Management 
3M did not have any significant spills in 2017  
that met the GRI definition of reportable in the 
organizations financial report (due to resulting 
liabilities).138 UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 3, 6,  
12, 14
G4-EN25 Weight of hazardous waste 2017 Metrics
The 3M Business Conduct requirements and 
the Environmental Policy require compliance 
with all applicable jurisdictional laws and 
regulations, including those on hazardous 
waste transportation.226
G4-EN26 Water bodies affected by organization's  
water discharges3M conducts environmental assessments of 
our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas 
may be identified. Where applicable, a public 
database search is completed, which includes 
a wetland database. Site visits also identify 
rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc. that are 
on or near the facility being assessed.
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts  
of productsInnovation Management
3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle188 UNGC 
Principle 7, 
8, 9  
SDG 6, 8, 12, 
13, 14, 15
G4-EN28 Percentage of products and packaging  
materials that are reclaimedRaw Materials
Innovation Management144 UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 8, 12
G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with  
environmental regulationEnvironmental Management
2017 Metrics138 
226UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 8, 16
G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting  
products and members of workforceClimate and Energy
2017 Metrics156 
226UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 11, 13
G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures  
and investments by type  Environmental Management 138
G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using 
environmental criteriaSuppliers 168 UNGC 
Principle 8
G4-EN33 Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions taken  Suppliers 168 UNGC 
Principle 8  
SDG 15
G4-EN34 Number of grievances about  
environmental impacts This information is considered Business 
Confidential.About Report | GRI Index
#improvinglives  | 217 216 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportHRHuman Rights
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that 
include human rights clausesCorporate Code of Conduct
Investment agreements are subject to  
3M Business Conduct Policies and Guidelines  98 UNGC 
Principle 2
G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Human Rights  106 UNGC 
Principle 1
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and  
corrective actionThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.
G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association may be violatedCorporate Code of Conduct
Human Rights
Suppliers
3M Supplier Responsibility Code  98 
106 
168UNGC 
Principle 3  
SDG 8
G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with risk of  
child laborCorporate Code of Conduct
Human Rights
Suppliers
3M Supplier Responsibility Code  98 
106 
168UNGC 
Principle 5  
SDG 8, 16
G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with risk of  
compulsory laborCorporate Code of Conduct
Human Rights
Suppliers
3M Supplier Responsibility Code  98 
106 
168UNGC 
Principle 4  
SDG 8
G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organization’s human rights policiesHuman Rights 106 UNGC 
Principle 1  
SDG 16
G4-HR8 Indigenous rights violations To the best of our knowledge, there were no 
incidents reported to Compliance and Business 
Conduct Department related to the rights of 
Indigenous people in 2017.UNGC 
Principle 1
G4-HR9 Number and percentage of operations that have 
been assessed for human rightsHuman Rights 106 UNGC 
Principle 1
G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using 
human rights criteria  Suppliers 168 UNGC 
Principle 2
G4-HR11 Negative human rights impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken  Suppliers 168 UNGC 
Principle 2
G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights 
impacts filedThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.LALabor Practices and Decent Work
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-LA1 Employee hires and turn over Employee Programs 118 UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 5, 8
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employee Programs 118 SDG 8
G4-LA3 Return to work and retention after parental leave Employee Programs 118 UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 5, 8
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changesEmployee Programs 118 UNGC 
Principle 3  
SDG 8
G4-LA5 Workers represented by management-worker 
health and safety committeesHealth and Safety 130 SDG 8
G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, lost days,  
work-related fatalitiesHealth and Safety
2017 Metrics130 
226SDG 3, 8
G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk  
of diseases related to their workWe are always taking steps to protect our 
most important asset – 3M employees. Our 
innovations are only possible with the minds, 
talent, and commitment of all of our employees 
worldwide, so we put a lot of thought and effort 
into keeping them safe and healthy.  Our Safety 
and Health Policy  applies to all 3M operations.SDG 3, 8
G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in  
agreements with trade unionsThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.
G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee Employee Programs
Although 3M tracks some training hours, it is 
not consistent globally. 3M believes indicators 
that align results of the people with success of 
the company are direct indicators of successful 
development programs.118 UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 8
G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and  
lifelong learningEmployee Programs 118 SDG 8
G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance reviewsEmployee Programs 118 UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 5, 8
G4-LA12 Employees by category for diversity indicators Diversity and Inclusion
Employee Programs76 
118UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 5, 8
G4-LA13 Remuneration of men to women by  
employee category3M sets and administers compensation based 
on external market competitiveness without 
regard to gender.UNGC 
Principle 6  
SDG 8, 10
G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using 
labor practices criteriaSupplier 168 SDG 5, 8, 16About Report | GRI Index
#improvinglives  | 219 218 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportGRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-LA15 Negative labor practices impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken  Supplier 168 SDG 8, 16
G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices This information is considered Business 
Confidential.
PRProduct Responsibility
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-PR1 Percentage of product categories for  
which health and safety impacts are  
assessed/improvedInnovation Management
Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle188
G4-PR2 Non-compliance concerning health and  
safety impacts of productsCorporate Code of Conduct
Innovation Management
Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle  98 
188
G4-PR3 Organization's procedures for  
product labelingCorporate Code of Conduct
Innovation Management
Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle
Advertising and Product Representation 
Principle  98 
188SDG 12
G4-PR4 Number of incidents for non-compliance  
with labelingSignificant non-compliance with labeling would 
be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K .SDG 16
G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys This information is considered Business 
Confidential.
G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products  Innovation Management
Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 
Principle
Advertising and Product Representation 
Principle 188
G4-PR7 Non-compliance concerning marketing 
communicationsSignificant non-compliance concerning market 
communications would be discussed in our 
Annual Report, 10-K .
G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding  
breaches of customer privacy3M respects customers' right to privacy: see 
3M Global Internet Privacy Policy . Significant 
non-compliance concerning substantiated 
complaints regarding breaches of customer 
privacy would be discussed in our Annual 
Report, 10-K .
G4-PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with 
provision and use of productSignificant fines for non-compliance with 
provision and use of product would be 
discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K .SDG 16SOSociety
GRI 
Element DescriptionCross-Reference (Hyperlinks)
or Direct AnswerPage 
(PDF)GRI 
Disclosure 
LevelConnections 
to UN 
Initiatives*
G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local  
community engagement, etcCommunities 64 UNGC 
Principle 1
G4-SO2 Operations with significant impact on  
local communitiesEnvironmental Management
Raw Materials
Water
Climate and Energy
Suppliers
Human Rights138
144
152
156
168
106UNGC 
Principle 1
G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for  
risks related to corruptionCorporate Code of Conduct
Be Honest98 UNGC 
Principle 10 
SDG 16
G4-SO4 Communications and training of  
anti-corruption policiesCorporate Code of Conduct
Be Honest98 UNGC 
Principle 10 
SDG 16
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and  
actions takenCorporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC 
Principle 10 
SDG 16
G4-SO6 Value of political contributions by  
country and recipient  Corporate Governance
Corporate Code of Conduct
Lobbying and Political Activities Principle  86
98UNGC 
Principle 10 
SDG 16
G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Significant legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices 
would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K .
G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Environmental Management
Significant fines would be discussed in our 
Annual Report, 10-K .SDG 16
G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened for 
impacts on societySuppliers 168
G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the  
supply chain and actions takenThis information is considered Business 
Confidential.
G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society This information is considered Business 
Confidential.
Disclosure Levels
 Full  Partial   Not Disclosed    *United Nations Global Compact Principles    *United Nations Sustainable Development GoalsAbout Report  | Assurance Statement
#improvinglives  | 221 220 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (Bureau Veritas) was engaged by 3M Corporation (3M) to 
conduct an independent assurance of its 2018 3M  Sustainability Report (the Report). This 
Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work 
described below. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of 3M. 
The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to 3M’s stakeholders on the accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of the information includ ed in the Report as described in the scope of 
work. The assurance process also evaluated 3M’s management of sustainability in 
accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. 
The information that was assured and its present ation in the Report are the sole responsibility 
of the management of 3M.  Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our 
sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content.  
Scope of work
3M requested Bureau Veritas to include in its independent assurance the following:  
 Data included in the Report for the calendar year 2017 reporting period as shown in 
the attached Summary of Assured Information;  
 Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, 
used to collect, analyze and review the data subject to the assurance process; and 
 Evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Assurance Standard AA1000AS 
(2008)1 Type 2 assurance. 
Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 
 Text or other written statements associated with the Report; 
 Activities outside the defined assurance period; and  
 Financial data and data reported that are not  included in the Summary of Assured 
Information. 
Methodology  
Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities during the assurance process:  
1. Interviews with relevant personnel of 3M (including managers and staff members at 
the corporate and site level);  
2. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by 3M;  
3. Audit of performance data presented in the Report including a detailed review of a 
sample of data; 
4. Visits to manufacturing sites located in Cottage Grove, MN; Aberdeen, SD; and 
Stafford Springs, CT; 
5. Remote data reviews for manufacturing si tes located in Gendorf, Germany; Tuas, 
Singapore; and Sumaré, Brazil; 
6. Visit to 3M headquarters office located in Maplewood, Minnesota; and 
                                                 
1 Published by AccountAbility: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability  Assurance 
Statement#improvinglives  | 223 222 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report7. Review of 3M data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and 
internal verification and review.  
The work was planned and carried out to provide a moderate level of assurance and we 
believe it provides a sound basis for our conclusions.  
Our findings
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:
 Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the 
scope of our verification is not materially correct. 
 Nothing has come to our attention to indica te that the reviewed information is not a 
fair representation of the actual environmental and health and safety data for 
calendar year 2017.  
 It is our opinion that 3M has established appropriate systems for the collection, 
aggregation and analysis of quantitative data, including energy use, direct and 
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water consumption, waste quantities and 
disposition, injury and illness rate, lost day rate, severity rate and number of 
environmental violations.  
A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2017 is attached. 
Adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles   
Based on the work undertaken during this assurance process, we are of the opinion that 3M 
adheres to the Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as 
discussed below. 
Inclusivity 
Based on discussions with 3M, their processes appear to be inclusive of stakeholders. In 
2016, 3M commissioned a third party provider to update their materiality assessment and has 
since been using that assessment to i dentify and engage stakeholders. Some of the 
stakeholder groups that 3M has identified to in clude in their sustainability processes include 
3M employees, customers, non-governmental organizations, investors and the public. 
Materiality  
3M updated their materiality assessment in 2016. The Chief Technology Officer serves a 
leadership role for the company's Science, Technology and Sustainability (STS) committee, 
which consists of a small group of key 3M leadership that continues to consider the materiality 
of sustainability issues.  Background information on the STS can be found in the 3M proxy 
statement: 
http://s2.q4cdn.com/974527301/files/doc_financials/2017/Annual/2018_3M_Company_Proxy.
pdf 
Responsiveness  
3M receives questions regarding sustainability from customers, investors, non-governmental 
organizations and others through various channels. The company has guidance for 
responding to customer inquiries on sustainability issues and uses this guidance for 
responding to other groups as well. Responses to surveys are coordinated by the corporate 
sustainability group. Each business group also has sustainability leads who assist with 
responding to stakeholders. 
Key Observations for 2017 
Data systems at 3M allow for consolidation and review of environmental, safety, and 
energy data at the corporate level for reporting.  
Plants in water stressed areas have developed water plans and 3M is working to continue 
to improve the plans through standardization and working with regional groups. 
With corporate staff support, plants are developing project plans that have quantified 
expected results to meet overall reduction goals with respect to waste and water.  This 
provides additional support to the planning for achieving goals. 
3M continued its commitment to consideri ng sustainability in the development of new 
products by conducting life cycle assessments to determine water consumption and GHG 
emissions from new products compared to existing products used for the same purpose. 
Control of emissions of high global warmin g potential compounds from manufacturing 
processes is continuing to evolve to reduce process-related GHG emissions.   
Community giving is aligned with core organizational values to improve lives with a focus 
on education, community and the environment. 3M provides community support through 
various engagements in the community.  Corporately, the 3M Foundation provides funding 
to charitable organizations.  3M also makes in-kind donations. 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, 
Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in 
providing independent assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of 4.69 Billion Euros. 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 3M, its Directors or 
Managers beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We 
have conducted this verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict 
of interest.  Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to 
maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, 
social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years 
combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard 
methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports.  
Attestation:  
       
John A. Rohde Lead Verifier     Candice Derks, Technical Reviewer 
Senior Project Manager     Technical Director 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services    Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.     
Denver, Colorado 
April 30, 2018 
#improvinglives  | 225 224 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number  Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number  of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted  (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number  of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number  Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted  (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number  of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number  of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
Demographic  Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions  Metrics Units Value
Total Global Full‐time Equivalent  
(Headcount)Total Number 91,500 Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,600,000 Absolute  Scope 1  Emissions  (Direct)  Metric Tons CO2e 3,960,000          
Total Global Employees  at Year‐End 
(Headcount)Total Number 92,400Waste Disposed:  Landfill, Treatment  and 
Incineration  (Absolute)Metric Tons 159,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,670,000Absolute  Scope 2 Location‐based  Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000          
Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total  Number 2,330 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric  Tons 45,100                Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,130,000Absolute  Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions  
(Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,000          
Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total  Number 90,000 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric  Tons 114,000              Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 138,000Absolute  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐
based Emissions  (Indirect) Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,000          
Percentage  of Female Employees  to Total 
Employees%  34.7 Total Hazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 43,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 177,000 Total  Scope 3 GHG  Emissions  (Upstream) Metric  Tons CO2e 9,340,000
Percentage  of Female Employees  in 
Management  Positions% 29.1 Total Nonhazardous  Waste (Absolute) Metric  Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 155,000 Category  1 ‐ Purchased  Goods and Services Metric  Tons CO2e       6,570,000 
Environmental  Management  System 
Metrics Units ValueTotal Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 306,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category  2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e           436,000 
Total Number of Significant  Spills
(Spills reported  in 10K reporting)Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 71,800 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related 
ActivitiesMetric Tons CO2e           631,000 
Number of Significant  Fines (Fine or penalty 
>$10,000)Total Number 2 Onsite Recycle & Reuse  Metric Tons 60,300 Total Electricity  Consumption MMBTUs 11,100,000Category 4 ‐ Upstream  Transportation  and 
DistributionMetric Tons CO2e       1,050,000 
Total Monetary  Value of Significant  Fines Million  $USD 0.090 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 31,600 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,220,000 Category  5 ‐ Waste Generated  in Operations Metric  Tons CO2e           279,000 
Environmental  Liability Accrued at Year End Million  $USD 0 Offsite Recycle  Metric Tons 142,000 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e             40,900 
Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Other Metrics Units ValueCategory 7 ‐ Employee  Commuting Metric  Tons CO2e           332,000 
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)0.344 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 46Customer  GHG  Avoidance  through 3M 
Product Use Million Metric Tons 
CO2e13 Category  13 ‐ Downstream  Leased Assets Metric  Tons CO2e <1000
Global Recordable  Incident RatePer 100 3M employees  
(200,000 work hours)1.16Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce  Areas; 
water sources significantly  affected by 
withdrawal  of water with water Total Number 25Total Volatile Organic Compound  Emissions  
(Absolute)Metric Tons 4,500
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total  Number 0
Supplier Responsibility  Metrics Units Value
Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total  Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100
Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total  Number 1 Total Number of Supplier ReviewsCumulative  Number 
since 20085,790 Summary  of Assured Information
Reporting  Year  2017
3M Company
About Report | Metric Tables
#improvinglives  | 227 226 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report3M Historical Metrics
Metric Metric Units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2017Historical  
Reporting  
Change  
%
Net Sales Million $USD 16,300 26,700 29,600 30,300 31,700 94.5
Environmental Footprint
Absolute Scope 1 Emissions 
(Direct) Metric Tons CO2e 16,800,000 10,100,000 4,280,000 3,770,000 3,960,000 -76.4
Absolute Scope 2 Location-based 
Emissions (Indirect)Metric Tons CO2e 1,540,000 1,700,000 1,940,000  1,860,000 1,880,000 22.1
Total GHG Emissions (Indexed to 
Net Sales, Location-based) Metric Tons per Net 
Sales (MM $USD)1,120 559 233 186 184 -83.6
2012-2016 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG 
accounting.  2002 inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase in absolute emissions over 
original reported value).
Total Volatile Organic Compound 
Emissions (Absolute)Metric Tons 6,800 6,070 4,800 4,500 -33.8
Total Volatile Organic Compounds 
Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales)Metric Tons per Net 
Sales (MM $USD)0.321 0.228 0.158 0.142 -55.8
Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 27,900,000 26,800,000 28,400,000 29,600,000 6.09
Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,170,000 7,860,000 8,320,000 8,670,000 6.12
Total Energy (Indexed to Net 
Sales)MMBTUs per Net 
Sales(MM $USD)1,320 1,010 937 935 -29.2
Waste Disposed: Landfill, 
Treatment and Incineration 
(Absolute)Metric Tons  145,000 136,000 158,000  159,000 9.66
Waste Disposed: Landfill, 
Treatment and Incineration 
(Indexed to Net Sales)Metric Tons per Net 
Sales (MM $USD)6.83 5.09 5.21 5.03 -26.4
Starting in 2016,  waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy.  Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste 
below includes waste-to-energy.
Total Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons  47,700 42,300 45,400  43,800 -8.18
Total Nonhazardous Waste 
(Absolute)Metric Tons  132,000 134,000 172,000  187,000 41.7
Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 49.0 43.0 42.2 46.0 -6.12
Total Water Use (Indexed to Net 
Sales)Million Cubic Meters 
per Net Sales (MM 
$USD)0.00231 0.00161 0.00139 0.00145 -37.2
Health and Safety
Global Lost Time Incident RatePer 100 3M 
Employees (200,000 
work hours)0.594 0.364 0.321 0.344 -42.1
Global Recordable Incident RatePer 100 3M 
Employees (200,000 
work hours)1.85 1.56 1.22 1.16 -37.1Metric TablesAbout Report | Metric Tables
#improvinglives  | 229 228 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportSocial Performance, Employees
Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017 
Annual 
Change  
%2013-2017 
Five Year 
Change  
%
Global Full-time 
Equivalent EmployeesTotal Number 88,700 89,800 89,400  91,600 91,500 -0.109 3.16
Global Employee 
(Headcount)Total Number 89,600 90,700 90,400  92,500 92,400 -0.108 3.13
Total Number 
Part-Time EmployeesTotal Number 2,580 2,560 2,520  2,390 2,330 -2.51 -9.69
Total Number 
Full-Time EmployeesTotal Number 87,000 88,200 87,900  90,100 90,000 -0.111 3.45
Percentage of 
Female Employees to 
Total Employees% 33.7 33.9 33.9  34.8 34.7 -0.287 2.97
Percentage of 
Female Employees 
in Management 
Positions% 25.3 26.1 26.9  27.8 29.1 4.68 15.0Financial Performance
Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017 
Annual 
Change  
%2013-2017 
Five Year 
Change  
%
Net Sales Million $USD 30,900 31,800 30,300  30,100 31,700 5.32 2.59
Operating Income1Million $USD 6,980  7,030 7,690 9.39
Research, 
Development and 
Related Expenses1Million $USD 1,760  1,760 1,870 6.25
Total Operating 
Expenses1 Million $USD 23,300  23,100 24,000 3.90
Net Income 
Attributable to 3MMillion $USD 4,660 4,960 4,830  5,050 4,860 -3.76 4.29
Per Share-Basic Actual $USD 6.83 7.63 7.72  8.35 8.13 -2.63 19.0
Per Share-Diluted Actual $USD 6.72 7.49 7.58  8.16 7.93 -2.82 18.0
Capital Expenditures Million $USD 1,670 1,490 1,460  1,420 1,370 -3.52 -18.0
Dividends Paid 
to Shareholders 
and Cash Interest 
PaymentsMillion $USD 1,900 2,390 2,700  2,870 3,020 5.23 58.9
Provision for Income 
TaxesMillion $USD 1,840 2,030 1,980  2,000 2,680 34.0 45.7
1.  Amounts for Operating Income; Research, Development, and Related Expenses; and Total Operating Expenses were reclassified back to 2015 to reflect the adoption of an accounting standard 
(ASU No. 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost) effective January 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis.  Amounts prior to 
2015 have not been reclassified.
Community Engagement
Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017 
Annual 
Change  
%2013-2017 
Five Year 
Change  
%
Total Global Giving Million $USD 61.6 81.3 72.8 67.3 73.5 9.21 19.3
Total Cash Donations Million $USD 30.3 30.3 34.1 34.8 35.9 3.16 18.5
Total In-Kind 
DonationsMillion $USD 31.3 51.0 38.4 32.5 37.6 15.7 20.1About Report  |  M etric Tables
#improvinglives  | 231 230 |  3 M 2018 Sustainability ReportEnvironmental Performance
Environmental 
Management System — MetricMetric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017
Total Number of Significant SpillsTotal Number0 0 0 0 0
Significant spill: spills included in the organization's financial statement.
Number of Significant FinesTotal Number2 1 0 0 2
Significant fine: fine or penalty over $10,000.
Total Monetary Value of Significant FinesMillion $USD 0.0630 0.113 0 0 0.0900
Environmental Liability Accrued at Year EndMillion $USD 0 0 0 0 0
Greenhouse Gas  
— MetricMetric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Absolute Scope 1 Emissions (Direct) Metric Tons CO₂e 5,590,000 4,390,000 3,770,000  4,140,000 3,960,000 -4.35 -29.2
Absolute Scope 2 Location-based Emissions (Indirect) Metric Tons CO
2e  2,360,000  2,240,000  1,860,000  1,840,000 1,880,000 2.17 -20.3
Absolute Scope 2 Market-based Emissions (Indirect)Metric Tons CO
2e  1,780,000 1,650,000 -7.30
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions: Market-based AccountingMetric Tons CO
2e 5,920,000 5,610,000 -5.24
Total GHG Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales, Location-based) Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD)258 208 186 199 184 -7.54 -28.7
Customer GHG Reduction Through Use of Various 3M Product PlatformsMillion Metric Tons CO₂e14  13 13 
Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated.  Due to change in boundaries, Scope 3 upstream emissions should not be compared on a year-on-year basis. Baseline reporting year has not been established for our Scope 3 emissions.
Total Scope 3 
Emissions (Upstream)Metric Tons CO₂e 8,760,000 9,260,000 8,690,000 9,490,000 9,340,000
Total Scope 3 Emissions (Downstream)Metric Tons CO₂e All downstream categories either do not apply or are de minimis.
Scope 3, Category 1  
(Purchased Goods and Services)Metric Tons CO₂e 6,730,000 6,830,000 6,200,000 7,120,000 6,570,000Methodologyupdated to calculatevalues based on 3Mspend using U.S.EPA EEIO factors.All historical valuesrecalculated.Scope 3, Category 2 (Capital Goods)Metric Tons CO₂e 424,000 499,000 452,000 423,000 436,000
Scope 3, Category 3 (Fuel and Energy Related Activities; Not Including Scope 1 or Scope 2 Emissions)Metric Tons CO₂ePartially included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting.551,000  621,000 607,000 631,000Greenhouse Gas  
— MetricMetric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Scope 3, Category 4 (Upstream Transportation and 
Distribution)Metric Tons CO₂e  1,230,000  995,000  780,000 699,000 1,050,000Emissions disclosed 
in previous years (2013-2014) were miscategorized as Category 9; data 
does not include 
emissions from transportation of raw materials from suppliers.
Scope 3, Category 5 (Waste Generated in Operations)Metric Tons CO₂e Insufficient data  254,000 248,000 279,000Calculated from 3M primary data on waste by facility size or number of employees.
Scope 3, Category 6 (Business Travel)Metric Tons CO₂e  56,900  61,100  55,800 61,800 40,900Calculated from 3M primary data on business travel.
Scope 3, Category 7 (Employee Commuting)Metric Tons CO₂e  322,000  326,000  325,000 332,000 332,000
Methodology 
updated t o calculate 
values based on 3M 
employee he adcount 
with U.S. EPA GHG 
Emission Factors. All 
historical values
recalculated.
Scope 3, Category 
8 (Upstream, Leased Assets)Metric Tons CO₂e Included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting.These emissions are included in Scope 1 and 2, because they are all under 3M operational control.
Scope 3, Category 9 (Downstream Transportation and 
Distribution)Metric Tons CO₂e
Not evaluated; most of 3M's products are intermediates with many potential end uses.  According 
to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation and Guidance, a company that produces intermediate products with many potential downstream applications, each with a potentially different GHG emission profile, cannot reasonably estimate the downstream emissions associated with the various end uses of the intermediate products.Scope 3, Category 10 (Processing of Sold Products)Metric Tons CO₂e
Scope 3, Category 11 (Use of Sold Products)Metric Tons CO₂e
Scope 3, Category 12 (End of Life Treatment of Sold Products)Metric Tons CO₂e
Scope 3, Category 13 (Downstream Leased 
Assets)Metric Tons CO₂eIncluded in Scope 1 
or Scope 2 emissions 
reporting.<1,000 <1,000 <1,000Prior to 2015, 3M 
reported facilities leased to third parties under Scope 1 and 2.
Scope 3, Category 14 (Franchises)Metric Tons CO₂e 0 0 0 0 0No franchises under 3M financial control.
Scope 3, Category 15 (Investments)Metric Tons CO₂e 0 0 0 0 0No investments under 3M financial control.
The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting  
Standard, 2011).About Report | Metric Tables
#improvinglives  | 233 232 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportGreenhouse Gas  
— MetricMetric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Total Volatile Organic 
Compound Emissions 
(Absolute)Metric Tons 5,430 5,550 4,780 4,630 4,500 -2.81 -17.1
Total Volatile 
Organic Compounds 
Emissions (Indexed 
to Net Sales)Metric Tons per  
Net Sales  
(MM $USD)0.176 0.174 0.158 0.154 0.142 -7.79 -19.3
Energy — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Total Energy Use 
(Absolute)MMBtus 28,700,000 29,100,000 28,400,000 29,000,000 29,600,000
2.07 3.14
Total Energy Use 
(Absolute)MWh 8,400,000 8,850,000 8,320,000 8,490,000 8,670,000
Total Energy (Indexed 
to Net Sales)MMBtus per Net 
Sales(MM $USD)929 913 937 962 935 -2.81 0.646
Renewable Energy% of Total Electricity 
Use0.50 7.60 17.9 136
Total Fuel Oil #1, 
#2, #6MMBtus 1,490,000 1,630,000 1,330,000  1,200,000 1,130,000 -5.83 -24.2
Total Jet Fuel MMBtus 143,000 161,000 153,000 159,000 138,000 -13.2 -3.50
Total Propane MMBtus 138,000 192,000 170,000 190,000 177,000 -6.84 28.3
Total Gasoline and 
DieselMMBtus 190,000 209,000 270,000 155,000 155,000 0.00 -18.4
Total Coal MMBtus 0 0 0 0 0
Total Natural Gas MMBtus 15,500,000 15,900,000 14,700,000 15,400,000 15,700,000 1.95 1.29
Total Electricity 
ConsumptionMMBtus 10,300,000 11,100,000 10,600,000 10,700,000 11,100,000 3.74 7.77
Total Steam 
ConsumptionMMBtus 902,000 1,010,000 1,130,000 1,180,000 1,220,000 3.39 35.3
Total Heating 
ConsumptionMMBtus 18,300,000 19,100,000 17,700,000 18,300,000 18,500,000
1.09 1.09
Total Heating 
ConsumptionMWh 5,370,000 5,590,000 5,190,000 5,360,000 5,430,000Waste — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Zero Landfill % of Total 
Manufacturing Sites28.2 26.6 27.9 4.89
Waste Disposed: 
Landfill, Treatment 
and Incineration 
(Absolute)Metric Tons 146,000 153,000 158,000 160,000 159,000 -0.625 8.90
Waste Disposed: 
Landfill, Treatment 
and Incineration 
(Indexed to Net 
Sales)Metric Tons per Net 
Sales (MM $USD)4.74 4.80 5.21 5.33 5.03 -5.63 6.12
Waste by Disposal 
Type, IncinerationMetric Tons 43,200 44,200 45,200 44,800 45,100 0.670 4.40
Waste by Disposal 
Type, LandfilledMetric Tons 103,000 109,000 112,000 116,000 114,000 -1.72 10.7
% Data Coverage 
Total Waste 
(Absolute)% 97 98 97 98 98 0.00 1.03
Starting in 2016,  waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy.  Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste 
below includes waste-to-energy.
Total Hazardous 
Waste (Absolute)Metric Tons 39,400 41,100 45,400 43,800 43,800 0.00 11.2
Total Nonhazardous 
Waste (Absolute)Metric Tons 153,000 164,000 172,000 180,000 187,000 3.89 22.2
Total Waste Diverted 
(Absolute)Metric Tons 274,000 287,000 296,000 284,000 306,000 7.75 11.7
Waste-to-Energy Metric Tons 45,700 51,900 60,000 63,400 71,800 13.2 57.1
Onsite Recycle & 
Reuse Metric Tons 66,000 69,500 65,500 56,600 60,300 6.54 -8.64
Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 32,000 31,900 31,300 27,600 31,600 14.5 -1.25
Offsite Recycle Metric Tons 131,000 134,000 139,000 136,000 142,000 4.41 8.40About Report | Metric Tables
#improvinglives  | 235 234 | 3M 2018 Sustainability ReportWater — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Total Water Use 
(Absolute)Million Cubic 
Meters43.3 42.5 42.2 44.8 46.0 2.68 6.24
Total Water Use 
(Indexed to Net 
Sales)Million Cubic 
Meters per Net 
Sales (MM $USD)0.00140 0.00134 0.00139 0.00149 0.00145 -2.68 3.57
Sites located in 
water stress/scarce 
areas; water sources 
significantly affected 
by withdrawal of 
water with water 
conservation 
planning effortsTotal Number 22 27 25 25 25 0.00 13.6
3M uses the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce 
levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on internal criteria.
Health and Safety
Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Global Lost Time 
Incident RatePer 100 3M 
Employees 
(200,000 work 
hours)0.339 0.355 0.321 0.304 0.344 13.2 1.47
Global Recordable 
Incident RatePer 100 3M 
Employees 
(200,000 work 
hours)1.41 1.45 1.22 1.20 1.16 -3.33 -17.7
Work Related 
Fatalities - 3M 
EmployeesTotal Number 1 0 0 1 0
Work Related 
Fatalities - 3M 
ContractorsTotal Number 1 0 0 0 1
Work Related 
Fatalities - Total 
NumberTotal Number 2 0 0 1 1Supplier Responsibility
Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-20172016-2017  
Annual  
Change  
%2013-2017  
Five Year  
Change  
%
Total Number of 
SuppliersTotal Number 107,000 95,800 98,500  88,200 85,100 -3.51 -20.5
Total Number of 
Supplier ReviewsCumulative Number 
(since 2008)3,210 3,880 4,570  5,120 5,790 13.1 80.4Bobby Rogers
JXTA Graphic Design Lab LeadThis has been a real eye-opening 
process for these kids. You can 
see the light bulbs go off when 
they realize there are people out 
there who do the kinds of things 
they want to do professionally 
someday.
Projects like this help us, and 
companies like 3M and BBDO, 
learn how to build a partnership 
that exposes more kids of 
color in our community to this 
potential career field. That’s a 
really powerful thing.
