GLOBAL
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT 2016FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO  3
OUR BUSINESS  4
NUTRITION  5
MEDICAL DEVICES  5
DIAGNOSTICS  5
ESTABLISHED PHARMACEUTICALS  5
APPROACH  6
SUSTAINABILITY AT ABBOTT  7
HOW ABBOTT’S SUSTAINABILITY HELPS  
PEOPLE LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES  7
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE  8
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS  9
PRIORITIES  10
INNOVATING SOLUTIONS  
AND SYSTEMS FOR FULLER,  
HEALTHIER LIVES  11
DEVELOPING THE INNOVATIONS  
PEOPLE NEED   12
INNOVATION IN DELIVERY MODELS  
AND INFRASTRUCTURE  13
IMPROVING THE ACCESSIBILITY AND  
AFFORDABILITY OF HEALTHCARE  15EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO  
LIVE FULL AND HEALTHY LIVES  19
 PROVIDING TRAINING AND RESOURCES  
FOR HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS   20
EMPOWERING CONSUMERS  21
INSPIRING FULLER, HEALTHIER LIVES  21
EMPLOYEE SAFETY  24
HEALTH AND WELLNESS  26
OPERATING SUSTAINABLY  
AND RESPONSIBLY  29
SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT  30
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY  
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT  32
ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE  35
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY  39
WASTE MANAGEMENT  41
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  42
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  
IN OUR COMMUNITIES  44
SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE  45
EMBEDDING OUR ONE  
PROCUREMENT STRATEGY  46
SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  47
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS  
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  47
STRENGTHENING LOCAL SUPPLY CHAINS  48
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  49
 VALUING OUR PEOPLE  51
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE  52
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND  
TALENT MANAGEMENT  54
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS  56
WORK-LIFE HARMONY  57
HUMAN RIGHTS  58
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES  58
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY  59
ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY   60
PROTECTING AUTHENTICITY    64
MAINTAINING BUSINESS CONTINUITY  65
CYBERSECURITY  65
PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY  66
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM  67
COMBATING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY  70
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  70
TRANSPARENCY  
AND REPORTING  71
SCOPE OF REPORTING  72
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING  72
TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES  72
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  73
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  73
METRICS  74CONTENTS
DEAR FELLOW STAKEHOLDER,
What does it mean to be a citizen? At Abbott, we believe 
it means helping to create the kind of community that we ourselves wish to live in: one with a healthy 
environment, in which fellow citizens help one another 
live their best lives, and where they can do useful, beneficial and fulfilling work. And to us, as a global company, that community is the world itself.
This report details the many ways we bring our trust 
and commitment as citizens to life, working to help address some of the world’s biggest challenges.
First and foremost, always, is the work we do — bringing 
people new and better technologies to help them live fuller, healthier lives. It’s a privilege to serve this mission, and it suffuses all of our actions as a company. We advanced this work in 2016 by adding new R&D 
facilities in Brazil and China, helping us to develop new 
solutions specifically targeted to meet differing regional needs around the world. 
We work to create sustainable business solutions that 
benefit not just Abbott and the people who use our 
products, but the broader community as well. For instance, when we built a new nutritional products plant in India, suppliers weren’t able to provide enough milk that met our high quality standards. So, we’re working 
together with our supplier and nonprofit partners to 
reach up to 1,500 smallholder dairy farmers, providing them training and resources to raise both their output and quality standards. This builds a sustainable system 
that helps local communities thrive, consumers 
throughout India to receive high-quality nutrition and Abbott to better serve a large national market.Our business is about improving people’s lives; to us, that clearly implies vigorous environmental protection. In 2016 alone, we implemented over 130 projects at 
Abbott locations around the world to improve waste, 
water and energy efficiencies to reduce our footprint and advance sustainability in our communities. One example: a water conservation project at one of our facilities in California recycles water from 
manufacturing for use in the site’s cooling towers and 
irrigation system, reducing fresh water consumption at the site by 60 percent.
And we remain committed to innovative and effective 
philanthropic efforts, such as working with PATH, an international nonprofit organization, to improve its Ultra Rice® formulation technology, which transforms a bowl of regular rice into a micronutrient-rich meal. 
Our nutrition scientists helped make Ultra Rice® more 
nutritious at a lower cost, to deliver the greatest benefit to the most people. 
In 2016, these and our other efforts earned us inclusion 
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the 12th 
consecutive year, the last four as Global Industry Group Leader. 
We at Abbott are proud to be contributing citizens of the 
global community of which we’re part. Thank you for 
your interest in our sustainability work.
Sincerely,  
 
  
MILES D. WHITE  
MILES D. WHITE  
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERFROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
3
OUR BUSINESS
5 NUTRITION  
  From infants to the elderly, we offer science-
based nutrition products to make every stage 
of life a healthy one. 
5  MEDICAL DEVICES  
  Our advanced medical devices enable  
people to live their lives better and  
healthier every day.5 DIAGNOSTICS  
  Our innovative technologies provide 
healthcare professionals the information 
they need to make the best treatment 
decisions, faster.
5  ESTABLISHED 
PHARMACEUTICALS  
  We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded generic medicines that 
treat some of the world’s most pervasive 
health conditions.IN THIS SECTION
Abbott is a globally diversified healthcare 
company, devoted to improving life through the development of products and technologies that span the breadth of healthcare. Approximately 94,000 Abbott people carry out our mission, reaching more than 150 countries. 
Abbott has four core businesses, each 
focused on advancing innovations that provide better options and outcomes for people in pursuit of healthier lives.
4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
$8.5 BILLION
SPENT WITH DIRECT SUPPLIERS
 $1.5 BILLION
RETURNED IN DIVIDENDS  
TO SHAREHOLDERS
 $1.4 BILLION
INVESTED IN R&D
 $20.9 BILLION
NET SALES WORLDWIDEAbbott is a globally diversified healthcare company, 
headquartered in north suburban Chicago, which is committed to helping people live their best possible 
lives through the power of health. Our business has 
brought new products and technologies to market for almost 130 years, creating more possibilities for more people at all stages of life. Today, 94,000 of us are working to help people live not just longer, but better,  
in the more than 150 countries we serve.
We have four major businesses, each focused on 
advancing innovations that provide better options and 
outcomes for people in pursuit of healthier lives. The 
breadth and balance of our product portfolio let Abbott help more people, in more places, and give us increased stability in an ever-changing world.
We deliver results for patients, consumers, healthcare 
professionals, employees and shareholders, and we work to continually invest, innovate and introduce new products that are changing the practice of healthcare. In 2016, we invested $1.4 billion in research 
and development. Additionally, Abbott and our 
philanthropic foundation, the Abbott Fund, contributed nearly $37 million in philanthropic grants, product donations and patient assistance.
NUTRITION
Abbott understands that proper nutrition is the foundation for full and healthy lives. That’s why we develop science-based nutrition products for people 
of all ages. With a focus on consumers and healthcare 
professionals, Abbott develops products that help  
babies and children grow, keep bodies strong and  
active, and support the unique nutrition needs of individuals with chronic illnesses. We work to make 
every stage of life a healthy one.MEDICAL DEVICES
More advanced medical devices mean faster, more 
effective and less invasive solutions. Whether it’s glucose monitoring systems, innovative therapies for 
treating heart disease, or products that help people with 
chronic pain or movement disorders, our medical device technologies are designed to help people live better and healthier lives. As the global population ages and the incidence of chronic diseases increases, we’re working 
to help more people, in more places, than ever before. 
During 2016, Abbott announced the acquisition of  
St. Jude Medical, a leading medical device company with expertise and a track record of breakthrough innovation 
in cardiovascular disease and neuromodulation. The 
combination of Abbott and St. Jude establishes our business as a clear market leader in cardiovascular medical devices, with one of the industry’s strongest new product pipelines. Also during the year, we announced 
the sale of Abbott Medical Optics (AMO), our division 
dedicated to vision and eye health, to Johnson & Johnson. 
DIAGNOSTICS
Our innovative instruments and tests help diagnose and monitor a range of health conditions with speed, accuracy and efficiency. Our diagnostics solutions range 
from automated immunodiagnostics systems and blood 
analyzers to sophisticated molecular diagnostics and point-of-care devices. They are designed to deliver information that helps improve decision making and patient care across the entire healthcare system.
ESTABLISHED PHARMACEUTICALS
We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded generic medicines that help millions of people around the world lead healthier lives. Through such product 
enhancements as new formulations, delivery methods 
and packaging, we tailor our offerings to address the specific needs of the regions we serve. 
5
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
APPROACH
7 SUSTAINABILITY AT ABBOTT  
  Our sustainability strategy focuses on the 
areas where opportunities for our business 
intersect with positive social impact: We aim to 
achieve sustainable growth, deliver innovative solutions and build stronger communities to 
help more people live their best lives.
7  HOW ABBOTT’S  
SUSTAINABILITY HELPS PEOPLE 
LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES  
  Abbott helps people live fuller lives by 
innovating to help them get healthy and 
stay healthy by empowering healthcare 
practitioners, patients and consumers through education and by operating responsibly.8  SUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT AND 
GOVERNANCE  
  Our approach to sustainability 
management and governance is focused  
on integrating sustainability with our  
core business strategy.
9  ENGAGING OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS  
  Listening to our stakeholders is vital to  our success as a business and to our 
progress as a global citizen.IN THIS SECTION
Abbott is in the business of life. We believe 
that good health is not just about treating an illness or managing a medical condition. It’s about supporting people’s health as if it were our own, so they can live their best lives. This belief in the power of health informs our approach to sustainability.
6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
At Abbott, we’re all about helping you live the best 
life you can through good health. We keep your heart healthy, nourish your body at every stage of life, help 
you feel and move better, and bring you information, 
medicines and breakthroughs to manage your health. Our business is built around delivering innovative solutions that can push healthcare further, sharing knowledge and empowering more people to achieve 
their potential.
Being a responsible, sustainable and inclusive business 
is an essential foundation for helping people live fuller, 
healthier lives. We focus on operating responsibly; 
preserving healthy living environments; and earning trust by doing the right things, for the long term, for the benefit of everyone who relies on our products and services. At the same time, we work hard to maximize 
the impact of our business in creating stronger 
communities around the world.
SUSTAINABILITY AT ABBOTT
The goals of our sustainability strategy are to achieve sustainable growth, deliver innovative solutions and build stronger communities to help more people live 
their best lives. In order to focus our efforts in the areas 
where we can have the greatest possible impact, we must understand people’s changing healthcare needs, as well as the most important environmental, social and governance factors affecting our business.
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
We partnered with the external agency, Corporate Citizenship, to undertake a materiality assessment to identify and prioritize our most important 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. 
This involved rigorously assessing what matters to our stakeholders and what is relevant for commercial success in our markets. The topics that emerged from the process are those that can most significantly impact the long-term success and viability of our business. They will inform our sustainability priorities over the coming months and years and act as valuable guideposts to our opportunities and challenges.
THE PROCESS
We undertook a three-step process:
1.  We conducted extensive research to identify the 
economic, governance, environmental and societal 
topics relevant to Abbott, our stakeholders and the broader healthcare industry. 
2.  We interviewed external experts in sustainability, 
environmental management, healthcare and public 
policy and invited them to prioritize these topics based on their significance and potential impact relative to our business. We also used the expertise 
of our Global Citizenship Advisory Council — a core 
group of independent expert advisors with a broad knowledge of corporate responsibility — to guide  
the process.
3.  We interviewed senior leaders across Abbott  
to identify topics that would have the greatest potential impact on the long-term viability  
of our business.
Through this process, we identified a preliminary list of 20 ESG topics that are of material importance to Abbott, our industry and our priority stakeholders. We are currently working on building these into a materiality matrix that identifies the importance of each topic, 
its potential impact on our business and our degree of 
influence over the topic. In 2017 , we plan to update the matrix to reflect the changing profile of our business following the acquisition of St. Jude. The 20 areas identified for potential inclusion in the materiality matrix are as follows:
• Affordability
• Climate change
• Corruption and bribery
• Demographic shifts
• Disruptive technologies
• Diversity
• Healthcare infrastructure
• Malnutrition
• Occupational health and safety
• Patient and consumer empowerment
• Political instability
• Product quality and safety
• R&D and product pipeline
• Resource scarcity
• Responsible marketing
• Rise of noncommunicable diseases
• Supply chain resilience
• Talent management
• Transparency
• Water management
HOW ABBOTT’S SUSTAINABILITY HELPS 
PEOPLE LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES
The way that we report on our sustainability efforts 
reflects how our business helps people live full,  
healthy lives.
Abbott is committed to innovating to help people get 
healthy and stay healthy at all stages of life. We innovate new products to meet changing healthcare needs and develop new business models that create shared value 
for our communities and new systems that support the 
delivery of healthcare to those who need it most.
Knowledge is the essential foundation for healthier 
lives. Abbott works to empower healthcare 
7
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
practitioners, patients, consumers and our own 
employees. We share our expertise about new research and new health solutions, market our products 
responsibly, and empower people to make informed 
choices about healthcare and nutrition.
Operating sustainably and responsibly is the bedrock  
of our business’s positive impact. We earn trust for  
our brand and products through the highest standards 
of quality and safety, ethics, and integrity. We protect the health and well-being of our employees while operating award-winning programs to help them fulfill their 
potential. We work to promote and preserve healthy 
living environments by reducing our environmental impact, mitigating the effects of climate change and safeguarding clean water resources. We work closely with our suppliers to apply the highest standards of 
environmental and social responsibility throughout our 
supply chain, including the protection of human rights.
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE 
Our commitment to good citizenship begins at the top. Our sustainability efforts are led by our board of directors and senior management. The Public Policy 
Committee of our board of directors is responsible 
for the review and evaluation of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social responsibility.
The sustainability team has lead responsibility for  
implementing our sustainability strategy. This 
department works with our four major businesses, key  
functional areas and affiliates around the world to ensure that we consistently deliver on our sustainability 
ambitions. The sustainability team reports to our  
Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and External 
Affairs Officer, who in turn reports directly to our Chairman and CEO.We are committed to embedding our citizenship strategy ever more closely within our core business strategy. Our cross-functional Sustainability Working 
Group leads these integration efforts, while also 
overseeing the reporting of our financial, social and environmental performance. The team includes representatives from corporate purchasing; global environment, health and safety; office of ethics and 
compliance; quality and regulatory affairs; human 
resources; supply chain; research and development; investor relations; global marketing organization; government affairs; and commercial operations. The 
team also includes representatives from our affiliate 
operations in different countries.
Several of our country operations — including China, 
India, Ireland and Russia — have formed their own local, 
cross-functional sustainability working groups, which 
are responsible for embedding responsible business practices throughout the organization and driving specific stakeholder engagement initiatives appropriate to local needs.
In addition, the following committees and working 
groups play an important role in our citizenship governance process:
Global Operations Council – This body oversees 
the strategy for all Abbott operations (manufacturing, supply chain, engineering and environment, health and safety) and deploys resources to where they are needed 
based on internal assessment, risk profiles and industry 
best practices. For more information, please see the Environment, Health and Safety Management Oversight  
section of this report.
Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors – 
Comprised solely of independent directors, this committee’s charter includes reviewing and evaluating Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social responsibility.
Business Conduct Committee of the Board of 
Directors – Comprised of business heads, this committee oversees implementation of our ethics and compliance programs.
Executive Inclusion Council – Led by our Chairman 
and CEO, this council oversees our diversity and inclusion initiatives.
We also work externally with our Global Citizenship 
Advisory Council (GCAC), a core group of independent expert advisors with broad knowledge of corporate responsibility. Members of the GCAC provide guidance on strategic issues, identifying opportunities and 
advising on risks across our value chain. They include: 
Margaret Flaherty  
Senior Advisor, FSG, and Professor  
at the Business School Lausanne
David Logan  
Co-Founding Director, Corporate Citizenship
Jane Nelson  
Senior Fellow and Director of CSR Initiatives,  
Harvard Kennedy SchoolDavid Vidal  
Emeritus Fellow, The Conference Board
8
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue 
on health, believing that good health opens up life’s possibilities. We know that listening to our stakeholders 
and responding with relevant, local solutions that meet 
people’s changing needs and tackle the world’s most important health challenges are vital to our success  
as a business. 
We work to develop solutions that are meaningful to 
people, wherever they are in the world. Stakeholder insights help us understand, anticipate and stay ahead of global health and economic trends, so that we can adapt 
our business to help people and have the most impact.
At Abbott, we value the trusted partnerships we 
have built over the years with government officials, healthcare professionals, educational institutions and 
nongovernmental organizations. We have a defined 
process of stakeholder engagement that guides Abbott leaders to ensure that we gather insights from all relevant people across the different countries in  
which we operate. In this way, we are able to engage 
and offer solutions that create real and lasting change 
in people’s lives. These partnerships lead to healthier communities, while at the same time helping to create new economic opportunities for people in developed and emerging countries. 
SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
Providing our customers with clear channels of communication is an important element in our ability  
to support them and help meet their healthcare needs. 
We offer customers a number of different ways to 
connect with us around the clock, whether online, through social media, over the phone or through the mail. For our Similac® and PediaSure® nutrition products, for example, we operate dedicated social 
channels and a toll-free hotline, providing customer 
support and answering questions.Our Net Promoter Score® (NPS) is an externally 
recognized metric for customer satisfaction, and we see 
it as an important measure of our success in meeting our customers’ needs. Our diagnostics business has increased its NPS from 32.1 in 2010 to 53.2 in 2016.
STARTING A GLOBAL CONVERSATION
Does living fully look the same to an accountant in 
Shanghai as it does to an architect in New Delhi or a street artist in São Paulo? What about a factory worker  in Detroit or a new mother in Berlin? We’ve been exploring what it means to live a healthy, full life and sharing what it looks like through our online site,  lifetothefullest.abbott, and our global social media channels. 
It’s all about sparking and sharing a global conversation 
with consumers. Through online surveys, social media and online events, nearly 2 million people from around the world told us what living a full life looks like to them. They told us what — from family to success, from giving to health — makes their lives fuller and happier. A full life means different things to us all, but good health is the foundation. Every day and around the world, we’re putting our scientific leadership and innovation to work to help people live their best, healthiest lives. That’s what inspires our work every day and keeps us pushing for tomorrow’s breakthroughs.
9
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
PRIORITIES
11  INNOVATING SOLUTIONS 
AND SYSTEMS FOR FULLER, 
HEALTHIER LIVES  
19  EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LIVE 
FULL AND HEALTHY LIVES  29  OPERATING SUSTAINABLY 
AND RESPONSIBLY  IN THIS SECTION
The way we report on our sustainability 
efforts reflects how our business helps people live full, healthy lives.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
1010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
12  DEVELOPING THE 
INNOVATIONS PEOPLE NEED   
  We strive to make a lasting impact on human 
health by designing specific products to meet 
emerging needs and addressing the challenges 
people face every day.
13  INNOVATION IN 
DELIVERY MODELS AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE   
  We develop innovative new approaches 
for sharing data, improving diagnosis and 
delivering healthcare, which help to improve 
the capacity of healthcare systems worldwide.15  IMPROVING THE 
ACCESSIBILITY AND 
AFFORDABILITY OF 
HEALTHCARE   
  Innovation has a key role to play in our 
efforts to keep healthcare affordable and 
accessible for those who need it most.IN THIS SECTION
Abbott is committed to innovating to help 
people get healthy and stay healthy, at all stages of life. We innovate new products to meet changing healthcare needs and emerging healthcare challenges, new approaches that ensure the affordability and accessibility of healthcare and new systems that help to deliver it to those  who need it most.INNOVATING SOLUTIONS AND  
SYSTEMS FOR FULLER, HEALTHIER LIVES
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
11
Abbott is in the business of life, and the business of 
life is also the business of innovation. To enable fuller, healthier lives, we must constantly innovate to meet 
changing needs and emerging challenges. We must seek 
to understand practitioners, patients and consumers in every market where we operate, listening to the issues that they face and developing solutions that can help them. We must keep innovating in the ways 
that our solutions are produced, packaged, priced 
and distributed, ensuring that quality healthcare and nutrition can reach those who need it most.
DEVELOPING THE INNOVATIONS  
PEOPLE NEED
The human drive to explore new possibilities has succeeded in raising living standards dramatically around the world. With a growing population, longer 
lives, rapidly changing lifestyles and new healthcare 
challenges, the need for innovation is constant.
Abbott meets this challenge by focusing on delivering 
the highest possible quality of healthcare at every stage 
of the research and development process:
• Groundbreaking research to understand what the 
body needs and to deliver the right solutions
• Innovative product design that helps people live longer, more fulfilling lives
• The highest standards in healthcare solutions and 
practices that ensure our products deliver the best 
health outcomesThe innovations we launched in the last year are already changing people’s lives by taking on cardiovascular disease, diabetes and other conditions. We introduced a heart stent that dissolves after clearing a blocked artery 
to help maintain the long-term natural movement of 
blood vessels, an approach to glucose monitoring that puts patients in control, and an infant formula that is closer to breast milk than ever before. 
OUR INNOVATIONS IN 2016
In 2016, Clarivate Analytics (formerly part of Thomson Reuters) named Abbott one of its Top 100 Global Innovators for the fourth consecutive year. This 
prestigious ranking recognizes businesses that advance 
scientific innovation across different industries, based on their commitment to innovation, protecting ideas and commercializing inventions.
Some of the most important life-enabling innovations 
Abbott brought to healthcare practitioners and patients in the last year include:
FreeStyle® Libre – An innovative glucose monitoring 
system for people with diabetes, FreeStyle® Libre avoids the need for routine finger pricking to test glucose levels, making it easier to monitor glucose levels around the clock. For patients living with diabetes — who often 
avoid testing their glucose with the traditional finger 
pricking method due to the pain and inconvenience — this can be life-changing. The FreeStyle® Libre sensor monitors glucose levels every minute of the day  
for up to 14 days. It also provides a more complete 
picture of actionable glucose data that is visible to both 
patients and their doctors — making it far easier for those with diabetes to take control of managing their condition. The FreeStyle® Libre system is currently available across 34 countries.Alinity
TM – Diagnostic testing influences approximately 
70 percent of healthcare decisions. However, this building block of healthcare is under pressure as a result of increased demand due to aging populations, the 
growing burden of managing chronic conditions and 
managing greater testing volumes on limited budgets.  
To help meet these and other challenges, Abbott’s research and development teams engaged with thousands of clinicians, scientists, lab technicians and 
healthcare executives to create Alinity
TM, an innovative 
new family of harmonized instruments that Abbott 
has designed to meet a range of diagnostic needs. 
Their common user interfaces, error-proof design 
and increased automation enable more efficiency and flexibility. The global launch is underway and will be expanded further in 2017 , elevating the role diagnostics plays in clinical decision making and helping to deliver 
high-quality care to patients. 
Thyroxine – A healthy thyroid gland is critical for 
the development of infants and children. When young 
children are unable to produce the thyroid hormone 
naturally, it can result in slow growth, intellectual disability and developmental delays. Doctors typically prescribe thyroxine, an artificial form of the hormone, to treat such hypothyroidism. However, administering 
thyroxine to children is difficult. Parents often crush 
tablets in milk to make it palatable — but the risks of getting the dose wrong are high with this approach. Abbott’s established pharmaceuticals division has developed a new oral-solution version of thyroxine  
for India, with an easy-to-use dosing device that improves accuracy, avoids spillage and reduces  
product contamination. Ensuring that children can get the right amount of thyroxine has a big impact in managing this condition — and enabling them to lead 
full and happy lives.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
12
12 MOST IMPORTANT HEALTH INNOVATIONS OF 2016
Popular Science magazine named FreeStyle® Libre glucose 
monitoring system among its 12 Most Important Health Innovations of 2016.
UNDERSTANDING HEALTHCARE NEEDS
Successful innovation is founded on research — 
including research on understanding the changing healthcare needs of people in different regions, 
markets and cultures. Abbott’s approach to research 
and development (R&D) prioritizes factors such as differences in local taste and cultural preferences — something widely recognized when it comes to food,  
but often overlooked when it comes to medicine. 
By investing in local R&D facilities, we bring our 
innovation process closer to the people using our products, and increase our ability to deliver solutions 
attuned to their particular needs and tastes. In 2016, 
Abbott opened new R&D facilities in Brazil and China, adding to our more than 40 existing R&D and laboratory sites across 20 countries.
In China, Abbott has invested $50 million in a Shanghai 
facility investigating new ways to diagnose the most rapidly growing health conditions in the country and developing nutrition products that match Chinese tastes and preferences. The R&D facility includes a customer 
experience center to encourage wider innovation. The 
new pharmaceutical development centers in Singapore and Rio de Janeiro will help to develop specific products for the Southeast Asian and South American markets.BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH  
CONSORTIUM CHILE (BMRC)
Abbott is a member of the Biomedical Research 
Consortium Chile (BMRC), which works with researchers at the Universidad Católica de Chile (UC) to research solutions to global health issues. Over the last nine years, the BMRC’s breakthrough innovations have included thyroid cancer and respiratory pathogen diagnosis kits, a methaneumovirus vaccine, cancer and lupus therapies, and treatments for hypertension and metabolic syndrome.
INNOVATION IN DELIVERY MODELS AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE
Innovation to enable fuller lives involves more than new 
healthcare products. By developing new delivery models and infrastructure, we can revolutionize healthcare 
worldwide. We develop innovative systems for sharing 
data, improving diagnosis, and delivering products and medical supplies to where they are most needed.
PROMOTING BLOOD SAFETY ACROSS  
ASIA AND LATIN AMERICA
Transfusion of blood and blood products helps save millions of lives every year. However, the demand  
for safe and reliable blood often exceeds supply.  
In the developing economies of the Asia Pacific  
region, blood supplies are rarely sufficient to meet  
local needs and often fail to meet international quality and safety standards. Abbott is working to address this challenge as part of the Blood Safety Initiative and Coalition, which brings together public and private partners to support the 
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, 
and to improve the supply, quality and safety of blood supplies across Asia and Latin America. As part of our support for APEC’s Blood Supply Chain Partnership 
Training Network (PTN), we are working to increase 
lab capacity, provide training and promote best practices in blood safety. In 2016, we supported PTN’s first pilot training program on quality management systems for blood banks in Peru, attended the Blood Supply Chain 
Policy Forum in Vietnam, and helped to develop training 
resources and blood safety documents for the newly launched PTN website .
BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR 
HEALTHCARE IN TANZANIA
In 2016, Abbott continued its partnership with the 
government of Tanzania to strengthen the country’s healthcare system. More than 800,000 patients have 
now registered with Tanzania’s first nationwide 
laboratory network, the latest result of the $125 million investment that Abbott and the Abbott Fund have made in the country’s healthcare infrastructure. 
Linking all 23 of the country’s regional healthcare 
laboratories, the new IT network enables the immediate sharing of test results, disease surveillance reports and healthcare management practices across the country.  
It helps Tanzanian healthcare practitioners battle  
many chronic diseases — including HIV/AIDS, the leading cause of death in the country — and helps ensure that the treatment people receive reflects the latest medical advances. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
13
INVESTING IN 
BREAKTHROUGH INNOVATIONS
Abbott’s vision is fixed, clear and ambitious: to make 
Abbott the world’s leading healthcare company in the markets in which we compete by setting the highest standards for innovation. We strive to understand the challenges practitioners, patients and consumers face in every market where we operate and develop solutions that meet these needs. Our approach enables us to bring inventions to market that are changing people’s lives for the better.41 R&D AND LAB  
SITES WORLDWIDE 
Great ideas come from all over 
the world. We established new R&D facilities in Brazil and  China this year.
DIABETES CARE 
INNOVATIONS
FreeStyle® Libre  
available in 32+ countries
FreeStyle® Libre Pro  
available in the U.S.Libre Link and Libre Link-up 
mobile apps available in EuropeNEW BRANDED 
GENERIC PHARMACEUTICALS 
in Latin America NEW NUTRITIONALS
Ensure® Enlive®
EAS® Myoplex®
EAS® Ketogenic
Similac® Pro-Advance™
Similac® Pro-Sensitive™$1.4B  
INVESTED IN
R&D IN 2016WE INVESTED MORE THAN 
$1.4 BILLION, RELENTLESSLY 
PURSUING NEW INNOVATIONS 
THAT MAKE A LASTING  
IMPACT ON HEALTH.  
NEW DIAGNOSTICS 
SOLUTIONS*
AlinIQ   
i-STAT Alinity    Alinity c Alinity i Alinity s3 5 5+ >60TOP GLOBAL 
INNOVATOR
We are proud to be recognized 
among the Clarivate 2016  Top 100 Global Innovators and Fast Company’s Most Innovative Companies of 2017. 
*  AlinIQ, Alinity and i-STAT are  
registered trademarks of Abbott.
In addition to leveraging the benefits of digital 
healthcare infrastructure for Tanzania, the partnership provides medical training for the healthcare providers 
of the future. During 2016, the fourth class of residents 
graduated from the Abbott Fund-supported Emergency Medicine Residency Program, the first such program in East Africa. These graduates provide critically needed care to more than 73,000 people per year. 
In 15 years of partnership, Abbott has enabled more than 
130,000 hours of training in patient testing, laboratory equipment operation, IT management and emergency 
medicine. During 2016, Abbott lab technicians spent 
almost 3,000 hours providing on-the-ground training and mentoring for local teams. 
The Abbott and Abbott Fund program has modernized 
Muhimbili National Hospital, adding a new emergency 
department and outpatient treatment center, a state-of-the-art laboratory building and a hospital-wide information technology system that tracks inventory, prescriptions and patient health history. This IT 
infrastructure also helps the national hospital take 
important steps toward sustainability for Tanzania’s public healthcare system, capturing more revenue from patients who can afford to pay for quality services. 
73,000+ PEOPLE
Graduates of the Abbott Fund-supported 
Emergency Medicine Residency Program in Tanzania provide critically needed care to more than 73,000 people each year.23 LABS
Twenty-three regional laboratories have been modernized and connected via Tanzania’s first national IT network.
130,000+ HOURS
Abbott employee volunteers and our partners have contributed more than 130,000 hours to our efforts in Tanzania.
NEW BLOOD TESTING TECHNIQUES  
TO ADVANCE DISEASE SURVEILLANCE
Rapid and reliable diagnosis is vital for managing  
the spread of viruses, both during sudden outbreaks  
and when countries face an established infectious 
disease threat.
Abbott responded to the recent Zika outbreak in the 
Americas by developing the first commercial molecular test for detecting the presence of the Zika virus in whole 
blood. The Abbott RealTime ZIKA test allows for more 
reliable diagnosis of Zika, over a longer period of time, than previous approaches. The test specifically detects Zika virus, so it is useful in an environment where other 
viruses — such as dengue or chikungunya — are present. 
This enables rapid, informed diagnoses even beyond the first few weeks after exposure. Such diagnoses can make an important difference to the lives of pregnant women and those planning to have children, as well as other 
symptomatic individuals.DETECTING ZIKA VIRUS  
IN WHOLE BLOOD
Abbott is committed to addressing public 
health needs around the globe. We developed the first commercial molecular test to detect the Zika virus in whole blood.
Abbott’s R&D center in Shanghai uses the same 
molecular m2000 platform to explore diagnostic markers in the blood of HIV , hepatitis B and hepatitis 
C patients as part of our ongoing viral surveillance 
program. At the same time, we are working with the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) to develop new methods of analyzing blood that can simultaneously detect a broad range of known as well 
as novel pathogens, rather than testing for one specific 
pathogen at a time. Such an approach has the potential to revolutionize disease surveillance by providing much earlier warning of the spread of a pathogen.
IMPROVING THE ACCESSIBILITY AND 
AFFORDABILITY OF HEALTHCARE
Making healthcare available and affordable is an 
essential component of Abbott’s mission to enable fuller lives — and innovation has a vital role to play in making 
it possible. We work with nonprofit organizations and 
national healthcare systems to develop new solutions that can deliver the care that people need at scale, and we work to ensure the affordability of healthcare in emerging markets.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
15
AFFORDABILITY OF  
PRODUCTS IN INDIA
Abbott is committed to providing a 
broad range of affordable products for patients across India: 70 percent of our high-quality medicines sell  for less than seven rupees (roughly 10 U.S. cents). 70%
EXPANDING DIABETES SUPPORT IN CHILE
Rapid changes in lifestyle in fast-developing markets are 
resulting in an equally rapid rise in noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), in particular diabetes. In Chile, where 
the International Diabetes Federation cited 1.3 million 
cases of diabetes in 2015,* Abbott works closely with the Fundación Diabetes Juvenil de Chile (FDJ). This nonprofit organization works to make diabetes diagnosis and support available to young people across Chile. 
Abbott trains FDJ employees and provides discounted 
products for distribution through the foundation’s nonprofit pharmacy and supports FDJ’s expansion from a clinical support center in Santiago to other locations 
across the country. In 2016, Abbott worked with the 
foundation to help launch an online pharmacy, making breakthrough systems, such as FreeStyle® Libre, available direct to patients across the country.
ACCESSIBILITY AND EDUCATION  
IN LATIN AMERICA
Being diagnosed with a chronic condition can be overwhelming emotionally and financially. We aim to support patients with chronic conditions, helping them 
to comply with their medical treatment so that they can 
continue to live full, healthy lives. In Latin America, Abbott operates a range of patient 
support programs designed to provide affordability  
for those who depend on our products the most.  
We offer discounts of between 20 and 50 percent for 
standard drugs, treating conditions like hypertension and metabolic syndrome and helping to raise awareness 
of healthcare options through online platforms and 
educational tools. For example, our Abrace a Vida website in Brazil has engaged 415,000 patients, 78,000 physicians and 1,300 pharmacies since its launch in 2004. Across all of Latin America, we have more than 
1.3 million patients enrolled in our patient support 
programs. Taken together, these programs help patients gain broader access, greater disease awareness and better treatment.
WONDER GRAIN
Micronutrient malnutrition, or hidden hunger, affects more than 2 billion people worldwide; half of those affected reside in countries where rice is a staple food.
† 
Fortifying rice to improve its nutritional value has the potential to make a significant impact on the health 
outcomes of these populations. Through a partnership 
between Abbott and the international nonprofit organization PATH, we are helping to do just that. 
More than a dozen Abbott scientists worked with PATH 
to improve its Ultra Rice® fortification technology, 
developing enhanced formulations to improve nutrient quality and absorption, reducing costs by approximately 10 percent and optimizing flavor, aroma and appearance 
to make Ultra Rice mimic traditional rice as closely as 
possible. In addition, support from the Abbott Fund has helped build local capacity and strengthen local distribution in India. The new formulations are already having an impact: In the United States, the Department of Agriculture 
approved fortified rice for distribution through U.S. 
food aid programs around the world. In India, it is now distributed as part of the school lunch program, targeting 450,000 children. 
REBUILDING NUTRITION IN HAITI FOLLOWING 
HURRICANE MATTHEW
In October 2016, Hurricane Matthew, one of the 
strongest hurricanes to hit the Caribbean in recent years, made landfall in Haiti. The impact on the Western 
Hemisphere’s poorest nation was devastating –  
destroying lives, infrastructure and an already fragile 
food supply network.
Since 2013, Nourimanba, a ready-to-use therapeutic 
food product provided free of charge by Partners In 
Health (PIH) for the treatment of severe childhood 
malnutrition, has played a vital role in saving lives in the country. Abbott and the Abbott Fund partnered with PIH and its Haitian sister organization, Zanmi Lasante (ZL), to build a state-of-the-art Nourimanba production 
facility that would withstand hurricanes. To help 
address the impact of Hurricane Matthew, the Abbott Fund provided $75,000 to help ramp up production of Nourimanba to meet increased demand.
* International Diabetes Federation.  
†  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, “The State of 
Food Insecurity in the World” (2014).
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
16
FORTIFYING  
RICE TO FIGHT  
MALNUTRITION
Rice is a staple food that feeds half the world, 
including some of the world’s poorest countries. Besides being an abundant food source, rice can also help overcome the global health problem of micronutrient malnutrition, through fortification with essential vitamins that are lacking in people’s diets. Working with the international nonprofit organization PATH, Abbott scientists reformulated PATH’s Ultra Rice
®, a fortified grain that looks  
and tastes like rice. The new formulations are already making a positive impact. 
10% REDUCTION  
IN COSTS
The enhanced formulation reduced costs by 
approximately 10 percent, and optimized flavor, aroma and appearance to make Ultra Rice mimic traditional rice as closely as possible. APPROVED FOR  
DISTRIBUTION 
In the United States, the Department of Agriculture approved fortified rice for distribution through U.S. food aid programs around the world. 450,000 CHILDREN  
REACHED
In India, the new Ultra Rice formulation is now being distributed as part of the school lunch program for 450,000 children. 
2 BILLION  
PEOPLE AFFECTED
MICRONUTRIENT MALNUTRITION AFFECTS MORE 
THAN 2 BILLION PEOPLE WORLDWIDE; HALF OF 
THOSE AFFECTED LIVE IN COUNTRIES WHERE 
RICE IS A STAPLE FOOD.*
* United Nations. “United Nations Decade of Action on Nutrition (2016–2025).” (2016).
The ability of the facility to resume production of 
Nourimanba immediately following the hurricane played a vital role in combating the effects of the 
disaster — and supporting ZL’s strategy of treating 
children at their health facilities across Haiti. Abbott experts continue to provide training and share best practices and guidance, both on site and virtually, volunteering more than 15,000 hours in total since the 
partnership began. To date, the partnership has treated 
more than 30,000 children. As part of a long-term plan, the facility is looking to drive sustainability by selling high-quality food products, as well. 
This strategic partnership also supports local farmers 
in Haiti by expanding demand for locally sourced, high-quality peanuts, a staple food in the region. In 2013, working together with the international nonprofit 
TechnoServe, the partnership piloted a new business 
supply-chain model to expand the supply of quality, cost-competitive peanuts while boosting incomes for approximately 300 local smallholder farmers. Based on the success of the pilot, other partners are now 
replicating and expanding this model across Haiti.
 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
18
20  PROVIDING TRAINING AND 
RESOURCES FOR HEALTHCARE 
PRACTITIONERS   
  We work with governments, NGOs and 
international healthcare organizations to give 
practitioners access to the very latest research, 
resources and training.
21  EMPOWERING CONSUMERS  
  We empower people to make informed 
healthcare choices, helping them overcome 
social barriers and stigmas that prevent them 
from living their best lives.21  INSPIRING FULLER,  
HEALTHIER LIVES  
  We aim to inspire young people to explore their potential — and communities to take 
control of their living environments. 
24  EMPLOYEE SAFETY  
  We are committed to keeping everyone 
who works at Abbott healthy and safe.  
We educate our employees and empower 
them to promote safer and healthier lives in their communities.
26  HEALTH AND WELLNESS  
  We tailor our workplace health and 
wellness programs to reflect local needs, 
customs and healthcare systems. IN THIS SECTION
Abbott invests in spreading the ideas, 
information and inspiration that can enable better health. We do so by working with governments, international healthcare organizations and community-focused NGOs, engaging consumers and leveraging the skills and passion of our own employees.EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO  
LIVE FULL AND HEALTHY LIVES
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
19
Education, knowledge and empowerment are vital 
enablers of better health and fuller lives. Abbott is committed to sharing innovations and ideas that 
can make a difference. We work to equip healthcare 
practitioners with new skills, knowledge of the latest techniques and access to the resources they need. We aim to empower patients and consumers through awareness-raising programs that support confident, 
informed choices about healthcare and nutrition, and 
we reinforce this with a commitment to market our products responsibly. By educating and supporting our employees, we enable fuller lives for those working at 
Abbott — and empower them to promote better health 
in their communities.
PROVIDING TRAINING AND RESOURCES 
FOR HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS
Gaps in healthcare provisions often take the form 
of gaps in knowledge. When we give healthcare practitioners access to the latest research and ideas, 
we can make a significant and positive impact on their 
ability to help people live fuller and healthier lives. 
Abbott provides resources, training and educational 
programs in partnership with local governments, NGOs 
and national and international healthcare organizations. 
We host and attend conferences to share expertise, provide data on the effectiveness of new and emerging healthcare interventions and develop online platforms 
for practitioners to access the knowledge they need.
RAISING AWARENESS OF DIABETES IN CHINA
China’s rapid urbanization and rising income 
levels have led to rapid changes in lifestyles. An unfortunate consequence is an equally rapid rise in 
noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) — and particularly 
in the prevalence of diabetes. Abbott has been working with the Chinese government to develop an awareness-building and educational program that can slow the spread of diabetes and mitigate its impact on people’s lives. Its aim is to help healthcare practitioners diagnose diabetes sooner — and to reach out to patients to help them monitor sugar levels and manage their condition.
The Diabetes Care program includes an online portal 
that healthcare practitioners across China can use to access information about the disease. Abbott also 
worked with the government on a survey of doctors and 
patients to help assess the true incidence of diabetes in China — and raise awareness of the measures patients and doctors can take to manage the disease. Completed in May 2016, the study discovered that the majority of 
Chinese diabetes patients do not test their blood glucose 
levels often enough.
KNOWLEDGE GENIE: AN ONLINE HUB FOR 
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS WORLDWIDE
Many regions lack access to medical knowledge, 
particularly on emerging research studies and treatments. We’re closing that gap. More than 160,000 
doctors worldwide use Knowledge Genie, Abbott’s 
multi-channel knowledge center, to stay on top of important developments in their field. We launched Knowledge Genie in 2010 to provide ready access to learning resources and news of the latest treatments and 
techniques. Today, its online library includes more than 
3,000 medical journals, more than 2,000 e-books and daily updates on research and clinical developments. In India, Knowledge Genie plays a vital role in sharing 
new thinking on healthcare. More than 55,000 of the 
country’s doctors, across 15 specialties, are registered with the portal.
SMARTER, SWIFTER NUTRITION SUPPORT
Globally, one in three people who enter the hospital are malnourished, and more become malnourished during their stay. While most are in the hospital for another 
medical condition, having poor nutritional status (or 
malnutrition) slows recovery and increases the chances of being readmitted to a hospital in the future. In the 
U.S., Abbott worked with Advocate Health Care at four 
of its Chicagoland hospitals to implement nutrition care programs that screened patients for malnutrition and implemented nutritional intervention for those 
identified as at risk. The study showed that using either 
of the nutrition care programs — basic or enhanced — reduced the risk of patient readmissions by 27 percent and shortened the average length of hospital stays by  
25 percent, compared to the hospitals’ previous rates.
Malnutrition affects a similar proportion of people 
admitted to care homes. For the last 10 years, Abbott has been providing the Essential Elements of Nutrition Care (EEoNC) program in Ireland, which helps nurses 
identify, treat and monitor disease-related malnutrition. 
Developed in line with the Health Information and Quality Authority (HIQA) guidelines on nutrition care, the program includes menu audits to analyze the nutritional value of menus, as well as online courses 
on the appropriate treatment of disease-related 
malnutrition.
In 2015, Abbott launched an app, designed in 
association with Irish dietitians, that enables healthcare 
professionals to assess those at risk of malnutrition. Available for iPhone® and Android™ devices, the app uses the MUST (Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool) developed by the British Association of Parenteral and 
Enteral Nutrition (BAPEN).
HOSTING HEALTHCARE SUMMITS AND 
CONFERENCES IN SOUTH AMERICA
In Colombia and Mexico, Abbott hosted National 
Summits for Continuing Education that brought together different perspectives on national health  
issues — and shared relevant medical advances. The sessions aimed to support general practitioners in gaining the tools needed to address high-impact health issues afflicting local populations, such as heart disease 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
20
and depression. In Mexico, our summit was endorsed by 
the Mexican Medical Association as part of healthcare practitioners’ medical education hours. Over three days, 
the summit featured contributions from 13 nationally 
recognized medical experts, as well as a representative from Mexico’s Ministry of Health.
EMPOWERING CONSUMERS 
Helping people make informed choices about healthcare and nutrition is one of the most productive strategies available for enabling healthier lives. We are committed 
to building awareness of the choices available, helping 
to overcome social barriers and stigmas that prevent people from living to the fullest, and establishing robust guidelines and standards that ensure healthcare choices are always well informed.
PUTTING WOMEN’S HEALTH IN WOMEN’S HANDS
Of the estimated 3.5 billion women in the world,  
2 billion are at an age where gynecological healthcare can make a significant difference for living a full and 
healthy life. Yet many of these women either do not 
know about the treatments available to them, or are prevented from using them due to fear of social stigma.
For the last two years, Abbott’s WomenFirst program in 
Russia has worked to empower women with knowledge 
and support to help manage their health at all stages of life. The program provides women with the latest medical information about their health management 
through a website, TV ad campaign and workshops, 
raising awareness of the healthcare choices available.
PLAYING THE GAME ON MEDICINE ADHERENCE
For those with diagnosed illnesses, especially chronic ones, medication adherence is critically important to leading a full life. But taking medication at the correct 
time and continuing to do so over time is a challenge for 
many patients across the globe. To support patients with this adherence need, Abbott 
piloted an online platform in Mexico and in the 
Philippines that applies principles of gamification to engage with patients diagnosed with cardiovascular disease. The new platform is designed to help patients understand their disease and take their medication 
properly over time. The program began in 2016 and 
includes components that encourage patients to complete disease education courses, take quizzes and record their daily use of medicines online, with points awarded for those who comply. Points collected can be 
redeemed for health-oriented rewards or monetary-
equivalent donations to selected local charities. In Mexico, where the program has been running for almost a year, early data shows that the platform has driven a 
50 percent increase in those taking medicines correctly, 
compared to those not on the platform, over the same time frame. The program in the Philippines, which started later in 2016, also shows positive medication adherence trends. Abbott plans to launch similar pilot 
programs in additional emerging markets in 2017 .
ADVANCING HEART HEALTH IN IRELAND
More than 1,000 lives are lost to heart disease and stroke 
in Ireland each year — and yet, in 80 percent of cases, incidents of heart disease and stroke are preventable. 
Abbott’s partnership with the Irish Heart Foundation’s 
Happy Heart Appeal is focused on raising awareness  
of the risk factors for these conditions — and promoting action to reduce obesity and high blood pressure.  
Our partnership includes funding to support the 
program, raising awareness of healthy lifestyle choices 
in local schools, and training and health checks for  
our own employees.INSPIRING FULLER, HEALTHIER LIVES
Inspiration makes fuller lives possible — whether that’s inspiring young people to explore their potential or communities to take control of their living 
environments. We work with schools, governments, 
educational organizations and NGOs to help make such inspiration happen, leveraging the philanthropic resources of the Abbott Fund as well as our employees’ time, skills and passion for volunteering initiatives.
INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE TO  
EXPLORE SCIENCE 
Science and technology will play an increasingly important role in the future of our planet, particularly in developing the healthcare and nutrition solutions we 
need. By inspiring young people today, we can produce 
innovators for our industry tomorrow.
Driving a Passion for Science in China
Abbott exists to enable fuller lives through the power of health. However, we know that fuller lives are also made possible through a passion for scientific exploration. 
In China, Abbott Family Science brings together the 
Abbott Fund, the Children & Youth Science Center of CAST (CYSCC) and the volunteering efforts of Abbott employees to inspire that passion in a new generation  
of children.
Since its launch in 2010, Abbott Family Science has 
engaged nearly 85,000 children and parents from across rural and urban China in fun, hands-on experiments. 
More than 3,300 Abbott employees have helped to 
bring science to life through demonstrations featuring everyday items like cups, coins and newspapers. In doing this, they have helped young people understand the value of science in improving people’s lives.
In 2016, Abbott Family Science built on the success 
of that program with the launch of clear online video demonstrations of experiments, which teachers can 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
21
conduct in the classroom. Our target is for the videos to 
engage 70,000 additional children and families across 800 schools by September 2017 .  
 
Operation Discovery
Through Operation Discovery, older children explore the daily work of Abbott scientists in hands-on lab experiments at our facilities. Since 2002, more than 
1,000 Abbott scientists have hosted Operation Discovery 
programs in China, Germany, Ireland, Singapore and the U.S., sharing the tools and techniques they use on the job to develop healthcare innovations. Last year, we expanded the program to four new locations in the U.S. 
and Ireland. In a 2016 survey, we learned that 95 percent 
of students participating in Operation Discovery agreed that they enjoyed meeting scientists and engineers, and 82 percent said that the event made them want to learn more about how science and engineering can improve human health.
The Science of Girl Power
A recent U.S. study, published in the journal Nature, found that girls as young as six believe that being “really, really smart” means being a boy. This lack of 
confidence often stems from a lack of visible female role 
models in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) industries. A new campaign from Abbott — to mark the United Nations International Day of Women and Girls in Science — aims to change that. We asked 
a group of four- and five-year-old girls at our Early 
Discoveries child development center in Illinois to tell us the questions they would most like to ask female scientists working at Abbott. The film we created from this session demonstrates the contribution that women make as innovation leaders at Abbott — and shows young girls that science has no gender.
BUILDING HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTS  
THROUGH COMMUNITIES
Healthy living environments depend on empowered communities coming together. Abbott works with community-based partner organizations to build 
the infrastructure and awareness that can help this 
happen. We also leverage the enthusiasm and energy of our employees in the community through cleanup and environmental outreach initiatives. For additional examples of environmental sustainability efforts in our 
communities, go to the Safeguarding the Environment 
section of this report.
Sanitation for Better Health in India
More than half of India’s people have no access to  
toilets and are being forced to defecate in the open, which raises huge risks to their health and that of their 
neighbors through poor sanitation. In the villages of 
Dadheda and Talodara in the state of Gujarat, 70 percent of people were without a toilet. Working with a number of respected NGOs, we launched a comprehensive awareness, education and infrastructure program with 
the aim of helping these villages improve sanitation. 
Our objective was to bring about meaningful, 
sustainable change through a robust series of capacity-
building interventions and infrastructure development. 
Abbott invested $500,000 to build toilets in households, schools and health centers. In addition, we supported community education efforts to raise awareness of the connections between sanitation and health, delivered 
through community-based organizations to ensure 
effective and efficient engagement. We tracked the activities on an ongoing basis through a cloud-based mobile application.The initiative has yielded positive outcomes. All households in both villages now have access to sanitation facilities and are equipped to handle the 
maintenance and upkeep of toilets. Additionally, 
the community has a better understanding of the relationship between sanitation and health. In 2017 , we will complete our end-line program evaluation and 
engage with newly formed village sanitation committees 
in each village to ensure the sustainability of the intervention. 
INDIA SANITATION  
PROGRAM RESULTS
512 
TOILETS  
CONSTRUCTED
Our partners built 512 
new household toilets  in the two villages.3,150 
PEOPLE  
REACHED  
Our partners reached 
3,150 people, providing education on the links between health, hygiene and sanitation; maintenance of toilets; and social inclusion  and gender equality.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
22
INSPIRING  
THE NEXT  
GENERATION  
OF SCIENTISTS 
AND ENGINEERS
Abbott believes that inspiring the young people 
of today can produce the science and technology leaders of tomorrow. Our award-winning Family Science program is just one way we inspire kids and demonstrate just how exciting science can be. Working with educators, Abbott scientists and volunteers visit a school or a community center to share fun, hands-on science activities with children and parents. Through exploration and discovery, the program makes science interesting and compelling — and kids and parents share the learning experience.
IN 2016, ABBOTT FAMILY SCIENCE 
WAS OFFERED IN CHINA,  
IRELAND, SINGAPORE, THE U.K. AND 6 LOCATIONS IN THE U.S.  OFFERED IN
5 COUNTRIES
 175,000+
More than 175,000 students 
and parents have participated in Abbott Family Science  since 2006.5,000+ 
More than 5,000 Abbott volunteers involved  since 2006.95%  
Ninety-five percent of parents reported the program motivated them to seek other science education opportunities for their families. 89%
Eighty-nine percent of children reported that the program made them want to learn more about science.
Promoting Active Lifestyles in Brazil
In 2016, Abbott Brazil sought to build fuller lives in 
Brazil in partnership with the Instituto Esporte & Educação, an organization that aims to contribute to culture and sports in the country. Abbott was one of 
2016 sponsors of the organization’s Sports Caravan 
program, which promotes activities to engage children with sports, introducing the benefits of an active lifestyle and healthy living. The organization also runs a comparable Arts Caravan, which provides training 
workshops and youth leadership programs in literature 
and communications. 
In 2016, Sports and Arts Caravan workshops engaged 
more than 31,700 children and 2,400 teachers across 205 
schools in Brazilian cities with a low-to-medium score 
on the Human Development Index. The Sports Caravan program specifically raised awareness of the long-term health benefits that come from encouraging regular exercise starting at an early age. 
Disaster Relief
When natural disasters and other emergencies strike, Abbott and the Abbott Fund work closely with our trusted humanitarian relief partners to address both 
immediate needs and longer-term reconstruction and 
rehabilitation efforts. We also understand the value of preparation. Abbott is working with Direct Relief and Feeding America to pre-position critical products in high-risk areas across the U.S. ahead of hurricane 
season. This ensures that the right products are in the 
right places before disaster strikes. 
In 2016, Abbott and the Abbott Fund provided more 
than $390,000 in product and cash donations in 
response to severe floods in the U.S., earthquakes in Ecuador and Japan, Hurricane Matthew in Haiti and the U.S., and the water crisis in Flint, Michigan.EMPLOYEE SAFETY 
Our mission to help people fulfill their potential through health starts with our employees. We are committed to keeping all those who work for Abbott safe — 
through the prevention of incidents in and around 
the workplace. In educating our employees, we also empower them to promote safer and healthier lives in their wider communities.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Abbott has clear, consistent global policies and standards for managing employee health, safety and productivity, while also protecting the environment. 
We regularly evaluate the health and safety performance 
of all Abbott manufacturing plants, R&D centers and commercial operations sites, using clear technical requirements, with auditing and reporting against 
specific metrics. Each facility is evaluated regularly 
against the following categories:
• Health and safety policy and program
• Strategic planning
• Self-assessment/risk assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measures
• Assurance reviews
• Health and safety global standards
Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) strategic 
plan aims to develop a standardized approach, foster continuous improvement, and ensure a safe and efficient working environment that minimizes any adverse 
environmental impacts. We strive to maintain the 
highest standards of EHS practice in all markets. The strategic plan focuses on four key areas:
• Performance improvement – Driving continued 
reductions in injury and illness rates and 
environmental metrics
• Compliance assurance and risk reduction – Implementing standardized risk assessment processes and enhanced EHS audits
• Sustainability and social responsibility – Integrating environmental and product stewardship initiatives into product development
• People and culture – Recognizing achievements 
through our EHS Excellence Awards and maintaining 
the health of our employees
Improving our performance requires clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership and support. 
For more on these roles and responsibilities, and for 
EHS performance and improvement initiatives, see the Safeguarding the Environment section of this report. 
REDUCING SAFETY INCIDENTS
We believe that safety is the responsibility of every employee — and that all incidents that compromise our employees’ health and safety are preventable. 
We set and monitor health and safety targets to drive 
continuous improvement in reducing the number of incidents. These targets are the subject of an annual review process and routine performance reporting. In 
addition, our EHS leaders share best-in-class programs 
from across our businesses and industry, with the aim of further reducing risk and employee injuries.
Our two priority safety goals include: 
• Reducing the number of incidents that result in  
time off work
• Reducing the incidence of vehicle accidents  
involving our employees
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
24
Each of our business units is responsible for identifying 
and addressing areas of concern in health and safety performance, reviewing specific risks and implementing 
measures to improve performance. We focus additional 
efforts on manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates that present the greatest opportunities for health and safety performance improvement.
REDUCING INCIDENTS THAT RESULT IN  
TIME OFF WORK
We track progress against our first goal using the lost-workday case rate, a standard metric that measures the number of cases where an employee is unable to work 
because of occupational injury or illness. Our 2020 lost-
workday case rate target is 0.15 cases per 100 employees.
Between 2010 and 2015, our overall lost-workday case 
rate declined nearly 53 percent. We are proud to report 
that in 2016 we continued this trend and reduced 
lost-time cases to 0.17 cases per 100 employees. We are on track to reach our 2020 goal of 0.15 cases per 100 employees. Acquisitions in 2015 of CFR Pharmaceuticals 
and Veropharm caused a slight increase in last year’s 
rate. We launched an aggressive EHS integration plan for these sites, which has delivered strong improvements, evidenced by the overall decrease in case rate between 2015 and 2016. We are confident 
that between now and 2020, our total operations will 
meet our ambitious goal. We will continue to focus on implementing consistent EHS standards and investing in capital improvements that reduce risk for both continuing operations and recent acquisitions. 
In addition to site-specific efforts, we introduced 
a hand injury prevention initiative and continued implementation of several global programs this year: 
• Hand Injury Prevention – Significant injuries are 
rare at Abbott, with an average of five incidents per year over the last five years. In 2016, the majority of incidents at our manufacturing sites involved injuries to hands. As a result of this trend, we launched a Hand Safety Awareness Campaign. Key components of this campaign include awareness communications and formal review of specific items related to hand safety, 
such as Lock-Out Tag-Out and Personal Protective 
Equipment programs.
• Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) Program – In 2015, we standardized our BBS program across the company, bringing together best-in-class initiatives 
from across our business that encourage employees 
to think and act safely. As part of this process, we collected initial benchmark data on safety behaviors. Last year, we launched a new global data collection system to gather detailed data on safe behavior and 
identify at-risk behaviors. This year, we will review 
detailed data to develop Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to drive behavior change.
• Slip, Trip and Fall (STF) Campaign – In 2016, we 
expanded our comprehensive global Slip, Trip and Fall 
awareness campaign to draw attention to workplace hazards and help drive injury prevention. Originally focused on our commercial field and office locations, the campaign now includes all employees. 
• Global Health Scorecard – In early 2011, we launched our Global Health Scorecard, which monitors each site’s performance on key occupational health initiatives. The scorecard includes annual performance targets for each year from 2011 to 
2020, enabling us to measure performance and 
optimize employee health offerings across all of our manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates. The Abbott Global Health Scorecard ranks sites according to how many targets they have reached, based on a 
menu of 15 global health criteria, such as an active 
pause (stretch) exercise program. In 2016, 100 percent of our manufacturing and R&D sites met the 2016 scorecard targets. NEARLY 30%  
REDUCTION IN LOST-TIME CASE RATE
In 2016, we reduced our lost-time  
case rate by 29.2 percent to 0.17 cases  per 100 employees.
REDUCING VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
We continue to focus on educating employees with the 
tools and knowledge necessary to create a culture of safe driving. Our vehicle safety program was designed 
to help our employees better understand the risks 
associated with distracted driving. The program encourages field-based employees to use safe driving habits and raises awareness about the risks posed by  
in-vehicle distractions, such as mobile telephone 
use. Since the campaign’s launch, 100 percent of our 
commercial business units have taken formal steps to prohibit calling and texting while driving.
In 2016, Abbott conducted an in-depth evaluation of 
our vehicle crash reporting processes. We reviewed our commercial employees’ driving patterns to evaluate whether certain crashes, like those that occur while leaving home to meet customers, should be included 
in our Commercial EHS metrics. We concluded that 
we should include these cases in our metrics to better understand the risks to our commercial employees and how to protect them, as well as to bring ourselves in line with industry best practices. In addition, we have 
continued to integrate recent acquisitions into our fleet 
safety program and are actively implementing behind-the-wheel training and management reviews in the newly acquired businesses in order to instill our fleet safety culture.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
25
As a result of this evaluation and the inclusion of 
new acquisitions, our Abbott overall accident rate per million miles driven (APMM) increased to 5.2, an 
overall crash increase of roughly 25 percent. These 
metric adjustments affected all divisions. We are firmly committed to meeting our 2020 APMM target of 4.0 and continue to be on pace to achieve our goal.
In addition to promoting safe driving practices among 
our own employees, we have also continued our partnership with the United Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety initiative, designed to reduce global 
traffic fatalities and injuries by 50 percent between  
2011 and 2020. 
We continued to expand our efforts to provide children 
with high-quality helmets and raise awareness about the 
importance of road safety near local schools in Vietnam 
and India. In 2016, Abbott issued more than 8,300 high-quality helmets and held helmet education classes for teachers, students and parents at 11 primary schools in Vietnam. In India, we collaborated with a local school 
in Mumbai to educate more than 2,000 students on 
pedestrian safety. In 2017 , we will continue expanding these successful programs to additional schools and engage our employees in these road safety initiatives. 
463,000+ PLEDGES
Through our campaign for road safety, employees 
in India raised awareness about road safety and encouraged more than 463,000 people to take ownership of personal road safety.8,300+ HELMETS
Abbott issued more than 8,300 high-quality helmets at 11 primary schools in Vietnam.
CAMPAIGNING FOR ROAD SAFETY THROUGH 
EMPLOYEES IN INDIA
In 2016, our sales team in India worked to have an 
even greater impact on road safety locally, launching a nationwide road safety awareness campaign known 
as iCare. For one day, more than 6,000 members of our 
sales staff used their regular visits to medical clinics as an opportunity to speak with and educate patients in the waiting rooms about safe driving practices. They shared simple steps for reducing road accidents and 
injuries, like wearing a helmet and a seat belt, staying 
alert, obeying speed limits and avoiding mobile phone use while driving. With this initiative and others leveraging the success of our road safety program for 
Abbott sales staff, we are making a major impact on safe 
driving across India. To date, our salespeople and other staff members have reached nearly 500,000 people; of those, 463,000 received “In Case of Emergency” cards, promising to take ownership of their personal road 
safety and to share road safety awareness ideas with 
friends and relatives. The iCare program extended its reach through 386 employees and 17 schools to educate 18,823 students on pedestrian safety and road safety awareness. RECOGNIZING PERFORMANCE
Our Commercial EHS programs have achieved a number of targets and passed a number of milestones. Recognizing these successes is an important part of  
our drive for continuous improvement, especially  
given the significant efforts involved on the part of Abbott employees. 
Our Commercial EHS Program of the Year and Most 
Improved Commercial EHS Program awards recognize 
these efforts. They are awarded following in-depth analysis of EHS-related performance metrics and a comprehensive review of documentation related to each 
organization’s fleet safety programs and standards. In 
2016, we selected India as the Large Affiliate winner and Malaysia as the winner in the Small Affiliate category. The U.S. Program winner was Abbott Medical Optics, and Italy was recognized as Most Improved. 
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
At Abbott, we inspire and motivate our employees with a variety of health and wellness programs to help them live healthy lives. Our education and wellness programs 
vary from country to country, reflecting local needs, 
customs and health systems. Most Abbott locations offer on-site influenza immunizations and health screenings. Ninety-eight percent of our sites facilitate employee exercise by offering on-site fitness centers, 
health club membership subsidies or discounts at sports 
and recreation clubs. All sites are required by Abbott standards to have a designated healthcare professional responsible for executing health programs based on site-
specific hazards and risks.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
26
HEALTH SCREENINGS AND TRAININGS 
Abbott engages more than 100 medical professionals 
with responsibility for employees’ health, safety and well-being. These providers complete medical 
surveillance of examinations for high-risk working 
conditions. Abbott health professionals administered more than 31,000 medical surveillance exams in 2016. 
As part of our workplace wellness program, 
occupational health professionals train our employees 
on methods for preventing and managing a variety of health conditions. This aims to reduce lost time at work and increases productivity while improving health,  
job satisfaction and self-image for our employees.  
The Centers for Disease Control have noted the positive impact of such programs on morale, recruitment  
and retention. 
During 2016, occupational health professionals provided 
training and health activities. Health education programs provided training for approximately 22,500 Abbott employees and contract workers; this is an increase of 25 percent in training participation 
from the previous year. Specifically, more than 1,100 
employees were trained to provide first-aid care and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and to use an automated external defibrillator (AED); many also received certifications from local credentialing bodies. 
All Abbott manufacturing sites and larger affiliate 
locations are equipped with AED units, based on our global health practices. Worldwide, more than 62,000 workers were engaged in activities designed 
to promote good health. In total, workers engaged 
with our occupational health groups on more than 139,000 occasions. The Occupational Health Programs are key initiatives to support health in Abbott and the communities in which we operate.100+ HEALTH  
PROFESSIONALS
More than 100 health professionals are 
actively engaged in health and wellness promotion at Abbott sites. 
EXERCISE ACROSS ABBOTT
Exercise Across Abbott is our most popular and long-
standing global wellness program, with 18 percent of Abbott employees across 62 countries taking part 
each year. Employees team up by department or with 
other colleagues to track how many minutes they exercise each day and compete for prizes in a variety of categories. In 2016, approximately 71 percent of participants consistently increased their weekly exercise 
for four weeks. 
Exercise Across Abbott has inspired similar local 
programs. In India, approximately 780 employees 
participated in 2016’s Stepathlon, a 100-day event 
focused on a variety of physical challenges to help employees maintain their health goals. 
62 COUNTRIES
Employees in 62 countries 
participated in our global fitness program, Exercise Across Abbott, in 2016.62LIVELIFEWELL
LiveLifeWell is our integrated wellness program for 
employees in the United States, where approximately 72 percent of employees and their spouses participate. 
LiveLifeWell features online health assessment tools, 
personal health coaching and awareness campaigns and events, as well as on-site immunizations and health screenings. The program helps our employees learn about their health risks and encourages them to make 
healthy choices. 
In 2016, LiveLifeWell continued its focus on emotional, 
physical and financial health, as well as managing stress, 
a leading risk factor in today’s workplace. We offer 
tailored support for managers, helping them to grow their leadership skills while managing personal stress; provide specific education and resources for employees who are also adult caregivers; and run programs focused 
on back health and blood pressure management. 
We have also set the stage for our new LiveLifeWell 
app, which launches in 2017 in the U.S. and Colombia. Available online and via mobile, the app helps 
employees track how well they eat, how much they 
exercise and how much sleep they get — and keeps them incentivized through cash-value rewards. The LiveLifeWell app will make it easier to keep wellness top of mind for our employees and will be an important 
tool for personal health management.
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
We provide company-funded employee assistance 
programs (EAPs) in 23 countries. These programs help employees address personal concerns and provide 
individual support from mental health experts, who 
can help identify and resolve issues with health, family, stress, finances, legal concerns and grief. In this way,  
the programs also help promote a productive and healthy workplace. In 2016, we launched our EAP 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
27
services in India through a series of employee town  
halls and team meetings. 
Beyond the expert one-on-one support, EAPs also 
provide ongoing support for employees and their families in the form of seminars and online education. Topics covered include stress management, care for children and the elderly, depression and personal 
health. Abbott EAPs also include crisis intervention 
services and workplace emergency response.
Abbott’s EAPs earn high marks from our employees for 
their effectiveness. In 2016, a survey of employees using 
our EAPs in the United States found that because of their participation in the service:
• 82 percent reported feeling less stress about their 
situation.
• 83 percent reported that they were less likely to lose 
work time due to a personal or family reason.
• 66 percent reported improved productivity on the job.
• 63 percent reported the service saved them one to five 
hours of personal or work time; 22 percent saved six to 
10 hours.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
28
30  SAFEGUARDING THE 
ENVIRONMENT   
  A healthy environment is essential for better 
health and fuller lives. We work to help protect 
the planet while improving efficiency, reducing 
costs and preserving our ability to do business  in the future.
45  SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE  
  We work closely with our suppliers to ensure quality, compliance, and socially and 
environmentally responsible practices. 
51  VALUING OUR PEOPLE   
  The key to Abbott’s success is our people.  
Their skill and their dedication to advancing 
human health and well-being enable us to make 
a difference in people’s lives.59  PRODUCT QUALITY  
AND SAFETY  
  Our business depends on the trust of healthcare practitioners, patients and 
consumers. We must earn that trust 
continually through the highest standards of quality, safety and performance.
66  PROMOTING ETHICS  
AND INTEGRITY  
  Our business has always recognized the responsibility of a healthcare company to 
operate ethically and with integrity. We 
strive to do the right thing, in the right way, in every aspect of the work we do.IN THIS SECTION
Operating responsibly and sustainably  
is the foundation of our business.  For us, operating responsibly means earning trust in our products through our commitment to quality, reducing our environmental impact and enabling healthy living environments — ensuring environmental and social responsibility throughout our supply chain, and protecting the health and well-being of  our employees.OPERATING SUSTAINABLY  
AND RESPONSIBLY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
29
32  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH  
AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT 
OVERSIGHT  
35  ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE  
39  A COMPREHENSIVE  
WATER STRATEGY  41 WASTE MANAGEMENT  
42  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  
44  ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR  
COMMUNITIES  IN THIS SECTIONSAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
•  Completed more than 130 environmental projects 
in 2016 to improve waste, water and energy efficiencies, resulting in $4.6 million in expected annual savings. 
•  Launched our first company-wide environmental 
guidelines to make more sustainable choices as projects are executed. 
•  Achieved Utility Excellence program four-year goal 
to reduce spend on utilities by 50 percent  
by 2017 , resulting in reduced energy demand and CO
2 emissions. 
•  Reduced waste sent for treatment and disposal by 
continually finding ways to reuse material rather than dispose of it; materials sent for reuse now exceed our total waste generated. 
•  Reduced plastic usage for nutrition product 
overcaps by 35 percent for each cap by converting to polypropylene. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
30
ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY  
AT ABBOTT
At Abbott, we know a healthy environment is essential 
for better health, stronger communities and more fulfilling lives. We are committed to safeguarding a healthy environment for everyone by reducing the environmental impacts of our business. Our environmental initiatives aim to protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs and preserving our ability to do business in the future.NO. 1 IN OUR 
INDUSTRY GROUP FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE IN DJSI  
INCLUDED IN THE  
CDP LEADERSHIP CATEGORY IN 2016
REDUCING CARBON 
EMISSIONS
We are committed to reducing our 
carbon emissions, and we encourage our suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders to reduce their own impacts. CONSERVING WATER
We are working to map our water footprint and reduce our water intake and are improving access to clean water through product innovation.ELIMINATING WASTE
Abbott strives continuously to eliminate waste from our operations, and to repurpose any waste that is unavoidable. We have achieved zero-waste-to-landfill efforts in 12 countries.REDUCING PACKAGING
Looking at packaging through a sustainability lens enables us to consider environmental impacts throughout the product lifecycle. Achieving this goal will eliminate 30 million pounds of packaging 
from our supply chain by 2020.
* Normalized by sales$4.6M  
IN SAVINGS130+ PROJECTS IN 2016 IMPROVED 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 
AND CREATED $4.6 MILLION IN ESTIMATED SAVINGS.
28%
Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 CO
2e emissions since 2010*  
40%
Goal by 2020*18%
Reduction in water intake since 2010*
30%
Goal by 2020*39%
Reduction in waste  
since 2010* 
50%
Goal by 2020*
6.3%
Annualized reductions  
since 2010
10%
Annualized reductions by 2020#1
A sustainable environment is essential for better health, 
stronger communities and more fulfilling lives. We are committed to safeguarding a healthy environment for 
everyone by reducing the environmental impacts of our 
business. This commitment shapes the way we source, manufacture, design and distribute our products.
Our environmental initiatives aim to protect the 
planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs and 
preserving our ability to do business in the future. We follow an Abbott tradition of environmental stewardship, while being guided by national and 
international regulations and seeking feedback from  
our stakeholders. 
In addition to fostering a healthy and productive work 
environment, our Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) strategy commits us to improving efficiency and 
sustainability for our business and products, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use and waste, while strengthening EHS practices across the business. 
In 2016, we implemented over 
130 environmental projects to improve waste, water and energy efficiencies toward our 2020 goals. Moving forward, these projects are expected to result  in more than $4.6 million in savings annually.130 +
ENVIRONMENTAL  
PROJECTS
$4.6M 
IN EXPECTED  
ANNUAL SAVINGSPROGRESS TOWARD AMBITIOUS TARGETS
We have set ambitious targets to reduce our global 
impact in three environmental areas. These targets require significant reductions in our GHG emissions, 
water use and waste by 2020, compared to 2010 and 
adjusted for sales.
• Climate change – A 40 percent reduction in carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) emissions associated with 
our business operations and the electricity we purchase (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions)
• Water usage – A 30 percent reduction in total  
water intake
• Waste management – A 50 percent reduction in  
total waste generated
 
To meet the 2020 targets, each business unit sets and 
tracks progress toward individual environmental goals on an annual basis. Cumulatively, Abbott’s divisions met all 2016 CO
2e and waste goals and were within 2 percent 
of meeting the water goals.  
 
REDUCTION  
IN CO 2E  
EMISSIONS28%
18%
39%40%
30%
50%REDUCTION  
IN TOTAL  
WATER INTAKE
REDUCTION  
IN TOTAL  
WASTECO22020 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS PROGRESS
2020 TARGET 2010 BASELINE 2016 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
Our environmental impacts are closely interconnected, 
and our approach to managing them must be integrated, as well. Our management and governance systems 
reflect our three priorities and incorporate them within 
our day-to-day planning and business processes.
Improving our performance requires clear lines of 
accountability and senior-level leadership and support. 
A key role is taken by our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a senior corporate officer who reports to our Chairman and CEO. The responsibilities for this role include 
reviewing our environmental metrics, key programs  
and progress regularly, and reporting key developments 
to our Chairman and CEO, as well as executive staff,  
on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the following groups are responsible for implementing our EHS programs 
and initiatives.
Global Operations Council – This body oversees the 
strategy for all Abbott operations (manufacturing, supply chain, engineering and environment, health and safety) 
and deploys the necessary resources based on internal 
assessment, risk profiles and industry best practices. The council is chaired by our Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services and is comprised of key internal regulatory leadership. 
Commercial Environment, Health and Safety  
Executive Council – This council sets priorities and 
establishes EHS goals and objectives for our operations 
around the world. This includes driver safety, reducing 
vehicular accidents among the sales force and reducing GHG emissions from fleet vehicles. It also includes global community outreach initiatives related to vehicle and pedestrian safety in commercial emerging markets. 
The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Established 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
32
Pharmaceuticals, a senior corporate officer, chairs this 
group and reports directly to our Chairman and CEO.
Environment, Health and Safety Leadership 
Council – This group manages programs and sets 
targets in accordance with the priorities set by the Global Operations Council and the Commercial EHS Executive Council. Led by the Division Vice President 
of Compliance and Operations Services, the council 
consists of EHS leads from each of our operating businesses and the corporate EHS team. The council meets regularly to share best practices and discuss EHS 
issues with company-wide implications. It also builds 
awareness of EHS performance and improvement initiatives, promotes our EHS awards program and supports EHS training and conferences. 
MANAGEMENT, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
We must always operate in a way that protects human health and the environment. This requires clear policies, standards and systems for environmental management. 
We regularly evaluate our environmental management 
metrics and our auditing and reporting mechanisms to check that they meet their purposes. Managers are responsible for improving their environmental performance against agreed-upon goals, as part of their 
annual performance appraisals.
We apply the principles of our EHS management system 
in all aspects of the business, with the aim of reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste: 
• Environment, Energy and Water Policies – 
These policies confirm our commitment to managing our environmental footprint, including reducing CO
2e 
emissions, managing water responsibly and measuring performance. These policies are available on our website. 
• Corporate Environmental Guidelines – These guidelines govern our approach to developing new Abbott sites and modifying existing ones, as well as other environment-specific improvement projects. They aim to reduce the environmental impact of 
these projects throughout their life cycle and include 
evaluation frameworks, best-practice technologies, operational processes and controls and best management practices.  
NEW GUIDELINES FOR FACILITIES
When Abbott constructs new facilities or modifies 
existing ones, we create an opportunity to positively influence our environmental performance.
In 2016, we launched Abbott’s first company-wide 
environmental guidelines, which will help our engineers, project planners and operations employees identify the full environmental impact of their projects – and make more sustainable choices as projects are executed. Developed by a dedicated team of internal and external experts, the new guidelines cover energy, water and waste, helping to raise awareness of potential issues and showing how to align projects with Abbott’s environmental standards.
This past year, our Corporate Engineering and Global 
EHS teams also launched a joint global initiative to predict how capital investment projects will affect our environmental performance. 
• Global EHS Audits – These assessments identify 
potential risks to employees, the environment and the company, and ensure all of our sites comply with 
internal standards and regulatory requirements. Our 
audit program aims to foster continuous improvement by developing our employees’ expertise and sharing best practices. Audit teams include subject matter experts who provide knowledge of local standards 
and external perspectives on compliance. Abbott 
EHS also partners with commercial management to complete on-site gap audits for all of our affiliates, in order to ensure sustainable compliance and program 
improvement. • EHS Reporting and Assurance – Our environmental and safety data is verified externally by the 
independent company Bureau Veritas. A copy of the verification statement is provided on our website.
• ISO Certification – Abbott has established our own environmental technical and management 
standards that closely mirror ISO standards. This 
ensures that our management systems operate in accordance with recognized environmental practices and regulatory requirements. Our sites and divisions pursue additional external certifications where there 
is recognizable value to our business in doing so. In 
2016, Abbott’s ISO 14001 certified sites increased from 27 to 36 percent, including all manufacturing facilities in Abbott’s Diagnostics division. Similarly in 
2016, 21 percent of our sites were ISO 50001 certified, 
including all manufacturing facilities in our Nutrition division, three facilities in our Diagnostics division and two in our Established Pharmaceuticals division; this represents an increase of 7 percent from 2015.
• Acquisitions and Divestures – Abbott completes environmental due diligence related to all acquisitions and divestures to identify and properly mitigate any environmental liabilities. Additionally, all business acquisitions undergo an established process to 
integrate Abbott EHS management practices to meet 
Abbott standards.  
14 LEED-CERTIFIED FACILITIES
Abbott has 14 LEED-certified facilities —  
including two gold and seven silver certifications — throughout the world. Our LEED-certified space equals 2.95 million square feet; that’s slightly bigger than the Empire State Building in New York City. Three additional certifications will be completed in 2017 . 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
33
RECOGNIZING SUCCESS: EHS AWARDS PROGRAM
Recognizing outstanding performance in our EHS 
programs is essential for building a culture of continuous improvement. Abbott’s annual EHS awards 
program recognizes teams, sites and people who deliver 
such performance and motivates our teams to keep finding ways to improve, while also highlighting best practices throughout Abbott’s EHS community. 
Plant of the Y ear
The Plant of the Year Awards honor sites for their 
overall EHS performance. Each year, we select one 
winner for each of the Large Plant and Small Plant categories. Winning plants have a proven record of superior performance and excellence in their EHS programs overall, as well as compliance, business 
processes and management. We measure this through 
evaluation-rating processes similar to those of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Competition for the awards has increased significantly in recent 
years, as sites improve their EHS performances.  
In 2016, 55 Abbott manufacturing plants competed  
for the awards.
EHS PLANT OF THE YEAR – LARGE PLANT
The Abbott Nutrition Supply Chain facility in Zwolle, 
Netherlands, is our most recent EHS Large Plant of the Year. Zwolle demonstrated continued leadership in promoting an EHS culture grounded in ongoing improvements and plant-wide support. The plant maintained a proactive community outreach program  to raise awareness of EHS practices, retained zero  waste to landfill and also gained ISO 50001 energy certification. Our Zwolle plant also reduced its total waste by 53 percent between 2010 and 2016, improved  its already extensive behavior-based safety (BBS) program and implemented other continuous improvement projects.EHS PLANT OF THE YEAR – SMALL PLANT
Our Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, earned the title of Small Plant of the Year, in large part through its robust waste management program, which includes Zero-Waste-to-Landfill certification and an 11 percent waste reduction across its operations since 2010. The facility demonstrates a strong EHS culture, with management support across the plant, achievement of significant EHS goals and continuous improvement processes and initiatives. Community outreach efforts are another feature of the Rio facility, including a wastewater treatment workshop for local children and several awards recognizing its strong  EHS performance.
Global EHS Excellence Awards
Our Global EHS Excellence Awards recognize 
teams or individuals that excel in specific areas of 
EHS management, as well as recognizing actions accomplished within a specific program. The waste reduction team at our Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Baddi, India, was among the nine recipients 
in 2016. The Baddi team implemented a waste tracking 
system that drove a total waste reduction of 75 percent between 2010 and 2016, including a 100 percent reduction in operations waste generated from boiler going to landfill, a 94 percent reduction in glass waste 
and a 69 percent reduction in wood waste. As another 
example, at our Diagnostics facility in Wiesbaden, Germany, engineering and EHS teams partnered to develop a comprehensive ISO 50001 certified energy management system.High Performance Awards
In 2016, EHS implemented a High Performance 
Awards program, which is designed to identify and 
recognize Abbott manufacturing sites for specific EHS 
programs that demonstrate effective and consistent implementation of high-performing best practices. Programs are evaluated in detail against model criteria and are recognized as a benchmark for others. The High 
Performance Awards currently cover air (including 
energy and GHG emissions), water and waste programs. 
HIGH PERFORMANCE IN WASTE MANAGEMENT  
Abbott’s Diabetes Care facility in Donegal, Ireland, 
received the High Performance Award for Waste Management after achieving consistent reductions in absolute waste volumes since 2012 and normalized reductions since 2011. In a year of its highest production since opening in 2006, the site achieved its lowest quantity of waste generated when normalized to production. Donegal has created an integrated waste management program to identify waste reduction opportunities, which includes a materials road map, insourcing, yield performance, strategic planning and training and awareness.  Best practices include waste reduction targets linked to Abbott’s 2020 corporate goals, Zero Waste to Landfill certification since 2013, targeted waste reduction programs involving the participation and training of all staff on-site, regular opportunity assessments and a partnership with local schools to educate children about waste management. As a result of these efforts, between 2012 and 2016, Donegal reduced waste generated by 246 U.S. tons, the equivalent of some 123 automobiles.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
34
HIGH PERFORMANCE IN WATER MANAGEMENT  
Abbott’s Nutrition facility in Jiaxing, China, received 
the High Performance Award for Water Management after achieving reductions in its absolute and normalized volumes since its startup in 2014. Jiaxing’s water program maintains clear targets and goals, an assessment process for identifying water-saving opportunities, an active preventive maintenance program and employee awareness campaigns and training. With 18 water meters measuring actual flow in strategic areas throughout the operation, the site has a firm understanding of its high-use areas and has focused its reduction efforts in these areas. The site’s robust monitoring program also allows for real-time identification and correction of problems in areas with higher than expected water flow. Through these water reduction programs, Jiaxing reduced its total water intake by 9 percent in 2015 and 22 percent in 2016, averaging more than 13 million gallons per year.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 
Internal engagement is vital for reducing our 
environmental impact. Abbott strives to help our employees understand how they can contribute to 
reducing energy and water use and to empower action 
at all levels of our organization. At our Diagnostics facility in Des Plaines, Illinois, EHS and Business Excellence teams came together to install clear signage across all areas of the site, significantly improving 
understanding of EHS expectations and encouraging 
personal accountability. The signage raises awareness of EHS priorities, such as near-miss reporting and biological and chemical materials inventories. 
Our Established Pharmaceuticals plant in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, runs an always-on communications campaign to engage employees in reducing our environmental footprint. Called Menos é Mais (Less 
Is More), the campaign includes a competition to 
submit ideas for reducing environmental impact. In 2015, more than 280 employees participated in this competition, generating 69 ideas for saving energy and water. As a result, several initiatives were implemented in 2016, including more efficient restroom and shower 
fixtures in the plant, consolidated composting and more 
efficient LED lamps in external and warehouse areas.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change represents a serious threat to healthy living environments worldwide. Extreme weather patterns and water scarcity could lead to significant 
changes in the nature of global diseases and their  
impact on people’s opportunities to live healthy lives. 
Between 2016 and 2030, it is estimated that climate change will contribute to an additional 250,000  
deaths per year from malnutrition, malaria, diarrheal 
disease and heat stress.
† Climate change also poses 
challenges to our supply chain, our operations and  
our distribution network. 
Policy and individual choices have the potential to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and safeguard health worldwide. As a global healthcare company, we are committed to taking action to prevent climate change 
and its damaging effects. As a business committed to 
enabling fuller lives through better health, we also take action to address the predicted consequences of climate change on our ability to address global healthcare needs. 
We work within international commitments and 
frameworks, like the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) to reduce our direct GHG emissions and those throughout our supply chain. Our Climate 
Responsible Energy Policy and Energy Guidelines 
direct our efforts in these areas. Our policies and carbon reduction initiatives help protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs and preserving our ability to do business in the future. ABBOTT’S CARBON FOOTPRINT
The nature of our business includes a wide range of potential sources of carbon emissions: our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions from 
manufacturing, warehousing and office activities, as well 
as our vehicle fleets. Through our global value chain, we also indirectly contribute to carbon emissions through the sourcing and distribution of products, as well as the ways in which consumers and health professionals use 
and dispose of these products and their packaging — 
these are known as Scope 3 emissions. Our 2020 carbon emission reduction target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40 percent against 2010 levels, adjusted for 
sales, is evidence of our commitment to address  
and reduce emissions.
SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS
Abbott has been measuring and managing our direct 
emissions since 2000 and participating in CDP emissions reporting programs since 2004. CDP , 
formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, is 
an international initiative that provides an important framework for measuring and managing our emissions. 
In 2016, Abbott improved our CDP score to an A-, 
placing our business in the Leadership Category of CDP climate change participants.* This recognition reflects year-on-year improvements in our emissions performance, and represents our understanding of the 
risks and opportunities presented by climate change. 
In addition to fostering greater transparency, this  
work has identified our three most significant areas of 
climate change impact: manufacturing fuel combustion, 
*  Until now, companies have received two separate scores: a numerical score 
(up to 100) to represent the level of disclosure, and a letter score (A–E) to 
illustrate sustainability performance. However, as of this year, companies 
receive only one letter score to represent their overall level of engagement 
on sustainability. The grades (D–A) represent thresholds for Disclosure (D), 
Awareness (C), Management (B) and Leadership (A). Abbott increased from 
a score of B 99 in 2015, to A- in 2016.
† who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs266/en/.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
35
SCOPE 1 & 2  
CARBON EMISSIONS
(Metric tons per $ million sales)
*Represents Abbott 2020 goal, based on 2010 baseline data.28%
LESS CO2e PER $ MILLION  
SALES SINCE 2010
40%
GOAL BY 2020
67  
MT/ $M
(2010)
40*  
MT/ $M
(2020)
40% GOAL48  
MT/ $M
(2016)electricity use and global fleet, which together  
represent more than 90 percent of our Scope 1  
and 2 emissions. We have developed a comprehensive 
management program to address these impacts, 
including increasing energy efficiency across  
our operations and integrating green engineering technologies and concepts into our projects. 
These actions have resulted in a 9 percent reduction  
in our absolute energy consumption since 2010, along 
with a 14 percent reduction in absolute GHG emissions, as measured using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 
2 location-based method. When the growth in our 
sales is taken into account, we have reduced energy consumption by 24 percent and GHG emissions by  
28 percent compared to 2010. In 2016, our absolute energy consumption and CO
2e emissions decreased 0.5 
percent and increased 0.2 percent, respectively, from 2015. This reduction was due in large part to our focused 
efforts on improved technologies and energy efficiency, as 
well as our Utility Excellence program, which is focused on improving energy efficiency in our nutrition business. 
In January 2015, new GHG Scope 2 dual reporting 
guidance was released. To align with this, we have also 
calculated and verified our 2016 Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method. Measured by this method, our Scope 2 emissions are 547 ,000 metric tons, which 
is 6 percent higher than our figure calculated using the 
location-based method. 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Abbott’s carbon footprint reaches far beyond the emissions associated with our own direct operations. We estimate that the emissions indirectly resulting from 
our activities (known as Scope 3 emissions) are eight 
times our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined. 
As for most global companies, Scope 3 emissions include 
15 categories, 10 of which apply to Abbott, and we have quantified our GHG emissions in each of these. We assess Scope 3 emissions using the methodology outlined in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have quantified 
GHG emissions for the applicable Scope 3 categories and have identified areas where we may be able to potentially influence emissions. These sources include emissions from purchased goods and services, product 
use and disposal, transportation and distribution, 
commercial business travel, waste management and employee commuting. 
We have also verified our 2016 Scope 3 GHG emissions 
related to business travel and operational waste through 
our third-party assurance process. Our business travel emissions are roughly 134,000 metric tons CO
2e, 
which is about 2 percent of our Scope 3 emissions and 13 percent of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. By 
implementing policies that focus on reducing travel, 
including using virtual meeting technology, we have reduced emissions related to business travel activities over the past few years. 
Emissions resulting from waste from our operations 
were 9,541 metric tons CO
2e in 2016. We are actively 
working to reduce these emissions by generating  
less waste and minimizing the amount of waste sent  
to landfill. Since 2010, we have reduced waste to  
landfill by 54 percent. These landfill reductions,  
coupled with an overall waste reduction of 27 percent, have helped reduce our GHG emissions by 11,000  
metric tons compared to 2010, effectively halving  
our impact in this area.
We are committed to working across our global value 
chain to reduce our emissions and encourage our 
suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders to manage 
and reduce their impacts. To facilitate this process, 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
36
Abbott joined the CDP Supply Chain Program in 2013 
and has been an active member for the past four years. For more information on our involvement with the 
CDP Supply Chain Program and our broader efforts to 
address supply chain emissions, please see the Supply Chain Excellence section of this report. 
REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
To meet our ambitious carbon emissions reduction target, we are switching to the use of low-carbon  
fuels, cogeneration and renewable energy in many of 
our operations.
Our Climate Responsible Energy Policy provides 
guidance and goals to help our employees around the world manage energy use and related emissions. Our 
policy focuses on increasing energy efficiency in our 
manufacturing operations, investing in low-carbon energy, improving efficiency within our transportation fleet, encouraging a lower carbon footprint within our supply chain and publicly reporting our performance.
Our Energy Community of Practice includes 
representatives from our most energy-intensive 
businesses. The council works to monitor, evaluate and reduce our total energy consumption, and promotes energy conservation and alternative energy projects. 
Through our numerous energy management  
initiatives, we:
• Perform energy audits to identify energy conservation 
opportunities;
• Share best-in-class energy practices;
• Evaluate and test new energy conservation 
technologies;• Prioritize and allocate funding for projects that reduce carbon and energy;
• Source low-carbon fuels;
• Negotiate competitive energy contracts; and implement financial hedges to reduce price volatility.
UTILITY EXCELLENCE PROGRAM
The manufacturing of Abbott’s nutrition products is particularly energy- and water-intensive, accounting for around 19 percent of our GHG emissions related 
to manufacturing and 14 percent of our water intake 
normalized to sales from 2010. This is why Abbott’s nutrition business launched the Utility Excellence (UEx) program in February 2013. The Utility Excellence program met its goal to reduce our spend on utilities by 
50 percent by 2017 . 
Abbott’s nutrition team has established UEx teams at 14 
sites, embarking on a journey to transform site culture 
through employee awareness and engagement. In 
2016, the UEx team delivered $7 million in sustainable utility savings and completed energy assessments at all sites, which identified an additional $12 million in potential savings to help build a pipeline to meet our 
2020 goals. A global workshop was facilitated at all sites 
in Ireland to drive best-practice replications. A total of 107 items were identified, and the UEx team continues to track and share data. Our site in Columbus, Ohio, also piloted a weekly continuous assessment process in 
2016, which all large sites are aiming to replicate in 2017 . 
A data analytics pilot was rolled out at the Cootehill, Ireland, site, which presents an interesting replication opportunity for piloting sites in 2017 . ABBOTT’S  
CARBON FOOTPRINT
 
We are committed  to reducing our  carbon emissions,  and we encourage  our suppliers,  distributors and  other stakeholders  to reduce their  own impacts.1% 
END-OF-LIFE  
TREATMENT
 
4% 
USE OF SOLD  
PRODUCTS
 
2%  
EMPLOYEE  
COMMUTING
 
2% 
BUSINESS TRAVEL
 
12% 
UPSTREAM  
TRANSPORTATION  
AND DISTRIBUTION
 
2% 
FUEL AND ENERGY  
(not Scope 1 or 2)
 
1% 
CAPITAL  
GOODS65%  
PURCHASED GOODS  
& SERVICES89%  
SCOPE 35% 
SCOPE 16% 
SCOPE 2
Scope 3 emissions related  
to waste from operations and 
downstream transportation 
and distribution were found  
to be marginal, contributing to less than 1 percent  
of Abbott’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
37
UTILITY EXCELLENCE 
PROGRAM 
The Utility Excellence (UEx) program 
met its goal to reduce spend on utilities by 50 percent by 2017 .50%
COGENERATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
During 2016, six of our facilities utilized cogeneration 
units, which are power-generating units that capture unused heat for other practical uses. These six units 
generate 45 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity 
over the course of a year. During 2016, we also generated 310,000 kWh of renewable energy at our sites, primarily through solar power. These efforts have increased our on-site renewable energy generation sixfold compared 
to 2010 and increased our on-site cogeneration by  
28 percent across all manufacturing locations. Beyond our own energy production, we purchase 
electricity from utility providers that include above-average renewable generation in their energy mix, particularly in Europe. 34ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
PROCESS AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS WERE IMPLEMENTED IN 2016
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROCESS AND  
TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS
2016 project highlights included: 
• A new boiler system at our Nutrition facility in 
Cootehill, Ireland, replaced three dual-fueled boilers with two highly efficient natural gas steam boilers and four combined heat and power units, resulting in a carbon emissions reduction of approximately 8,000 metric tons per year.
• A larger trash compactor at our Diabetes Care facility in Witney, U.K., reduced the number of waste collections and eliminated 5,800 miles driven by trash trucks and the related carbon emissions, while generating $13,600 in annual savings. 
• A cogeneration facility and solar photovoltaic  units were installed at our Diagnostics facility in Wiesbaden, Germany. Combined with other energy efficiency efforts in 2016, this resulted in CO
2 
emissions being reduced by 1,406 metric tons, or  13 percent of total emissions.
• Utilities scheduling improvements at our facilities in Abbott Park, Illinois, resulted in energy savings of 1,700,000 kWh and a $100,000 annual reduction in energy costs. 
• A new can-rinsing process at our Nutrition facility in Sturgis, Michigan, reduced the environmental footprint by 4.7 million gallons of water and  916,822 kWh of gas and electricity, which equates to 267 metric tons in CO
2 emissions reductions and 
$23,400 in annual sewer costs. 
• At our Shanghai Cleaner Production Center (SCPC) in China, annual electricity, fuel and water savings resulted in the facility being awarded Cleaner Production Certification.2010ON-SITE  
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY  
50,000  
KWH310,000 
KWH2016
ON-SITE RENEWABLES 
On-site renewables include mostly solar, biomass and biogas.  35 MILLION  
KWH  45  
MILLION KWH 
2010 2016COGEN
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
38
MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF OUR FLEET 
Changes in our vehicle-leasing program in the United 
States have improved the carbon profile of our 2,652-vehicle fleet over recent years, with nearly  
17 percent of our fleet now comprised of hybrid vehicles. We have also installed vehicle charging stations at various facilities and converted some of the vehicles at our headquarters campus to run on electricity. 
We are applying the learnings from our U.S. vehicle 
leasing program across our international vehicle  
fleet in 2017 .
TELEMATICS INTRODUCED 
ACROSS U.K. COMPANY  
CAR FLEET
In 2013, we introduced telematics across our U.K. 
company car fleet to track vehicle operation and provide feedback on driving styles. GPS technology provides data on vehicle location, speed, acceleration and the extent of impact in the event of an accident, encouraging safer behavior on the roads. It also encourages fuel-efficient driving, with annual fuel consumption savings of 10 percent, or 157 metric tons of carbon emissions. In 2016, tighter sensitivities were implemented, further improving fuel savings and driver behaviors. 
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY
Clean water is a critical resource, essential for human 
health and for the health of economies and ecosystems. Climate change, increasing water scarcity, population 
growth, demographic changes and urbanization all  
pose challenges to our global water supply. By 2025,  
half of the world’s population will be living in water-
stressed areas.* The world needs better management of all water resources, and reuse of wastewater to recover 
water, nutrients and energy is becoming an important 
part of the strategy. Access to water is essential for our manufacturing operations. It also plays a critical role in the use of many of our products. Abbott is committed to managing our water use in an efficient, sustainable manner and to improving access to clean water for communities. Our 
recently updated Water Position Statement and Water 
Use Guidelines incorporate our commitment to using water responsibly. We also work with communities to improve their access to clean water and to encourage 
water management and conservation. 
REDUCING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
Our aim is to reduce our company’s total water intake by 
30 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 and adjusted for sales. During 2016, we succeeded in reducing our water 
* who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs391/en/UNDERSTANDING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
0.5%
Water from 
raw materials
23%
Surface and 
ground water76%
Municipal 
water
0.5%
Rainwater 
collected on-site21%
Water used 
in process
65%
Water 
treated by municipality
14% 
Water returned to 
the environmentOUT IN
WATER RECYCLING ON SITE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
39
use by 94 million gallons compared to 2010, meaning 
that we have now lowered our total worldwide water intake by 3 percent on an absolute basis and 18 percent 
on a sales-adjusted basis since 2010. These savings 
were achieved through innovative approaches that include more water-efficient technologies, changes to our manufacturing and maintenance processes and the recycling of water. 
We use global water risk mapping tools from the World 
Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to 
identify which of our manufacturing plants operate 
in water-stressed regions. Mapping our sites in this way helps inform how we communicate about our water challenges and drives change. It also allows our company to focus on the manufacturing sites at greatest 
risk of water supply interruptions now and in the future. 
Sites that are identified as significant water users, or 
that operate in water-stressed regions, are required to have a water management plan and perform detailed 
local water analyses. They must identify the impact of 
their water use on communities and the environment and develop water strategies and performance targets for reducing their water risks. In 2016, 26 of our manufacturing sites operated in water-stressed regions, 
with their water use representing 15 percent of Abbott’s 
total water intake.
Abbott has participated in the CDP Water Disclosure 
program since 2010. This has allowed us to share  
critical data on our water performance while gaining 
valuable insight into the water performance of other companies in the healthcare sector and beyond. In 2016, we improved our water score from a B- to a B, 
maintaining a management-level rating for our water 
stewardship program and performing above the industry average of B-. WATER INTAKE REDUCTIONS
(Gallons per $1,000 Sales)
*Represents Abbott 2020 goal, based on 2010 baseline data18%
LESS GALLONS PER $1,000  
SALES SINCE 2010
30%
GOAL BY 2020
203  
GAL / $K
(2010)
166  
GAL / $K
(2016)
142*  
GAL / $K
(2020)
30% GOAL37WATER EFFICIENCY  
AND REDUCTION 
PROJECTS WERE IMPLEMENTED IN 2016
2016 water-related projects include:
• Through multiple water reduction activities, our 
Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Victoriaville, Canada – the seventh largest user of water among all Abbott locations worldwide – reduced water use by 4 percent. This reduction is all the more remarkable because the facility boasted a 26 percent increase in production between 2015 and 2016. Building on this success, Victoriaville has planned additional water reduction initiatives through 2018. 
• A water conservation project was implemented at our Vascular facility in Santa Clara, California, that supplies reclaimed water from manufacturing processes to the site’s cooling towers and irrigation system. This project recycles 10 million gallons of water and reduces fresh water consumption by  60 percent, saving $44,000 annually.
• A project to recirculate cooling water and prevent unnecessary water use at our Nutrition facility in Cootehill, Ireland, reduced water use by 18 percent, the equivalent of 634 gallons of water per ton of product produced. 
• Water efficiency projects, including a new cleaning process for manufacturing tanks and equipment, were implemented at our Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Tlalpan, Mexico. These projects reduced water intake by 1.5 million gallons per year. 
• A rooftop rainwater capture and storage system at our Vascular facility in Clonmel, Ireland, reduced the purchase of municipal water by 25 percent.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
40
WASTE MANAGEMENT
The world’s resources are finite, and even renewable 
resources are being used faster than they can regenerate. Waste continues to increase, landfill space is rapidly 
shrinking, and access to acceptable waste disposal 
facilities is limited. This makes improving waste management a priority, both for our business and for the planet. It improves operating efficiency, reduces costs and cuts demand for virgin resources, reducing our 
environmental impact.
Abbott strives continuously to eliminate waste from our 
operations and to repurpose any waste that is unavoidable. 
We follow a five-step waste management model. 
FIVE-STEP WASTE  
MANAGEMENT MODEL
REDUCE REUSE
RECYCLE
RECOVERY
LANDFILLLowering the 
amount of waste producedUsing materials repeatedly
Using materials to 
make new products
Recovering energy from waste
Safe disposal of waste to landfillMOST FAVORED
LEAST PREFERREDREDUCING OUR WASTE FOOTPRINT
Abbott strives to find ethical, economical and efficient 
ways to reduce the volume and toxicity of waste and to conserve and recover resources to the greatest extent 
possible. Our goal is to reduce the total waste we 
generate by 50 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 and adjusted for sales. We collect key waste performance data across all operations and have technical standards and guidelines to drive waste reduction. By the end of 
2016, we had achieved a 27 percent reduction in our 
absolute volume of waste and a 39 percent reduction when adjusted for sales compared to 2010. During 2016, we reduced waste by 3,914 U.S. tons, or 6 percent on 
an absolute basis, by reducing waste at the source and 
identifying opportunities for reuse.
Zero Waste to Landfill
Abbott launched our Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWL) program in 2012 to eliminate waste sent to a landfill across our sites through a combination of recycling, 
composting and environmentally responsible 
incineration. This program results in improved waste efficiency, cost savings and reductions in our carbon 
footprint, while also engaging employees in our 
environmental initiatives. Subsequently, 23 Abbott manufacturing facilities and five non-manufacturing facilities across 12 countries have achieved ZWL status, helping to reduce the total amount of waste that our 
business sends to landfill by more than 50 percent. 39%
LESS WASTE PER $ MILLION SALES  
SINCE 2010
50%
GOAL BY 2020WASTE REDUCTIONS
(U.S. tons per $ million sales)
*Represents Abbott 2020 goal, based on 2010 baseline data4.5  
U.S. TONS / $M
(2010)
2.7  
U.S. TONS / $M
(2016)
2.6*  
U.S. TONS / $M
(2020)
50% GOAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
41
WASTE MANAGEMENT BEYOND ABBOTT 
Our waste management efforts extend beyond our own 
operations. We have strict requirements for all vendors responsible for managing our waste, and vendors who 
do not meet these standards are not permitted to do 
business with our company. Waste management firms are evaluated through Abbott’s waste vendor assessment program, which includes periodic on-site evaluations and reviews. These assessments ensure that only 
appropriately qualified and responsible vendors are 
permitted to manage Abbott’s waste. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Abbott designs and manufactures products to give people the opportunity to live full and healthy lives. Abbott’s primary concern is to ensure quality, safety, 
integrity and ease of use for our healthcare products. 
Minimizing the environmental impacts of those products is an important part of our role. It helps to maintain a healthy environment and helps people to reduce their own environmental impact. We are 
constantly working to improve packaging and product 
design and to reduce the waste, water and energy demands that stem from using our products. 34WASTE REDUCTION 
PROJECTS WERE IMPLEMENTED IN 2016
2016 waste-reduction projects included:
• A project to reduce the thickness of the polyester 
substrate used in the manufacture of the FreeStyle® Lite biosensor by 10 percent, was implemented at our Diabetes Care facility in Donegal, Ireland. This reduced waste by 23 U.S. tons in 2016.
• Diverting ice packs from temperature-controlled shipments received at our Diagnostics facility in Lake County, Illinois, to an anaerobic digester, turns them into fertilizer for local use. In 2016, over 107 U.S. tons were diverted from landfill.
• Diverting 496 U.S. tons of plastic and metal scrap, wood and glass materials from landfill at our Medical Optics facility in Anasco, Puerto Rico, earned the facility two awards from the Puerto Rico Manufacturing association for its recycling program.
• A color-code recycling system was implemented at our Nutrition facility in Sturgis, Michigan. Adding this system to the site’s existing program resulted in a 10 percent increase in recycling and brought the site’s total recycling rate to over 90 percent. 
GREEN PRODUCT INNOVATION
Abbott’s product stewardship and R&D teams 
work closely with our EHS function to incorporate environmental considerations into the R&D process 
and keep the R&D team informed about emerging 
environmental issues related to product design. We have, for example, introduced a new process for identifying substances that may impact our products’ life cycle and environmental impact. We have also 
developed a guide to identifying safer alternatives for 
chemical reagents and calibrants.WASTE MANAGEMENT
In addition to Abbott’s waste streams, we also send material that otherwise would have been waste, off-site to be reused as is.  
As a substitute for a commercial product or commodity, this is known as beneficial use. This has been a major strategy in reducing Abbott’s overall waste. 67,000  
U.S. TONS
OF TOTAL  
BENEFICIAL USEAbbott’s beneficial-use activities have grown by 77 percent since 2010, now exceeding our total waste generated.
7% 
OTHER50%  
RECYCLED3% 
COMPOSTED
15% 
INCINERATED  
(with energy recovery) 
3% 
INCINERATED 
(without energy 
recovery) 
22%  
LANDFILLED57 ,000  
U.S. TONS
OF TOTAL WASTE  
GENERATED
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
42
CONFLICT MINERALS
Abbott has a defined due diligence structure and 
process that allows us to understand the use and sources of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TGs) 
in our products and across our global supply chain. 
Our Product Stewardship team uses the standardized Conflict Minerals Reporting Template of the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) to query our suppliers on this issue. In 2016, we launched an automated 
Conflict Minerals analysis tool, providing consistent and 
accurate assessment capabilities for all our businesses. Abbott filed a Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 
compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. 
EU ROHS COMPLIANCE
All Abbott electronic medical devices, including  
in-vitro diagnostics products in the EU, are compliant 
with the EU Directive on the Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances (RoHS) in electronic equipment. This 
involves supplying compliance documentation for each component in the products. 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 
Abbott has an aggressive target to reduce the total weight of our packaging by 10 percent by 2020, compared to our 2010 baseline. Achieving this goal will 
eliminate approximately 30 million pounds of packaging 
from our supply chain. Between 2010 and 2016, we achieved 6.3 percent annualized reductions, eliminating approximately 18 million pounds of packaging.
Our approach to sustainable packaging is guided by four 
R’s, designed to help reduce environmental impact while protecting our products:
• Reduce – Optimize packaging design to reduce the 
amount of materials used.
• Renew – Source packaging with renewable materials 
when feasible.• Recycle – Improve the use of recycled content in  
our packaging, and expand the use of packaging that  
is recyclable.
• Reuse – Design packaging to allow reuse 
opportunities.
Looking at packaging through a sustainability lens enables us to consider environmental impacts throughout the product life cycle. For example, our 
milk-based nutritional products feature packaging that 
can be shipped and stored without refrigeration for up to 36 months, thus reducing the energy used by shippers, distributors and consumers throughout the supply chain. This is an especially important benefit for people 
in developing nations, where refrigeration facilities are 
less reliable and less widely available.
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING PARTNERSHIPS
Abbott works with a number of industry and independent groups to advance sustainable packaging systems. We work with suppliers who have achieved or 
are pursuing certification with respected sustainability 
organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council. We also work with our suppliers to raise their sustainability performance, holding them to stringent packaging requirements. We share information on the 
packaging reductions that we have achieved with our 
retail customers around the world.BY CONVERTING TO 
POLYPROPYLENE, PLASTIC USAGE FOR NUTRITION PRODUCT OVERCAPS HAS  
BEEN REDUCED BY 35 PERCENT35% 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING INITIATIVE HIGHLIGHTS
Initiatives to make our packaging more sustainable in 2016 included: 
• Innovative new packaging for our Eleva
TM infant 
formula products in China incorporates an  
integrated scoop. In addition to eliminating the  need to dig for the scoop, the packaging provides a more sanitary experience, adding to the Eleva
TM 
brand’s premium image. 
• Converting the bottles used for our Established Pharmaceuticals products from glass to polypropylene reduced packaging weight by 80 percent while saving $810,000 in costs and eliminating breakages and market returns.
• Converting the overcap material used on metal cans of nutritional powder products from a low-density polyethylene to polypropylene reduced the weight of each cap by a minimum of 35 percent. Similarly, through implementing a mechanized system, we have been able to pack more caps into a bigger box and to use a thinner liner bag to line the box, eliminating approximately one U.S. ton of paper plastic waste annually. This effort was the merit award winner for the National Environment Agency of Singapore 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) Program.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
43
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  
IN OUR COMMUNITIES
Several Abbott sites work with their communities 
to promote sustainability, work toward healthy environments and address the impacts of climate 
change at a local level. Employees at 20 sites in six 
different countries celebrated Earth Day in 2016, with activities ranging from volunteer opportunities and recycling drives to exhibits raising awareness of environmental issues and our programs. 
2+ U.S. TONS
REUSE-A-SHOE PROGRAM
In 2016, multiple sites in the United States participated 
in the Reuse-A-Shoe program, collecting more than two U.S. tons, or the equivalent of one automobile of shoes.
 15+ U.S. TONS
ELECTRONIC WASTE COLLECTION
Similarly, multiple sites in the United States participated in Abbott’s Electronic Waste Collection program. The program collected more than 15 U.S. tons, or the equivalent of seven automobiles,  of e-waste in 2016.ABBOTT ENVIRONMENT-RELATED  
VOLUNTEERING HIGHLIGHTS
• Employees at our Nutrition facility in Sturgis, Michigan, participate in a range of community outreach initiatives, including the Abbott Family  Science Night at the local elementary school, the annual St. Joseph County river cleanup and planting over 900 trees. 
• In Karachi, Pakistan, our Established Pharmaceuticals facility hosted a waste management training for teachers and students from the University of Karachi.
• Volunteers from our Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Rio de Janeiro held a wastewater workshop for local children, demonstrating how to build a natural filter using sand, rocks, cotton and a recycled plastic bottle. The activity was designed to show how simple actions can reduce environmental impact.
• Volunteers from our Vascular facility in Menlo Park, California, took part in California’s Coastal Cleanup Day, collecting and disposing of about 800 pounds of litter from the Menlo Park section of the San Francisquito Creek. The facility has made an ongoing commitment to adopt the creek site and to partner with neighbors and community groups on cleanup  and restoration activities. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
44
IN THIS SECTIONSUPPLY CHAIN 
EXCELLENCE
•  We expanded our procurement approach for 
managing our supply chain, which is designed to build sustainable, long-term relationships with a community of suppliers and take a holistic approach to quality and value, all while minimizing risk.
•  We developed a more robust and comprehensive 
approach to auditing our suppliers — including using DHL’s real-time risk intelligence tool, Resilience360 — to identify at-risk countries and inform our survey program.
•  We increased our spend with small, women-owned 
businesses by 2 percent.46  EMBEDDING OUR ONE  
PROCUREMENT STRATEGY  
47  SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN  
47  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN 
THE SUPPLY CHAIN  48  STRENGTHENING LOCAL  
SUPPLY CHAINS  
49  SUPPLIER DIVERSITY   2016 HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
45
Abbott works with more than 68,000 suppliers in 150 
different countries, spending over $8.5 billion with our direct suppliers in 2016. Our supply chain is not 
just a fundamental part of our business success — it is 
also integral to our impact on society. The way that we manage our supplier relationships helps to safeguard the quality of our products and their impact in helping people to live fuller, better lives. We proactively  
manage social risks in our supply chain to guard against abuses and exploitation, and to protect human rights. We also work with our suppliers to reduce our environmental footprint. By striving for excellence  
in our supplier relationships, we seek to spread economic opportunity, build shared value and promote sustainable growth in our markets. 
150 COUNTRIES
We work with more than 68,000 
suppliers in 150 countries.150
$8.5B
Abbott spent $8.5 billion with direct suppliers in 2016. $EMBEDDING OUR ONE  
PROCUREMENT STRATEGY
During 2016, we continued to operationalize our One 
Procurement strategy for supply chain management. This creates a unified approach to supply chain 
management, replacing our previous approach of 
different functions and markets managing their suppliers independently.
Building a smaller, leaner organization helps us to 
reduce fragmentation and increase consistency in our 
supply chain, and it also enables a more innovative and strategic relationship with our suppliers. The One Procurement strategy leverages these advantages to 
deliver against five points of purpose, each of which has 
positive impacts on the people and communities with which we work:
• Protect and elevate the Abbott brand – Ensuring 
authenticity and quality in our supply chain
• Create shared value relationships – Enabling 
sustainable supplier development and achieving positive social impact at scale
• Enhance margin and elevate financial 
performance – Building a more sustainable global 
healthcare business
• Expedite growth and innovation – Working 
with our suppliers collaboratively to explore new innovation opportunities and reaching out to  
suppliers in new markets
• Design a flexible, dynamic supply network – Ensuring we can keep our supply chain stable  
and resilient
We focus on identifying the overall value that suppliers can provide, looking beyond price and placing increased emphasis on real-time collaboration and the potential of suppliers to contribute to Abbott’s innovation strategy. 
Within each of our specialist vertical teams, we have dedicated personnel focused on value and continuity of supply.
Under the One Procurement strategy, we are developing 
supplier partnerships that support Abbott’s growth and, at the same time, strengthening local communities, 
sustainable innovation and the environment. For 
example, in Pakistan and Mexico, One Procurement, Local Procurement and Engineering expertise helped to identify a new supplier to maintain the 
energy cogeneration turbines powering two Abbott 
manufacturing facilities. This new initiative is expected to result in savings of approximately $1 million over the next five years, as well as improved service levels and more regular maintenance, which are expected to 
reduce carbon emissions over the same period. 
Closer working relationships with suppliers also enable 
innovation across Abbott’s divisions. Working with one of our suppliers, we have been able to develop 
innovative milling media for our Cholib and Penta  
products, which will reduce the environmental impact 
of the manufacturing process while adding flexibility to our supply chain. Working with another supplier in Colombia has helped us to develop a new statin 
technology to treat high cholesterol and control the risk 
of heart disease. The innovative manufacturing process developed will reduce both costs and carbon emissions in our supply chain.
OUR SUPPLIER SELECTION PROCESS
As part of our selection process, we assess each supplier, paying close attention to their business capabilities and capacities, financial health and strategic alignment 
with our vision to enable fuller lives. We monitor their 
compliance with our supplier guidelines, as well as applicable regulatory and quality requirements. We reevaluate suppliers at regular intervals to ensure they continue to meet our quality requirements and 
performance criteria.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
46
Around 40 percent of our suppliers provide goods and 
services with the potential to impact directly on the quality of our products, and we put increased focus on 
their performance. We identify these suppliers using a 
risk-classification system that considers factors like the impact of the material or service on the safety of our consumers, the potential for adulteration and supplier certification. We audit these suppliers regularly to 
ensure they have adequate process controls in place, 
and we collaborate closely with them to address risk for noncompliance. We have identified more than 100 suppliers in high-risk geographies that are at risk of 
loss of manufacturing capacity due to natural disaster, 
and we have documented contingency plans for such catastrophic events. 
We work with several supply chain organizations, 
including the Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity 
and Innovation and the Institute for Supply Management, to embed standards and best practices. We also work with third-party providers to deliver training for suppliers, including training on the 
Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals 
(REACH) and the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). This training helps to ensure that our products comply with all relevant regulations, as well as with our own high quality standards. 
SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Through our Master Service Agreement, we require suppliers to adhere to the standards of our Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) policy, which aligns with 
our sustainability strategy. We manage compliance with 
these standards through our SSR program to manage third-party risk, and we embed sustainability into current practice across our supplier community. 
Our Supplier Guidelines document our principles and 
expectations in areas such as ethical behavior, business integrity and fair competition; human rights, privacy, labor rights and worker protection; animal welfare, 
environmental stewardship; and health and safety 
practices. Our guidelines are published in multiple languages and available to all our suppliers, who can also find answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the Resources for Suppliers section of our website. 
AUDITING OUR SUPPLIERS
Our SSR program requires suppliers to comply with Abbott’s Supplier Principles and undergo surveys and audit processes to verify they meet our standards. In 
2016, we developed an approach to evaluating suppliers 
using the DHL Resilience360 tool, which identifies suppliers at higher risk for failing to meet our social and environmental supplier standards. We send surveys to these suppliers with robust questions addressing:
• Safe working conditions
• Dignified and respectful treatment of employees
• Responsible manufacturing processes
• Adequate management systems
• Ethical practices
• Environmental management
Based on the survey responses, we select suppliers 
for audit to ensure compliance with Abbott social 
standards, conducted by our third-party partner Intertek. In 2016, we performed 17 on-site audits, with 82 percent of our suppliers obtaining a high or medium performance score. We took mitigating action, where 
required, by working with suppliers to close out any 
zero-tolerance and major audit observations. 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS  
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Our Green Procurement Policy remains a cornerstone of our supply chain practices under the One Procurement strategy. It encourages Abbott teams to seek out environmentally preferable and sustainable options in each of our categories. We have embedded the principle of Environmentally Preferable Products within our 
Procurement Guidelines, which instructs our sourcing 
teams to promote, request and consider environmentally preferable choices, while asking our suppliers to provide them, as well.
Environmental risk management is also a key priority 
for our Supply Chain Council, which benchmarks the risk management processes for each of Abbott’s divisions. The council’s quarterly meetings provide 
an opportunity to share best practices on managing 
environmental impact within the supply chain.
MEASURING SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS
The carbon emissions resulting from the supply, distribution and use of our products are eight times the size of the emissions resulting from our own direct 
activities. Understanding and managing these emissions 
(known as Scope 3 emissions) is, therefore, a priority for Abbott. We encourage our suppliers and distributors to reduce their emissions and to assist in carbon reduction efforts. For more information on our Scope 3 emissions 
and calculations, please see the Safeguarding the 
Environment section of this report.
We are committed to working across our global 
value chain to reduce our emissions and encourage 
our suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders to manage and reduce their impacts. To facilitate this process, Abbott joined the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Supply Chain Program in 2013 
and has been an active member for the past four years. 
Each year, as part of this program, we invite our top suppliers by spend and strategy to complete the CDP Supply Chain Questionnaire. In 2016, Abbott utilized the CDP Supply Chain Program to survey 349 suppliers 
about their environmental practices and performance, 
with a response rate of 59 percent, which is 6 percent 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
47
higher than the global average. We also found a higher 
percentage of responding suppliers that were reporting their own emissions. 
Several suppliers responded that Abbott’s participation 
in the CDP Supply Chain Program has helped them take action to calculate corporate-level emissions and identify energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction 
initiatives. For example, we collaborated with one 
supplier to pilot a modification in tertiary packaging, so that more products can be placed in a single carton, resulting in lower transportation impacts, and we 
began working with suppliers to develop strategic 
partnerships to improve sustainability initiatives for both organizations. 
To help our suppliers identify more actions to reduce 
carbon emissions, in 2015 Abbott joined the Action 
Exchange, a CDP initiative that facilitates collaboration with our suppliers on reducing emissions and costs and on driving operational efficiencies. Suppliers that have participated in the Action Exchange report that they 
have benefited from: 
• Learning about peer best practices and emissions 
reduction projects with the shortest payback
• Connecting with experts in energy efficiency
• Demonstrating leadership in climate change mitigation 
REDUCING TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
Abbott’s logistics team actively works to identify opportunities to improve our transportation efficiencies, such as working to reduce the number of underutilized 
truckloads over the past two years. Since 2013, our 
Diagnostics division has reduced U.S. truckload shipping volumes, resulting in a 10 percent reduction in carbon emissions in the past year. Additional efficiencies were also achieved through network-routing improvements 
across all road shipments. Through the CDP Supply Chain Program, we are able to 
gather information from transportation providers and identify opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint. In 2016, 42 transportation suppliers responded to 
the survey, allowing Abbott greater insight into our 
Scope 3 carbon emissions related to transportation and distribution activities. 
STRENGTHENING LOCAL SUPPLY CHAINS
India is the world’s largest producer of milk, and nearly half of rural households depend on dairy farming for at least part of their income. Despite dairy farming 
being a well-established industry, many dairy farmers 
continue to be marginalized. They are often held back by middlemen taking a significant position of any earnings, by a lack of the technology and methods to produce higher quality milk for a better price, and by 
a limited knowledge of the organized dairy sector that 
companies like Abbott participate in. A further problem is that women are often excluded from decision-making, despite playing a significant role in dairying work.
BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE, LOCAL SUPPLY CHAIN
In 2014, Abbott opened a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for nutrition products in Jhagadia, Gujarat. However, dairy farmers weren’t able 
to produce the volume of high-quality milk that Abbott 
needed to meet our strict quality standards. Working with Prabhat, a local dairy supplier, and TechnoServe, a nonprofit organization seeking business solutions to poverty, we developed a quality-focused demonstration 
model that strengthens Abbott’s local dairy supply 
chain and empowers smallholder farmers to produce increased volumes of higher-quality milk — which can help them build their small dairy-farming businesses 
and communities.
Since 2016, our program has directly reached nearly 
1,500 smallholder dairy farmers, half of which are women, in Maharashtra, the state neighboring Gujarat. 
First, we worked to develop the infrastructure required 
to expand capacity for milk production, including 10 village-based milk chilling facilities. 
Before Prabhat began collecting milk in these villages, 
our program delivered robust training on the basics 
of ensuring high-quality milk. After collection began, we expanded training to include topics on technical dairying skills, animal feed and care, farm management 
and the business of dairying. We run trainings 
specifically for women farmers, as well. 
We established transparent pricing mechanisms for the 
farmers’ milk that clearly demonstrate the link between 
quality and price. The program also further incentivizes 
farmers to deliver contaminant-free milk, with Prabhat paying an additional premium that is unique in the region. The confidence that higher quality will result in higher prices builds trust among farmers and provides an 
incentive for them to further strengthen their approach. 
TESTING OUR IMPACT AND EXPANDING OUR 
APPROACH
By the end of 2016, our program had run nearly 200 
training sessions for farmers in target villages. The combination of training, infrastructure and transparent 
pricing is already having an impact on the quality of milk 
supplied to Prabhat and the value that this represents to local communities. Farmers in the program supplied nearly 2.3 million liters of high-quality milk to Prabhat in 2016. Within seasonal norms, we are seeing a 
consistent increase in the volume of high-quality milk 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
48
that meets Abbott’s exacting standards collected every 
month, demonstrating the impact of our program’s training-led approach and the trust generated to reach 
and retain more farmers in target villages.
Based on this success, Prabhat is committed to 
expanding this model to 200 additional villages in  
the region over three years. This will give more 
smallholder farmers access to a trusted and transparent 
market and the skills and infrastructure that they need to supply it. Abbott plans to work closely with Prabhat to pursue this strategy and find new ways of building  
a stronger business, while generating a positive impact in our communities.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
At Abbott, we believe our potential is fulfilled when we help others fulfill their potential. Within North America, we operate a supplier diversity policy to ensure equal 
opportunities for businesses that are either small, or 
that are majority-owned and operated by a woman, a member of an ethnic minority, a veteran or a person with a disability. This policy aligns with the strong American tradition of diversity and inclusion, and is 
designed to ensure that opportunities are available to 
groups traditionally under-represented in business.
We believe that diversity in our suppliers is essential 
to our ability to compete. Under our One Procurement 
strategy, it helps to ensure that we collaborate with diverse groups that reflect the communities we serve. Diversity also brings new perspectives to the table, as we work to develop collaborative, innovative solutions. 
The HUBZone program, run by the U.S. Small Business 
Administration (SBA), identifies small businesses that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. Abbott works with HUBZone suppliers 
in Puerto Rico to deliver innovative packaging for products distributed across South America and the 
Caribbean. These suppliers have developed creative solutions for using cardboard packaging to protect 
products during transportation, maintaining product 
quality and reducing environmental impact. Their innovative approach to incorporating product literature in the design of packaging helps to engage and educate those using our products.
Our focus is on engaging diverse businesses, assessing 
the value they can provide fairly and fully, and ensuring that we award the business to the right supplier. We have Supplier Diversity Champions in every unique 
Abbott business and every major category of spend. The 
champions’ role is to oversee, monitor and track our diverse spend, within their respective businesses. In 2016, we spent $1.04 billion with suppliers certified as 
diverse. This represents 8 percent of total spend in our 
supply chain and 18 percent of our spend within North America.
Our Supplier Diversity Governance Council takes the 
lead on guiding our organization toward a more diverse 
and sustainable supply chain. During 2015, we increased our engagement with advocacy organizations, and we now have a chair on the board of the United States National Minority Supplier Development Council. Also 
in 2016, Abbott’s Chief Procurement Officer became a 
member of the Diverse Manufacturing Supply Chain Alliance’s CPO Advisory Committee.
Our work with diverse suppliers helps both Abbott and 
our partners succeed. For example, Marathon Medical, 
a veteran-owned business expanding through its work with Abbott, is now the lead distributor for Abbott Point of Care (APOC) devices for clients, such as the 
U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department 
of Veterans Affairs. During 2015, we expanded our partnership with Marathon Medical through an agreement to supply the U.S. Indian Health Service, a contract with an annual value of $30 million.
2%+
In 2016, our spend with small 
disadvantaged businesses increased  by 2 percent, and our spend with  small, women-owned businesses increased by 2 percent.$
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
49
FULLER LIVES 
THROUGH LOCAL SUPPLY CHAINS
India is the world’s largest milk producer, but small dairy 
farmers there often don’t have access to the training  
and resources that would help them improve the quality of their milk, grow their farms and build better lives for their families.
Abbott and our partners are working to change this by 
developing a sustainable, local supply model for Abbott’s nutrition manufacturing facility in Jhagadia, Gujarat.  
Our program provides smallholder farmers in the neighboring state of Maharashtra with the infrastructure they need to supply high-quality milk, an incentive to improve quality through transparent pricing and the skills they need to expand production while managing finances and building more prosperous communities.
1. TRAINING
We’re training smallholder farmers on 
feeding and animal care, as well as financial literacy and the business of dairy farming.
 
APPROXIMATELY 200 TRAINING 
SESSIONS RUN IN 2016.2. INFRASTRUCTURE
We’ve built collection centers in 
communities to store milk from smallholder farmers and prevent spoilage. 
 
BULK MILK CHILLERS INSTALLED AT 
MILK COLLECTION CENTERS IN  
10 VILLAGES ACROSS THE REGION .3. MARKET 
Industrywide, farmers are paid a higher price 
for a higher-quality product. 
 
TRANSPARENT PRICING CLEARLY 
SHOWS THAT HIGHER PRICES PAID  
FOR HIGH-QUALITY MILK INCENTIVIZE GOOD DAIRY FARMING PRACTICES.
1,500  
FARMERS 
Nearly 1,500 smallholder farmers 
participating in program
 
2.3M  
LITERS
Nearly 2.3 million liters of high- 
quality milk supplied in 2016
MILK QUALITY AND 
QUANTITY HAS 
INCREASED OVER 
THE COURSE OF THE 
PROGRAM.
IN THIS SECTIONVALUING OUR  
PEOPLE
52  A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE  
WORKPLACE  
54  EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT  
AND TALENT MANAGEMENT  
56  COMPENSATION  
AND BENEFITS  57  WORK-LIFE HARMONY  
58  HUMAN RIGHTS  
58  LISTENING TO OUR  
EMPLOYEES  •  We surveyed 85 percent of our employees 
worldwide to help improve the mix of programs and opportunities that makes employment at Abbott rewarding, tailored to the different countries and regions where we operate.
•  In the U.S., the percentage of minorities in 
management positions at Abbott has increased from 22 percent in 2010 to 31 percent in 2016. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
51
Abbott’s ability to adapt to changing healthcare needs — 
quickly and continually — is vital to our ongoing success. The key to Abbott’s agility is, of course, our people 
around the globe. Our approximately 94,000 employees 
serve people in more than 150 countries. Their skill and their dedication to advancing human health and well-being are the heart and soul of our company. 
EMPLOYEES 
WORLDWIDE
We have approximately  
94,000 employees in more  than 150 countries.94K
That is why we choose our people carefully, selecting 
those with the energy, enthusiasm, expertise and commitment to create a positive impact on the health 
of the world. It is also why we provide our employees 
with opportunities to pursue fulfilling careers at Abbott. Our company’s human resources strategies, across the breadth and diversity of our global businesses, reflect the depth of our commitment to employees.
As a global healthcare company, we need a wide array 
of skills to help us effectively deliver on our mission. We recognize that people’s skills, interests, values 
and priorities may differ from one country or region 
to another. For example, in Japan, employees place a high value on working for a company with a long history and a good reputation. In China, talent wants to join organizations where they will be able to work 
with leading brands and markets to gain valuable 
experiences. We make a concerted effort to meet these different needs and to make Abbott an attractive and supportive place to work for people from all backgrounds. We use internal and external research to 
develop a competitive, locally relevant employee value proposition and total rewards package. This approach 
enables us to address local talent challenges more effectively, in areas such as diversity and inclusion and work-life harmony.
The core components of Abbott’s award-winning 
workplace environment include:
• Commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion
• Extensive professional development, mentoring and 
training programs
• Efforts to encourage and support work-life harmony
• Competitive compensation and benefits, tailored to each market
• Protection of human rights
• Wellness campaigns
• Commitment to employee health and safety
We have been recognized with a number of workplace 
excellence awards globally. For a list of these, please 
see Awards and Recognition in the Transparency and 
Reporting section of this report.
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
To compete effectively on a global basis, Abbott needs diverse perspectives, experiences and skills. We are committed to fostering and supporting diversity. We 
believe that this commitment helps us attract and retain 
talent while innovating more effectively and adapting to the changing healthcare needs of our different markets. We work to leverage our diversity and learn from our differences to optimize results across our company. 
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion begins 
at the top. Abbott’s Executive Inclusion Council, led by our Chairman and CEO, monitors the hiring 
and advancement of women and minorities in U.S. 
management positions. It also supports programs that promote an inclusive work environment. Women make up 42 percent of our employee base globally. In the U.S., Abbott has particularly focused on the representation 
of women and minorities in management. As a result, 
the percentage of women in management positions increased from 44 percent in 2010 to 47 percent in 2016. The percentage of minorities in management positions 
increased from 22 percent in 2010 to 31 percent in 2016. 
We believe that diversity and inclusion programs 
are most effective when they are tailored to the local context and culture. Our Women Leaders of Abbott 
(WLA) employee network is designed to help female 
employees further their careers and empower their leadership at Abbott, through chapters specific to various markets. In 2016, we established a Singapore WLA chapter with more than 300 participants, adding 
to our existing chapters in the U.S., Canada, Costa Rica, 
Puerto Rico, India, China, Brazil and all European countries. In addition, many Abbott businesses have developed their own function-specific diversity and inclusion initiatives.
In 2016, Abbott was ranked a top 10 company by the U.S. 
National Association for Female Executives’ top companies list, a list our company has been featured on every year 
since 2009. We are also proud to have appeared on 
DiversityInc’s list of top companies for diversity in the U.S. every year since 2004 and on Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies list since 2001. 
We encourage inclusion of individuals with disabilities 
across all of our businesses and locations:
• For six consecutive years, Abbott has been named one 
of the top employers for people with disabilities in 
China by Top Employer Institute.
• In Brazil, we have adapted our recruitment and 
selection processes to avoid bias toward those with disabilities, and we supported this by promoting the importance of inclusivity to employees.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
52
• In Japan, we have promoted inclusion by evaluating 
positions and expanding employment opportunities for people with intellectual, mental and physical 
disabilities.
• In the United Kingdom, we make all reasonable 
adjustments to work environment and hours for all employees covered under the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA), including people with 
mental health issues.
• CAREERS & the disABLED magazine’s Top 50 
Employers for 2016 Readers’ Choice ranking 
recognized Abbott for establishing a positive working 
environment for people with disabilities.
13 CONSECUTIVE 
YEARS
Abbott was included on 
DiversityInc’s list of top companies for diversity in the U.S. for the  13th consecutive year in 2016.RECRUITING AND DEVELOPING DIVERSE TALENT
Abbott uses an integrated approach to build and 
maintain a diverse talent pipeline that can meet the needs of our businesses. We use social media and 
other channels to build our employer brand and target 
relevant, talented people. We also form partnerships with academic institutions and associations that are aligned with our needs. In 2016, we continued to strengthen our early intake programs in key markets 
to help reinforce a sustainable talent pipeline. We also 
partnered with local diversity organizations around the world to support STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) programs for students of all ages.
We work with a range of organizations to advance 
women and minorities in specific areas. In the United States, our recruiting partners include the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women 
Engineers and the Association of Latino Professionals 
in Finance and Accounting, among others. We aim to keep developing new recruiting partnerships with schools and student organizations, including Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, Zhejiang 
University and Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China; 
and IMT Ghaziabad and NITIE in India. 
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
Our internship program helps Abbott identify and recruit talent at an early stage, giving students hands-on experience working with Abbott employees on real-life 
business projects. In 2016, our program was named 
one of the 50 best internship programs in the United States by career rankings website Vault.com, with the second-highest rating for healthcare companies. During the year, 960 college students took part in our program 
globally. More than 150 students participated in the 
United States, of which 59 percent were women. EMPLOYEE NETWORKS
Abbott’s employee networks play a vital role in building an inclusive culture across our business operations. They help to expand visibility and opportunity for their 
more than 3,000 members from minority and other 
potentially disadvantaged groups. A corporate officer supports each of these networks, helping to align their objectives with Abbott’s business strategies. Doing so helps our employee networks to make an important 
contribution to career development, mentoring, 
community involvement, informal networking and leadership skills development for their members. Our networks include:
• Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN)
• Black Business Network (BBN)
• LA VOICE Network (Hispanic/Latino)
• Flex Network (part-time and flexible schedules)
• PRIDE (LGBT)
• Women Leaders of Abbott (WLA)
• Veterans at Abbott
During 2016, we made significant progress in expanding 
the reach and influence of our employee networks 
outside the United States. Our vascular facility in  
Costa Rica launched the first PRIDE network outside the United States, and the same facility’s WLA network signed a commitment with HeForShe and the National 
Institute of Women (INAMU) in Costa Rica. Under 
this agreement, Abbott in Costa Rica will work toward the Gender Equity seal that INAMU grants to local companies with clear efforts and initiatives for an equal 
opportunity workplace.
More than 500 women participated in activities 
organized by Abbott’s WLA network in China, which was established in December 2015. These activities 
included leadership skills training, face-to-face advice 
from local female leaders, a health run and wellness workshops. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
53
MENTORING
Mentoring is an integral part of the Abbott culture of 
continuous learning and knowledge sharing, helping both mentors and their protégés get more from their 
time at Abbott. 
In 2016, we expanded our formal mentoring program, 
which is available to all Abbott employees worldwide. The program matches potential mentors and protégés 
based on skills, shared goals and interests. We made 
several improvements to our mentoring website during the year to enhance our ability to put the right partnerships together. Over 12-month partnerships, 
both mentors and protégés develop their skills, share 
their knowledge of Abbott and broaden their personal and business networks. 
In addition, our employee networks host a series of 
global mentoring circles. These circles allow one or 
more subject matter experts to mentor a group of protégés sharing similar interests, combining education with networking opportunities. Our WLA network has facilitated several circles, bringing senior leaders 
together with protégés from the United States and other 
countries. These circles typically meet once a month for three months to discuss various topics and create opportunities for further engagement. 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND  
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Global competition for talent is intense. By taking a proactive approach to recruitment and offering advancement and leadership development programs at 
all levels, we help our employees realize their potential. 
This also helps us attract and retain the best talent.
All Abbott employees worldwide have access to 
job-specific training and development to help them 
succeed in their roles. These training and development opportunities cover the full range of functions at our 
company, from commercial and operations to research and development, as well as human resources, finance and information technology. We also offer broader learning and career development programs to help 
employees at all levels realize their potential. We 
develop current and future leaders through a robust combination of training, on-the-job experiences and formal and informal mentoring. More than 5,000 of our managers participated in these learning and 
development opportunities in 2016.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
We offer focused development programs for employees 
who are making the transition into leadership roles. Not only do our programs help develop employees 
and leaders, but they also help strengthen our internal 
networks. Alumni of these programs routinely reach  
out and connect with former classmates to share learnings, gain insights and explore new ideas. These programs include: 
Emerging Leader Program
Our Emerging Leader Program (ELP) enables us to identify high-potential people in frontline roles, accelerate their development and encourage them to 
apply for broader leadership positions. 
Integrated into each participant’s personal assessments 
and growth plans, the ELP includes discussions of strategy, leadership and people management. In 2016, 
nearly 250 leaders in 12 cohorts completed the ELP in 
the Americas, Europe and Asia. 
Global Leadership Program
The Global Leadership Program (GLP) prepares new general managers in our international affiliates to lead their business in a changing and dynamic business 
environment. The program design enables global 
leaders to benefit from the experience, teachings and advice of successful and knowledgeable senior leaders 
from across Abbott’s lines of business around the world.
The program consists of two one-week sessions that 
take place approximately six months apart. It consists of business simulations and scenario planning sessions 
that enable participants to experience the challenges 
that general managers face on a daily basis.
The GLP has produced strong global networks of 
GLP alumni, who routinely connect with one another 
to share insights and explore new ideas. These 
alumni connections build trust and develop a shared organizational understanding at leadership levels.  
In 2016, 34 participants from 22 countries graduated 
from the GLP .
Executive Compass Program
Abbott’s Executive Compass Program (ECP) is the 
capstone of our leadership development programs, providing targeted transition support for the most 
senior-level leaders. In the past 10 years, nearly 400 
divisional vice presidents and general managers of our large business units have completed the ECP .
The weeklong program is delivered by top leaders in 
our company, as well as by external faculty, including 
published thought leaders and top business school professors from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. The program provides new 
senior leaders with a deep dive into Abbott strategy  
and challenges them to think through a broad range  
of scenarios affecting stakeholders, customers and  
our business. We recently updated the ECP to ensure 
that it addresses the critical leadership capabilities 
needed for Abbott’s continued success. In 2016, more 
than 25 participants from seven different countries completed the program.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
54
Professional Development Program
Our Professional Development Program (PDP) is  
open to entry-level employees and gives new talent  
the opportunity to rotate through key positions in 
different Abbott businesses and locations around  
the world. PDP participants work side by side with Abbott professionals, learning and growing from their mentors and benefiting from hands-on experience  
in a range of areas over the course of the two-year program. Depending on career track, participants might 
work in engineering, environmental health and safety, 
finance, IT, manufacturing, regulatory affairs or  
quality assurance. 
Since its inception in 1968, more than 2,100 employees 
have participated in the program. We operate PDPs 
in 17 different countries and territories, including Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Germany, India, Ireland, Mexico, the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom,  
the United States and Uruguay. Approximately  
50 percent of program participants are based outside  
the United States.
Abbott’s Leader Coach is a virtual assistant for 
managers, available globally 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It provides fast, intelligent, interactive and responsive support to help managers address professional and supervisory challenges. Users are able 
to search for relevant information on a particular topic, 
with Leader Coach prompting them with questions before suggesting the best resources targeted to their needs. This avoids participants having to search through long lists of suggested links. Local Training Programs
Our local affiliates offer tailored training and development programs, in addition to our global management programs: 
• In Ireland, Abbott Diagnostics piloted a skills 
development program in our Technical Operations group. Employees create an individualized skills matrix, determine their proficiency level for the skills  
that they need, and use mentoring, coaching and 
development tools to progress. Almost 60 percent 
of the pilot participants had less than two years of service, so the goal was to help accelerate their learning. Initial pilot data shows that employee turnover decreased by 13 percent, and the number 
of tasks able to be completed by the team increased 
from a baseline of 16 to over 50 in just 35 weeks. Not only did learning accelerate for these team members, but culture on the team also shifted to be more collaborative and supportive.
• In Saudi Arabia, we launched the Abbott Foundation Program to build a sustainable field sales pipeline by targeting recent Saudi graduates with science and engineering degrees. The program provides these 
new professionals with the tools to be successful 
and to build a long-term career. Through classroom training, they build product knowledge, selling, negotiation and communications skills, and they gain on-the-job training with experienced “buddy” sales 
representatives, who provide mentoring and coaching. 
Initial feedback from participants shows they are highly engaged and enthusiastic.
• In India, capability-building programs have been introduced for our employees, in collaboration with 
the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), India’s 
premier business and management institute. These programs include campus-based training for our marketing managers, designed to help them fulfill their potential and think creatively about branding. 
Abbott also works with IIM in Calcutta to offer an executive education program that gives employees 
the chance to join professional certification programs for career advancement. We currently sponsor 75 
employees enrolled in these programs.
CROSS-CULTURAL TRAINING
Because the scope of our business is global, many of 
our employees work or travel outside of their home countries, and the ability to engage people across 
different cultures is a key business need. Abbott 
provides all employees with free access to Cultural Navigator™ , an internet-based toolkit providing guidance on business practices, management tools, social etiquette, cultural norms and customs for more 
than 100 different countries.
The Cultural Navigator tool encourages employees to 
generate a personal cultural profile and compare their 
typical business approach to standard practices in other 
cultures. They can run business simulation exercises to identify potential cross-cultural barriers and prepare themselves for potential challenges.
ALL EMPLOYEES
All employees have access to 
Cultural Navigator™ , an online toolkit with more than 100 country-specific cultural learning modules.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
55
TALENT MANAGEMENT
We are committed to providing every Abbott employee 
with the opportunity to improve in their current  
role, anticipate challenges and progress their career —  
including competing for more senior roles. Our approach to talent management incorporates skills assessments, performance appraisals, succession and development planning and career pathing. We have established an integrated global talent management 
process so that we can identify talented people from 
across our organization, assess them accurately and map skills consistently. 
Our talent-mapping process involves employees 
working with their managers to develop talent profiles and development plans that support their career objectives. In addition, all Abbott employees participate in our annual performance management process, known 
as Performance Excellence. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
Abbott’s compensation philosophy is to pay for 
performance, and it is designed to attract and retain employees with a talent for helping people live fuller 
lives, while also sustaining the profitable growth of  
the company.
Our compensation is intended to compare favorably 
with the pay programs of other global, consumer-facing 
and manufacturing-driven organizations that have 
financial, operational and employment characteristics similar to our own.
Our total rewards program combines elements of base 
and variable pay with a broad array of benefits and opportunities for growth. It is designed to help build a corporate culture that encourages employees to build their careers at Abbott.
While our total compensation targets reference the 
median of other leading companies, individual pay varies based on employee performance, experience and competencies. Our pay-for-performance philosophy, 
combined with internal and external analysis and 
reviews, helps drive our total compensation strategy.
Our executive compensation program is competitive, 
performance-based and balanced between short- and 
long-term objectives. It is designed to motivate our 
executives to achieve business strategies and goals that align with our stakeholder interests. 
Abbott has set the following guiding principles for our 
employee total compensation programs:
• Base salaries are competitive in the markets where we 
compete for employees.
• Incentive plans are designed to balance short- and long-term financial and strategic objectives that build shareholder value and reward overall company and individual performance.
• Incentive compensation (both annual and long-term) is a key component of Abbott’s pay-for-performance philosophy. Our structure ties individual awards to both business and/or individual results, to motivate our employees to achieve superior performance.
• Compensation elements are designed to encourage behavior that is consistent with the ethical values established in Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct.
• Benefits packages are competitive in, and appropriate for, the markets where we compete for talent.
SCOPE AND ELIGIBILITY OF EMPLOYEE  
STOCK PLANS
Abbott strongly supports employee ownership. Our global, corporate, long-term incentive program grants restricted stock units (RSUs) to employees, beginning 
at the manager level. In 2017 , Abbott granted RSUs to 
more than 10,000 employees in 70 countries. In the United States, we allow employees to invest in Abbott through our 401(k) program. Outside the United States, most countries also offer the ability for employees to 
purchase stock at a discount through the Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP is open to all employees, except corporate officers in the countries where it is offered. In 2016, more than 9,200 employees 
in 56 countries participated in the ESPP .
SCOPE AND ELIGIBILITY FOR  
NON-SALARY BENEFITS
Employee eligibility for non-salary benefits follows  
local regulations and practices. In most countries,  
this means we cover all full-time employees and  
part-time employees working more than a certain 
number of hours. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
56
WORK-LIFE HARMONY 
A healthy work-life balance is an essential foundation 
for experiencing a full life, which is why Abbott makes this a priority for employees worldwide. 
We offer flexible work schedules across 60 countries, 
including flex time, summer hours, part-time arrangements, job sharing, compressed work weeks, phased retirement and telecommuting. In 2016, as  
part of our employee value proposition review, we identified opportunities in our 13 largest markets for additional workplace flexibility, as well as for professional training and community support programs 
to enhance work-life balance. We will launch several  
of these programs in 2017 .
These initiatives don’t just help Abbott attract and 
retain talent; they are also a vital component in our 
strategy for diversity and inclusion. They ensure that 
employees in different circumstances and with different responsibilities outside of work are able to enjoy a fulfilling career within our company.
CHILDCARE 
We offer comprehensive childcare programs, including on-site childcare, emergency childcare assistance, nationwide childcare discounts, backup care resources 
and on-site parenting and counseling services. 
Our Early Discoveries on-site childcare center, based 
at our headquarters in Lake County, Illinois, is one of the five largest centers operated by our partner, Bright 
Horizons, and is ranked in the top 8 percent of U.S. 
childcare centers for quality by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). The center offers full- and part-time care, backup care, 
school holiday childcare programs and full-day four-
year-old kindergarten prep programs, among other choices. Early Discoveries’ STEM-based curriculum exposes preschool and kindergarten prep children to new experiences and helps them acquire age-appropriate skills. In the kindergarten prep program, activities include introductions to computer coding, programming and robotics, engineering and mechanical 
problem solving.
Abbott also continues to partner with the Lake County 
YWCA to provide a local childcare-provider training program, which is focused on increasing the quality 
and quantity of local childcare resources. The program 
offers more than 40 trainings that participants can take to earn credit toward their Child Development Associate (CDA) credential. Training is offered in both English and Spanish.
We also offer our employees access to Torchlight, a 
web-based education planning tool that helps parents better understand, advocate and care for children with 
exceptional needs, such as learning disabilities, ADHD 
and autism. Torchlight offers live webinar topics related to autism spectrum disorder, early intervention, learning issues and more. 
Since 2015, Abbott has also offered financial support  
for U.S. employees looking to adopt children, including 
the reimbursement of eligible adoption fees up to $20,000 per child.
EDUCATING MANAGERS TO SUPPORT  
WORK-LIFE HARMONY
We educate our leaders in the United States about  
work-life programs that can help employees become more resilient — leading to improved engagement, 
retention and well-being. Although the primary 
focus of this initiative is the United States, the global responsibilities of many of our managers mean that it touches teams around the world. PRODUCTIVE TRANSITION TO RETIREMENT 
We are especially mindful of the complex and changing definition of retirement today, especially for the first wave of baby boomers, who are retiring in record 
numbers. We believe that supporting employees 
through flexible working arrangements as they get older can make an important contribution to accessing the skills we need. At the same time, it enables those employees to live fuller lives, on their terms. Abbott’s 
Freedom to Work program, available to eligible U.S. 
employees, offers employees considering retirement the option to scale back their hours and/or change their responsibilities without affecting their benefits. 
Freedom to Work has received 1,308 employee 
enrollments since the program’s launch in 2008.
Freedom to Work offers employees two different 
options as they approach retirement:
• Our Custom Schedule Program allows employees 
to reduce hours and compensation without losing benefits. This option allows employees to work four days a week or take up to an additional five weeks of 
vacation.
• Our Emeritus Program allows employees to change 
their responsibility — for example, to move from managing staff to becoming an individual contributor without sacrificing pay or grade.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
57
HUMAN RIGHTS
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being and 
respects individual rights as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These principles are 
reflected in our company’s mission and core values. 
While governments have the primary responsibility for respecting, protecting, promoting and fulfilling the human rights of their citizens, Abbott recognizes that companies play a supporting role in promoting human 
rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights 
through compliance with laws and regulations wherever 
we operate, as well as through our policies and 
programs. Our global guidelines include: 
• Providing a healthy and safe working environment
• Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting 
any form of forced, bonded or indentured labor or 
involuntary prison labor
• Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating against any employee for reasons such as race, religion, color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability, marital 
status and sexual orientation, in addition to any other 
status protected by local law
• Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane treatment in the workplace
• Protecting individual privacy
• Providing compensation and benefits that are competitive and comply with applicable laws for minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits
• Encouraging open communication between management and employees
Abbott’s position on human rights is reinforced in our employment, ethics and procurement policies, 
which are designed to ensure that neither we, nor our 
suppliers, engage in human rights abuses.LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
We value the opinions of our employees and regularly seek their feedback. We do this through employee surveys to measure engagement in our business strategy, 
including our Great Places to Work and Division 
Culture surveys. We also gather input through specific HR surveys — for example, our Recruiting Effectiveness Survey and Compensation and Talent Acquisition surveys — as well as through less formal channels.
Some of the vehicles that we use for capturing employee 
opinion and sentiment include:
• Employee Annual Meeting – In this live employee 
forum each December, our Chairman and CEO, Miles D. White, answers questions submitted by employees around the world. The hour-long session is broadcast by satellite to all Abbott locations, with questions 
and answers then translated into eight languages 
and archived on the Abbott employee intranet. In 2016, more than 200 questions were submitted by employees.
• Local feedback – Our local offices organize their 
own initiatives to facilitate dialogue and encourage 
informal employee feedback. For example, in Ireland we host Lunch & Learn and Nosh & Natter meetings, where employees meet informally with senior leaders for discussion, information sharing and learning.
• Employee networks – Our employee networks provide a forum where common interests can be identified and addressed. 
• New hires – We seek feedback from newly hired 
employees regarding the recruitment process and 
their early experiences at Abbott. Recently we launched a semi-annual, multiple-language survey in our EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region to understand the resource needs and success barriers 
for new employees in these markets; the first survey 
resulted in more than 1,400 responses from employees and their managers in 24 countries — a 55 percent 
response rate.
In 2016, we gathered feedback from employees around 
the world about our employee value propositions — the mix of programs and opportunities that makes 
employment at Abbott rewarding. Surveys and focus 
groups in Abbott’s top 13 global markets, in which  
85 percent of our employees work, explored issues such as financial security and benefit options; professional opportunities, particularly for women and those starting 
their careers with us; and Abbott’s relationships with 
the communities in which we operate. This feedback is shaping our employee strategy for 2017 and beyond.
We have also made it a priority to understand 
employees’ engagement with our Human Resources 
services. In 2016, our EASE survey went to all employees to assess satisfaction and ease of use of  
our HR programs, technologies and communications. 
The survey was translated into nine languages and 
gathered feedback from more than 7 ,200 employees —  
a 12 percent response rate.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
58
IN THIS SECTIONPRODUCT QUALITY  
AND SAFETY
60  ENSURING QUALITY  
AND SAFETY  
64  PROTECTING AUTHENTICITY  65  MANAGING BUSINESS  
CONTINUITY  
65 CYBERSECURITY  •  Abbott holds independent quality certifications 
in global manufacturing, R&D and commercial operations around the world. 
•  Globally, we offer more than 300 Abbott quality 
courses, in addition to business-specific training. 
•  Our Diagnostics manufacturing plant in Longford, 
Ireland, received the prestigious Shingo Prize® , awarded to organizations whose operational excellence is deeply embedded in the thinking and behavior of all leaders, managers and associates. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
59
ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY
Consumers trust Abbott products to help them live their 
best possible lives through better health. We do not  
take this responsibility lightly. We are fully committed  
to improving healthcare by providing high-quality,  
safe and effective products and ensuring compliance. Our quality culture is embedded in everything we do.
Abbott’s intense commitment to quality started with 
Dr. Abbott himself, whose oft-repeated admonition to 
employees was, “Make it right!” Early product labels sported the motto: “Purity, Accuracy Guaranteed.” To this day, we continue to demand quality in every 
expression of the brand’s purpose, product and people.
Our commitment to quality begins with our quality 
policy, which ensures compliance across our businesses and commits us to improving healthcare by providing 
high-quality, safe and effective products. The quality 
policy is supported by our quality management system, designed to deliver a culture of continuous improvement. Our efforts are fully focused on consistently meeting the needs of our patients, 
customers, consumers and regulators by maintaining 
product safety, efficacy and availability. 
QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Our ability to maintain consistent quality standards across our organization is rooted in our commitment to quality and safety at the highest levels of the 
organization. Our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a corporate officer, has responsibility for quality and regulatory matters across the company and reports directly to our Chairman and CEO. Each operational 
division of Abbott also has a dedicated quality and 
regulatory leader. These leaders have a reporting relationship to the Senior Vice President of Abbott Quality, Regulatory and Engineering Services, in 
addition to the heads of the businesses they support.Cross-divisional councils representing quality, 
regulatory and operations work routinely to address  
the changing regulatory landscape, plan initiatives, develop talent and share best practices. In addition, senior quality, regulatory and operations leaders representing each operational division meet on a 
quarterly basis to review and analyze quality trends  
and take appropriate actions.
MANAGING QUALITY SYSTEMS AT ABBOTT
Our quality management team establishes the global 
quality system. The system includes all quality activities, from developing quality policy and specifications to 
conducting quality audits and implementing continuous 
improvement initiatives. We maintain leading quality management systems and standards through a variety  
of elements, including: 
• Data analytics
• Continuous improvement programs 
• Employee training and development
• Compliance
• Certifications• Industry partnerships
• Compliance and regulatory surveillance
• External advocacy
• Awards and recognition
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
We continuously strive to maintain leading quality 
management systems. For us, this means staying abreast of emerging trends and changes in the regulatory 
landscape. We use an integrated intelligence process 
that builds emerging requirements into the development of quality management systems. This approach enables our quality and regulatory teams to align their activities with emerging expectations.
In 2016, we undertook a global gap assessment 
with respect to ISO 13485:2016, ISO 9001:2015 and Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP), and 
implemented associated education and training across 
the organization in preparation for program launch. Similarly, Abbott is following closely the rewrites of the In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) regulations and Medical Device Directives (MDD) in the European Union to vGLOBAL OPERATIONS COUNCIL
AMERICAS  
COUNCILQUALITY  
COUNCILREGULATORY  
COUNCILEHS  
COUNCILENGINEERING  
COUNCILCHINA  
OPERATIONS  
COUNCILINDIA 
OPERATIONS  
COUNCILRESTRICTED  
SUBSTANCES  
COUNCIL
EUROPE  
COUNCILCHINA  
COUNCILCHINA  
COUNCILINDIA  
COUNCIL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
60
ensure that the Abbott quality management system 
remains aligned with the updated requirements. 
In addition, we have numerous programs in place to 
drive continuous improvement across our operational divisions. For example:
• Using the McKinsey 7-S framework, the quality 
organization has identified ongoing initiatives in the 
five areas of structure, systems, staff, skills and style. These initiatives are tracked and revised as necessary on a periodic basis.
• Each of our operating businesses conducts quarterly executive management reviews involving key leaders in their division. These reviews are structured to support continuous improvement by reviewing quality systems in each division to ensure their suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.
• We have a corporate-wide program for auditing compliance to quality and regulatory standards. In 2016, 32 percent of our manufacturing, quality and R&D operations were evaluated by this program. Our corporate and division compliance audits are focused 
on quality systems, including corrective action/
preventive action (CAPA), complaints, design controls, production and process controls, purchasing controls/supply chain and data integrity. We develop corrective 
plans to address all relevant observations made  
during the audit. In addition, each operating division 
fulfills local regulatory requirements for performing internal quality audits at their facilities in defined  
time frames. Data from this process is highlighted  
in management reviews.
• We continue to use proprietary metrics to drive continuous improvement. We use a multi-component 
model to monitor the overall performance 
of individual sites, as well as overall division performance compared with industry norms.  
When a site registers changes in performance, we analyze potential drivers to address any concerns  
and capture best practices.
EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
We believe that everyone in our organization is responsible for ensuring that we provide high-quality, safe and effective products. Abbott provides 
employees with both formal and informal quality 
training. Employees with the potential to impact the quality system are required to be trained with sufficient frequency on good manufacturing, laboratory, clinical and distribution practices, based on the latest industry 
standards. Additional trainings cover health, hygiene, 
safety and job-specific training, also based on the latest industry standards. 
Abbott delivers education, training and professional 
certification programs through various channels, based on the learning objective. Examples include: 
• In 2016, more than 44 quality and regulatory 
professionals were certified by the American 
Society for Quality (ASQ) and the Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society (RAPS) as hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP) auditors, biomedical auditors, quality engineers and regulatory affairs 
auditors, to name a few. 
• Globally, we offer more than 300 Abbott quality 
courses, in multiple languages, in addition to business-specific training. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
QUALITY SUBSYSTEMSCUSTOMERS  
Requirements  
& RegulationsCUSTOMERS  
Satisfaction   MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY                  MEASUREMENT & ANALYSIS
PRO
DU
CT REALIZATION 
 DOCUMENTATIONCHANGE CONTROL INPUTQuality  
Management
Personnel
Resource  
ManagementCAPA
Metrics
Complaints
MDR/Adverse EventsService Calls
Product Design &  
Development
Production &  
Process Control
Equipment &  
Facility Control
Material  
ControlQuality Manual
Specifications
ProceduresProcess Records
Distribution  
RecordsMANAGING  
QUALITY SYSTEMS  
AT ABBOTT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
61
• We offer access to more than 500 UL EduNeering 
computer-based training courses, in many languages. 
• We conduct monthly meetings to communicate 
learning, knowledge and performance with respect 
to quality and regulatory industry trends, regulation changes and best practices, such as ISO 13485, EU MDR/IVDR, MDSAP , cybersecurity and more. These webinars include leaders and personnel representing 
regulatory, operations, engineering and quality.
• We offer webinar education from various industry 
sources on the latest key topics, such as data integrity, unique device identifiers, human errors and quality 
metrics.
• Through the annual Engineering and Quality Knowledge 
Improvement program, the Technical Center of Excellence and the Abbott Engineering Standards groups offered programs attended by engineers from 
the Americas, Europe and Asia, including programs 
on process water systems, compressed air systems and Abbott engineering standards
• We have engineering, quality and regulatory knowledge sharing portals available for all employees. 
• We host an annual global cross-functional/cross-business leadership meeting that provides updates  
on industry trends and key topics, as well as hands-on educational workshops on topics, such as data and predictive analytics, critical thinking, navigating 
the regulatory landscape and influencing the Abbott 
brand. The goal is to not only provide training  
and education, but also to help leaders see how  
their work matters and how different departments  
are interdependent.
 In addition to Abbott-led training activities, we encourage our employees to remain up-to-date with product quality, safety and regulatory developments. 
Abbott personnel participate in a variety of industry 
conferences. In 2016, Abbott participated in more than 25 external events, including global and regional conferences. For example, we had sponsorship participation for events hosted by the Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society (RAPS), the Association of Food and Drug Officials (AFDO), American Society for 
Quality (ASQ), MedCon – Xavier University Health and 
the Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC). For a representative list of our external engagement, see the external quality memberships, partnerships and events list on our website.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE
We have established written procedures for complaint management and medical device vigilance reporting. Complaints are identified, tracked and trend-monitored 
from various sources, such as field service, sales 
representatives, social media, employees, regulatory authorities, customers and product literature. Timely identification, evaluation, reporting, investigation and implementation of corrective and preventive actions 
are defined in written procedures. We also have 
established written procedures for product actions and recalls, which require completion of a health hazard assessment, an action plan development and a 
notification to regulatory agencies, as applicable. The 
action plan includes customer notification, product replacement strategy, notification effectiveness checks and quantity reconciliation.
During 2016, Abbott experienced an increase in the 
number of inspections, with a combined total of 349 external quality/regulatory inspections across 35 countries (a 22 percent increase from 2015). Through ongoing quality system surveillance activities, we 
strive to continue increasing the number of inspections 
without findings. Abbott saw a 20 percent improvement in the total inspections without findings from 2015 to 2016. No Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warning letters were received in 2016.CERTIFICATIONS
External certification is an effective tool for our quality team to remain current in quality standards and customer needs. Abbott maintains certification to 
global industry standards and has achieved independent 
quality certifications across our global manufacturing, R&D and commercial operations. Our standards include:
• ISO 9001, Quality Management System
• ISO 13485, Medical Devices Quality Management 
Systems, with 100 percent of device facilities certified 
• ISO 14001: 2004, Environmental Management Systems
• ISO 17025, General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories
• ISO 22000, Food Safety Management 
• ISO 90013, Quality Management Systems 
• NSF International
• Gluten Free Certification Organization (GFCO)
• GMP + FSA, Good Manufacturing Practices + Feed Certification Scheme
• Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
• Halal
• QAI Organic
• Kosher
• Class A certification, a standard practice across many Abbott facilities in nutrition, devices, diagnostics and pharmaceuticals
In addition, five manufacturing sites have received MDSAP certification.
INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS
Given the complexity of issues that challenge healthcare systems, we are committed to working with governments and regulatory bodies to promote 
understanding of healthcare issues for communities 
around the world. We work with these groups to achieve rigorous quality standards that result in products of the highest quality and reliability for consumers. Abbott 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
62
monitors evolving regulatory requirements and industry 
practices through our involvement in trade associations, patient groups and other organizations.
Abbott holds leadership roles in several industry 
organizations, including the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the United States Agency for International Development Regulatory Training 
Planning Committee and the Conference of Indian 
Industries. Additionally, Abbott quality and regulatory professionals routinely engage with academic institutions and centers of excellence, such as the 
European Federation of Good Clinical Practices and 
the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research at Ahmedabad and Mohali, India. For a representative list of our industry partnerships, see the external quality memberships, partnerships and events 
list on our website.In addition to our employee education, we also work 
with external agencies, such as ANVISA (Brazil), Gujarat FDCA (India) and the United States Food and 
Drug Administration, to provide education and training 
partnerships on pharmaceutical manufacturing and product knowledge. 
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
As a result of our quality and regulatory team’s efforts, we have been recognized by several independent organizations for our commitment to quality and safety.  
The Abbott Annual Chairman’s Awards, Abbott’s highest recognition, recognize achievements that have had pivotal importance for our business and for the people we serve. In 2016, the Compliance Award was received by our vascular business. The vascular team 
demonstrated a high level of compliance, receiving zero 
audit-related findings from more than 40 consecutive external inspections over an 18-month period.In 2016, our Diagnostics manufacturing plant in Longford, Ireland, received the prestigious Shingo Prize®, bringing Abbott’s Shingo total to two, including Abbott’s vascular facility in Clonmel, Ireland. This award is given to organizations whose operational 
excellence is deeply embedded in the thinking and 
behavior of all leaders, managers and associates. 
Additionally, our Diagnostics plant in Longford, 
Ireland, was named Med-Tech Company of the Year by 
Enterprise Ireland, IDA Ireland and the Irish Medical 
Devices Association. This award recognizes innovations in product and service development. The Longford manufacturing site has developed an organization 
focused on customer needs and a culture of continuous 
improvement that enables operational and product quality excellence. 
Our nutrition site in Jiaxing, China, was certified by 
China Quaity Mark (CQM) as the Best Honor Customer. 
CQM is the largest governmental certification company in China, and Jiaxing was recognized for its excellent performance in HACCP and Dairy GMP .
We recognize our individuals, teams, manufacturing 
plants and commercial affiliates’ contributions to quality and regulatory performance throughout the year through Abbott’s annual quality and regulatory awards. In 2016, we established recognition of 
commercial affiliates exhibiting the most improvement 
in integration of quality and regulatory initiatives. We annually recognize one winner with an esteemed Reclaimed Treasure Award that fosters a One Abbott 
approach, with key behaviors in collaboration and 
innovation. The winner in 2016 took an innovative idea from another division and used it to improve production quality and generate $16 million in savings.
ABBOTT HOLDS INDEPENDENT 
QUALITY CERTIFICATIONS IN GLOBAL MANUFACTURING, R&D AND COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS AROUND THE WORLD 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
63
MANAGING QUALITY AND SAFETY  
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
We take our responsibility to embed the highest 
product quality and safety standards across our supply chain very seriously. We maintain an evaluation 
and approval system that requires evidence that a 
supplier can consistently provide materials or services meeting specified quality and safety requirements. Potential suppliers are selected based on a documented evaluation of:
• Their ability to meet the predefined requirements
• The adequacy of their quality systems and facilities
• Their business capabilities
• Their conformance to applicable regulatory and 
additional Abbott requirements
Suppliers are reevaluated periodically to ensure  
they continue to be capable of providing the material  
 or service to our organization. The performance  
of all active suppliers is monitored against a set of minimum performance criteria designed to determine the need for adjustments to the audit/assessment criteria, frequency, incoming inspection 
criteria, sampling plan and other mitigating actions. 
Performance criteria are defined by the:
• Nonconformance rate (lot acceptance and/or unit 
acceptance)
• Recalls/field alerts/field actions (only as they occur)
• Audit history
• Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) closeout timeliness for critical observations
• Complaints attributed to a supplier
• Internally obtained CAPA history
Resources are available to coach and train our suppliers on quality and safety, including third-party 
manufacturing (TPM) partners when appropriate. 
For example, in our nutrition business, supplier and ingredient quality assurance teams work with suppliers and TPMs by qualifying, monitoring and discussing 
maintenance and improvement initiatives. In our 
engagement with these suppliers and TPMs, we focus on the areas that benefit both Abbott and our partners. 
These may include:
• Supplier evaluations
• Preventive maintenance best practices
• Compliance audits
• Root cause investigation
• Statistical process control training 
• Environmental monitoring 
PROTECTING AUTHENTICITY
People around the world depend on Abbott products 
and trust in the reliability and quality that our brands represent. Protecting the authenticity of our 
products is a critical factor in earning that trust. 
Product integrity and the related investigations are the functional responsibility of Abbott’s Global Security division, which works to prevent counterfeit, illegally diverted and stolen Abbott products from entering the 
marketplace. 
Our strategy for protecting authenticity rests on  
four pillars: 
• Making a secure supply chain – By analyzing 
the global supply chain for weak points, using risk mitigation tools to identify suspicious activities and expanding the use of distributor agreements with 
contracted wholesalers and distributors, Abbott 
reduces the risk of counterfeit, diverted and stolen products entering the marketplace. Where allowed, we include clauses in our contractual agreements requiring exclusive sourcing, regular audits and 
enforcement of territory restrictions. We also apply “intended for sale in” stickers to certain products 
intended for specific regions.
• Ensuring ability to authenticate – We include overt 
and covert security features on select packaging to 
hinder counterfeiters and make it easier to identify authentic Abbott products. Our overt security features are easily recognizable by our customers, but very difficult to duplicate. This improves the security of 
our products and deters counterfeiting. In addition, 
several Abbott packaging sites and authorized distributors are adding security features to our cartons to reduce the risk of counterfeiting and of our products being diverted. 
• Disrupting criminal organizations – Global Security uses forward-leaning investigative tools, applications and strategies to identify suspect Abbott products. The Abbott investigative and analytics teams work with 
local law enforcement and regulatory organizations 
to identify transnational criminals involved in counterfeiting, diversion and theft. We continually help to prevent Abbott products intended for other markets from being reimported into the United States. 
• Building global momentum – We have a global outreach strategy focused on establishing relationships with government, industry and not-for-profit organizations. Abbott Global Security works closely with these groups to learn of industry-wide 
trends and problem areas, to share strategies and to 
formulate joint action plans where appropriate. We seek to evolve our collaborative working relationship with U.S.-based governmental agencies, facilitating a worldwide network of trust in the fight against 
counterfeiting and diversion. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
64
MAINTAINING BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
According to Aon Benfield, in 2016 global catastrophe 
losses rose to the highest level seen in four years. Last year, natural disasters resulted in economic losses of 
$210 billion globally. Such events create increased 
demand for critical food and medicines, while also complicating the delivery of these life-saving products. 
To ensure our continued ability to fulfill vital healthcare 
needs in communities around the globe, and to support 
our stakeholders and mitigate risks to our supply chain, Abbott created the Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT). The ECMT is tasked with:
• Managing the safety and security of Abbott employees
• Managing the risks to business continuity
• Being prepared to serve others during catastrophic 
events
Headed by our Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, the ECMT comprises two senior leadership teams with cross-divisional, multifunctional representation. The 
skills within the teams enable us to address the wide 
range of potential crises that Abbott might face across the globe. Having two teams also ensures full-shift coverage of a crisis, with round-the-clock management, when necessary. Once the team has gathered sufficient 
information about a crisis and devises an action plan, 
the ECMT transitions into business continuity and recovery mode.
Abbott has a network of country Crisis Action Teams 
(CATs) that also help manage our crisis response. There are currently 32 country-specific CATs that manage events locally and support the ECMT, as necessary. Our crisis management team and business continuity 
coordinators practice crisis scenarios with the ECMT, 
CATs and site business continuity management teams, working to develop and test our crisis management and 
business continuity plans.
CYBERSECURITY 
Data technologies are transforming modern medicine. 
The growth of connected medical devices, products, diagnostics platforms and systems provides healthcare 
professionals and their patients with smarter and more 
effective treatment. The ability to analyze large amounts of healthcare data allows scientists and providers to unlock potential solutions to some of the most difficult healthcare challenges we face.
However, the promise of an interconnected, data-
driven healthcare model is not without its challenges. Increasingly decentralized IT systems make 
cybersecurity management increasingly complex. In 
addition to an evolving threat landscape, the regulatory environment is rapidly changing. As a leader in creating breakthrough healthcare products, Abbott must also be a leader in technology.
Against a background of constant change, we are 
continually evaluating and adapting our security measures with the goal of ensuring that our patients receive the highest quality care. As patients and 
healthcare professionals rely on our devices, products 
and systems, we take a broad and holistic approach to ensuring the safety and security of the data.
Our Information Security and Risk Management 
(ISRM) function is dedicated to cybersecurity and is 
responsible for the security of Abbott data on servers, websites and mobile devices, as well as the security of our medical devices and products, which includes 
confidential customer and patient data.Our security oversight committee, which includes senior executives from Compliance, Information 
Technology, HR, Finance and Legal, provides oversight of our cybersecurity strategy. This committee meets at least every quarter, and sometimes more often in 
response to specific risks. We also have a cybersecurity 
steering committee, responsible for developing and implementing the overall cybersecurity strategy. This group is comprised of executives from Public Affairs, Ethics and Compliance, Global Security, Legal, 
Information Technology and HR. Together, the two 
committees ensure wide engagement and action on cybersecurity issues across Abbott’s businesses.
Abbott also works in collaboration with industry 
partners, including security experts, academic 
institutions and the research community, to identify cybersecurity threats affecting the industry as a whole and to test vulnerabilities. We work through multiple trade associations for medical device manufacturers, 
to engage directly with our peers. Together, we are 
able to assess trends, share threat information and establish collective standards to protect patients. Our intelligence-driven information security management 
system is informed first by this wider threat intelligence, 
which we then apply to the development of our  security design. 
To maintain the trust of our patients, we use a regular 
testing program to ensure our devices, products and 
systems are appropriately aligned with or exceed current cybersecurity standards. We conduct regular vulnerability scanning to identify potential risks of our products and services. When we develop or acquire 
new products, we conduct rigorous risk assessments to 
test what controls are built into the product and which industry standard has been used. We also commission penetration testing by independent third parties. When vulnerabilities are discovered, we deploy controls to 
mitigate risks. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
65
67  OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE 
PROGRAM  
70  COMBATING CORRUPTION  
AND BRIBERY  70 PUBLIC POLICY  
 ENGAGEMENT  IN THIS SECTIONPROMOTING ETHICS 
AND INTEGRITY
•  Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct, which sets  
forth our basic guidelines and requirements for 
ethical behavior, is now available in print and  
online in 29 languages. 
•  We launched our Legal and Ethics Resource 
Network (LERN) system, an online ethics and compliance training program, in 15 additional countries. This brings the total number of countries training on LERN to 81.
•  More than 99 percent of Abbott employees around 
the world participated in our LERN program. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
66
Abbott’s mission to help more people live their best, 
healthiest lives comes with the responsibility to always do so ethically and with integrity. Our Ethics and 
Compliance program continually seeks to embed these 
values in the way that every Abbott employee operates.
Our business has a long history of enhancing trust and 
has always recognized the importance of reputation to 
our success. Nearly 150 years ago, our founder,  
Dr. Wallace Abbott, was one of the first to recognize the 
importance of ethics to the growing pharmaceuticals sector, introducing high standards of safety and efficacy 
that are the foundation of the modern healthcare 
industry. Abbott employees understand the global impact of our work on the lives of millions of people, and we continue to embody Dr. Abbott’s commitment  
by striving to do the right thing, in the right way, in 
every aspect of the work we do. We support employees 
by fostering a clear understanding of our company values, the Abbott Code of Business Conduct, our policies and procedures, and our legal obligations related to ethical conduct.
BUSINESS ETHICS AT ABBOTT
At Abbott, we are committed to meeting high ethical standards and to complying with all applicable laws wherever we do business. 
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
Our commitment to operating honestly, fairly and with integrity goes beyond simply adhering to applicable laws and regulations. We have developed a globally 
integrated ethics and compliance program that 
incorporates all seven elements of effective compliance set forth in the voluntary “Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers,” which was published in April 2003 by the Office of Inspector 
General, U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services (HHS-OIG Guidance). These seven elements are:
• Leadership
• Written standards
• Effective lines of communication
• Training
• Accountability
• Assessment
• Remediation
LEADERSHIP
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) 
is responsible for the management and operation of the Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC), as well 
as the development and enhancement of our global 
compliance program. The CECO makes regular reports regarding compliance matters to the Chairman and CEO, to senior-level leadership and to Abbott’s Board of Directors and its committees.
29 LANGUAGES
The Abbott Code of Business 
Conduct is published in print and online in 29 languages.29
The Business Conduct Committee (BCC) assists 
the CECO in the implementation of our compliance program, meeting regularly to discuss matters like the 
legal and regulatory environment, best practices and 
refinement of our compliance initiatives at a global and regional level. The BCC consists of senior-level leadership, is chaired by the CECO and is directly accountable to the Chairman and CEO. OEC staff 
members also provide dedicated support to each of 
Abbott’s businesses at their headquarters.Outside the United States, local Affiliate Compliance 
Committees manage our Affiliate Compliance Program. 
These committees are composed of the Affiliate Management Representative and other top executives representing all of Abbott’s businesses within a country. The Affiliate Compliance Committees are responsible 
for the day-to-day functioning of the program, including 
monitoring of compliance, promoting awareness, providing training, revising policies and procedures  
and offering guidance to local employees. They meet  
on a regular basis to discuss emerging issues and to 
work with local OEC staff members on rolling out  
new programs.
WRITTEN STANDARDS
We earn our reputation by the decisions we make 
and the actions we take on behalf of the people we serve through our work each day. Our Code of 
Business Conduct embodies our company values 
and expectations, providing a foundation for the responsibilities and behaviors that will help us make the best choices for Abbott and our diverse stakeholders. We all share in the responsibility to live our values 
every day. That includes keeping a watchful eye on our 
business activities and reporting concerns in good faith without fear of retaliation. During 2016, we continued to increase the accessibility of our Code, which is now 
available in print and online in 29 languages. Abbott 
employees are required to read our Code and certify their adherence to it every year.
The fundamental message of the Code is 
straightforward: It is up to each Abbott employee  
to build our company and our brand by holding  
themselves to the highest ethical standards, by living 
our values and by continually operating with honesty, fairness and integrity. 
The Code clearly states that Abbott does not tolerate 
illegal or unethical behavior in any aspect of our 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
67
business. It emphasizes the importance of ethical 
and honest conduct, of adhering to Abbott’s policies and procedures, of treating confidential information 
appropriately, of avoiding conflicts of interest and of 
maintaining Abbott’s books and records with accuracy and integrity. Further, it requires our employees to ask questions or report any concerns. We have developed a decision-making framework for our employees, known 
as AID (Assess, Impact, Decide), which helps them ask 
the right questions and determine a course of action that supports the Code’s principles.
Abbott also has a written policy, Employee Problem 
Solving, which promotes the open exchange of information, problem solving and complaint resolution. This policy applies to Abbott employees worldwide, except where local laws and/or collective bargaining 
agreements dictate otherwise.
We regularly update our ethics and compliance policies 
to incorporate changes to the law and industry codes, including rules regarding interactions with healthcare 
professionals. We also seek opportunities to enhance 
and streamline compliance standards to meet modern and diverse business needs. In 2016, we further advanced our initiative to standardize the terms and definitions within our compliance program, across 
our global business. This standardization will make 
compliance more accessible to all of our employees and stakeholders. It will facilitate more efficient decision making and foster added business ownership 
of compliance. A more streamlined approach and 
common understanding of compliance will also allow clearer comparison and analysis of our activities and our compliance metrics. 
In several countries, laws require additional 
transparency in the way that businesses interact with individuals and entities involved in providing healthcare. This includes additional certification, tracking and reporting payments and transfers of value (such as meals) and restrictions on conduct. Abbott complies with all such local requirements as applicable. 
These additional transparency laws exist at the federal 
and state levels in the United States and in countries such as Denmark, France, the Philippines, Romania  
and Turkey. 
EFFECTIVE LINES OF COMMUNICATION
Our commitment to ethical behavior includes creating an environment in which employees can raise questions and concerns in good faith without retaliation. Abbott’s 
Code of Business Conduct clearly holds us to handling 
employee grievances and complaints in an ethical way, and strictly forbids any retaliation against any person who raises a complaint. We have established systems and processes for employees to ask questions and report 
suspected or actual violations of our Code, policies 
or procedures. These include a web-based Ethics and Compliance Helpline, with live telephone support and translation services for non-English speakers, which is 
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Employees 
may also contact the OEC or the CECO directly. We have additional systems in place for social media platforms, responding to questions on ethics, or reports of suspected or actual violations that come through 
these channels. 
ABBOTT’S ETHICS 
AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
Our helpline is available  
24 hours a day, seven days  a week. 
We analyze all allegations that we receive and 
take corrective action where necessary, including terminating employees or third-party relationships.  We regularly report information about breaches of  
our Code to senior management. 
The OEC also creates opportunities to engage in face-
to-face interactions with employees by participating in global, national and regional sales meetings and local 
site meetings. We highlight issues on our OEC intranet 
site and through targeted internal communications. 
TRAINING
Ethics and compliance training is a part of Abbott’s culture wherever we operate. Training and education programs for employees increase their awareness of our 
Code’s precepts and the legal and ethical implications 
of their actions and behaviors. They strengthen Abbott’s reputation as a responsible corporate citizen while enhancing relationships with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Abbott’s ethics and compliance training consists of 
the global online LERN (Legal and Ethics Resource Network) Training Program and local business-specific 
training initiatives, which provide direction for executing 
Abbott’s policies in line with applicable local laws. 
The LERN Training Program is designed to educate 
Abbott employees on a broad range of ethics and 
compliance topics, such as conflicts of interest, global 
anti-corruption, scientific research and Abbott’s Ethics and Compliance Program. LERN courses provide employees with the practical knowledge needed to recognize legal and ethical issues that may be 
encountered on the job, to make sound decisions and to 
know when to seek assistance from the OEC and other resources. The LERN Training Program is provided to Abbott employees via the LERN system. 
In 2016, we launched LERN in 15 additional countries, 
bringing the total number of countries on LERN to 81. At the end of 2016, LERN was used by over 99% of 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
68
Abbott employees. We have also introduced new LERN 
courses: Ethics and Compliance at Abbott; Data Privacy 
and Protection; and Protecting Abbott’s Confidential 
Information course and certification, which were 
assigned to employees worldwide. All employees in countries using LERN are required to complete the Code of Business Conduct Certification and the Conflicts of Interest Certification every year at a minimum.
One of the LERN courses, Global Promotional Practices, 
describes consumer and customer expectations of promotional activities, outlines the principles behind 
promotional laws and regulations, explains what Abbott 
does to ensure promotional integrity and provides practical advice on decision making. This module is assigned periodically to relevant Abbott employees.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Adhering to our Code of Business Conduct is a condition of continued employment with Abbott. All reports of potential violations of our Code, or 
any policy or procedure, are taken seriously and 
handled appropriately through follow-up steps, such as investigation and remediation. Where necessary, corrective action is taken to address issues and avoid recurrence. Any Abbott employee who violates 
our Code, or any policy or procedure, is subject to 
appropriate disciplinary action. Any Abbott employee who refuses to cooperate in the investigation of an alleged violation, or who reports a concern that is 
knowingly false or is intended to threaten, intimidate or 
retaliate, may also be subject to disciplinary action.
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone 
who makes a good-faith report regarding a violation or 
potential violation of our Code, policies or procedures. 
These guidelines are well publicized and enforced throughout the company.ASSESSMENT
The OEC uses results from internal investigations, internal audits and internal monitoring programs to assess the effectiveness of our compliance program and 
relevant business practices. We identify areas of risk and 
develop plans for improvement, also paying attention to the external environment, industry codes and best practices, government guidance and enforcement actions against other companies. An example of one of 
our assessment programs is the Affiliate Compliance 
Enhancement (ACE) program, in which we conduct an in-depth evaluation of the commercial practices of a particular country.
REMEDIATION
We communicate the results of investigations, audits, assessments and monitoring to the appropriate OEC staff and business leaders. When an area for 
improvement is identified, the OEC collaborates with 
business leaders to take corrective action.
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Our policies and procedures operate alongside our Code to guide employees as they conduct their day-to-day activities. They comply with all relevant laws, 
regulations and promotional standards in the countries 
where we operate, and encompass pertinent industry-specific laws and regulations, including food and drug laws, as well as laws relating to government healthcare programs. Our policies also consider industry best 
practices, including provisions of global and local codes 
for medical devices and pharmaceuticals. Our publicly available policies can be found on our website.
An important part of our commitment to supporting 
patients, consumers and healthcare professionals is an obligation to communicate responsibly about our products and services and the alternatives that exist. Our policies and procedures ensure that our activities 
conform to the regulatory licenses and approvals that we obtain in order to promote, sell and import medical 
devices, pharmaceuticals and other products. We 
respect the expertise of healthcare professionals — 
such as physicians, pharmacists, nurses, researchers and laboratory staff — who provide guidance about treatment options and healthy living and must use their independent judgment to determine the best 
course of care for their patients. We are dedicated to 
providing these professionals with timely and accurate information that will help them make decisions and offer advice. We believe that we can best achieve our mission of supporting health through a truly 
collaborative approach.
During 2016, Abbott’s Established Pharmaceuticals 
business in Mexico City received the highest certification possible from CETIFARMA, Mexico’s 
association for the promotion of ethics and transparency 
in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. CETIFARMA specifically recognized our business for good drug promotion practices, for serving as 
expert consultants to the healthcare community and 
for educating doctors according to the most current scientific findings. 
INFANT NUTRITION
Abbott believes that proper nutrition is the foundation for living the best life possible. We aim to make every stage of life a healthy one, and we share this goal 
with many others around the world. That’s why our 
nutrition business is dedicated to developing science-based nutrition products for people of all ages. We are committed to ethically marketing our products and ensuring that our practices comply with laws and 
regulations of the countries where we do business. 
We acknowledge the importance of the World Health Organization’s 1981 International Code of Marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes (the WHO Code) and 
subsequent World Health Assembly (WHA) resolutions. 
We respect the aim and principles of the WHO Code 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
69
to contribute to the provision of safe and adequate 
nutrition for infants by
• the protection and promotion of breast-feeding; and
• ensuring the proper use of breast milk substitutes, 
when these are necessary, on the basis of adequate information and through appropriate marketing and distribution.
We believe that, independently of any other measures taken by governments to implement the WHO Code, we are responsible for monitoring our marketing practices 
according to the principles and aims of the Code, and for 
taking steps to ensure that our conduct, at every level in this regard, conforms to Abbott Nutrition’s Global Infant Formula Marketing Policy and local law in the countries where we operate.
COMBATING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY
Abbott is committed to preventing corruption in connection with our global business activities and to working with third parties that share this commitment. 
The Office of Ethics and Compliance has developed a 
Third-Party Compliance Program to identify potential risks when doing business with third parties and to address such risks where they do exist. 
The Third-Party Compliance Program forms part of 
our global anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and procedures and requires all Abbott divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide to conduct due 
diligence prior to engaging third parties. It includes:
• Screening – We take a risk-management approach 
to screening third parties that conduct activities on our behalf, such as sales, marketing and interacting 
with government officials. We do this through 
questionnaires and independent background checks.  
 • Contracting – We enter into written agreements with 
third parties that contain anti-corruption provisions.
• Training – We provide anti-corruption training to 
third parties as appropriate.
• Monitoring – We monitor third parties as and when appropriate.
• Auditing – Our Corporate Audit group carries out 
audits of third parties.
We routinely update Abbott’s Third-Party Compliance Program tools and resources to ensure increased 
transparency and to mitigate any risks associated with 
our third-party dealings. Using this approach, we are better equipped to help prevent corruption and bribery, and to position Abbott as a trusted partner everywhere we operate. 
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Our mission to help people live their best, healthiest lives involves engaging with governments, think tanks, trade associations, patient groups and other 
organizations to find policy solutions to the complex 
issues that challenge healthcare systems around the world. It is our responsibility to help governments and regulatory bodies worldwide understand our views on major healthcare issues, while also learning from them 
about the needs of their communities. We meet with 
and brief policymakers, convene forums and discussions and contribute information and expertise to fulfill this responsibility.
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by the 
following principles:
• We are committed to transparency and guided by 
our Code of Business Conduct in all public policy 
engagement.
• Our public policy activities aim to shape policies to benefit patients and consumers, with a focus on improving patient access to new medical and nutritional advances.
• We are committed to participating in public policy discussions that have the potential to impact our patients, consumers and employees, or our ability 
to continue to produce new medical and nutritional 
advances.
We strive to align with organizations whose overall advocacy platform demonstrates values that mirror 
our own. For example, we support trade associations 
and other membership organizations that understand how government actions can affect patients’ access to medical advances, and we promote an environment that fosters continued medical progress. Working with 
others increases our ability to advance policies that are 
consistent with our values and benefit society. We work to have a strong voice at the table, even if ultimately we may not be able to control the outcome.
Abbott also participates in the political process by 
contributing to state and local candidates and political organizations in the United States. Our Government Affairs team reviews and approves all corporate political 
contributions to ensure they are consistent with the 
company’s guidelines and are in compliance with applicable laws. More information can be found in our most recent disclosure report. 
 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
70
TRANSPARENCY  
AND REPORTING
72 SCOPE OF REPORTING  
  Our sustainability reporting focuses on our 
most material impacts and speaks to a range 
of stakeholders.
72  FEEDBACK ON OUR 
REPORTING  
  We draw upon many external resources in 
refining our citizenship strategy.
72  TRANSPARENCY  
ON POLICIES  
  We strive for transparency by providing information on policies and standards 
applicable to each of our priority areas.73 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  
  Abbott engaged an independent assurance 
provider to conduct assurance of key 2016 
environmental and safety data.
73  AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITION  
  Abbott has been recognized around the 
world for our comprehensive approach to 
sustainability.
74  METRICS  
  We report key financial, social and 
environmental metrics in this report. IN THIS SECTION
Our sustainability reporting is guided 
by our materiality assessment, which identifies the most significant factors for our business. Our reporting addresses the interests of a range of stakeholders, including consumers, customers, patients, employees, government and regulatory bodies, investors, special interest groups, nongovernmental organizations and opinion leaders. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 71
18 YEARS OF  
REPORTING
Abbott has reported on our  
citizenship activities for 18 years.18
#1#1 IN HEALTHCARE
Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry Group Leader on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and North America Index in 2016 for the fourth consecutive year.
We have reported on our sustainability activities 
for 18 years, beginning with a focus on our environmental impacts. In 2000, we moved toward 
more comprehensive annual reporting by issuing our 
first citizenship report. Our reporting focuses on the most significant impacts of our business and aims to address a number of key issues important to a range of stakeholders. These stakeholders include consumers, 
customers, patients, employees, government and 
regulatory bodies, investors, special interest groups, nongovernmental organizations and opinion leaders in the areas of responsible, sustainable and inclusive 
business. In addition to a global report, we also produce 
citizenship reports in many of our key markets — most recently in India, Russia and Ireland. Our country reports are available on our website. SCOPE OF REPORTING
• All financial information is stated in U.S. dollars.
• All data in this report reflects Abbott’s activities, with a focus on 2016 results. The report does not include 
St. Jude Medical’s sustainability activities, as the 
acquisition was completed on January 4, 2017 . We will incorporate St. Jude in future sustainability reports. 
• Neither this report nor our website contain performance information about our joint ventures 
unless otherwise noted.
• Select information and data calculations from prior 
years have been adjusted to reflect the company’s separation from AbbVie in January 2013.
• The Abbott Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit philanthropic corporation established by Abbott  
in 1951.
• Our Global Sustainability Report for 2017 will be published in the second quarter of 2018.
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING
We draw upon many external sources of expertise to develop and execute our sustainability strategy. These external experts also guide our engagements with key 
stakeholders, the development of our website and the 
production of this report. They include Corporate Citizenship, Business for Social Responsibility, the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School and The Conference Board. We 
gratefully acknowledge their input. Our engagement 
with these groups better informs our approach to reporting, while also keeping us abreast of stakeholder expectations and helping us to identify areas of 
opportunity for strengthened citizenship engagement.
We also refer to external standards on reporting, such as 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES
We provide information on the policies and standards that guide our business decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to the environment. Our policies always 
seek to meet or exceed the national and international 
standards in the countries where we operate.
Details of the following critical policies can be found  
on our website:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Supplier Guidelines
• Position Statement on Conflict Minerals
• Environmental Policy
• Energy Policy
• Water Policy
• Green Procurement Policy
• Global Environment Health & Safety Policy
• Environmental and Safety Assurance Statement
• Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing 
Business with Abbott
• Clinical Trials Registration and Results Disclosures
• Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related 
Organizations
• Stakeholder Engagement Policy
• Position Statement on Tax
• Commitment to Cybersecurity 
• Position Statement on Human Rights
• Commitment to Responsible Marketing of Infant 
Formula and Breast Milk Substitutes
72
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider, 
Bureau Veritas, to conduct assurance of selected 2016 environmental and safety data. The policy section of  
our website includes a PDF of the Bureau Veritas Assurance Statement.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Abbott has been recognized around the world for our comprehensive approach to global citizenship.
• Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry Group 
Leader on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and North America Index for the fourth consecutive year. This is the 12th consecutive year that Abbott has been included in both the North 
America Index and the World Index — recognition 
of our continued global leadership in economic, environmental and social performance.
• Abbott was ranked the No. 1 company overall and 
No. 1 for social responsibility in our industry sector 
(Medical Products and Equipment) on the Fortune Most Admired Companies 2016 list.
• In 2016, we achieved an A- on our CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change score, 
placing Abbott in the leadership category.
• Abbott has been recognized as a Great Place to Work 
by the Great Place to Work Institute in many different countries, including Brazil, Ireland, Japan, Australia, France and the United Kingdom.
• In 2016, Abbott was recognized as No. 15 on the  
global 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. Abbott has appeared on the list, compiled by Corporate Responsibility Magazine, for eight consecutive  
years, from 2009 to 2016. BEST CORPORATE CITIZEN
Abbott has been included in the global 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens list, compiled by Corporate Responsibility Magazine, for eight consecutive years, from 2009 to 2016. This year, Abbott was recognized as No. 15 on the list.8
YEARS  
IN A ROW!
73
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
75  FINANCIAL   
76  SOCIAL   
78  ENVIRONMENTAL   80  DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL 
PERFORMANCE   IN THIS SECTION
The charts and tables on the following  
pages spotlight our key metrics in financial,  
social and environmental areas for 2016.METRICS
74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 74
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
KEY METRICS – FINANCIAL
2016DIVIDENDS PAID
Dollars in Billions2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.882 1.539 1.342 1.443SALES WORLDWIDEDollars in Millions
2013 2014 2015 2016
TOTAL 19,657 20,247 20,405 20,853
2016R&D INVESTMENTDollars in Billions
2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 1.371 1.345 1.405 1.4222016SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERSDollars in Billions
2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 8.5 8.8 8.3 8.5
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
75
U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
Dollars in Millions2013 2014 2015
TOTAL $4.1 $4.1 $4.1 $5.62016KEY METRICS – SOCIAL
SOCIAL INVESTINGDollars in Millions
2013 2014
TOTAL $56.6 $49.52015
$37.0 $36.92016EMPLOYEES
2013 2014
TOTAL
45%
27%46%
27%46% 47%
29% 31%69,000 73,0002015 2016
74,000 94,000
% of Women in Management (U.S.)
% of Minorities in Management (U.S.)
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
76
LOST-TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2014 2015 20162020
GOAL
TOTAL 0.18 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%-29.2%* -55%**
*% change from 2015 to 2016 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2015 2014 20162020
GOAL
TOTAL 3.9 4.2 5.2 4.0Accidents per Million Miles Driven 23.8%* -60%**
GOAL-60%
*% change from 2015 to 2016
Note: The rate increase is attributed to a metric deﬁnition change and integration
of recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR 
ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2013 2014 2015 2016
TOTAL 0.45 0.37 0.39 0.32Incidents per 100 Employees*** -17.9%*
*% change from 2015 to 2016***  Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming the average  
employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year. This is equivalent to  200,000 hours worked.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
77
KEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTAL
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2014 2015 2016
1,164 1,033 1,000TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e Emissions 1,0020.20%*
531 471Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e Emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e Emissions(3)
Total Direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e Emissions
Total Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e Emissions(2)8 9
539 480
626 554465
11 14
476
524471
485
517
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline yearPurchased Energy (Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions Utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA 554 547
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions Utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA 1,030 1,032
1,000 Metric Tons
Direct (Scope 1) CO
2e Emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2014 20152020
GOAL 2016
23 23TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e Emissions 
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e Emissions49
363167 49
252348 39-1.95%* -40%**
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
78
2014 2015
TOTAL WATER INTAKE
0.56 0.53 0.49 Water-Stressed Locations(4)
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline year3.55 3.47 3.35
0.503.462016
3.12%*2010†WATER INTAKE
Billion Gallons
TOTA L WA STE
Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
50,797 45,106 Total Waste Not Landﬁlled
27,840 17,207 Total Waste Landﬁlled
35,225 28,765 Total Waste Recycled
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline year78,637 62,313
46,338
14,629
28,54960,968
44,380
12,674
28,45057,054-6.4%*
TOTAL WASTE(5)
TOTAL WATER INTAKE
Water-Stressed Locations
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline year              ** % change from 2010 (goal) 203 165 164 166WATER INTAKE
2014 2010†2015 20162020
GOAL
32 25 24 24142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales0.91%* -30%**
GOAL-30%
2.97 4.50 2.99 2.74 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2014 2015 20162020
GOAL
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-8.4%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
GOAL
*% change from 2015 to 2016
†Baseline year           ** % change from 2010 (goal) TOTAL WASTE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
79
DETAILED  
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCECO2e EMISSIONS
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 28 20 19 19
USA 597 494 460 469
Region Total 624 514 479 488
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 12 15 15 16
Brazil 3 3 4 5
Chile 4 5 5 4
Colombia 1 1 2 2
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 16 14 14 14
Peru 1 1 1 1
Puerto Rico 55 27 21 14
Commercial Region Total 25 25 24 22
Region Total 117 92 88 79
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
80
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 31 23 25 25
Ireland 66 53 53 55
Netherlands 72 65 68 68
Russia 17 16 20 23
Spain 13 11 10 9
Sweden 2 1 1 1
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 17 16 14 10
Commercial Region Total 42 36 33 31
Region Total 259 222 225 222
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 39 37 30
India 18 32 37 39
Japan 1 1 1 1
Malaysia 0 0 3 6
Pakistan 19 21 19 21
Singapore 45 43 39 43
Commercial Region Total 64 67 70 69
Region Total 164 206 209 213
Total 1,164 1,033 1,000 1,002
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
81
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 14 11 11 11
USA 270 224 214 218
Region Total 285 235 225 229
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 6 7 7 7
Brazil 2 2 2 2
Chile 1 1 1 0
Colombia 0 0 0 0
Costa Rica 0 0 0 0
Mexico 15 14 14 14
Peru 0 0 0 0
Puerto Rico 2 1 0 0
Commercial Region Total 23 23 22 21
Region Total 49 48 47 45
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
82
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 11 9 10 13
Ireland 38 27 30 31
Netherlands 41 33 34 32
Russia 13 10 12 14
Spain 5 4 5 6
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 5 5 4 3
Commercial Region Total 26 26 25 24
Region Total 139 114 119 123
ASIA PACIFIC
China 1 13 13 9
India 1 4 9 11
Indonesia 0 1 1 1
Japan 0 0 0 0
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 16 18 17 18
Singapore 18 18 17 21
Commercial Region Total 29 29 29 28
Region Total 66 84 85 88
Total 539 480 476 485
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
83
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 13 9 8 8
USA 327 271 245 251
Region Total 340 280 254 259
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 6 8 8 9
Brazil 1 1 2 2
Chile 3 4 4 3
Colombia 1 1 2 2
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 0 0 0 0
Peru 1 1 1 1
Puerto Rico 53 26 20 14
Commercial Region Total 2 2 2 1
Region Total 68 44 41 34
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
84
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION – 1,000 Metric Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 20 15 16 12
Ireland 28 26 23 24
Netherlands 31 32 33 35
Russia 4 6 8 8
Spain 8 7 5 4
Sweden 2 1 1 1
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 12 11 10 7
Commercial Region Total 15 11 9 7
Region Total 120 108 106 98
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 26 24 20
India 17 28 28 28
Indonesia 2 2 2 2
Japan 1 1 1 1
Malaysia 0 0 3 6
Pakistan 2 3 3 3
Singapore 26 24 22 22
Commercial Region Total 35 38 41 42
Region Total 97 122 124 125
Total 626 554 524 517
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
85
WATER INTAKE
WATER INTAKE BY REGION – Billion Gallons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 0.22 0.16 0.17 0.16
USA 1.81 1.75 1.66 1.81
Region Total 2.04 1.91 1.83 1.98
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09
Brazil 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Chile 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Colombia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02
Costa Rica 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01
Mexico 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02
Peru 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Puerto Rico 0.15 0.08 0.05 0.04
Region Total 0.32 0.27 0.23 0.22
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
86
WATER INTAKE BY REGION – Billion Gallons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04
Ireland 0.17 0.17 0.18 0.17
Netherlands 0.40 0.34 0.35 0.34
Russia 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.07
Spain 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.07
Sweden 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00
Region Total 0.81 0.74 0.75 0.73
ASIA PACIFIC
China 0.04 0.16 0.14 0.10
India 0.06 0.10 0.12 0.12
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.02
Pakistan 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09
Singapore 0.19 0.18 0.17 0.19
Region Total 0.38 0.54 0.54 0.53
Total 3.55 3.47 3.35 3.46
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
87
WATER CONSUMED (IN PROCESS)
TOTAL – Billion Gallons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Consumed 0.67 0.68 0.74 0.72 -3.07
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Gallons per $1,000 Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Consumed 39 33 36 34 -5.15
 
WATER DISCHARGED (IMPAIRED)
TOTAL – Billion Gallons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.20 2.09 2.05 2.20 7.21
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Gallons per $1,000 Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 126 99 101 105 4.90
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
88
WATER DISCHARGED (NON-IMPAIRED)
TOTAL – Billion Gallons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.67 0.70 0.56 0.54 -3.67
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Gallons per $1,000 Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 39 33 27 26 -5.74
 
BOD CONCENTRATION IN WASTEWATER  
Milligrams per Liter
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Concentration in Wastewater Discharged to Environment(6)6 6 9 8 -13.72
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
89
TOTAL WASTE
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION – Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,320 711 703 746
USA 37,034 23,911 24,376 23,676
Region Total 38,355 24,622 25,079 24,422
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 1,359 1,231 1,259 1,206
Brazil 680 566 637 506
Chile 580 580 580 776
Colombia 816 816 927 1,274
Costa Rica 0 146 315 406
Mexico 222 432 362 455
Peru 313 330 451 392
Puerto Rico 4,299 3,483 1,833 1,705
Commercial Region Total(7)1,234 715 1,262 1,743
Region Total 9,502 8,298 7,624 8,463
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
90
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION – Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 2,158 2,360 2,310 2,693
Ireland 5,216 4,529 3,990 4,511
Netherlands 8,724 7,734 4,933 4,593
Russia 1,206 979 901 1,003
Spain 1,038 891 1,520 1,305
Sweden 407 406 464 112
Switzerland 79 92 36 40
United Kingdom 1,260 1,050 1,044 1,195
Commercial Region Total(7)1,464 1,434 1,876 1,225
Region Total 21,552 19,476 17,074 16,677
ASIA PACIFIC
China 446 2,146 2,163 1,040
India 2,063 3,145 4,147 2,244
Indonesia 205 29 23 16
Japan 498 383 486 400
Malaysia 0 0 0 85
Pakistan 1,257 842 658 647
Singapore 3,993 2,068 3,090 2,654
Commercial Region Total(7)766 1,305 625 405
Region Total 9,227 9,917 11,191 7,491
Total 78,637 62,313 60,968 57,054
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
91
HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL –  Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 9,605 8,400 5,646 5,576 -1.2
Hazardous Waste Landfilled 723 951 839 643 -23.4
Total Hazardous Waste 10,328 9,350 6,485 6,220 -4.1
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Tons per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Hazardous Waste 0.59 0.45 0.32 0.30 -6.2
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
92
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION – Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 150 151 141 145
USA 1,111 821 723 656
Region Total 1,262 972 863 800
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 603 615 661 564
Brazil 117 113 167 121
Chile 237 237 237 330
Colombia 198 198 231 181
Costa Rica 0 25 53 42
Mexico 33 67 66 116
Peru 79 96 150 113
Puerto Rico 1,605 1,436 93 82
Commercial Region Total(7)163 56 216 187
Region Total 3,034 2,844 1,874 1,736
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
93
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION – Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 486 491 517 967
Ireland 536 405 379 447
Netherlands 3,284 3,092 1,432 1,418
Russia 294 294 225 177
Spain 15 11 14 7
Sweden 308 316 348 13
Switzerland 2 3 0 0
United Kingdom 481 208 189 84
Commercial Region Total(7)198 315 227 94
Region Total 5,604 5,135 3,330 3,207
ASIA PACIFIC
China 9 26 15 27
India 264 183 236 286
Indonesia 7 7 11 8
Japan 18 8 10 14
Malaysia 0 0 0 8
Pakistan 65 27 79 105
Singapore 24 47 51 12
Commercial Region Total(7)41 101 16 16
Region Total 428 399 418 476
Total 10,328 9,350 6,485 6,220
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
94
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL –  Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Non-Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 41,192 36,706 40,692 38,803 -4.6
Non-Hazardous Waste Landfilled 27,117 16,256 13,790 12,031 -12.8
Total Non-Hazardous Waste 68,309 52,962 54,482 50,834 -6.7
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Tons per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total Non-Hazardous Waste 3.91 2.52 2.67 2.44 -8.7
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
95
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION – Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,170 560 562 601
USA 35,923 23,090 23,653 23,021
Region Total 37,093 23,650 24,215 23,622
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 756 615 597 642
Brazil 563 452 470 385
Chile 343 343 343 446
Colombia 618 618 695 1,092
Costa Rica 0 121 262 364
Mexico 190 365 296 339
Peru 234 234 301 279
Puerto Rico 2,694 2,047 1,740 1,623
Commercial Region Total(7)1,071 658 1,046 1,557
Region Total 6,468 5,454 5,749 6,727
†Baseline year
 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
96
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION – Tons (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 1,672 1,869 1,793 1,726
Ireland 4,679 4,124 3,612 4,064
Netherlands 5,439 4,642 3,501 3,175
Russia 912 685 676 826
Spain 1,023 880 1,506 1,298
Sweden 99 90 116 99
Switzerland 77 89 36 40
United Kingdom 779 842 855 1,111
Commercial Region Total(7)1,266 1,119 1,649 1,131
Region Total 15,948 14,341 13,744 13,470
ASIA PACIFIC
China 437 2,120 2,148 1,013
India 1,799 2,962 3,911 1,958
Indonesia 198 21 13 8
Japan 480 375 476 387
Malaysia 0 0 0 77
Pakistan 1,192 815 579 541
Singapore 3,968 2,020 3,039 2,642
Commercial Region Total(7)725 1,204 608 389
Region Total 8,799 9,518 10,773 7,015
Total 68,309 52,962 54,482 50,834
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
97
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  
1,000 Gigajoules
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(1) 8,717 8,436 8,305 8,404 1.19
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(2)4,800 4,200 4,079 3,916 -4.01
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption  13,517 12,636 12,384 12,319 -0.53
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Gigajoules per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) 499 402 407 403 -0.99
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  275 200 200 188 -6.08
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption 773 602 607 591 -2.66
ELECTRICITY GENERATED ON SITE  
Million Kilowatt Hours
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
From Cogeneration 35.3 37.6 37.9 45.3 19.67
From Renewables 0.05 0.33 0.32 0.31 -2.90
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
98
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 489 367 364 360
USA 6,425 5,940 5,704 5,746
Region Total 6,914 6,308 6,067 6,106
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 109 136 141 141
Brazil 81 64 70 72
Chile 40 41 48 36
Colombia 33 35 40 45
Costa Rica 0 49 41 40
Mexico 275 245 255 246
Peru 19 19 21 18
Puerto Rico 636 315 206 127
Commercial Region Total 378 377 367 339
Region Total 1,571 1,282 1,189 1,064
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
99
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 360 259 268 291
Ireland 728 677 703 741
Netherlands 973 851 872 839
Russia 261 226 280 331
Spain 169 161 159 155
Sweden 39 35 34 32
Switzerland 5 1 2 2
United Kingdom 175 165 153 109
Commercial Region Total 564 509 470 441
Region Total 3,274 2,884 2,941 2,941
ASIA PACIFIC
China 90 377 349 277
India 140 229 286 283
Indonesia 15 21 20 20
Japan 10 7 7 8
Malaysia 0 0 14 33
Pakistan 306 319 305 313
Singapore 515 511 470 556
Commercial Region Total 679 697 737 719
Region Total 1,758 2,162 2,188 2,209
Total 13,517 12,636 12,384 12,319
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
100
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 253 189 190 188
USA 4,426 4,217 4,045 4,119
Region Total 4,679 4,406 4,235 4,307
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 47 59 60 57
Brazil 25 17 17 18
Chile 13 13 15 7
Colombia 7 7 7 7
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 272 243 253 244
Peru 3 3 3 3
Puerto Rico 21 18 2 3
Commercial Region Total 338 344 336 314
Region Total 726 705 693 653
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
101
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 179 141 146 189
Ireland 512 477 510 540
Netherlands 723 588 607 572
Russia 224 177 215 251
Spain 67 67 79 99
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 91 85 73 48
Commercial Region Total 375 373 357 353
Region Total 2,171 1,908 1,987 2,052
ASIA PACIFIC
China 9 232 210 151
India 75 120 160 159
Indonesia 7 10 10 8
Japan 0 0 0 0
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 288 298 283 287
Singapore 329 326 294 376
Commercial Region Total 434 432 432 411
Region Total 1,142 1,418 1,389 1,393
Total 8,717 8,436 8,305 8,404
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
102
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules
2010†2014 2015 2016
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 236 179 174 172
USA 1,999 1,723 1,659 1,627
Region Total 2,235 1,902 1,832 1,799
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 62 77 81 84
Brazil 56 47 53 53
Chile 26 29 33 30
Colombia 26 29 33 38
Costa Rica 0 48 40 39
Mexico 3 2 2 2
Peru 16 16 18 15
Puerto Rico 614 297 204 125
Commercial Region Total 41 33 31 26
Region Total 846 578 495 411
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
103
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION – 1,000 Gigajoules (CONTINUED)
2010†2014 2015 2016
EUROPE
Germany 180 119 122 102
Ireland 217 201 194 201
Netherlands 251 262 265 267
Russia 37 49 65 80
Spain 102 94 80 56
Sweden 39 35 34 32
Switzerland 5 1 2 2
United Kingdom 84 79 80 61
Commercial Region Total 189 136 113 88
Region Total 1,103 976 954 889
ASIA PACIFIC
China 81 146 139 125
India 65 109 125 123
Indonesia 9 11 10 12
Japan 10 7 7 8
Malaysia 0 0 14 33
Pakistan 18 22 22 27
Singapore 187 185 176 180
Commercial Region Total 246 265 305 308
Region Total 616 744 799 816
Total 4,800 4,200 4,079 3,916
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
104
ENERGY AND CO2 EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(UNITS BELOW)
2010†2014 2015 2016 UNITS
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 1,008 932 928 916 million kWh
Natural Gas 5,307 6,480 6,423 6,597 million cubic feet
Fuel Oils 4 0 0 0 million gallons
Coal 32 2 0 0 thousand tons
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water 151 78 50 31 million kWh
Biofuels N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration and Renewables) 35 38 38 46 million kWh
Leased Building Electricity 115 104 102 93 million kWh
Leased Building Natural Gas 196 177 174 158 million cubic feet
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 10.3 9.3 9.0 8.6 million gallons
Sales Fleet Diesel 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.8 million gallons
Aviation Fuel 0.8 0.6 0.8 0.7 million gallons
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 million gallons
†Baseline year
Note: Abbott’s nonenergy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted from the table above.  
The total CO2 equivalents from nonenergy sources are 8, 11, 10, 8, 9, 11, and 14 thousand metric tons in 2010–2016, respectively.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
105
ENERGY AND CO2 EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE (CONTINUED)
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(1,000 GIGAJOULES)
2010†2014 2015 2016
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 3,630 3,353 3,341 3,298
Natural Gas 5,401 6,618 6,548 6,727
Fuel Oils 555 45 33 36
Coal 935 50 0 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) 15 75 104 130
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water 543 280 180 110
Biofuels 58 52 34 8
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration and Renewables) 0 1 1 1
Leased Building Electricity 413 373 368 334
Leased Building Natural Gas 213 192 190 172
Stationary Total 11,763 11,040 10,798 10,815
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,358 1,224 1,188 1,131
Sales Fleet Diesel 291 267 263 258
Aviation Fuel 76 83 110 93
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 29 22 26 22
Mobile Total 1,754 1,596 1,587 1,504
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
106
ENERGY AND CO2 EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE(8)
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
(1,000 METRIC TON CO2 EQUIVALENT)
2010†2014 2015 2016
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 532 477 454 454
Natural Gas 286 350 347 356
Fuel Oils 41 3 2 3
Coal 83 4 0 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) 1 5 8 11
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water 24 14 9 6
Biofuels 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration and Renewables) 0 0 0 0
Leased Building Electricity 58 54 52 49
Leased Building Natural Gas 10 9 9 8
Stationary Total 1,038 916 881 886
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 91 82 80 76
Sales Fleet Diesel 20 19 18 18
Aviation Fuel 5 6 8 6
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 2 2 2 2
Mobile Total 118 108 107 102
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
107
ENVIRONMENTAL FINES  
U.S. Dollars
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 28,070 33,333 3,660 180 -95.1
 
NOTICES OF VIOLATION (NOV s)
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 4 3 2 4 100
 
INSPECTIONS BY GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 53 32 31 63 103.2
 
VOC EMISSIONS
TOTAL – 1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.98 1.10 1.13 1.11 -1.74
NORMALIZED BY SALES – Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.056 0.052 0.055 0.053 -3.85
†Baseline year
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
108
SOX FROM COMBUSTION(9) 
1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.58 0.03 0.03 0.04 52.79
NORMALIZED BY SALES  – Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.033 0.002 0.001 0.002 49.51
NOX FROM COMBUSTION(9) 
1,000 Metric Tons
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.405 0.308 0.303 0.314 3.85
NORMALIZED BY SALES –  Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
2010†2014 2015 2016% CHANGE  
FROM 2015  
TO 2016
Total 0.023 0.015 0.015 0.015 1.62
†Baseline year
All environmental data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the 
WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We report data from acquisitions as soon as practical, generally after collecting one full year’s financial data; therefore, CFR and Veropharm acquisitions are included in our 2016 environmental data sets above, and Glomed is not included.
(1) Reported Purchased Fuel Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet and Abbott-owned aviation.(2) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam, as well as emissions from leased locations.  
Unless specified otherwise, emissions are calculated according to the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Location-Based Method.
(3) Per WRI GHG protocol, Scope 1 refrigerant CO
2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(4) Water-stressed locations have been determined using the World Resource Institute Aqueduct Global Water Risk Mapping Tool and the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool.  
(5) Waste-generation data does not include materials that are reused beneficially, which were roughly 67 thousand tons in 2016.(6) BOD data provided is a flow-weighted average of sampled concentrations for water directly discharged to the environment only. Water discharged  
to the environment represents about 12% of total water discharged.
(7) Waste Commercial Region Total data collection and calculation methodology was updated to better quantify years 2011–2016. Data from 2011 was 
used to provide the best estimate for 2010.
(8) Note: Abbott’s nonenergy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted from the table 
above. The total CO
2 equivalents from nonenergy sources are 8, 11, 10, 8, 9, 11 and 14 thousand metric tons in 2010–2016, respectively.
(9) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 109
ABOUT THE COVER
Xin Yu was born several weeks early. At birth, she 
weighed less than three pounds, not even half the average birth weight of a Chinese baby. As a preemie, 
Xin Yu was at high risk of malnutrition. She was 
immediately admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit at Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC), where she would spend the first month of her life. Fortunately, the SCMC staff had received advanced 
training in clinical nutrition, thanks to the Abbott Fund. 
After just 10 days of targeted nutritional therapy, her weight had increased by half, to 4 pounds, 4 ounces. Today, Xin Yu is a healthy and very active little girl.
With Abbott’s global leadership in scientific nutrition, 
the Abbott Fund launched the program in China, investing $5 million as a unique collaboration with SCMC and the international healthcare organization 
Project HOPE, focused on advancing clinical nutrition. 
More than 4,000 healthcare professionals have been trained, helping to deliver significant health improvements for patients.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
110
WWW.ABBOTT.COM/SUSTAINABILITY
Please contact us with your questions and comments: 
 
Abbott Sustainability 
100 Abbott Park Road, Department 0383,  Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048 
globalcitizenship@abbott.com
Copyright © 2017 Abbott. All rights reserved.