INTERIM REPORT2011-2012 Interim Global Citizenship Report, July
2013
Last updated:  July 3, 2013
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has
been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a
separate company on Jan. 1, 2013.
ABBOTT CITIZENSHIP WEBSITE
CONTENT INDEX
Letter from the Chairman & CEO
Our Business
Our Priorities
Innovating for the Future
A Collaborative Approach
Robust Innovation Process
Developing Promising Products
Enhancing Access
Addressing National Health Challenges
Contributing Expertise in Nutrition Science
Outreach to Patients and Families
Improving Infrastructure and Technology
Supporting Patients and Consumers
Educating Patients and Health Care
Professionals
Ensuring Manufacturing Quality
Responsible Sales & Marketing Practices
Safeguarding the Environment
Addressing Global Climate Change: Direct
Impacts
Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect
Impacts
A Comprehensive Water Strategy
Product Stewardship
Environmental Management & Policy
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Citizenship at Abbott
Citizenship Management and Governance
Engaging Our Stakeholders
Public Policy Engagement
Our Workplace
A Diverse, Inclusive Workplace
Hiring & Advancement
Employee Learning & Development
Work-Life Harmony
Listening to Our Employees
Human Rights
Compensation & Benefits
Healthy Living Initiatives
Employee Health & Safety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Creating a Culture of Citizenship (cont.)
Supply Chain Management
Risk & Crisis Management
Ethics & Compliance
Community Involvement
Key Metrics
Financial
Social
Environmental
Citizenship Reporting
Our Reports
External Commentary
GRI Index
Transparency
Clinical Trials Registration and Results
Disclosures
Global Product Protection (Counterfeit and
Diversion)
Finance Support for Health Care Professionals
and Patient Organizations
Other Disclosures
Profiles
Access Highlights
Haiti
Community Diabetes Care
Women's Heart Health
Smart Shipping
Green Partners
Modernizing Healthcare in Tanzania
Eye Banking
Advancing Clinical Nutrition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To download or print other variations of this report please go to www.abbott.com/citizenship3
3
5
3676
101
112
129Letter from the Chairman and CEO
To Our Stakeholders:
On January 1, the beginning of Abbott’s 125th anniversary year, our company separated into two
new global healthcare companies. The new Abbott remains a leader in diversified medical products,
committed, as always, to advancing human health and well-being. Our former research-based
pharmaceutical business is now AbbVie, a global leader in biopharmaceuticals. Both companies
share a long, distinguished history and remain deeply committed to a shared set of values that
make responsible citizenship a fundamental part of their characters.
We are pleased to share this update on the new Abbott’s citizenship efforts. This website contains
updated information and data reflecting Abbott’s separation from AbbVie and highlights our
company’s ongoing progress toward important economic, social and environmental objectives. We
will publish a more complete review of our citizenship efforts for 2012 later this year.
While we are now a new company, we are one with a rich legacy, firmly rooted in our historic mission
of turning science into caring. Our company was founded to improve lives; we’ve stayed true to that
purpose for 125 years, as a business, as a scientific innovator, and as a citizen of the communities
of which we are part. Indeed, our separation from AbbVie was designed to help both companies
better serve more people in more places than ever before.
We at Abbott are acutely conscious of the world’s growing health care needs and the opportunities
they present. We are equally attuned to the responsibilities that such opportunities confer. Helping
to meet them, as we serve all of the people who depend upon our company, is at the heart of our
mission for our next 125 years.
We appreciate your interest in Abbott’s citizenship commitment and look forward to reporting to you
on our ongoing progress.
Sincerely,
Miles D. White
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
June 2013
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Business
Abbott is a diverse, global health care company headquartered in north suburban Chicago in the
U.S., serving customers in more than 150 countries with a staff of approximately 70,000 employees.
Our science-based offerings in diagnostics, medical devices, nutrition and pharmaceuticals are
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 3 | July 3, 2013addressing important health care needs of people around the world.
We deliver results for patients and consumers, health care professionals, employees, and
shareholders, and our company’s financial success enables us to continually invest, innovate, and
introduce new products that are changing the practice of health care. Our success also benefits
stakeholders around the world. In 2012, for example, Abbott spent approximately $8 billion with
suppliers; paid $1.4 billion in income taxes; paid our employees $9.8 billion; and reinvested $1.5
billion in research and development. Additionally, we contributed more than $60 million in
philanthropic grants, product donations and patient assistance from Abbott and the Abbott Fund.
Improving Global Health
Our work targets diseases that pose some of the greatest burdens on society, including
cardiovascular disease, diabetes and vision disorders. We also focus on technologies that advance
the early and accurate diagnosis of diseases, and we focus on products that enhance nutrition,
another essential building block of human health.
We constantly explore new ways of ensuring that patients have access to our products and benefit
from our knowledge. By partnering with others who share our commitment, we are finding better
ways to help people in need overcome barriers to health care and live longer, more productive lives.
We believe that the scope and reach of Abbott’s operations, combined with our expertise and
experience, provide us with the scale of impact and innovation to bring about a positive change to
society’s health and well­being. We are proud to have pioneered examples of delivering health care
solutions for patients, consumers and caregivers in a way that respects and responds to local needs
and resources.
Turning Science into Caring
We regard our strategies for business growth and profitability as inseparable from our strategies for
citizenship and sustainability. We strive to simultaneously create both public and private value –
advancing science and helping to reduce the global disease burden while rewarding our employees
and shareholders. The people of Abbott are committed to leveraging our expertise to improve global
health care and advance sustainable development while minimizing our impact on the environment.
We attempt to weave our core values and commitment to good citizenship and sustainability into
every facet of our business. Abbott’s four core values – pioneering, achieving, caring and enduring
– guide and support all Abbott employees in every aspect of our work. We engage employees
globally with values workshops, discussions, and our statement of purpose, the Abbott Promise for
Life, published in multiple languages.
Each Abbott leader is responsible for ensuring that our company values are rooted deeply in the
organization. Our values influence and guide our day-to-day decisions as they are made across the
company, throughout the world.
Given the growing complexities of our business, our markets and the world we inhabit, it is essential
that we establish concrete goals, priorities and processes to guide our citizenship strategies and
measure our performance. Wherever possible, we develop meaningful, transparent metrics so that
we and others may accurately assess our progress.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 4 | July 3, 2013We have reported on our citizenship activities for almost 15 years and have produced annual Global
Citizenship Reports since 2000. While we once relied exclusively upon printed reports, this Web site
has become our primary means for communicating Abbott’s citizenship initiatives. In the second
quarter of 2013, Abbott will publish its full online Global Citizenship Report for 2012. To request a
copy of our printed summary report or to contact us with your thoughts and concerns about
citizenship matters, please send an email to globalcitizenship@abbott.com . We welcome your
thoughts on this report and other ways of communicating our progress.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities
Now more than ever, the sustainability of business and the sustainability of society are
interconnected. We at Abbott believe that innovative, responsible and sustainable business plays
an important role in building a healthy, thriving society.
Our global citizenship strategy continues to focus on four key priorities: Innovating for the Future,
Enhancing Access, Supporting Patients and Consumers and Safeguarding the Environment. These
four priorities give us a framework for applying our scientific expertise, business acumen, resources
and employee talents to make a positive impact on the world around us. We strive to foster
economic, environmental and social well­being – with our products, in the way we operate our
company and through our involvement with the communities where we live and work.
By integrating our core business practices with our global citizenship efforts, Abbott enhances the
health, prosperity and quality of life in the communities we serve while rewarding our employees,
partners and investors. In the process, we gain knowledge and experience that help us create new
products and services, bring new efficiencies to our business operations and strengthen our
relationships with stakeholders around the world.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities
Innovating for the Future
Abbott was founded 125 years ago to pursue science and innovation in health care, and our
passion for researching and developing sustainable solutions to health care challenges continues to
drive us. Each of our core businesses – in diagnostics, medical devices, nutrition and
pharmaceuticals – continues to invest in new research, new technologies and new approaches.
Our ongoing investment in research and development – $1.5 billion in 2012 – allows us to foster
new insights and solutions to health care challenges and then translate them into life-enhancing
products with strong commercial viability. Our commitment to innovation extends beyond the
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 5 | July 3, 2013laboratory to our close collaboration with our customers and our close attention to local health care
needs. We believe innovation is just as important in improving how health care is delivered as it is in
researching and developing new health care products.
Each of Abbott’s businesses is working to advance people’s health and well­being globally, with
innovative health care products that we develop to address vital needs. Chronic diseases like
diabetes and heart disease, long common in developed nations, now are endemic in developing
countries as well. In response, Abbott is leveraging its expertise and resources to fight familiar
diseases in new environments. Around the world, we are partnering with numerous academics,
nonprofits, governments and private companies to combat many of the world’s most pressing health
challenges, lending our expertise in disease diagnosis and treatment.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Innovating for the Future
A Collaborative Approach
Research and Development Collaborations
Abbott believes that science is most effectively practiced through global collaboration. The important
health care breakthroughs of the future will more frequently result from collaborative R&D
agreements and from partnerships among companies, academics and non-governmental
organizations.
Examples of Abbott’s R&D collaborations include:
Abbott’s molecular diagnostics business offers a broad range of technologies and expertise to
a host of collaborative partnerships with some of the world’s leading pharmaceutical,
biological and entrepreneurial companies pursuing the promise of personalized medicine.
Abbott Molecular develops comprehensive companion diagnostic strategies through
contributions from our team of biologists, chemists and engineers, plus dedicated resources
from experts in health economics, outcomes research, legal, medical affairs, clinical,
regulatory affairs and marketing. One result of this work is our expansive line of Vysis DNA
FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) probes, which are used to detect chromosomal
abnormalities that can help physicians more accurately determine which medicines will likely
perform the best with certain patient populations. For example, in early 2012, we announced
collaboration with Merck to evaluate the use of a FISH-based companion test to aid in the
development of a Merck investigational cancer therapy.
In early 2012, we announced a partnership with the University of North Texas Science Center
– one of the world’s leading forensics institutions – to evaluate our PLEX­ID instrument for use
in analyzing human remains to support missing persons and human trafficking investigations.
Currently intended for non-diagnostic use, PLEX-ID is the only high-throughput technology
that offers rapid and broad identification of bacteria, viruses, fungi and certain parasites, and
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 6 | July 3, 2013also provides information on drug resistance, virulence and strain type. The system also can
be deployed for human identification testing with assays that target mitochondrial DNA.
In 2011, Abbott Nutrition and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign established the
first interdisciplinary nutrition and research center to study the connections between nutrition
on learning and memory across the lifespan. This collaboration builds on a partnership
between Abbott and the university that has grown over the last 20 years. Key to the
partnership is an annual research challenge; in its inaugural year more than $12 million was
allocated to support research projects involving nutrition, the brain and cognition and
elevating nutrition’s role in learning and memory through interdisciplinary research. Studies
will be conducted in several project categories, including interventional, correlational, model
and tool development and core facilities.
Our established pharmaceutical products business has teamed with ChemRar, a Russian
research and development group, to develop new and more convenient formulations of
existing Abbott pharmaceutical products to improve the health outcomes for patients and
enhance patient compliance.
Abbott recently entered into a collaboration with Astellas Pharma Inc. using our Real Time
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) test to help assess the effectiveness of a new vaccine in
development. CMV is a herpes virus that affects half of all adults by age 40 and is the most
common viral infection in transplant recipients. While most people who are infected with CMV
have no signs or symptoms, the virus can cause severe complications for people with
weakened immune systems, such as patients undergoing stem cell or organ transplants.
Astellas is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials on ASP0113, an investigational vaccine designed
to prevent CMV reactivation in transplant recipients. Our Real Time  CMV test is being used to
monitor the amount of virus in infected patients. Approved for use in the European Union, the
Abbott Real Time  CMV test performed on our m2000 instrument system is currently intended
for investigational use only in the United States.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Innovating for the Future
Robust Innovation Process
Innovation and discovery are central to all of Abbott’s businesses. Throughout the company we try
to focus our R&D resources where they will have the greatest impact on patients and consumers.
Each Abbott business has its own processes and mechanisms for assessing and acting upon ideas.
Many of these ideas are then shared across functions and disciplines.
As an example, in our diagnostics business, ideas for new tests to detect or monitor diseases come
not only from our own scientists, but also from outside companies and research institutions. To more
efficiently evaluate these ideas and decide which ones to pursue, Abbott Diagnostics in 2011
established a Novel Biomarker Committee.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 7 | July 3, 2013The goal of this committee is to identify and prioritize potential biomarkers that can help doctors
make decisions at an earlier point in the progression of disease than existing tests. Broadly defined,
a biomarker is anything that can be measured relating to a disease state, such as a test of blood or
urine, an X-ray or another physical finding. Abbott conducts substantial research to map the
progression of various disease states – and to identify decision points where doctors could benefit
from additional factual data to support potential changes in treatment.
After only a year of operation, Abbott Diagnostics’ Novel Biomarker Committee has already identified
several promising areas of exploration, including hepatitis C, arteriosclerotic and chronic heart
disease, diabetes, sepsis, traumatic brain injury and oncology. Additionally, the committee has
helped to achieve substantial savings in time and resources. By focusing our R&D efforts on areas
of greatest need and potential, we increase our chances of making a real difference for patients and
health care providers.
Similarly, Abbott Vascular has a steering committee that solicits ideas and input and creates target
topics in clearly triaged scope areas. This committee holds quarterly meetings and hosts technical
exchanges for scientists, technologists and marketers to highlight ongoing innovation.
Abbott Nutrition generates innovative nutrition ideas by consulting experts around the world – in part
through the Abbott Nutrition Health Institute, a global knowledge center focused on advancing
nutrition education. To better focus on improving innovation, Abbott Nutrition recently formed an
internal Global Innovation Office and launched an interactive online employee ideation tool. Abbott
Nutrition also works closely with consumer advisory panels to gather insights from patients and
families who use our products, and to design new products that best meet their needs. For example,
our ZonePerfect  brand recently gave consumers the opportunity to create their own nutrition bars
during interactive “Build­a­Bar” workshops. The workshops gave teams of participants the
opportunity to build their own bars by mixing and matching combinations of dozens of different
ingredients. Given just a few basic instructions – including using at most 10 ingredients while
packing at least 10 grams of protein into a bar that weighs no more than 45 grams – consumers
defied conventional wisdom by picking newer "superfruits" like pomegranate seeds over traditional
ingredients such as chocolate chips. The teams ultimately came up with several flavor profiles,
including Cranberry Almond and Peanut Crunch, which resulted in our new line of Perfectly Simple
by ZonePerfect  bars.
This same desire to build products that meet consumer needs motivates all our R&D activities.
When we decided to launch a SimplySmart baby bottle under our trusted Similac  brand name, we
wanted to be sure that this bottle gave consumers and their infants a superior experience.
Accordingly, our Abbott Nutrition team followed a user-centric development process that gave more
than 2,500 moms an opportunity to test and comment on the SimplySmart  bottle. In some cases,
moms were even given prototype bottles and invited to take the bottles home for a week of in-home
usage testing. These extended tests gave Abbott engineers valuable information on the problems
moms may face with any bottle. For example, we learned the importance of ensuring proper air flow
through the nipple so that the baby could properly nurse without causing a vacuum in the bottle that
would impede the flow of liquid. We also learned that moms were eagerly seeking a bottle that would
make it easier for them to tell when the lid was properly locked and secured. As a result of all this
user feedback, Abbott was able to design a bottle that matched customer needs with multiple
innovative features – including a venting system designed to reduce fussiness by minimizing the
baby’s air intake, a highly visual locking system, a built­in stirrer to reduce the bubbles and clumps
that can give infants gas and even a special add-on cap that holds an extra dose of powder formula
for the convenience of busy moms. Feedback has been positive since the SimplySmart launch, with
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 8 | July 3, 2013the bottle ending up on several bloggers’ Top 10 bottle lists.
Addressing Local Needs
Around the world, Abbott is using innovative approaches to solve a range of health care challenges
for patients, consumers and caregivers. We are working hard to better understand the unique
needs of families in both developed and emerging markets, and to formulate both products and
value-added services to address those local challenges.
For example, in India, an estimated 97 million people lack access to sources of contaminant-free
drinking water. This lack of improved drinking water constitutes a health risk for patients who need
to use water to create syrups from powder-based medicines. To make things easier for our patients,
Abbott created a novel dual-chambered bottle that contains dry medicine in one chamber and clean,
safe drinking water in the other chamber. Instead of boiling water and waiting for it to cool before
mixing up a medicinal solution, patients can simply turn the cap on the bottle to add the pre-
measured amount of purified water to the dry powder to mix up precisely the right amount of
medicine. Having such a simple way to prepare medicine encourages patient compliance, improves
patient safety and makes it easier for doctors to educate patients on the right way to take their
medications. In March 2012, the Healthcare Compliance Packaging Council Europe, a not-for-profit
trade association, recognized the virtues of the dual-chamber bottle by naming it one of the
outstanding packaging solutions that help patients take their medication as prescribed.
Available for nearly 25 years in nearly 100 countries, Abbott’s  Klacid  (clarithromycin) is one of the
most widely used macrolide antibiotics in the world. Responding to customer preferences for more
ecologically friendly products, Abbott is now expanding the availability of Klacid  in a package that
uses recycled materials. The environment-friendly packaging is already available in a dozen
countries, with more to come in the near future. Klacid  was chosen as the first established
pharmaceutical product to convert to this new recycled packaging because of how frequently it is
prescribed and dispensed for several different bacterial infections. Along with information about the
recycled packaging, health care providers will also be provided with information to help educate
patients about the responsible use of antibiotics to prevent resistance to these medications.
In 2012, Abbott Diabetes Care marked 25 years since the launch of our first biosensor for
measuring blood glucose. Biosensors test blood using electrical currents. Before Abbott introduced
biosensors to the market, diabetic patients relied on photometric strips that changed colors when
exposed to a drop of blood. The photometric strips were difficult for some patients to operate,
sometimes produced errors and took more than two minutes to deliver results. The first biometric
sensors that we introduced in 1987 largely eliminated user error, reduced the wait time to just 30
seconds and even reduced the amount of blood needed for the test by more than 50 percent (from
40 microliters to less than 20 microliters). Faster test results reduced the inherent anxiety patients
felt waiting to discover their glucose levels. And since the biosensor test required less blood,
patients could use a shallower and less painful finger stick. Since that initial biosensor was
introduced, Abbott Diabetes Care has made great strides in making the testing process faster and
easier for patients. Today, our blood glucose biosensors require less than one microliter of blood
and can give patients results in just five seconds.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 9 | July 3, 2013Our Priorities > Innovating for the Future
Developing Promising Products
Across our broad-based businesses, Abbott is a leader in researching, developing and bringing to
market new products to address emerging patient and consumer needs. Highlights from
breakthrough research across our pipeline include:
Established Pharmaceuticals
Abbott offers a broad and growing portfolio of high-quality, affordable, brand-name medicines
that have been successfully treating patients with a wide range of health conditions around
the world for many years.
Abbott’s established pharmaceutical business is one of the largest such businesses in
emerging markets, where pharmaceutical sales are expected to grow at three times the rate
of developed countries in the years ahead.
Abbott delivers localized innovation and value for patients in the communities it serves. We
understand and embrace that no country or region is the same – our structure, focus and
presence is local. This allows us to tailor our science and offerings to local conditions – which
improves convenience, quality and results for patients, and provides a competitive advantage
for our business. For example, in India, where clean water is not always guaranteed, we
invented a dual-chamber bottle to mix syrups, such as antibiotics. One chamber contains the
medicine, the other contains the correct dose of clean water. This minimizes product
contamination risks and maximizes patient convenience.
Vascular Devices
Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold (BVS) – Abbott launched  Absorb, the world’s first
bioresorbable vascular scaffold, internationally and the product is in clinical trials in the United
States. Absorb  works by opening a clogged vessel, thereby restoring blood flow to the heart,
similar to a metallic stent, but then dissolves into the body, leaving behind a treated vessel
that may resume more natural function and movement because it is free of a permanent
metallic stent. Absorb  is now available in Europe, the Middle East, parts of Asia Pacific, and
parts of Latin America. Absorb  is not approved or available for sale in the United States.
MitraClip  – MitraClip  is a minimally invasive device for the treatment of select patients with
mitral regurgitation (MR), the most common valve disease in the world. Significant MR affects
more than 8 million people in the United States and Europe and is four times more prevalent
than aortic stenosis. The MitraClip  system is on the market in Europe and a number of
countries internationally. In the United States it is an investigational device.
Drug Eluting Stents (DES) – The next generation  XIENCE Xpedition  DES features a brand-
new stent delivery system designed to optimize acute performance, particularly in challenging
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 10 | July 3, 2013coronary anatomies. XIENCE Xpedition  is supported by robust clinical evidence from the
XIENCE  family of stents, including data from more than 45,000 patients across more than 100
studies with long-term outcomes out to five years. XIENCE Xpedition  is now available in
Europe and other countries in Asia and the Middle East. XIENCE Xpedition  is an
investigational device in the United States.
Core coronary products – With the number one market position in coronary guidewires and
bare metal stents worldwide, Abbott is continuing to strengthen its core coronary offering.
Abbott recently launched the HI-TORQUE BMW ELITE  guidewire and TREK  balloon dilation
catheter and continues to innovate with next generation guide wires, balloon dilation catheters
and bare metal stents all in development, with launches on the horizon in the coming years.
Endovascular products – Abbott’s endovascular business is focused on this growth segment,
led by recent launches of key products, including the Armada peripheral balloon line, the
expanded indication for the RX ACCULINK  Carotid Stent System and R&D investments in
peripheral artery disease and vessel closure. In 2012, Abbott launched the Absolute Pro
Vascular Self-Expanding Stent System and Omnilink Elite  balloon-expandable stent system
for the treatment of iliac artery disease, a form of peripheral artery disease that affects the
lower extremities.
Molecular Diagnostics
Abbott received U.S. FDA approval for an ALK gene rearrangement test for non-small-cell
lung cancer, to be used in combination with Pfizer’s XALKORI (crizotinib), an oral first­in­class
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor. Abbott also recently received FDA clearance for
the Vysis  EGR1 FISH Probe Kit to aid in determining the prognosis of patients with acute
myeloid leukemia. Additionally, Abbott received FDA approval for the Abbott Real Time PCR
HCV assay for measuring viral load, or the amount of hepatitis C virus in a patient’s blood, as
well as CE Mark for a new test to detect cytomegalovirus (CMV), a virus that can lead to
complications in transplant patients and people who are immunocompromised.
Abbott expects to launch several new molecular diagnostic products over the next few years,
including several novel oncology and infectious disease assays.
Core Laboratory Diagnostics
Abbott has launched a number of key assays on our Architect immunochemistry platform,
which will significantly broaden its industry-leading menu. These include novel tests to
diagnosis heart attacks, chronic heart failure, diabetes, and Epstein-Barr virus.
Abbott has a 40­year history in developing assays and instruments to protect the world’s
blood supply and continues its commitment to safe blood today and in the future.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 11 | July 3, 2013Diabetes Care
In 2012, our latest blood glucose monitoring system, FreeStyle InsuLinx , won the prestigious
international Plus X Award for Best Product of the Year in the Health category, along with
awards for innovation and ease of use. With a judging panel of more than 130 respected
industry experts and trade journalists from 32 countries, the Plus X Award recognizes
products that are innovative, viable for the future and possess outstanding characteristics in
one or more categories including innovation, high quality, design, ease of use, functionality,
ergonomics and ecology. FreeStyle InsuLinx  is the first blood glucose monitor from Abbott
Diabetes Care featuring a touch-screen interface, automated logbook, personalization
preferences and USB connectivity for plug-and-play reports. All of these features, along with
a built-in mealtime insulin calculator on versions of FreeStyle InsuLinx  sold in some EU
countries, are designed to give patients an easier and more convenient diabetes
management experience.
In 2012, FreeStyle InsuLinx  was a bronze winner in the Digital Design category of the
prestigious International Design Excellence Awards (IDEA®). The awards are presented by
the Industrial Designers Society of America to recognize design excellence in products,
sustainability, interactive design, packaging, strategy, research and concepts. A panel of
international design experts cited FreeStyle InsuLinx ’s sleek, consumer­friendly design. The
judging focused on eight areas of industrial design excellence: innovation; benefit to the user;
benefit to society; benefit to the client; visual appeal and appropriate aesthetics; usability,
emotional factors and unmet needs.
In 2013, FreeStyle InsuLinx  has been selected as a finalist for the 15th Annual Medical
Design Excellence Awards (MDEA) in the Over-the-Counter and Self-Care Products category.
The MDEA is one of the MedTech industry’s premier competitions for medical device design
and innovation. The MDEA program recognizes the achievements of medical device
manufacturers, their suppliers, and the many people behind the scenes—engineers,
scientists, designers, and clinicians—who are responsible for the groundbreaking innovations
that are changing the face of health care. MDEA finalists and winning entries excel in the
areas of product innovation, design and engineering achievement, end-user benefit, and
cost-effectiveness in manufacturing and healthcare delivery.
Vision Care
Abbott expects numerous new products and technology advancements over the next five
years. In our market-leading LASIK business, Abbott is expanding its proprietary laser
platform into new vision correction applications, including cataract surgery. Abbott also
continues to expand our portfolio of premium and standard intraocular lenses (IOL).
Abbott holds the number one market share position in LASIK and the number two position in
cataract surgery.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 12 | July 3, 2013Nutritionals
Abbott is focused on supporting six areas through nutrition: immunity, cognition, lean body
mass, inflammation, metabolism and tolerance. In 2011, Abbott introduced several new
products, including Glucerna Hunger Smart  shakes and bars in the U.S., which are specially
designed for people with diabetes to use as a meal replacement or snack as a part of a
weight management plan.
In Singapore, we launched Grow and Grow School  – the first­of­its­kind, made­in­Singapore
growing-up milk formulations with ImmuniGrow  nutrients to support the development of strong
bones and teeth and to provide nutritional reserves for healthier development of children
aged 3-6 and 6-12 years. Both formulations have been customized to support the growth and
health needs of children in Singapore – with 25 percent less sugar and 25 percent less
saturated fats than regular growing-up milks in the market.
We expect to launch a number of new products and formulations to consumers in 2013 and
are currently conducting 30 well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate proven clinical
outcomes with our nutrition innovation.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities
Enhancing Access
Expanding access to health care for patients around the world is a key component of Abbott’s
citizenship commitment, and it is integral to our core business strategy. We work to help expand
access by:
Addressing national health challenges
Contributing our expertise in nutrition science
Reaching out to patients, families and health care professionals
Improving health care infrastructure and technology
To be effective, our efforts to expand health care access must confront numerous critical, worldwide
challenges, including lack of information and awareness, lack of infrastructure, limited affordability
and social stigmas surrounding certain diseases and conditions. The first of these problems – lack
of awareness or current information about key disease states – often exists among patients and
health care providers alike.
Health care practitioners in developing nations often lack access to the latest information about
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 13 | July 3, 2013chronic diseases such as diabetes, cancer, central nervous system disorders and heart disease,
which are increasingly prevalent in the developing world. In China, for example, more than 40 million
people have diabetes, and an additional 20 million suffer impaired glucose tolerance. Similarly, in
India, more than 118 million patients have hypertension. The incidence of such diseases, once
prevalent mainly in developed nations, is bound to intensify as more people in developing nations
adopt Western-style diets and sedentary habits.
Factors That Play a Role in Increasing Access
Much of the world also lacks basic health care infrastructure, with critical shortages of professionals
trained in modern diagnosis and treatment protocols, as well as insufficient size and scope of
facilities for patient care. Poor sanitation constitutes another major health care hurdle, as does
inadequate transportation. Additionally, the social stigmas that may accompany certain diseases
often interfere with proper diagnosis and treatment.
Health care affordability is especially complex. The proportion of health care costs borne by
individuals, governments and employers varies substantially among countries. Moreover, the global
economic downturn has made it all the more difficult for many governments to fund a broad range of
social programs, including education, poverty alleviation, and health care and elder care initiatives.
Despite such challenges, Abbott is successfully boosting access to a wide range of health care
services and health care products, working in partnership with numerous government agencies,
health care professional societies, non-governmental organizations and other key stakeholders.
Working in close collaboration with these partners, we continue to make progress in expanding
global health care infrastructure and capacity; increasing the quality and frequency of health care
practitioner training; and educating patients about disease management and treatment options. We
work with stakeholders around the world to teach health care providers and patients about the best
use of our products, and we strive to design and implement pricing strategies that maximize access
to needed health care products in each country while enabling us to operate our businesses in a
sustainable manner.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Enhancing Access
Addressing National Health Challenges
In many nations, forging close government partnerships offers the most effective path to enhanced
healthcare access. In developing and developed nations alike, Abbott engages in public-private
partnerships that help broaden access to critically needed testing and treatment services.
India, for example, accounts for 38 percent of the world population lacking access to essential
medicines. There we work closely with the country's Ministry of Health and with many local
governments to help improve delivery of services. Improving India's healthcare access poses special
challenges because 70 percent of the population lives in remote rural and poor urban areas.
However, our more than 12,000 Indian employees constitute a strong, dedicated presence, and they
are committed to enhancing healthcare access, even in hard-to-reach communities.
For instance, our True Care business unit brings high-quality and affordable medicines to people in
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 14 | July 3, 2013more than 10,000 remote towns and villages. The business takes an innovative approach to
developing a sales force – hiring graduates from multiple education backgrounds who have local
language skills and ties to the communities they will target. After intensive training, members of our
sales force support healthcare professionals with educational programs for the Indian medical
community. More than 38,000 healthcare practitioners participated in these programs last year, and
we believe that the local ties of our sales force play a critical role in helping advance the quality of
care delivered to their neighbors.
Along with its educational efforts, our True Care business has introduced new combination
medicines that specifically target local needs, including a new treatment to help treat drug-resistant
strains of infectious diseases such as typhoid. Abbott also recently piloted a program at LNJP
Hospital in New Delhi for thyroid testing of women in the first trimester of pregnancy. We are now
planning to extend that program to several other regional hospitals.
Complementing Abbott’s extensive work training healthcare professionals and partnering with
governments in disease diagnosis, treatment and management, we work with community and school
groups, patient organizations and the news media to build public awareness about a broad range of
healthcare issues. We also conduct numerous screening programs around the world to help identify
patients at risk for specific diseases and refer them to appropriate treatment.
For example, each of our business divisions in India hosts a variety of health camps targeting
remote and underserved populations. These camps focus on increasing patient awareness and
teaching healthcare providers the latest diagnostic techniques and treatment practices for such
conditions as cardiovascular disease, thyroid disorders, diabetes, pediatric health, nutrition and
other aspects of preventive care. To date, our camps have helped train more than 350 medical
professionals; donated more than $3.7 million in vitamins, antibiotics, anesthesia and nutritional
products; educated 200,000 thyroid disease patients; provided more than 7,400 successful
surgeries through medical missions; and screened more than 60,000 people for epilepsy.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Enhancing Access
Contributing Expertise in Nutrition Science
Malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies afflict millions of people globally, especially children.
Vitamin A deficiency, for example, compromises the immune systems of almost 40 percent of
children under age five, causing nearly a million deaths in the developing world, according to
UNICEF and the Micronutrient Initiative. Similarly, folic acid deficiency causes some 200,000 severe
birth defects in 80 developing countries, while mild to moderate zinc deficiency affects more than a
third of the world's population, compromising children's growth and immune function.
Abbott and the Abbott Fund are partnering with leading researchers and nonprofit organizations to
develop new ways of tackling the malnutrition challenge, while creating jobs and supporting local
economies. Abbott contributes scientific knowledge about the role of multiple plant sources and
other raw materials in producing specific vitamins and minerals, as well as expertise in formulation,
large-scale production, quality assurance and related areas to help make the development and
manufacturing of fortified foods more effective and efficient.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 15 | July 3, 2013Ultra Rice in India
Some 200 million of India’s people suffer from malnutrition and hunger, more than in any other
country. Since rice is the staple food for most Indians, it may also hold the key to solving the nation's
malnutrition challenge. Aided by a three-year, $1.5 million grant from the Abbott Fund, Abbott
nutrition scientists are working with the Seattle-based nonprofit organization PATH to further
optimize its Ultra Rice fortification technology in ways that reduce costs while improving nutritional
value. Ultra Rice is a micronutrient delivery system that packs vitamins and minerals into rice-
shaped grains made from rice flour. When these granules are blended with milled rice, typically at a
1:100 ratio, the resulting product is far more nutritious than traditional rice, yet is nearly identical in
smell, taste and texture.
Nourimanba  in Haiti
Severe malnutrition is a longstanding problem in Haiti, the poorest country in the Western
Hemisphere. Together, Abbott and Boston-based Partners In Health (PIH) are constructing a new
nutritional food production facility that will enable PIH and its sister organization, Zanmi Lasante, to
produce high-quality nutritional products.
Supported by a $6.5 million investment by Abbott and the Abbott Fund, the new facility, located in
Haiti's central plateau region, is focused on producing Nourimanba , a nutritious, peanut-based,
ready-to-use therapeutic food that helps treat severe childhood malnutrition. In addition, excess
production capacity at the facility will be used to produce a fortified peanut butter that can be sold in
Haiti. Revenue from peanut butter sales will be reinvested in the facility to cover the costs of
Nourimanba  production, with the goal of creating a social enterprise that will be self-sustaining over
the long term.
More than 50 Abbott experts in science, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and other technical
knowledge areas oversaw the design and construction of the facility, developed and refined product
formulations and created strategic operating plans. PIH’s expertise in health care and agriculture,
and a deep understanding of Haitian communities, ensures the partnership meets local needs.
Including our work on Nourimanba , Abbott and the Abbott Fund have contributed $55 million since
2007 to support maternal and child health and other needs in Haiti.
To learn more about our work with PIH, please visit partnershipinhaiti.org .
Abbott Fund Institute of Nutrition Science
Completing our efforts to improve the quality of these nutritional formulations, the Abbott Fund
Institute of Nutrition Science (AFINS) offers a unique model for advancing understanding and
practice of clinical nutrition. In both China and Vietnam, AFINS is focused on extensive training of
physicians, nurses and dietitians, conduting and sharing of research and the integration of nutrition
into local medical school curricula.
We established AFINS China in 2007, in partnership with Project HOPE and Shanghai Children's
Medical Center, to address gaps in pediatric clinical nutrition. In 2010, AFINS Vietnam was
inaugurated, in partnership with Boston University, Bach Mai Hospital, the National Institute of
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 16 | July 3, 2013Nutrition and Hanoi Medical University.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Enhancing Access
Outreach to Patients and Families
Enhancing Maternal and Child Health
Along with our partnerships with health care professionals and governments, Abbott works with a
wide range of partners to help educate families about the importance of advancing maternal and
child health, including the role of proper nutrition in childhood development. Cambodia, for example,
has significantly high rates of childhood malnutrition and maternal mortality, the result of years of
war and civil unrest. At Angkor Hospital for Children, Abbott and the Abbott Fund are working with
Direct Relief in a unique nutrition education program . The program teaches thousands of families
how to grow and prepare nutritious foods, while also training nurses and other health care workers
in nutrition and health care issues.
Similarly, in Vietnam – where a quarter of children under age five are underweight – Abbott and the
Abbott Fund are partnering with AmeriCares and Giao Diem Humanitarian Foundation to improve
childhood nutrition through the foundation’s  Pediatric Nutrition Program . During the 2011-2012
school year, the program achieved a 40 percent decrease in malnutrition in 2 of 3 provinces. Since
the program began, the program has effectively reduced the average malnutrition rate to less than
20 percent among participating schools.
Abbott also plays a key role in addressing maternal and child health in Afghanistan – where one in
70 women die per day, many during childbirth, for the highest rate of maternal mortality in the world,
and where one in five children will not live to see their fifth birthday. Abbott and the Abbott Fund, are
working to improve the lives of Afghan women and children through a partnership with Direct Relief
and the Afghan Institute of Learning (AIL). Founded by Nobel Prize nominee Sakena Yacoobi, a
longtime advocate for women's rights in Afghanistan, AIL's five rural clinics – staffed and operated
by Afghan women – provide health services and education. Abbott works to empower these women
by providing financial support, expertise in maternal and child health, midwife training and more than
$4.5 million in product donations.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Enhancing Access
Improving Infrastructure and Technology
As in developed nations, the introduction of modern information technology and digital
recordkeeping can revolutionize the delivery of health care services in developing regions. Abbott is
partnering with a wide range of nonprofit organizations, government agencies, health care
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 17 | July 3, 2013professionals and other stakeholders to help improve health care system capacity and infrastructure
through digital innovation.
For example, we are partnering with Direct Relief International to develop a new, open-source,
server-based electronic medical records system to help combat Bolivia's growing diabetes problem.
Supported by both grants from the Abbott Fund and donated equipment from Abbott, this system
has trained hundreds of diabetes educators, identified thousands of diabetes patients and referred
these patients for treatment. The system uses tablet computers equipped with GPS technology to
enable mapping of patient locations, even in the poorest urban sections of the country. This data, in
turn, helps public health officials conduct detailed epidemiological studies that will enable them to
target educational programs and outreach services more accurately.
Tradition of Support in Tanzania
Abbott also has a long tradition of supporting health care infrastructure and technology
development in Tanzania – where we have engaged in a public­private partnership with the
Government of Tanzania to strengthen the country's health care system for more than 11 years. To
date, Abbott and the Abbott Fund have invested more than $100 million in this comprehensive
program. Our activities include working to comprehensively modernize Muhimbili National Hospital
with a new emergency department and outpatient treatment center, a modernized laboratory
building and a hospital-wide information technology system that tracks inventory, prescriptions and
patient health history. In 2011, we completed a project to build new laboratories to improve
diagnostic and monitoring capabilities at 23 regional-level hospitals. Additionally, we have supported
more than 20,000 health care worker trainings in HIV care and treatment, voluntary counseling and
testing, laboratory equipment operation, hospital information technology and hospital management.
Abbott has also donated 1 million rapid HIV tests to launch Tanzania’s national HIV testing campaign
and partnered with the Baylor International Pediatric AIDS Initiative to build a pediatric AIDS Center
of Excellence in Tanzania.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities
Supporting Patients and Consumers
Abbott was founded with the purpose of improving health care around the world, and we pursue this
commitment by working constantly to improve our products and our product manufacturing
processes, as well as the systems by which we distribute Abbott products. We also listen closely to
our customers and other key stakeholders and use their feedback to help identify which new
products are most needed and how we can best improve our product development, manufacturing
and distribution practices in a safe and responsible manner.
When concerns arise about any of Abbott’s products or practices, we act quickly and effectively to
resolve the issue and communicate effectively with impacted stakeholders. We also work to help
educate patients, consumers and health care professionals about using and prescribing our
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 18 | July 3, 2013products effectively and appropriately.
We believe that well-informed patients feel more in control of their health and, therefore, are more
likely to take the right steps to minimize their risks and manage their illnesses. Abbott provides a
wide range of educational programs and materials to aid patients and consumers in the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of many diseases and health conditions. Our educational programs train
patient groups as well as physicians and other health care providers in the correct use of our
products, and provide ongoing advice to help manage symptoms.
At the same time, we work with doctors and other health care professionals to share epidemiological
data, advancements in science and insights from patients that can lead to more customized
diagnostic technologies, treatment regimens and patient support materials.
We are working to strengthen our collaboration with patient organizations around the world – to gain
deeper insights into patients’ day­to­day needs and challenges across many disease states.
Through this understanding, we aim to improve the depth and quality of disease management
information; advance quality of care; educate governments and other policymakers; and raise public
awareness about the challenges our patients face and the need for expanded access to treatment.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Supporting Patients and Consumers
Educating Patients and Health Care Professionals
In developing nations, some of the most important work we do supporting patients and consumers
involves training and educating local health care providers to address gaps in the quality and
quantity of health care services.
In India, for example, our specially trained local field force helps rural health care providers stay
abreast of current disease developments, and our two­day Train the Trainers program keeps India’s
top physicians up-to-date on treatments for the most common infectious diseases. We have also
partnered with the Indian Epilepsy Society to develop a program that trains health care workers to
screen for and treat epilepsy, a condition that often goes untreated in India.
To advance understanding of the latest tools and techniques in cardiac care, Abbott’s Crossroads
training centers offer training and education courses for health care providers in coronary,
endovascular and structural heart interventions. In addition to facilities in Brussels, Tokyo and
Johannesburg, Abbott recently opened a Crossroads Institute in Shanghai, China, where nearly
1,000 health care professionals and instructors participated in training sessions in 2012.
Similarly, in both Vietnam and China, the Abbott Fund Institute of Nutrition Science (AFINS) offers an
innovative model for advancing understanding and practice of clinical nutrition, helping to integrate
nutrition training into local medical and nursing school curricula. We established AFINS in 2007 in
partnership with Project HOPE and Shanghai Children’s Medical Center, expanding it to Vietnam in
2010, in partnership with Boston University, Bach Mai Hospital, the National Institute of Nutrition and
Hanoi Medical University. AFINS is just one part of Abbott’s broader outreach efforts to strengthen
nutritional science, testing and practices in developing nations. Altogether, AFINS has already
trained 3,500 health care professionals. In Vietnam, the program has helped integrate nutrition
education into the curriculum at local medical schools and supported more than 37 research
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 19 | July 3, 2013studies.
Meanwhile, in Mexico, where dehydration is the leading cause of death in children under five years
old, Abbott has established Pedialyte Rehydration Centers in hospitals. These rehydration centers
are dedicated spaces for treating diarrhea or vomiting problems and the resulting dangerous
dehydration. The rehydration centers feature refrigerators stocked with our Pedialyte 60 formula,
which is specifically designed for the replacement of fluids and electrolytes in the management of
dehydration. The centers also provide parents with discharge kits that contain a sample bottle of
Pedialyte, along with an information booklet advising parents on proper prevention and treatment of
diarrhea. With plans to open 65 rehydration centers across Mexico, Abbott hopes to be able to treat
approximately 6,500 children per month. Beyond treating patients and educating families, the
rehydration centers also serve as locations for physician workshops on rehydration management
and the importance of rapidly treating diarrhea symptoms among pediatric patients.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Supporting Patients and Consumers
Ensuring Manufacturing Quality
Abbott has numerous processes in place to ensure that we meet the highest safety and quality
standards in the design, development, manufacture, delivery and labeling of our products. We strive
to make important enhancements to these processes each year. As industry and available
technology continue to advance, we incorporate information management tools into our processes
that allow us to identify and react to potential issues before they become quality concerns. We also
continue to harmonize our quality and compliance processes on a global basis, and we have
simplified our company’s quality policies to make them easier for employees to understand and
follow. Abbott also continues to expand and implement our global internal certification programs –
helping to ensure that employees have the necessary skills to perform key quality and safety
activities.
Our product quality assurance programs are led by the Abbott Quality and Regulatory organization,
which reports directly to our Chairman and CEO and also is accountable to the Public Policy
Committee of our Board of Directors.
We have a rigorous audit program to ensure that policies are implemented correctly and closely
followed. Regular audits of our suppliers ensure that Abbott’s quality standards and health and
safety policies are implemented correctly and followed closely. We also employ a “quality by design”
approach, focusing on improving manufacturing efficiencies and consistent delivery of products that
fulfill customer needs. Additionally, we use “human factors” engineering to anticipate the mistakes
people are most likely to make in using a product, and then design the product in a way that
minimizes the risk of such mistakes.
Abbott also employs and adheres to robust manufacturing quality standards at sites around the
world. We use a common quality management system throughout the company, and when we
acquire new businesses, we use due diligence and rigorous analysis to ensure that their quality
standards and requirements quickly conform to our expectations.
Our quality system is supported by policies, processes, procedures, training and resources that
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 20 | July 3, 2013ensure the safety and efficacy of the products we design, manufacture and distribute. We regularly
monitor all of our processes and assess our products against approved specifications before
distribution. A risk-based audit program ensures that we conduct regular audits at our global
manufacturing sites. The Abbott Quality and Regulatory organization is itself routinely challenged
and assessed through internal audits and regulatory inspections. We also carefully monitor and
audit our suppliers to ensure that they meet high standards of quality, safety and ethical behavior.
Abbott takes potential quality and safety concerns about our products very seriously, and we work
quickly to address questions from customers, patients, consumers and the general public. We
investigate each instance in accordance with our corrective and preventive action plans, and we
communicate findings and lessons learned to the appropriate regulators, to industry peers, if
appropriate, and across our global business. In addition, Abbott continuously monitors global
information to identify emerging issues and significant events with the potential to impact product
quality or availability. Abbott is prepared to implement the appropriate actions to ensure an
uninterrupted supply of high-quality, effective products to our customers.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Supporting Patients and Consumers
Responsible Sales and Marketing Practices
Abbott has policies and procedures in place that guide employees as they conduct their day-to-day
activities. These policies and procedures encompass relevant laws and regulations, including food
and drug laws and laws relating to government health care programs. They also take into account
industry best practices, including provisions of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices , the updated
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Code on Interactions with
Healthcare Professionals  and the updated Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed)
Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, as well as other applicable industry
codes. We regularly update our policies to incorporate changes to the law and industry codes,
including rules regarding gifts, meals and education we provide to health care professionals.
A growing number of state laws in the United States require greater transparency in the
relationships between our industry and individuals and entities involved in providing health care.
These laws impose various combinations of code of conduct restrictions on activities involving
health care professionals and health care organizations and tracking and reporting of payments and
transfers of value (such as meals) provided. Abbott complies with all such laws , which currently exist
in California, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Nevada, Vermont and West Virginia. Abbott is
also preparing to comply with the federal Sunshine Act, for which tracking will begin August 1, 2013.
An important part of our commitment to supporting patients and consumers is an obligation to
communicate responsibly with them and their health care professionals about our products and the
alternatives that exist. As a leading manufacturer of infant formulas, Abbott agrees with medical and
health organizations throughout the world that breastfeeding is the best form of infant nutrition and
should be the first choice for babies. When an alternative to breastfeeding is necessary or chosen,
we offer high-quality infant formulas and nutrition products. We comply with all relevant laws,
regulations and promotional standards around the world. This includes adhering to principles of the
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 21 | July 3, 2013World Health Organization’s (WHO) International Code of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes where
it has been implemented by governments. These principles cover appropriate labeling and
promotion of breast milk substitutes. We conduct audits of our marketing and sales practices in
each market where our infant formula is sold to ensure compliance with these provisions.
For more information about Abbott’s breastfeeding support and education programs in the United
States:
Ensuring Optimal Infant Nutrition – A Shared Responsibility (PDF)
Ensuring Optimal Infant Nutrition – Achieving Balance for Health Outcomes (PDF)
Business Backs Breastfeeding – A Flexible Workplace Program for Breastfeeding Mothers (PDF)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities
Safeguarding the Environment
Abbott works diligently to reduce our global environmental impacts – from the sourcing of raw
materials, to the manufacture and distribution of our products, to the use and disposal of our
products by patients, consumers and health care providers. Our environmental stewardship
initiatives help protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs and preserving our
ability to do business in the future.
We have three environmental priorities:
Climate change
Water usage
Product stewardship
We recognize the interrelated nature of these three priorities. Our work in one area inevitably
affects the others. We have developed comprehensive management and governance systems to
ensure that environmental considerations are fully integrated into our day-to-day planning and
business processes.
2020 Goals and Performance Data
Our three environmental priorities are climate change adaptation, water conservation and product
stewardship. We approach environmental stewardship by setting challenging goals for ourselves
and then working to meet them. Our goals for 2020 are:
A 40 percent reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) emissions from direct emissions
or from sources we own or control and from the electricity we purchase, compared with 2010
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 22 | July 3, 2013levels
A 30 percent reduction in total water intake (adjusted for growth)
A 40 percent reduction in total waste (adjusted for growth)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Safeguarding the Environment
Addressing Global Climate Change: Direct Impacts
Climate change is a serious issue for our planet, and it has the potential to affect businesses in
many ways. For example, extreme weather patterns and water scarcity may pose challenges for
sourcing, operations and distribution, while a more carbon-constrained world could add to energy
costs. Additionally, climate change could lead to significant changes in the global disease burden.
It is clear that action is required – not only to mitigate these risks, but also to help society adapt to
the climate changes already under way. As a global health care company, we are committed to
helping address this issue – by reducing our direct impacts from manufacturing and by making a
positive difference from indirect impacts across our value chain.
Abbott’s Carbon Footprint
Like most companies, Abbott emits carbon directly from our manufacturing, warehousing and office
activities and through our vehicle fleets. We also contribute indirect carbon emissions throughout
our value chain – through our sourcing and distribution as well as consumers’ and health care
professionals’ use and disposal of our products. We are committed to further reducing carbon
emissions in every aspect of our business.
We have been measuring and managing our direct emissions for many years, especially with
respect to our three greatest sources of impact – our manufacturing fuel combustion, our electricity
use and our global sales fleet. Abbott has a comprehensive environmental management program
aimed at reducing our emissions from each of these sources.
We work across the value chain to reduce our carbon emissions, and we encourage our suppliers,
distributors and other stakeholders to reduce their impact as well. Along these lines, in early 2013
Abbott joined the CDP Supply Chain initiative and is in the process of engaging our most critical
direct suppliers, across all of Abbott’s businesses, in an effort to assure supplier sustainability and
gain further operating efficiencies.
Reducing Our Footprint: Abbott’s Climate Responsible Energy Policy
Our Climate Responsible Energy Policy  provides guidance and goals to help our employees around
the world appropriately manage energy use and related emissions. Our policy focuses on increasing
energy efficiency in our manufacturing operations; investing in low carbon energy; improving
efficiency within our transportation fleet; encouraging a lower carbon footprint within our supply
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 23 | July 3, 2013chain; and publicly reporting our performance.
Our Global Energy Council includes representatives from our most energy-intensive businesses.
The council works to monitor, evaluate and reduce total energy consumption globally while
negotiating best-in-class price and delivery contracts and promoting the installation of financially
beneficial energy conservation and alternative energy projects.
Through our numerous energy management initiatives, we:
Negotiate competitive energy contracts
Implement financial hedges to reduce volatility
Perform energy audits to identify new opportunities
Transfer best-in-class energy practices
Communicate energy knowledge
Identify and implement financially responsible energy capital projects
Carbon Footprint Reductions in Manufacturing
In 2012, we updated our carbon reduction target, pledging to reduce carbon dioxide emissions (from
direct emissions or sources we own or control and from electricity we purchase) by 40 percent by
2020 compared with 2010 levels.
We are achieving these reductions in our carbon footprint by improving energy efficiency and
switching to "clean" energy – including low­carbon fuels, cogeneration and renewable energy. We
have undertaken these measures at most Abbott facilities, part of our ongoing focus on reducing
Abbott's carbon footprint in daily operations. An important component of that footprint comes from
the energy we purchase from various sources. In 2012, we achieved a 5.3 percent absolute
reduction in total energy consumed since 2010.
Examples of energy efficiency programs that help reduce carbon emissions at our manufacturing
plants include:
Our pharmaceutical plants have reduced energy use by 18 percent and CO 2 emissions by
more than 500 million pounds since 2006. To achieve these results, an on-site energy
champion was assigned at each facility. These champions, with support from Abbott’s
engineering and Environment, Health, Safety, and Energy department leaders, work to create
and support projects that save energy and resources.
At our plant in Karachi, Pakistan, we project that a recently installed cogeneration unit will
reduce carbon emissions by 7.6 million pounds, or 21 percent. The new unit provides the
plant’s electricity and steam requirements independently during non­peak periods, and in
combination with existing cogen units and purchased electricity during peak periods, reducing
stress on the local power grid and providing cost savings of an anticipated $700,000 in 2013.
At Abbott Ireland, our overall carbon emissions have been reduced by 2,407 tons, a 14
percent reduction, since 2011. A fuel-conversion project recently implemented at two sites
contributed to this total by allowing the plants to use cleaner-burning LPG rather than diesel.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 24 | July 3, 2013Across the country, the Abbott Ireland Energy Team works to maximize energy and cost
savings for the company’s facilities.
Carbon Footprint Reductions Through Green Building
Abbott is increasing efforts to integrate green engineering technologies and concepts into our
regularly scheduled projects, such as re-roofing and other renovations, as well as new building
design. Some of these projects involve new and emerging technologies that, if proven successful at
one plant, may improve our global environmental performance at other locations.
In 2010, we implemented a front-end planning process and assessment tool for evaluating the
energy and environmental impacts of capital projects costing $2.5 million or more. When those
impacts are deemed significant, planners are required to evaluate design alternatives that might
prove more environmentally friendly.
Our front-end planning tool gives project designers three-dimensional models for analyzing and
comparing various alternatives that might improve energy efficiency, optimize natural light and
ventilation and incorporate the use of various other green components. The tool also estimates
energy usage and costs over a building’s useful life. In addition, our assessment tool provides
carbon footprint reporting and optimization alternatives that can improve a building’s carbon neutral
potential.
We are committed to using green building guidelines when planning or evaluating each construction
project, whether it involves a new building or renovations to an existing building. In the United
States, we follow the U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED) rating systems. Wherever practical, Abbott project teams attempt to execute construction
and renovation projects in alignment with the green building guidelines and with the ultimate goal of
achieving LEED certification. At present, Abbott has four facilities that have achieved LEED Gold
certification, one LEED Silver and two additional facilities with green building certification.
Our Carbon Footprint: Examining Our Carbon Emissions
We use energy in many aspects of our operation: stationary sources, which include our
manufacturing facilities and office buildings, and mobile sources, which include our sales fleet. We
monitor the amount of energy each source uses and the resulting carbon emissions to understand
the impact of our carbon footprint reduction initiatives. One important way in which we do this is
through participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This international initiative provides
an important framework for us to measure and manage our key environmental impacts. In this
document , we share key data on energy consumption and emissions.
Year-on-year, our total energy usage has decreased as we have made conscious efforts to reduce
the amount of energy we use. This includes our initiatives to increase energy efficiency and switch
to clean energy in our manufacturing facilities, to integrate green engineering technologies and
concepts into our regularly scheduled projects and to make our fleet greener .
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 25 | July 3, 2013Our Priorities > Safeguarding the Environment
Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect Impacts
Carbon Footprint Reductions Through Green Purchasing and Supplier Selection
Carbon emissions are also associated with the sourcing, distribution and consumer use of our
products; these are called Scope 3 emissions. We are committed to encouraging our suppliers and
distributors to reduce the carbon emissions for which they are directly responsible, and also to
educating end users about the carbon emissions related to the use of our products.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 26 | July 3, 2013In evaluating our Scope 3 carbon footprint, we are first focusing on indirect emissions arising in the
supply chain and distribution. We believe that by understanding the carbon impact of our supply
chain, we can encourage optimization where we have some level of influence, and this will ultimately
lead to carbon footprint reductions across the supply chain.
We continue to work on assessing our Scope 3 emissions using the methodology outlined in the
World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Scope 3
Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have identified areas where we may have the ability to
quantify and potentially influence emissions, as well as several key emission sources outside our
direct control. These sources include emissions from transportation suppliers, commercial business
travel, waste management and product distribution. We continue to report our Scope 3 emissions as
we are able to collect and improve these estimates.
We also continue to partner with our global transportation suppliers to estimate the greenhouse gas
emissions associated with Abbott’s activities. Our analysis indicates that transportation accounts for
about 370 thousand metric tons of emissions. These transportation emissions equate to about 22
percent of our total Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions.
We also evaluated the greenhouse gas impact of the waste that we sent to landfill over the course
of the year. During the breakdown of landfill waste over time, a potent greenhouse gas, methane, is
released. We determined that this waste sent to landfills has considerable impact – 160 thousand
metric tons, or 10 percent of our total global direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions.
Abbott is taking aggressive steps to reduce the impact of the greenhouse gas emissions related to
the waste sent to landfills. We have put in place a phased waste management strategy that covers
both our own manufacturing operations and, ultimately, those of our suppliers. Part of this strategy
is our commitment to achieving 12 zero-waste-to-landfill manufacturing facilities by 2015. As a result
of these zero-waste-to-landfill and other waste reduction initiatives, we diverted more than 5,000
tons of additional waste from landfill in 2012, reducing our landfill greenhouse gas impact by 16
percent, or more than five times greater, compared to last year.
We continue to evaluate other sources of indirect, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, such as the
greenhouse gas emissions associated with global employee business travel, which we estimate to
be approximately equivalent to 8 percent of our global Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas
emissions.
Additionally, we are working to assess other sources of indirect emissions that lie outside our
boundaries and upon which we have less influence, such as employee commuting, third-party
manufacturing and consumer use and disposal of our products. Over time, we plan to better
quantify and report on these Scope 3 emissions and the actions we are taking to minimize them.
Further, our participation in the CDP Supply Chain initiative presents an opportunity to engage
critical suppliers on projects of mutual risk and performance improvement benefits.
Minimizing the Impact of Our Fleet
Abbott’s carbon impact as a function of fleet operations has been reduced as a consequence of the
separation of AbbVie at the end of 2012. Our global sales fleet is now 27,000 vehicles, compared
with the previous 35,000. Nearly 90 percent of these vehicles are now operated outside of the U.S.
and have an average fuel efficiency of 32 miles per gallon due to the types of vehicles commonly
used, as well as lower carbon and flex fuels availability. While beneficial from an environmental
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 27 | July 3, 2013perspective, these vehicles have presented a greater than average risk of injury from an
occupational safety perspective.
In the U.S., our 2,800-vehicle sales fleet has steadily improved its profile over the last several years
as a result of vehicle leasing program improvements and driver incentives. This fleet is now
comprised of nearly 11 percent hybrid vehicles. In addition, a small percentage of our company-
owned service vehicles at our headquarters campus in Illinois have been converted to plug-in
electric models so Abbott can evaluate the use of charging stations and the feasibility of installing
these at other domestic company locations.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Safeguarding the Environment
A Comprehensive Water Strategy
Clean water is a critical and finite resource, essential to sustaining human health, economic growth
and the environment. Access to water is essential to our manufacturing operations and to all those
who use our products. Abbott is committed to managing our water use in an efficient, sustainable
manner and to improving people’s access to clean water in the communities where we work and live.
Reducing Our Water Footprint
By 2020, we seek to reduce our company’s total water intake by 30 percent (adjusted for growth).
Since 2010, we have lowered our total worldwide water intake by 13 percent (adjusted for sales).
Abbott is using the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct water model to help our major
manufacturing plants around the world assess their local water needs and develop water
management plans. This model compares Abbott’s water use with external data, creates
performance metrics and geographic mapping, and facilitates communications with internal and
external stakeholders on water challenges.
We use the Aqueduct model internally to help our manufacturing plants assess their water
constraints. The model predicts that 18 Abbott sites will be at high risk for water constraints by 2025.
Additionally, eight of our manufacturing sites are located in areas that will be considered “high water
stress,” and three of our sites are included on both lists. Thus, we are focusing our water
conservation efforts on a total of 18 Abbott sites at greatest risk for water constraints in the next 15
years.
Our water management program is continuously evolving as we gain additional knowledge and
insight into resource usage. In 2012, we implemented policy requirements around water risk
planning that apply to these 18 sites, including setting local conservation targets, contingency plans
to address local risk and awareness training related to the risk model and plans.
Our manufacturing plants continue to implement water reduction projects based on these and
previous analyses. In 2012, at our manufacturing site in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, additional wastewater
treatment capacity enabled the in-plant reuse of 1.8 million U.S. gallons of water for HVAC and other
purposes. This represents 15 percent of total plant water consumption. Rainwater harvesting
techniques, which have been employed at several operating sites around the globe, saved an
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 28 | July 3, 2013incremental one million US gallons of water from being extracted during 2012.
Educating Communities on Water Conservation
Along with reducing our own water footprint, we are committed to helping communities with water
conservation. Among other programs, Abbott experts frequently engage with community partners
and nonprofit organizations to conduct water audit assessments and help develop timelines for
water use reduction goals.
In Arizona, for example, Abbott and the Abbott Fund continue to partner with Project WET, the
state’s leading water education program, helping to create a culture of water conservation
throughout the region. To date, more than 8,000 grade school students and dozens of businesses
in neighborhoods surrounding our Casa Grande, Arizona, manufacturing plant participated in
Project WET training and conservation programs. Since June 2009, this collaboration has helped
the community save an estimated 7,811,125 gallons of water.
Abbott and the Abbott Fund have expanded their partnership with Project WET into Brazil, where we
are working with local schools and nonprofit partners to educate children about the importance of
clean water, sanitation and hand washing in preventing the spread of infectious diseases. As in the
United States, Abbott employees are volunteering their time and expertise, assisting Project WET in
the development and delivery of these local educational efforts.
Going forward, we will continue to collaborate with important stakeholders to identify water
conservation opportunities, especially in water-stressed regions where Abbott has manufacturing
operations.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Safeguarding the Environment
Product Stewardship
At Abbott, we are committed to responsible product stewardship. Our product stewardship strategy
includes understanding and continually improving the life cycle environmental profile of the products
we make – from the raw materials and services we procure for operations, through product
distribution, end use and management of product residuals. As a health care company, the impact
of our products on consumers and patients is also part of the product stewardship cycle. The
environmental aspects of our product stewardship strategy are focused in the following priority
areas:
Reducing the environmental impact of our product packaging while keeping our products safe
and effective
Working with our supply chain to evaluate chemicals of interest
Reducing pharmaceutical residuals in water
Abbott collaborates with a wide range of stakeholders to ensure appropriate stewardship of our
products across our value chain. We are revising product features and design to enhance the
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 29 | July 3, 2013safety and effectiveness of our products, while minimizing their environmental impact across the life
cycle of manufacturing, storage, distribution, use and disposal.
Sustainable Packaging
With all of our health care products, Abbott’s primary concern is to ensure their quality, safety,
integrity and ease of use. Product packaging plays an essential role in fulfilling those
responsibilities. At the same time, we are well aware of the ways in which our product packaging
affects the environment – from the materials and energy required for its manufacture through its
ultimate end of life. Abbott is committed to leadership in developing and implementing sustainable
packaging innovations. We continue to work collaboratively to improve the social, environmental and
economic benefits of our brands by employing sustainable packaging principles.
In balancing the need to reduce the environmental impacts of our packaging with the necessity of
ensuring the protection of our products, we are guided by what we call the four Rs of sustainable
packaging:
Reduce – optimize packaging design to reduce the amount of materials used
Renew – source packaging with renewable materials when feasible
Recycle – improve the use of recycled content in our packaging and expand the use of
packaging that is recyclable
Reuse – design packaging to allow reuse opportunities
Sustainable packaging is a necessary design feature of packaging materials and systems. For
example, many of our milk-based nutritional products are contained in packages that can be
shipped and stored without refrigeration for up to 36 months. This packaging reduces the energy
used by consumers and distributors and is an especially important benefit for people in developing
nations.
As an example, Abbott’s  Klacid  (clarithromycin) has been available for nearly 25 years in nearly 100
countries, and is one of the most widely used macrolide antibiotics in the world. Responding to
customer preferences for more ecologically friendly products, Abbott is now expanding the
availability of Klacid  in a package that uses recycled materials. The environment-friendly packaging
is already available in a dozen countries, with more to come in the near future.
We strive for continuous optimization of packaging solutions that minimize our ecological impact and
provide economic and social benefits. Looking at packaging through a sustainability lens enables us
to consider the complete life cycle of impacts on energy use, emissions and solid waste.
Packaging Performance Targets and Progress
Abbott set a target in 2008 to achieve a 5 percent reduction in the amount of packaging we use and
distribute to our customers by 2013 versus a 2007 baseline. We successfully met this goal one year
early, at the end of 2012. Total reduction over the five­year period was 5.7 percent of the baseline –
representing elimination of 13.9 million pounds of packaging from our supply chain on an annual
basis. A new goal has been established to support continuous improvement in reducing the
environmental impact of our packaging. Abbott is committed to reduce packaging weight by 10
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 30 | July 3, 2013percent by 2020 versus a 2010 baseline.
Our achievements in 2012 included:
As a result of a redesign initiative, Abbott Nutrition was able to reduce the amount of material
used in eight-ounce metal cans for nutritional products, resulting in a reduction of 1.4 million
pounds annually.
Our Diagnostics division optimized the packaging of the Architect  bottle reagent kits,
eliminating 58,000 pounds of material.
The thickness of labels on our Abbott Nutrition eight-ounce plastic bottles was significantly
reduced – resulting in an annual reduction of 2.2 million pounds of material.
Sustainable Packaging Partnerships
Abbott works with a number of industry and independent groups in the area of sustainable
packaging, including the Sustainable Packaging Coalition. We work with suppliers who have
achieved or are pursuing certification with respected sustainability organizations, such as the Forest
Stewardship Council.
We continue our active sponsorship and participation with the Center for Packaging Innovation and
Sustainability at Michigan State University; Abbott is one of five original founding sponsors of this
center. The center is a leader in conducting research to reduce the environmental impact of
packaging and distribution, assisting companies across the supply chain with the authoritative,
science-based information they need to make sound decisions toward achievement of sustainable
outcomes.
We also pursue green purchasing goals with suppliers around the world, working with them in many
cases to help raise their own sustainability performance. We carefully screen suppliers, holding
them to stringent packaging requirements. Additionally, we work with major retail customers to share
information on packaging reductions we have achieved in our consumer products.
Chemicals of Interest
Abbott recognizes that consumers, customers, governments, non-governmental organizations and
others increasingly have questions about the use of specific materials such as bisphenol A (BPA),
Bis2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), melamine and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The presence of even
trace amounts of these and other chemicals in products, as well as packaging, can create concerns
about product safety, as well as the health of the environment.
We continue to ensure rigorous processes for identifying, evaluating and tracking chemicals of
interest. Our Executive Product Stewardship Council reviews strategy and goals for minimizing or
eliminating the use of such substances and ensuring that all new products and packaging are
evaluated for the safety of their components. When new information becomes available on
chemicals of interest, we evaluate this information through the accepted process of scientific peer
review and evaluation. We also query our suppliers for chemicals of interest that might be present in
the materials they sell us and in what amounts. Additionally, we have introduced new computer
systems to more efficiently track the substances present in products and packaging.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 31 | July 3, 2013Abbott is committed to reducing or eliminating the presence of undesirable substances in our
products and packaging. We also seek to ensure that our products and product packaging will have
minimal impact on the environment when users ultimately dispose of them. As always, our first
priority is to ensure the safety and effectiveness of our products for those who use them.
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
Trace amounts of pharmaceuticals have been detected in regional waters and are thought to result
from the flushing of metabolized and unused medications as well as manufacturing point sources.
Abbott is committed to minimizing all discharges of compounds of concern from the manufacturing
operations within its control. While it is believed that discharges of active pharmaceutical ingredients
(API) are already well managed, in 2012 Abbott approved policy requirements to proactively monitor
discharges of APIs processed at its key manufacturing sites (those processing hormonally active
compounds or antibiotics), and take steps where necessary to reduce them below conservative
threshold levels.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Our Priorities > Safeguarding the Environment
Environmental Management and Policy
Clear policies, standards and management systems ensure we operate in a manner that protects
both human health and the environment. Our environmental management metrics, auditing and
reporting mechanisms are evaluated regularly, and we hold our managers responsible for improving
their performance against these targets as part of our annual performance appraisal process. For a
fourth consecutive year, Abbott achieved the maximum score in the environmental policy and
management category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Our environmental policy aims for and achieves the following objectives:
Improving the efficiency and sustainability of our business activities and products, reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste
Requiring contractors working on behalf of Abbott to conform to regulatory requirements and
meet applicable internal Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards
Establishing goals and strategies for the enterprise and reporting publicly on our progress
Integrating sound EHS practices consistent with our management system into all aspects of
the business
Environmental Policies and Standards
Abbott has clear, consistent policies and standards requiring that we operate in a manner that is
protective of human health and the environment. Our global standards are reevaluated on a regular
basis and include technical program requirements, metrics and audit and reporting mechanisms that
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 32 | July 3, 2013serve as baseline expectations for environmental performance.
Energy and Water Policies
Abbott’s energy and water policies are set forth in the following documents, which outline our
aggressive goals to further reduce our environmental footprint, including our commitments to
dramatically reducing CO2e emissions. They also detail our commitment to improving access to
clean water in communities around the world and to reducing and efficiently managing our
company’s own use of water.
Climate Responsible Energy Policy (PDF)
Access to Water – Position Statement (PDF)
Our management standards set minimum requirements in the following areas:
Environmental Policy and Program
Strategic Planning
Self-Assessment/Risk Assessment
Business Integration
Training and Awareness
Communication and Information
Performance Measures
Assurance Reviews
Environmental Global Standards
These standards allow Abbott to have consistent technical expectations in all our manufacturing
operations around the world.
We also have published a green procurement policy (PDF)  to formalize our approach and to provide
guidance on incorporating sustainable sourcing principles into the purchasing process.
EHS Technical Standards (PDF)
Environmental Management Oversight
Improving our performance requires clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership and
support. We have multiple levels of environmental management oversight within businesses and
across the company. The Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering
Services, a corporate officer, reviews metrics, key programs and progress with the Chairman and
CEO on a regular basis. The following groups implement our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
programs and initiatives:
Global Operations Council:  This body sets priorities for all Abbott manufacturing plants and
makes resources available to meet local needs based on internal assessment of
performance, benchmarking of best practices in the industry and risk profiles. The council is
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 33 | July 3, 2013chaired by the Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering
Services (who is both a corporate officer and the senior executive charged with Global EHS
responsibility) and consists of our heads of operations, research and development, quality,
purchasing and information technology. As part of the internal assessment process, the
Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services
periodically reviews key performance indicators and status of preventive actions with the
Global Operations Council.
Commercial EHS Executive Council:  This council sets priorities and implements EHS goals
and objectives for our sales operations around the world. This includes aspects such as
driver safety and reducing vehicular accidents among the sales force, as well as reducing
greenhouse gas emissions from fleet vehicles. A senior corporate officer chairs this group.
EHS Executive Council: This group develops and implements programs and actions that
are consistent with the priorities set by the Global Operations Council and the Commercial
EHS Executive Council. This team meets regularly to share best practices and discuss EHS
issues with company-wide implications. This group also builds awareness of EHS
performance, promotes our EHS Excellence Awards, supports EHS training and conferences
and communicates our performance improvement initiatives.
Global EHS Audits
Abbott’s Global EHS audit function systematically evaluates our EHS­related performance and
compliance status. These periodic assessments serve several purposes, including identifying
potential risks to employees, the environment and the company; fostering continuous improvement;
developing staff expertise; and promoting knowledge transfer. Abbott facilities are typically audited
once every 36 months to help ensure compliance with regulatory and internal requirements.
Abbott EHS professionals have also partnered with commercial management to complete formal on-
site EHS gap assessments. During these assessments, affiliates are provided with compliance tools
and implementation resources designed to ensure sustainable compliance and program
improvement.
Environmental Management Training
Abbott’s EHS Management Standards require each operating unit within the company to define
training requirements at each level of staffing, from line workers through management, based on the
duties of each position. Relevant topics include Abbott’s Global EHS Policy and Standards, site­
specific environmental risks and regulatory requirements, key performance indicators, mechanisms
for performance reporting and corrective action obligations. Each organizational location is
responsible for monitoring completion of the required training, which is subject to periodic audit.
Compliance with these standards and completion of appropriate training modules are required
portions of employees’ annual incentive goals.
Waste Management
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 34 | July 3, 2013Abbott’s next goal is to reduce the total waste we generate by 40 percent from 2010 levels by 2020,
adjusted for sales. By the end of 2012, through focused resource management and collaborative
partnerships with waste management vendors, we achieved another 6.5 percent annual reduction in
generated waste volume. All vendors responsible for the management of Abbott-generated waste
are expected to meet minimum requirements in areas such as compliance, financial assurance,
inventory control/record keeping, facility design/operating conditions and approvals, among others.
Vendors who do not meet these standards are not permitted to do business with our company.
Substandard waste management firms are identified through the implementation of Abbott’s waste
vendor assessment program. This includes periodic on-site evaluations and documentation reviews
to help ensure that only appropriately qualified and responsible vendors are permitted to manage
Abbott waste. Our approach helps us to quickly identify emerging issues and resolve problems in a
timely fashion.
We’re committed to reducing our volume of waste and achieving an additional three zero­waste­to­
landfill manufacturing facilities by the end of 2013. Our phased waste management strategy covers
both our own manufacturing operations and, ultimately, those of our suppliers.
Property Remediation
Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly
known as Superfund, Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in
investigations at 15 locations in the United States, none of which are owned or operated by Abbott,
for releases of hazardous materials into the environment. At four of these locations, there has been
no involvement on the part of Abbott, and we believe that we have no responsibility at those
locations. We also are engaged in remediation at seven other locations, some of which are owned
by Abbott, in cooperation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. The
number of remediation sites further decreased in 2012 due to Abbott completing remediation at one
site in 2012. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to these
investigations and remedial activities, we believe that such costs should not have a materially
adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or operations.
Environmental Reporting and Assurance
Abbott reports on our environmental programs both to demonstrate increased transparency of our
processes and performance and to invite feedback from our many stakeholders.
We respond annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project, publishing our greenhouse gas emissions
data and information on the business risks and opportunities provided by climate change.
Additionally, we respond on an annual basis to the Carbon Disclosure Project Water Survey and in
early 2013 joined the CDP Supply Chain initiative for the first time.
The independent consulting firm Environmental Resources Management conducted an assurance
review and concluded that Abbott accurately reported  its 2012 global greenhouse gas emissions,
water and waste data, as well as its lost workday case rate and accidents per million miles vehicle
crash rate.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 35 | July 3, 2013Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Being a responsible corporate citizen involves more than health care innovation and outreach.
Good citizenship also extends to the way we run our business and conduct ourselves as individuals.
While our strategic priorities focus on the material impacts where our company can make the most
unique and targeted contributions to society, we are equally focused on creating a culture of
citizenship grounded in the foundational elements of sound business practice.
Because the sustainability of business and the sustainability of society are increasingly
interdependent, good citizenship requires ingenuity and care in the way we treat colleagues and
employees and deal with partners and suppliers. Our citizenship goals are integral to the quality of
our involvement with communities throughout the world, and they are perhaps most evident in the
high standards of ethics and compliance that we insist upon for ourselves and our partners.
Recognized around the world for its achievements in citizenship , Abbott builds its citizenship strategy
on a strong foundation of stakeholder engagement, a commitment to transparency and a workplace
environment that enables our employees around the world to achieve their greatest potential.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Citizenship at Abbott
Being a responsible corporate citizen involves more than health care innovation and outreach.
Good citizenship also extends to the way we run our business and conduct ourselves as individuals.
While our strategic priorities focus on the material impacts where our company can make the most
unique and targeted contributions to society, we are equally focused on creating a culture of
citizenship grounded in the foundational elements of sound business practice.
Because the sustainability of business and the sustainability of society are increasingly
interdependent, good citizenship requires ingenuity and care in the way we treat colleagues and
employees and deal with partners and suppliers. Our citizenship goals are integral to the quality of
our involvement with communities throughout the world, and they are perhaps most evident in the
high standards of ethics and compliance that we insist upon for ourselves and our partners.
Our citizenship strategy is built upon a strong foundation of stakeholder engagement, a commitment
to transparency and a workplace environment that enables our employees around the world to
achieve their greatest potential.
At Abbott, we constantly work to embed and integrate our citizenship strategy with our core business
strategy. For several years, our cross-functional Global Citizenship Working Group has led
integration efforts at the company, while driving transparency in the reporting of our economic,
social and environmental performance. The team includes representatives from Corporate
Purchasing, Global Environment, Health and Safety, the Office of Ethics and Compliance, Quality
and Regulatory Affairs, Human Resources, Investor Relations, Government Affairs and Commercial
Operations. The team also includes representation from key functions and country operations
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 36 | July 3, 2013based outside our headquarters office. Many team members carry performance goals and targets
related to citizenship issues.
Strategic Priorities
In 2008, Abbott established four strategic priorities that, we believe, best align our citizenship
activities and resources with our business operations. These are the material areas where our core
business can have the most significant impact on society and the environment. During the past four
years, we have worked diligently in pursuit of these priorities:
Innovating for the Future – Using our core strengths as an innovator to make a difference to
the health and well-being of people everywhere
Enhancing Access – Breaking down the barriers that prevent many people worldwide from
accessing the medicine and health care they need
Supporting Patients and Consumers – Working to improve quality of life for our patients and
consumers, while helping to educate health care professionals about the latest tools and
treatments
Safeguarding the Environment – Playing our part in addressing the global challenges of
climate change and water scarcity while minimizing the environmental impacts of our products
These four priorities provide a clear road map for pursuing our responsibilities as a global citizen,
yet are flexible enough to enable creativity and innovation across our diverse mix of businesses. As
a new organization, we will explore how the company can create greater shared value with our
stakeholders, using the power of the business to address relevant social issues in the countries
where we operate. We believe that the scope and reach of Abbott’s operations, combined with our
expertise and experience, provide us with the scale of impact and innovation to bring about a
positive change to society's health and well-being.
The table below illustrates the key material issues across our four priorities. These priorities define
the most critical interests and issues that inform our sustainability strategy and reporting. The below
table considers all citizenship interests that drive long-term business value for us and are important
to our stakeholders. Each year, we adjust the matrix to reflect changing stakeholder interests, and
we report our progress against the resulting framework.
By using a materiality analysis to identify and prioritize interests, we are able to focus on the specific
issues and questions that are most likely to impact the decisions or behaviors of our stakeholders.
Although various stakeholder groups express different levels of concern regarding a specific issue,
we have crafted our priorities based on multiple engagements with our most critical stakeholders, as
well as key issues that are widely viewed as material to our industry sector. When we evaluate
competing interests, we consider them in the context of overall business objectives and strategy,
risks and company policies. To determine materiality, we also have factored in the amount of control
we have over a specific topic area.
Moving forward, we will continue to evaluate multiple stakeholder interests impacting our business in
order to identify and act upon both challenges and opportunities.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 37 | July 3, 2013Global Partnerships
Building upon our global initiatives, we are partnering with governments, health care professional
organizations and other local leaders to more effectively drive our citizenship priorities at the country
level. Several of our country operations, such as Brazil (PDF) , China (PDF) , India (PDF) , Ireland
(PDF)  and Italy (PDF) , have formed their own local, cross-functional Citizenship Working Groups.
Among other activities, these local groups have published country-specific citizenship reports
targeting local stakeholders and developed public-private partnerships to help drive innovation,
expand access and safeguard the environment in their countries.
For example, in 2011 our local Citizenship Working Group in China developed a five-year plan for
expanding its citizenship programs and activities. Among other efforts, Abbott is working closely with
the Chinese government to help expand access to health care in small towns and rural areas. Our
China team also partners with a wide range of local suppliers to help them develop more effective
compliance, ethics and quality assurance programs. Abbott also partners with Shanghai Children’s
Medical Center and the humanitarian relief organization Project HOPE to advance the quality of
nutritional care and support for pediatric patients. Additionally, our Chinese employees volunteer to
provide hands-on science education to schoolchildren in 20 cities across the country. In 2012,
Abbott published our second local citizenship report in China.
Similarly, in India, our local Citizenship Working Group is designed to address critical health care
issues such as malnutrition, hunger and diabetes, which are especially acute in the country’s remote
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 38 | July 3, 2013areas. Abbott nutrition scientists are working with the nonprofit organization PATH to further optimize
its Ultra Rice fortification technology to help address the need for improved nutrition in India. Ultra
Rice is a micronutrient delivery system that packs vitamins and minerals into rice-shaped grains,
resulting in a product that is far more nutritious than traditional rice, yet nearly identical in smell,
taste and texture. Abbott and PATH are working together to distribute this improved formulation of
Ultra Rice to needy families and children through the Indian government’s food distribution system.
In 2011, we also conducted a series of training workshops in Brazil, China, India and Russia to
expand our engagement with key local stakeholders. We also worked closely with our European
affiliates to continue aligning citizenship and business objectives and to communicate more
effectively with local audiences on progress toward those objectives.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Citizenship at Abbott
Citizenship Management and Governance
Our commitment to good citizenship begins at the top. Global citizenship is valued and championed
by our Board of Directors and led by our company’s senior management. The charter of the board’s
Public Policy Committee includes the review and evaluation of Abbott policies and practices with
respect to social responsibility.
Abbott has practiced strong, independent corporate governance throughout our history. This is an
essential step in building trust among stakeholders, particularly investors. Our Board of Directors
has long had a majority of independent directors. Our directors are elected annually through
majority voting, which means our shareholders exercise considerable influence over Board
composition. Abbott has established independence standards and governance guidelines, along
with a published procedure enabling shareholders and others to communicate directly with Board
members. The independent directors review the performance of our CEO annually. Among the
criteria for Board members are a global business perspective and a commitment to global
citizenship.
Abbott has a strong corporate governance profile:
Eleven of the 12 Abbott directors are independent and elected annually.
The Audit, Compensation, Nominations and Governance and Public Policy Committees are
composed solely of independent directors.
The chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee acts as lead director to
facilitate communication with the Board and to preside over regularly conducted executive
sessions of the independent directors or sessions where the Chairman of the Board is not
present. The lead director reviews and approves matters such as agenda items, schedule
sufficiency and, where appropriate, information provided to other Board members.
Directors and officers are subject to stock ownership guidelines.
Abbott’s directors are elected annually through majority voting. Because of the majority vote
requirement, shareholders exercise considerable influence over Board composition.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 39 | July 3, 2013Abbott has established independence standards, governance guidelines and a published
procedure enabling shareholders and others to communicate directly with Board members.
The Board and each of its committees have complete access to management and the
authority to hire independent advisers as they deem appropriate.
The independent directors review the performance of the CEO annually.
The following committees and working groups also play important roles in our governance process:
Public Policy Committee – Comprised solely of independent directors, this committee’s charter
includes the review and evaluation of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social
responsibility.
Business Conduct Committee – Comprised of business heads, this committee oversees
implementation of our ethics and compliance programs.
Executive Inclusion Council – Led by our Chairman and CEO, this council oversees our
diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Global Operations Council – This body sets priorities for all Abbott manufacturing plants and
makes resources available to meet local needs based on internal assessment of
performance, benchmarking of best practices in the industry and risk profiles. The council is
chaired by the Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering
Services, who is both a corporate officer and the senior executive charged with Global EHS
responsibility. The group consists of our heads of Operations, Research and Development,
Quality, Purchasing and Information Technology. As part of the internal assessment process,
the Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services
periodically reviews key performance indicators and status of preventative actions with the
Global Operations Council.
Global Citizenship Working Group – This group improves transparency and reporting of our
social, economic and environmental performance, and helps to embed citizenship
commitments and strategy across our diverse operations and functions. Members include
representatives from Corporate Strategy, Corporate Purchasing, Global Environment, Health
and Safety, the Office of Ethics and Compliance, Quality and Regulatory Affairs, Human
Resources, Investor Relations, Government Affairs and Commercial Operations.
Global Citizenship and Policy Department – The primary catalyst in implementing our
citizenship vision, this department chairs the Global Citizenship Working Group and reports to
our Vice President for Investor Relations and Public Affairs, a corporate officer.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Citizenship at Abbott
Engaging Our Stakeholders
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 40 | July 3, 2013Listening to our stakeholders and responding thoughtfully to their concerns and ideas is vital to our
progress as a global citizen. Stakeholder insights help us develop new products to address unmet
health care needs; educate patients, health care professionals and others about emerging diseases
and treatment options; and understand how and where our company can make a difference.
Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue on health care, listening as well as speaking
out. We are fortunate in having a wide range of stakeholders who challenge us to examine what we
do and how we do it. Some of the most complex challenges confronting the global health care
system can only be addressed in partnership with responsible and concerned stakeholders.
Engaging and partnering with them is vital to Abbott’s success as a business enterprise and as a
global citizen.
Having further refined our focus by separating from AbbVie at the end of 2012, Abbott will continue
to work with our stakeholders to understand their evolving views about the role we can play as a
leader in global citizenship.
How We Engage with Stakeholders
In today’s complex and competitive marketplace, Abbott must respond to the needs and concerns of
a wide range of stakeholders – including patients, consumers, health care professionals,
shareholders, suppliers, policymakers, regulators, scientists, governments and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). This table shows examples of how we engage with stakeholders; additional
stakeholder commentary can be found throughout the report.
Stakeholder Group Key Stakeholder
IssuesAbbott’s Position
on Key IssuesExamples of
EngagementResults of
Engagement
Issues on Key Issues Engagement Engagement
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 41 | July 3, 2013Patients,
Consumers and
Customers- Availability of
products that are
safe and
effective.
- Affordable
pricing.
- Information
about diseases
and available
treatments.
- Advocacy for
patient needs
and support for
patient
organizations.- Abbott is
committed to
developing safe
and effective
medicines that
save and
enhance lives.
- We aim to make
our products
available at fair
and affordable
prices and to
offer low cost or
free options
when possible.- We engage in
discussions with
patient groups
and associations,
customer care
lines, surveys
and market
research and
patient
assistance
programs.
- Our diagnostics
division
measures
customer loyalty
with an NPS
score, measured
across all
customers.- Abbott gains
important
insights as to
how we can
improve our
products and
develop new
ones.
- We increase
awareness
among
stakeholder
groups of
avenues for
patient
assistance  for
medicines and of
donations of
medicines and
other products
as part of
disaster relief.
- Our NPS score
has seen a rise
from 29.9 in
2009 to 41.6 in
2012.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 42 | July 3, 2013Health Care
Professionals- R&D
developments.
- Quality, safety
and efficacy of
products and
proper product
use.
- Responsible,
ethical behavior
(ethical
marketing
practices).
- Information and
education about
the latest tools
and
technologies.- We seek new
insights into
patient and
consumer needs
and are
committed to
leveraging these
insights into
meaningful
products.
- Health care
professionals
play a key role in
proper diagnosis,
treatment and
rehabilitation,
and we work
closely to create
greater
understanding of
disease states
and their
treatment.
- We seek to
maintain high
standards of
integrity in all our
dealings with
health care
professionals.- Educational
programs for
health care
professionals.
- Technical
exchanges to
bolster
knowledge of
health care
professionals.- We foster
improved
understanding of
emerging
challenges on
the front lines of
health care.
- We receive
feedback on the
quality, safety
and efficacy of
existing products
and partner with
health care
professionals
conducting vital
research.
- A health care
professional
population with
appropriate
training in the
latest science
and technology.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 43 | July 3, 2013Government and
Trade Groups- Affordable
pricing.
- Abbott policies
that foster
access to
medicines and
vaccines.
- Ethical business
practices.
- Partnerships to
help address
health care
needs.- We aim to make
our products
available at fair
and affordable
prices.
- We want to
foster well-
informed health
care
professionals,
enhanced
infrastructure
and progressive
policies, which
are keys to
health care
access.
- Abbott holds all
its employees to
the highest
ethical
standards.- Work with
governments to
set prices at
reasonable
levels.
- Talk with
governments
about major
health care policy
developments.
- Participate in
numerous U.S.
and international
trade groups,
consistent with
the guidelines in
Abbott’s Code of
Business
Conduct.- Shared learning
on needs of
various
communities.
- Updates on
major health care
policy
developments.
- Disclosure of
our political
contributions.
Our Employees - Resources to
improve and
maintain our
employees’ own
health and well-
being.
- Access to
training and
development.
- Opportunities to
get involved in
their
communities.- Our employees
are critical to
Abbott’s success,
and we aim to
support them in
improving their
own health and
further
developing their
skills.
- Employees
have skills and
expertise that are
of value to the
communities
where Abbott
operates.- Abbott has
several formal
mechanisms that
encourage and
collect employee
feedback.
- We conduct
employee
engagement
surveys.- Employee views
are incorporated
into the full range
of company
policies and
practices.
- Employees feel
engaged  in their
community and
at their jobs.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 44 | July 3, 2013Non-
Governmental
Organizations
(NGOs)- Development
and pricing of
products to
satisfy unmet
medical needs
globally.- We offer a
variety of
products around
the world at fair
and affordable
prices with an
increased
presence in
emerging
markets.- Ongoing
dialogue with
NGOs.
- Abbott’s Global
Citizenship
Advisory Council.
- Development of
public-private
partnerships.- Broader
understanding of
emerging health
care issues.
- Identifying new
ways of
combating
diseases.
- Partnerships
with other
organizations
whose skills and
contributions
complement our
strengths and
expertise.
Local
Communities- Responsible
and safe
operations
wherever Abbott
operates.
- Philanthropic
commitment to
unmet community
needs.- Abbott is fully
engaged in the
communities
where we
operate, and we
treat our local
communities with
respect.
- Abbott engages
in thoughtful and
effective
philanthropy.- We employ
local people and
pay taxes to local
governments.
- We support
educational
efforts, civic and
cultural programs
and community
health care
organizations.- In 2012, we
paid $1.4 billion
in income taxes.
- We maintain
strong
relationships  with
the communities
where we
operate.
Our Suppliers - Ethics, labor
laws and health
and safety.
- Support for
small and diverse
suppliers.- Our suppliers
are a critical link
in providing high-
quality, safe
ingredients.- Abbott
maintains a
strong Supplier
Social
Responsibility
program, a
formal Supplier
Performance
Program and a
Supplier Diversity
Program.- Feedback that
improves both
supplier
processes  and
our own.
- In 2012, we
spent $2.2 billion
with small and
diverse
suppliers.
Global Citizenship Advisory Council
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 45 | July 3, 2013In 2012, Abbott established a Global Citizenship Advisory Council (GCAC) to formalize our approach
to stakeholder engagement on key business and sustainability issues. GCAC grew out of a multi-
stakeholder forum we hosted in late 2010 to obtain insights and perspectives from a diverse group
of stakeholders, including a wide range of international NGOs, academics and think tanks.
That forum, moderated by the SustainAbility consultancy, helped us and our stakeholders gain
clearer understanding of mutual priorities and concerns. Participants also provided Abbott with
valuable recommendations for improving our business and citizenship strategies, programs and
impacts. To review commentary on our last citizenship report by one of the GCAC members, click
here.
GCAC’s objectives are to:
Explore issues and opportunities for effective collaboration on critical global sustainability
challenges and the ways in which Abbott can have the most positive impact
Inform Abbott’s strategic planning – both short­ and long­term – for core business and
citizenship activities
Provide specific recommendations for improving Abbott’s business and citizenship strategies,
programs and impacts
Current GCAC members include:
Stephanie Aument, Senior Sustainability Analyst and Manager, Research and Analytics,
Calvert Investments
Gary Edson, CEO, Clinton Bush Haiti Fund
Jordan Kassalow, Founder and CEO, VisionSpring; Ashoka Global Health Fellow
Jessica McGlyn, Director, World Business Council on Sustainable Development JJessica
States
Jane Nelson, Director, Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School
Chris Perceval, Director of Corporate Relations, World Resources Institute
Thomas Tighe, President and CEO, Direct Relief International
David Vidal, Research Director, Global Corporate Citizenship, The Conference Board;
Chairman, The Conference Board Center for Sustainability
Abbott’s Divisional Vice President of Global Citizenship and Policy serves as chair of the GCAC.
Other Abbott executives and managers, representing Abbott’s key commercial business units and
functions, as well as citizenship and reporting, participate regularly in the meetings.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Citizenship at Abbott
Public Policy Engagement
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 46 | July 3, 2013Abbott is committed to participating in public policy discussions that have the potential to impact our
patients, our employees and our ability to continue to produce new medical advances. We engage
with governments, think tanks, trade associations, patient groups and other organizations around
the world to find policy solutions to the complex issues that challenge health care systems. It is our
responsibility to help governments and regulatory bodies understand Abbott’s viewpoints on major
health care issues and to learn from them about the needs of their communities, so that we can
work together to better the lives of patients. We believe our role in accomplishing this includes
meeting with and briefing policymakers, convening forums and discussions and contributing
information and expertise.
We support trade associations and other membership organizations that understand how
government actions can affect patients’ access to medical advances and that will work to promote
an environment that fosters continued medical progress. Collaboration and cooperation with a wide
array of people and organizations are critical to meeting the needs of patients today. When we work
with other constituencies, we are better able to advance policies that are consistent with Abbott’s
values.
We strive to align with organizations whose overall advocacy platform demonstrates values that
mirror our own. An organization’s membership and robust governance process collectively drive the
development of individual positions. We pride ourselves on taking an active role in our trade
associations, expressing our opinions and making the case for the positions we believe will produce
the most appropriate policy outcomes. We work to have a strong voice at the table, even if ultimately
we may not be able to control the outcomes.
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by the following principles:
Abbott is committed to transparency and is guided by our Code of Business Conduct  in all
public policy engagement.
All activities shape policies to benefit patients, with a focus on improving patient access to
new medical advances.
Abbott also participates in the political process by contributing to state and local candidates and
political organizations. Our Government Affairs team reviews and approves all corporate political
contributions to ensure they are consistent with the company’s guidelines and are in compliance
with applicable laws. More information can be found in our most recent disclosure report .
The Public Policy Committee of Abbott’s Board of Directors is responsible for the review and
evaluation of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social responsibility.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Our Workplace
Abbott is committed to helping employees fulfill their potential and build rewarding careers. We
choose our people carefully and guide them toward meaningful career paths, ensuring our human
resources strategy reflects the dynamic opportunities inherent in the breadth and diversity of our
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 47 | July 3, 2013global businesses. Abbott exposes our people to a wide array of exciting challenges and
experiences, affording them remarkable opportunities to address emerging health care needs
around the world.
We recognize that current and prospective employees’ skills, interests, values and priorities may
differ from one country or region to another. In each market where we operate, Abbott uses internal
and external research to develop a competitive, locally relevant employee value proposition and
total rewards package – and to more effectively address local challenges and priorities in areas
such as diversity, inclusion and work-life harmony.
We are honored to have been recognized as a leading employer in more than a dozen countries
around the world in 2012. Australia is our most recent affiliate to receive the prestigious Great Place
to Work designation, joining Brazil, Denmark, Ireland, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway and
Sweden. These awards are based on surveys measuring employee confidence, pride and sense of
unity conducted by the Great Places to Work Institute. Additionally, the Corporate Research
Foundation recognized our affiliates in China, Germany, Italy and Spain as top employers, and
Business Data Israel ranked Abbott that country’s third­best pharmaceutical employer.
Elements of Abbott’s award­winning workplace environment include:
A commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion
Extensive professional development, mentoring and training programs
Efforts to encourage work-life harmony
Opportunities for employees to provide feedback
Competitive compensation and benefits , tailored appropriately for each market
Protection and promotion of human rights
Encouragement of wellness campaigns
Commitment to employee health and safety
Our employees themselves play a key role in advancing the working environment in our operations
around the world. In Korea, for example, our Pride campaign seeks to establish Abbott as the
country’s premier employer. A cross­functional team of more than 50 employees work together to
advance Abbott Korea’s performance in four key areas: enhancing mentoring, training, career
mapping and leadership development; improving the work experience for women; becoming a local
employer of choice; and being a fun place to work. Since the Pride program’s launch in 2008, our
internal Abbott Culture Survey has shown improvements in employee innovation, motivation,
leadership and coordination.
To further inspire all employees to contribute to better citizenship practices and innovation, Abbott
China launched an annual CSR idea campaign in 2012. Some 4,000 employees participated, and
the campaign collected more than 500 ideas and proposals covering key topics such as
consumer/patient support, environmental stewardship, sustainable business models, and employee
empowerment. The Abbott Citizenship Working Group selected the top 10 ideas for further
development, and the first, a green office proposal, has already been implemented.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 48 | July 3, 2013Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
A Diverse, Inclusive Workplace
Abbott is committed to achieving a diverse and inclusive work environment. Diversity of
perspectives, experiences and skills is critical to our global competitiveness. We work to leverage
and learn from our differences to deliver greater business impact across all levels of our company.
Abbott’s Executive Inclusion Council, led by our Chairman and CEO, monitors the hiring and
advancement of women and minorities into U.S. management positions and supports programs that
promote an inclusive work environment. In the United States, the representation of women and
minorities in management has been an area of particular focus for Abbott for more than a decade.
Building on our longstanding emphasis on diversity and inclusion in North America is a focus for
Abbott. In 2012, we continued to expand our efforts to promote diversity and inclusion in locally and
culturally appropriate ways in our operations around the world. Among other initiatives, we extended
our mentoring program in Europe – encouraging employees to form mentoring partnerships with
employees from diverse backgrounds other than their own. Additionally, many of our business units
have developed their own function-specific and country-specific diversity and inclusion initiatives.
For example, our global pharmaceutical business held several training programs last year to
encourage inclusion – with a special focus on women’s advancement. We also provided extensive
training to help manufacturing employees better understand how to leverage Abbott’s mentoring
program to gain experiences outside the technical realm.
Further capitalizing on our commitment to inclusion, Abbott in Italy developed an online training
program to address diversity and work-life harmony issues for women, with particular focus on
supporting employees preparing for the birth of a child. The program – which was honored by the
Italian government as best in class and adopted for widespread use throughout Italy – helps to
ensure that new mothers and fathers can enjoy the full benefits of maternity or paternity leave
without compromising the efficiency of remaining staff members.
Similarly, we work hard to encourage inclusion of individuals with disabilities across all our
businesses and locations. Abbott is one of the founding members of the Kanchi network, a
leadership group of companies in Ireland whose goal is to revolutionize the relationship between
business and disability so that people with disabilities will be recognized and values as consumers,
talent, suppliers and members of the community. Abbott Ireland is providing significant input into the
development of an ability benchmark that will recognize excellence in disability equality in all
businesses.
Employee Networks
Complementing our inclusion programs and initiatives, Abbott’s employee networks play a vital role
in building an inclusive culture and supporting business operations. These networks are sponsored
by corporate officers, who help align group objectives with business strategies. By focusing on
career development, mentoring, community involvement, informal networking and leadership skills
development, our networks continue to expand visibility and create opportunities for participants.
Nearly 8,000 employees participate in our six networks:
Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 49 | July 3, 2013Black Business Network
La Voice Network (Hispanic/Latino)
Flex Network (part-time and flexible schedules)
PRIDE (gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender)
Women Leaders in Action (WLA)
Our networks not only provide networking and coaching opportunities, but also enable employees to
leverage their unique skills to help support business operations. For example, our ALCN provides
translation services to high-level delegations of government officials and key opinion leaders visiting
our headquarters. Similarly, the La Voice Network, representing Hispanic and Latino employees,
provides translation support when needed for Spanish-speaking customers calling our telephone
hotlines.
During the past year, membership and engagement in our employee networks have expanded
substantially. For example, the primarily U.S.-based WLA recently launched its first chapter based
outside the United States – in Ireland. The Irish WLA chapter already boasts 87 members and
combines leadership development and skill-building activities with community outreach. With both a
new toolkit to guide the chapter development process and a dedicated committee to support it,
several other countries are in the early stages of forming their own local WLA chapters.
Mentoring
An integral part of the Abbott culture of continuous learning and knowledge sharing, mentoring –
both formal and informal – is prevalent across the organization. Use of our formal U.S. mentoring
program, administered through a Web-based partnership-matching tool, continued to increase in
2012 and has resulted in the creation of thousands of mentoring partnerships. With WLA’s Global
Mentoring Program, WLA members were able to use their personal networks to match several
mentees with an international network of mentors.
In the United States, employee network members participate in a variety of mentoring circles that
combine education with networking opportunities. Instead of traditional one-to-one mentoring
relationships, mentoring circles enable one or more subject matter experts to mentor a group of
protégés sharing similar interests. For example, a finance circle might invite Abbott guest speakers
to give presentations on topics such as long-range planning, health economics research, cost
accounting, commercial sales forecasting and so forth. In some cases, senior executives such as
the corporate controller might join the circle to participate in an informal question-and-answer
session on leadership topics and career paths. In 2011, ALCN launched a new series of mentoring
circles, and WLA continued its popular circles program.
Our Abbott Performance Culture Survey, administered every other year, demonstrates that these
efforts to support diversity and inclusion are working.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 50 | July 3, 2013Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Hiring and Advancement
Global competition for talent is intense. Robust hiring, advancement and leadership development
programs at all levels help our employees realize their potential and ensure that we attract and
retain the best talent to fuel our growth.
Entry Level
Abbott offers numerous hiring and development programs to help employees begin or enhance their
careers, starting with the Abbott internship program. In 2012, we hosted 303 interns at 20 facilities in
the United States. Half of our interns were women, and 39 percent were minorities. Additionally, from
the 2011 internship class, 70 percent of interns that were offered full-time positions accepted
positions beginning in 2012.
In addition to the U.S. interns, 646 interns were hosted in affiliates around the world in 2012.
University Relations
To further build our talent pipeline, we work with a wide range of universities to recruit entry-level
talent through both campus career planning initiatives and student organizations. We partner with
universities to identify potential talent in fields ranging from engineering, manufacturing and quality
to finance, human resources, information technology, business administration and marketing, as
well as physician and pharmacy training programs.
We also partner with multiple organizations focused on advancing women and minorities in specific
areas of study. Our U.S. recruiting partners include the National Society of Black Engineers, the
Society of Hispanic Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, the Association of Latino
Professionals in Finance and Accounting and the National Association of Black Accountants, among
others. Outside the United States, we continue to implement new recruiting partnerships with local
schools and student organizations while expanding internship and entry-level rotational
opportunities.
Along with our efforts to recruit female and minority students, we also partner with a wide range of
organizations to help recruit diverse candidates at more advanced stages of their careers. These
partners include the National Black MBA Association, the National Society of Hispanic MBAs, the
National Sales Network and the Consortium.
Professional Development Programs
Our two- and three-year Professional Development Programs provide employees with opportunities
to gain diverse experiences by rotating through three to five assignments within the company,
including assignments with our international affiliates. These programs have proven to be a
leadership pipeline, with nearly one-third of alumni going on to senior leadership positions at Abbott.
These programs also demonstrate our commitment to diversity. Of the 110 people hired through
these programs in 2012, 43 percent were minorities and 47 percent were women.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 51 | July 3, 2013Talent Management
We utilize a company-wide talent management process that creates a strong pipeline of leaders to
sustain and grow the business. Our process includes talent review meetings in all lines of business
and geographies, covering multiple levels and functions of our organization and culminating in
reviews of executive positions by senior management. Leadership teams in each business unit and
functional area identify talent for current and future leadership opportunities, and these teams
prioritize the types of development needed for targeted employees to prepare for more senior
positions.
All employees participate in our annual performance management process, known as Performance
Excellence. This process helps employees integrate their work priorities with the broader objectives
of our organization, understand management expectations and demonstrate behaviors that are
consistent with our values.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Employee Learning and Development
Approximately 70,000 employees worldwide have access to job-specific training and development to
ensure successful performance in their current roles across the full range of Abbott jobs – from
commercial and operations to research and development, as well as human resources, finance and
information technology. We also conduct ongoing learning, training and career development
programs to help employees at all levels realize their potential. Abbott connects people and
potential by developing current and future leaders through a robust combination of training, on-the-
job experiences and formal and informal mentoring. More than 59,000 employees in professional,
leadership and functional roles participated in our learning and development programs in 2012.
Cross-Cultural Training
Because the scope of our business is global, many of our employees work or travel outside their
home countries – and cross­cultural competency is a key business need. Accordingly, Abbott
provides all employees with free access to Cultural Navigator™, an Internet­based toolkit containing
more than 100 country-specific modules with extensive information on local business practices,
management tools, social etiquette and customs.
The Cultural Navigator tool also encourages employees to fill out a self-assessment that yields a
personal cultural profile. This profile enables users to gauge their own business practices,
management approach and behavioral styles so that they can compare their personal preferences
and habits with standard practices in other cultures. Additionally, Cultural Navigator users can run
business simulation exercises to identify potential cross-cultural stumbling blocks and prepare
themselves for potential challenges in their future business activities. Nearly 2,000 employees
actively used this tool in 2012.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 52 | July 3, 2013Leadership Training
To complement these skills training initiatives, we also offer focused training programs for
employees transitioning into management roles – to help our new leaders around the world succeed
more quickly in their expanded positions.
For example, the Abbott Management Fundamentals program offers an extensive curriculum to help
managers lead their teams more effectively, create a strong work environment and empower their
teams to deliver results. Additionally, the Director Foundation Program provides management
training for newly hired or promoted director-level employees. Launched approximately five years
ago, the Director Foundation Program helps build capabilities in strategic thinking, influencing,
coaching and feedback, along with a high-level discussion on Abbott strategy. The program also
stresses the key role that directors should play in sustaining our success by cultivating a talent
pipeline.
Similarly, the Global Leadership Program (GLP) is designed to help new and potential General
Managers (GMs) in our international affiliates become more effective by better understanding and
leveraging the Abbott resources available to them. The program consists of two one-week sessions
that take place approximately six months apart. The first week includes presentations on corporate
strategy from Abbott senior executives, along with case studies on GM-level decision making. The
second week focuses on people leadership – helping new GMs better understand what it takes to
grow a business within Abbott, while also developing the talent of the people on their teams.
The GLP not only has helped us to bring new GMs on board faster and more effectively, but also
has resulted in the creation of strong global networks of GLP alumni. GLP graduates routinely reach
out and connect with their former classmates to share ideas, gain insights and explore new ideas.
By including promising GM candidates in the GLP training, Abbott can make sure those candidates
are well prepared to assume the responsibilities of the GM role when a suitable position becomes
available. Additionally, the strong alumni connections enable deep trust and shared organizational
understanding at some of the highest levels of management in our company.
Building on the success of GLP and other programs targeting key talent, we continue to expand our
learning and development programs deeper into our talent pipeline to accelerate the readiness of
more junior managers. For instance, the recently launched Emerging Leader Program enrolls
groups of 30-35 high-potential managers at the regional level in Latin America, Europe and Asia
Pacific. Integrated into their personal assessments and growth plans, the Emerging Leader Program
includes discussions of strategy, leadership and people management. In 2012, 216 leaders in eight
cohorts completed the Emerging Leader Program. Europe hosted three cohorts, Asia supported
three cohorts, and the Americas ran two cohorts.
At the most senior level, our Executive Compass program consists of a week-long intensive training
delivered by some of the top 20 leaders in our company. Executive Compass provides new senior
managers with a deep dive into Abbott strategy and challenges them to think through a broad range
of scenarios affecting stakeholders and customers. Participants engage in a series of intense case
studies that help hone their decision-making skills and prepare them for the day-to-day challenges
of working in senior management. Executive Compass also focuses on building the talent pipeline. In
the past eight years, more than 500 divisional vice presidents and general managers of our Large
Business Units (LBUs) have graduated from the Executive Compass program (and its precursor,
Leadership Forum), which we view as the capstone of our leadership development series.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 53 | July 3, 2013Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Work-Life Harmony
Work-life harmony is an integral part of the Abbott culture. Many of our global businesses and
locations have incorporated work-life initiatives such as flexible work schedules and telecommuting.
We view these initiatives not only as important tools for talent attraction and retention, but also as
key components of our approach to diversity and inclusion as we work to support employees in
harmonizing work and family commitments.
Abbott understands that the overall employment experience is critical to attracting talent and
retaining organizational knowledge. To that end, we continue to develop programs to support
employees across their employment life cycles. We recognize that work-life priorities and challenges
vary around the world, and we design our programs to be culturally sensitive and locally
appropriate.
Some highlights of Abbott’s award­winning work­life initiatives include:
Recognizing the challenge of caring for children during summer vacations from school, last
year Abbott Italy hired a contractor to create a summer camp program for the children of
Abbott employees. Abbott pays approximately half the child care costs at the camps, which
run from June through July. Feedback from employees indicates very high levels of
satisfaction with the quality of the camps. Indeed, some employees say the camps are one of
the most valued benefits of their work at Abbott.
The Abbott pharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, has run its own
summer camp since 2001 for children ages 4 to 12.
Child Care
Abbott’s comprehensive approach to child care helps our employees better manage their personal
and professional lives. Our U.S. child care programs provide a variety of alternatives, including an
on-site child care center at some locations, emergency child care assistance, on-site parenting and
counseling services, full-day kindergarten programs and school holiday child care programs.
Highlights of our programs include:
Our Early Discoveries on­site child care center – based in our headquarters location in Lake
County, Illinois – ranked in the top 8 percent of U.S. child care centers for quality in 2012.
Early Discoveries is one of the five largest centers in the Bright Horizons network, serving
more than 700 children from 537 families each month.
Our Family Child Care Provider Training Program has trained more than 3,300 providers in
our communities since 2001.
Our child care discounts are offered at more than 2,500 centers across the United States.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 54 | July 3, 2013Teen Reach Program, an annual community service program for preteens and teens,
attracted 720 volunteers, who contributed 7,200 hours of service in 2012.
Abbott has received national recognition for our child care programs from Working Mother
magazine and the National Association for the Education of Young Children.
Productive Transition to Retirement
We are especially mindful of the complex and changing definition of retirement today and of the first
wave of baby boomers, who are retiring in record numbers. Abbott’s Freedom to Work program,
available to eligible U.S. employees, offers employees who are considering retirement the option to
scale back their hours and/or change their responsibilities without affecting their benefits, thus
allowing for knowledge transfer. Since Freedom to Work was launched in 2008, nearly 500 U.S.
employees have enrolled in the program. Feedback has been strongly positive, with 97 percent of
participants and 89 percent of managers reporting they are satisfied or very satisfied with the
program, and 84 percent of managers saying it helped them retain knowledge.
Freedom to Work offers employees two different options as they approach retirement:
The Custom Schedule Program allows employees to reduce hours and pay/bonus without
impacting benefits. This option allows employees to work four days a week all year or take up
to an additional five weeks of vacation.
The Emeritus Program allows employees to change their responsibility (for example, from
managing staff to individual contributor) without reducing their pay or grade.
Abbott has been recognized over the years for this innovative program, including mentions in the
Wall Street Journal , the Economist , BusinessWeek , Fast Company , Fortune , CNN Money and
Money  magazine.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Listening to Our Employees
Employee feedback provides us with valuable insight as we continue to shape our culture to achieve
our business strategy. Performance culture surveys are typically administered to all employees
every two years, but because of the company separation in January 2013, when Abbott split into
Abbott and AbbVie, it was decided to forgo a survey in 2012.
Ninety percent of employees worldwide participated in the 2010 survey. Their responses revealed
that we have a high-performing culture, one that fosters strong and sustainable success.
Employee perceptions of leadership and business strategies emerged as strengths in 2010 and
demonstrated steady improvement since 2006 (the first time we conducted the survey). Eighty
percent of respondents agreed that we have strong, trustworthy leaders who articulate a clear vision
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 55 | July 3, 2013for employees and are leading our business in the right direction. Seventy-four percent of
respondents agreed that we are doing a good job when it comes to sharing information, cooperating
and building relationships across functional areas. We have improved – and are outperforming our
peers – in career development and employee recognition, and we continue to focus on these areas.
Once again, responses show that employees believe we are living the Abbott Values.
Most employees feel that their decisions, as well as the actions of managers and senior leaders,
reflect those values. Nearly every employee (94 percent) knows how their work impacts the success
of their division and the lives of the patients we serve. Overall, the survey provided strong indicators
that we know who we are and that we believe we are headed in the right direction.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Human Rights
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being and respects individual rights as set forth in the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These principles are reflected in our company’s mission and
core values. While governments have the primary responsibility to respect, protect, promote and
fulfill the human rights of their citizens, Abbott recognizes that companies play a supporting role in
promoting human rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights through compliance with laws and regulations
wherever we have operations, as well as through our policies and programs. Our guidelines include:
Encouraging open communication between management and employees
Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting any form of forced, bonded or indentured
labor or involuntary prison labor
Providing compensation and benefits that are competitive and comply with applicable laws for
minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits
Providing a healthy and safe working environment
Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating against any employee for reasons such
as race, religion, color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability, religion, marital status, sexual
orientation or any other status protected by law
Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane treatment in the workplace
Protecting individual privacy
Abbott’s position on human rights is reinforced through employment, ethics and procurement
policies, which are designed to ensure neither we, nor our suppliers, engage in human rights
abuses.
Abbott Recognized for Child-Friendly Practices
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 56 | July 3, 2013In January 2012, Abrinq – Save the Children ( www.fundabrinq.org.br ) recognized Abbott as an
Empresa Amiga da Criança  (Child-Friendly Company) for its commitment to the welfare of children
and adolescents in Brazil. Abbott was recognized for its public commitment to refrain from the direct
or indirect use of child labor and to work only with suppliers who also commit not to use child labor.
Going further, the award recognized Abbott’s commitments to creating health and education
programs for its employees’ children and to promoting public health and education programs for
Brazilian children and adolescents. The recognition enables Abbott to join a select group of Brazilian
and multinational companies that are permitted to use Abrinq’s seal on their products. The Abrinq
seal is widely recognized and appreciated by Brazilian consumers.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Compensation and Benefits
Abbott’s compensation philosophy is to pay for performance. Our compensation is intended to
compare favorably with the pay programs of other leading health care companies – as well as with
other companies of similar size and financial performance outside our industry – across global
markets where we compete for employees. Our total rewards program combines elements of base
and variable pay with a broad array of benefits and opportunities for growth and development.
While our total compensation targets reference the median of other leading companies, average
individual pay varies based on employee competence, experience and performance. This pay-for-
performance philosophy, combined with internal and external analysis and reviews, helps drive our
total compensation strategy.
Our executive compensation program is designed to help align our business strategy, values and
management interests with those of our shareholders. To achieve these objectives, Abbott has set
the following guiding principles for our compensation programs:
Base salaries are competitive in the markets in which we compete for employees.
Incentive plans are designed to balance short- and long-term financial and strategic
objectives that build shareholder value and reward overall company and individual
performance.
Total compensation for Abbott executives compares well to that of companies performing at
levels equivalent to Abbott.
Incentive compensation (both annual and long­term) is a key component of Abbott’s pay­for­
performance philosophy. Our structure ties individual awards to both business and individual
results, to motivate our employees to achieve superior performance.
Compensation elements are designed to encourage behavior that is consistent with the ethical
values established in Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct .
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 57 | July 3, 2013Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Healthy Living Initiatives
As a global health care company, we are committed to helping our employees and their families lead
healthy, productive lives – and we strive to set an example to encourage other employers to
embrace a culture of health. Our wellness programs provide resources, information, motivation and
support to help our people make healthy lifestyle choices, minimize health risks, manage chronic
health conditions and get access to comprehensive, high-quality health care, medicines and related
supplies.
The healthy living and wellness programs we offer vary around the world, reflecting the needs of
employees and the characteristics of national health care delivery systems. Most of our locations
offer on-site influenza immunizations, health screenings and facilitate employee exercise by offering
onsite fitness centers, health club membership subsidies and/or discounts and sports and
recreation clubs.
In 2012, nearly 13,780 Abbott employees in 60 countries participated in our global four-week team-
based fitness program, Exercise Across Abbott. This program rewards participants for increasing
their physical activity each week. At the end of the four weeks, 364 teams (53 percent) consistently
increased their minutes weekly.
Many of our locations around the world offer a broad range of on-site health services in addition to
educational programs and wellness events. For example, our affiliate in India offers health and
wellness resources, including health checkups, health risk assessments and access to a health
coach or medical professional. The program also offers monthly newsletters, workshops and health
challenges. Similarly, our Brazil operation enhanced its wellness activities in response to employee
feedback, by providing more information and tips on stress management, healthy diet, exercise and
weight loss. Abbott in Brazil created a local Wellness Committee, with representatives from various
business units to support wellness initiatives, including a team run.
Abbott in Ireland and in the United Kingdom offer a wellness program with health awareness
campaigns and challenges.
Our manufacturing facility in Karachi, Pakistan, has delivered a wide array of such benefits through
its Get Active! exercise and fitness campaign. For six weeks beginning in April 2011, nearly 100
employees attended 45-minute aerobics sessions after work in the plant cafeteria. Throughout the
project, possible barriers to participation were removed. For example, a female aerobics teacher
was hired to ensure that female employees would feel comfortable participating, and taxis were
arranged to take employees home who would have missed their regular rides.
To keep employees engaged, periodic contests were organized for attendance, weight management
and physical activity as measured by a pedometer. The plant director, who was himself a regular
attendee of the exercise sessions, awarded prizes at the end of the program.
A survey administered to program participants at the conclusion of Get Active! found that 97
percent of participants reported increased energy levels and a greater capacity for physical activity.
Three-quarters of the participants also felt that the exercise program had improved their ability to
concentrate, an outcome that could generate productivity-related benefits.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 58 | July 3, 2013LiveLifeWell
In the United States, we offer an integrated wellness program, LiveLifeWell, which encompasses:
Online health assessment and tools
Personal health coaching and nutrition counseling
Awareness-raising campaigns and events
Walking program with a free pedometer to track daily progress
On-site immunizations and health screenings
Approximately 60 percent of U.S. employees and 55 percent of their spouses participate in
LiveLifeWell. Employees working with a health coach have lowered their health risks significantly
more than those who are not working with a health coach.
Through awareness-raising events, we help employees learn about their health risks and
encourage them to make healthy choices. Examples of these activities include diabetes awareness
events and cooking demonstrations; healthy heart events that offer free blood pressure screenings;
and posting of nutritional information in Abbott cafeterias to promote healthy meal choices.
Integrated Care Management – Putting the Patient First
In the U.S., Abbott’s unique approach to integrated care management identifies gaps in standard
programs and provides a customized, patient-centered model that delivers targeted support for our
population. The company has partnered with multiple organizations to provide integrated,
comprehensive services and health plan benefits that help employees and families maintain and
improve emotional, physical and financial well-being.
It is an integral part of Abbott’s Health Care Strategy to:
Eliminate cost barriers for preventive care services
Support people across the health care continuum
Proactively identify early opportunities
Ensure each individual is appropriately/seamlessly transitioned to the best service that meets
their needs at any point in time
Co-manage and integrate with vendor partners to enhance member experience
Create impact with each member interaction to drive to optimal outcomes
Incent individuals for active engagement in completing health goals
Abbott’s integrated care management programs have produced multiyear cost avoidance for both
Abbott and its employees, and helped deliver care that is more effective for individuals with serious
health conditions. Abbott continues to evaluate the effectiveness of both the wellness and care
management programs and has found the greatest ROI when individuals participate in all of the
programs to leverage the entire learning and behavior modification tools and resources.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 59 | July 3, 2013Comprehensive Approach – Health Is More Than Physical
Abbott’s commitment to our employees’ well­being is further demonstrated in our programs to
address emotional health needs. Abbott employees and their families in 23 countries around the
world have access to company-funded Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs).
EAPs are intended to promote a productive and healthy workplace by applying specialized
knowledge and expertise about human behavior and mental health. Abbott uses EAPs both to
enhance employee productivity and to help individuals identify and resolve personal concerns
regarding health, family, stress, finances, alcohol, legal concerns, grief and other issues that could
impact job performance.
Beyond individualized assistance, our EAP provides ongoing support to employees by offering
topical seminars and online education. Abbott’s EAP includes crisis intervention services, and it
responds to emergencies in the workplace. EAP resources also are available to employee family
members, thus extending the beneficial impact of EAPs further into the community. In total, our EAP
offerings help employees address personal problems and concerns so that they can face fewer
distractions, make fewer mistakes and be more productive at work.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship > Our Workplace
Employee Health and Safety
Abbott has clear, consistent global policies and standards requiring that we operate in a manner
that promotes employee health, safety and productivity while also protecting the environment .
Among other tenets, our Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  aims to:
Foster a work environment that is ultimately free of injuries
Improve the efficiency and sustainability of all our business activities
Require contractors working on behalf of Abbott to conform to regulatory requirements and
meet applicable internal EHS standards
Integrate sound health and safety practices consistent with our management system into all
aspects of the business
Establish goals and strategies for the enterprise and report publicly on our progress
Our global standards and technical program requirements include metrics, audit and reporting
mechanisms that serve as a baseline expectation for health and safety performance worldwide.
Each Abbott manufacturing plant, R&D center and commercial operation implements a plan based
on these standards and is evaluated regularly.
Our management standards set minimum requirements in the following areas:
Health and Safety Policy and Program
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 60 | July 3, 2013Strategic Planning
Self-Assessment/Risk Assessment
Business Integration
Training and Awareness
Communication and Information
Performance Measures
Assurance Reviews
Health and Safety Global Standards
These technical standards  allow Abbott to have consistent technical expectations at all our sites
around the world.
Health and Safety Management and Training
Improving our performance requires clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership and
support. We have multiple levels of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management oversight
within our business units and across the company. The Senior Vice President Quality Assurance,
Regulatory and Global Engineering Services, a corporate officer, reviews metrics, key programs and
progress with the Chairman and CEO on a regular basis.
We recognize that continuously improving our health and safety performance demands clear lines of
accountability and senior-level leadership and support. The following groups implement our health
and safety programs and initiatives:
Environment, Health and Safety Executive Council: This body sets priorities for all Abbott work
sites and assures that resources are made available to meet local needs. Sponsored by a
corporate officer, the council consists of EHS heads in each operating business.
Commercial Environment, Health and Safety Executive Council: This council sets and
implements EHS goals and objectives for our sales operations around the world. A corporate
officer chairs this group.
Reducing Accidents
We believe that all employee health and safety incidents are preventable, and that safety is the
responsibility of every manager. As in other areas of citizenship reporting, we use an annual review
process and routine performance reporting to help us set and monitor appropriate health and safety
targets and to drive continuous improvement in our performance. Two of our key health and safety
goals are reducing the number of incidents that result in time off work and reducing the incidence of
vehicle accidents among our employees.
At the end of 2012, we set a new lost workday case rate target for 2020 of 0.18 cases per 100
employees. In 2012, our rate of 0.29 cases per 100 employees was 20 percent improved over our
performance in 2011. To achieve our 2020 goal, Abbott will continue to focus on two key areas.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 61 | July 3, 2013First, a risk-based system focuses on the specific facilities with the greatest opportunity for health
and safety performance improvement each year. Each business unit is responsible for addressing
the concerns in its identified facilities by reviewing specific risks and implementing measures to
improve performance.
The second area of focus is behavior-based safety. Senior leaders in each Abbott organization
have embraced our safety culture strategy, Moving to Zero. In 2012, policy requirements were
implemented to establish accountabilities for management observations, in which unsafe
occupational behaviors are recognized and corrected.
To complement these work site-based initiatives, we regularly publish and distribute to all employees
information and advice on improving safety at home and in the workplace. Examples of our materials
include a CARE at Home booklet and our Moving to Zero video. Sites around the world also share
best-in-class programs aimed to reduce employee injuries. This global initiative encourages all
employees to think and act safely, and helps lead Abbott toward an injury-free culture.
Vehicle Safety
Vehicle safety is another key priority for Abbott. At the end of 2012, we set a vehicle accidents
target for 2020 of 4.0 accidents per million miles driven – a 60 percent reduction from our 2010
baseline year. In 2012, our global vehicle accident rate decreased by 21 percent from the 2011
rate, to 5.7 accidents per million miles driven.
In early 2012, we launched a new, comprehensive global education campaign to our large
international Affiliates, designed to help our employees better understand the risks associated with
distracted driving. Formally known as Helping Employees Reduce Risk Across the Organization
(HERO), the campaign focuses on our commercial field sales force. HERO is designed to encourage
field-based employees to use safe driving habits and to raise awareness about the risks posed by
in­vehicle distractions such as mobile telephone use. Since the campaign’s launch, several of our
business divisions have already taken steps to prohibit calling and texting while driving, even in
locations where mobile phone use is still permitted by law. We are expanding this program to
additional sites in 2013.
To further advance vehicle safety, we focus on specific countries with the highest risk profile and a
history of higher accident rates. For example, in 2012, we significantly increased training for
employees in our recently acquired businesses in India who travel on motorcycles. By year end,
over 90 percent of the new Indian field force employees had been fully trained in behind-the-wheel
training and on the importance of motorcycle safety and the specific steps they can take to prevent
accidents. Additionally, widespread helmet distribution and enforcement – combined with our
educational initiatives – contributed to a 59 percent reduction in lost­time cases and a 70 percent
reduction in significant incidents during the second half of the year.
Commercial Employee Health and Safety
Our health and safety culture extends throughout our company. We seek to provide a safe working
environment and encourage sound safety practices – not just in manufacturing plants and vehicles,
but in every type of work site and facility. As a means of creatively engaging commercial employees
in programs designed to enhance personal safety and well-being, we deploy a series of interactive
multimedia training programs covering a variety of topics, such as ergonomics, personal security
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 62 | July 3, 2013and incident reporting. These Web-based programs are designed to provide timely and efficient
messaging to field and office employees and help maintain a steady level of EHS awareness across
the commercial organizations.
To ensure ongoing compliance with internal Abbott Global EHS Management and Technical
Standards, Abbott EHS professionals also provide formal on-site EHS gap assessments across
international affiliates. During these assessments, commercial leaders are provided with a wide
range of compliance tools and implementation resources designed to ensure sustainable
compliance and program improvement.
Further demonstrating the importance of health and safety in our commercial teams, we promote an
annual Commercial EHS Program of the Year campaign to showcase best practices and provide
internal recognition for organizations that demonstrate strong leadership. To qualify, each
commercial organization must participate in a rigorous review process, consisting of a formal self-
assessment, review by Global EHS Commercial staff and detailed review of documentation on the
organization’s fleet safety programs and standards, ergonomics, environmental activities and health
and wellness programs.
Occupational Health
Complementing our focus on accident prevention and safety education, our occupational health
team plays an important role in promoting the health and productivity of all Abbott employees.
Occupational health staff serve as integral members of the Executive Crisis Management team on all
issues related to employee health. Among other responsibilities, the team monitors the spread of
infectious diseases such as avian influenza and develops proactive preventive health strategies for
Abbott work sites. The team also plays a critical role in assessing potential health impacts of natural
disasters such as Superstorm Sandy in 2012 – and developing appropriate preparedness plans for
employees and customers at both the global and local levels.
Historically, the field of occupational health focused largely on preventing workplace injuries, along
with conducting preventive medical surveillance to ensure the safety of workers whose jobs entailed
exposure to health risks such as loud noise or potentially hazardous chemicals. These basic
occupational health activities are still performed at Abbott, but increasingly the definition of
occupational health has expanded to include a wide range of innovative programs that emphasize
preventative care and take a holistic perspective on workforce health.
In all, more than 54,000 employees around the world benefited from a wide variety of health
promotion activities in 2012. Some of the more popular types of health promotions included:
Influenza vaccinations – 5,671 employee participants
Blood drive – 1,781 participants
First aid training – 1,240 participants
Automated external defibrillator (AED) training – 1,243 participants
CPR training – 1,157 participants
Data demonstrates that these training initiatives not only ensure appropriate training, but also save
lives. Since 2002, our AED and CPR programs are believed to have saved at least nine lives at
Abbott facilities worldwide.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 63 | July 3, 2013To ensure that our employees receive the best possible occupational health care, our Global
Occupational Health Services organization also offers a scholarship program to fund advanced
training for occupational health physicians and nurses at our facilities. In 2012, we awarded
scholarships to two nurses in the U.S. and a physician in Spain.
Global Health Scorecard
In early 2011, we launched a new Global Health Scorecard to monitor each work site’s performance
on key occupational health measures and to identify areas for improvement. The scorecard is an
important internal tool to help measure progress against our goal of optimizing employee health
offerings at all our manufacturing sites worldwide by 2015.
The scorecard ranks sites according to how many targets they have reached from a menu of 15
global health offerings. In 2012, 93 percent of our manufacturing sites met the target for the year
with 47 percent of these sites already at the 2015 target. In order to maintain or reach the top level
in 2013 and subsequent years, sites will need to improve their performance in additional health
indicators such as achieving a nonsmoking campus, making healthy food options available in the
cafeteria on a daily basis, offering seasonal influenza vaccinations on-site, holding a health fair, and
providing employees access to physical activity at a fitness center and/or walking trail.
Core Requirements Health Offerings
1. T22 EHS Technical Standard
a. DHCP
b. Medical Surveillance
c. Tx of WR Injuries
d. Onsite Clinical Testing
2. T22-01-012 International Business Travel
3. T22-01-029 AED
4. T22-01-030 Medical Records5. Non-Smoking Campus
6. Health Food Options Cafeteria
7. Health Food Options Vending
8. EAP
9. Access to Physical Activity
10. Flu Vaccinations
11. Flu Prevention Education
12. Health Screening
13. Health Education
14. Stress Management
15. Health Fair
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Supply Chain Management
Supplier relationships are integral to Abbott’s success – as a business and as a corporate citizen.
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure high levels of performance in all aspects of quality,
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 64 | July 3, 2013compliance and social responsibility. We communicate with our suppliers regularly, monitoring and
helping them enhance performance according to well-defined metrics.
Managing Supplier Quality and Dependability
Abbott seeks to engage suppliers in a process of continual learning and improvement, using formal
management reviews and performance audits aimed at improving their systems as well as our own.
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure that the materials we purchase from them comply with
our expectations for quality and safety, as well as our technical specifications. We also partner with
suppliers to help them improve their social responsibility programs and results.
With a supply chain composed of more than 20,000 suppliers and an estimated spend of $8 billion,
Abbott uses a risk-based approach to ensure that we apply the appropriate level of focus and rigor
in our supply chain management process. We establish carefully designed metrics to evaluate the
performance of both global and local suppliers against mutually agreed-upon expectations.
Additionally, we apply special focus to a subset of about 40 percent of our total supply base, which
is responsible for the raw materials that most directly impact product quality. Over the past two
years, Abbott has completed more than 1,000 on-site supplier quality audits.
All Abbott suppliers are provided access to our Supplier Guidelines , which are published in multiple
languages. These guidelines set forth our expectations for suppliers in the following areas: ethical
behavior, business integrity and fair competition, human rights, privacy, labor rights and worker
protection, animal welfare, environmental stewardship, and health and safety practices. Our new
Resources for Suppliers  Web site includes answers to Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) related
to social responsibility and provides insights into Abbottâ€™s expectations for suppliers.
A subset of suppliers are selected for inclusion in our Supplier Performance Program, which is
designed to both drive innovation among strong performers and to encourage higher performance
levels among suppliers experiencing challenges. Suppliers are selected for inclusion based on key
business needs – worldwide scope of service, previous performance against expected service levels
and other criteria. Selected suppliers are closely measured throughout the year in the areas of
financial risk, adherence to social responsibility, business metrics of delivery and quality
performance, and product and process innovation. Our investment in automated scorecarding
allows us to quickly identify and resolve performance shortfalls and to reward outstanding
performance. In 2012, we recognized 21 supplier companies with our Supplier Excellence Award,
showcasing their exceptionally strong performance and continuous improvement.
Managing Supplier Social Responsibility
Abbott also has intensified our focus on monitoring and managing suppliers’ social responsibility
performance in recent years, establishing a special program at the corporate level to assist
suppliers in meeting our expectations in such critical areas as employee health and safety, fair labor
practices, diversity, ethics and environmental stewardship.
Our Global Purchasing compliance team proactively identifies suppliers in high-risk industries,
geographies and spend categories, conducting intensive screening in emerging markets. We survey
suppliers using principles set forth by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), an industry
consortium dedicated to advancing consistent expectations within the supply chain related to social
issues. Based on survey results, Abbott may perform a higher level of scrutiny – including additional
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 65 | July 3, 2013on-site audits. Audits of high-risk suppliers are conducted to confirm that these suppliers provide:
Safe working conditions
Dignified and respectful treatment of employees
Responsible manufacturing processes
Adequate management systems
Ethical practices
In 2011, we implemented multiple process improvements to fortify our supplier social responsibility
program. These enhancements include a more sophisticated supplier classification model, a
quarterly results tracking scorecard and a semi­automated audit report – along with a new process
for increasing awareness of the program across our multiple businesses and geographies.
Each year Abbott aims to audit at least 300 suppliers as part of this initiative. These audits occur in
addition to more traditional audits for quality and adherence to specifications. In 2012, we
augmented our supplier social responsibility audit program with third-party audits designed to
assess a larger number of suppliers based outside the United States, targeting the high-risk
countries identified in our supplier classification model.
Supplier Diversity
As with our own workforce, Abbott believes diversity in our suppliers is essential to our ability to
compete globally. We are committed to purchasing from a diverse base of suppliers, including small
businesses and those owned by minorities, women, veterans, service-disabled veterans and Indian
tribes, as well as nonprofits and businesses located in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. We
encourage all suppliers who produce the products and services we need to contact us, regardless
of size or ownership.
In 2012, Abbott purchased nearly $2.2 billion in goods and services from more than 1,500 small and
diverse suppliers in the United States. We work with numerous U.S. advocacy organizations
promoting diverse businesses, and we actively source potential suppliers from local, regional and
national outreach events designed to bring together diverse suppliers and corporations. In 2012, we
continued our focus on the selection of suppliers who are veterans or service-disabled veterans,
participating in the national convention of veteran businesses and mentoring a service-disabled
veteran supplier.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 66 | July 3, 2013Green Procurement
In 2011, Abbott published a new Green Procurement Policy . Among other standards, the policy
advocates procurement considerations of environmentally preferable goods and services in order to
help minimize potential harmful effects on human health and the environment.
Multiple Abbott business units and operational teams have partnered with their suppliers over the
past year to improve the environmental stewardship of specific goods and services we purchase.
For example, we work closely with a nutrition ingredient supplier that operates one of the world’s
most advanced water recycling facilities at its California site. This supplier facility takes in about 5
billion pounds of cow’s milk each year. Through the use of water reclamation, the supplier is able to
liberate a large volume of water from the milk – providing a new source of water for the farms and
crops of central California. More than half the total water usage in this supplier’s facility comes from
two recycled sources: water that is skimmed from cow’s milk after the nutrients are extracted for
processing, and recycled water from the supplier’s reclamation facility. This recycled water is used
for a variety of nonfood purposes, including cleaning and sanitation of manufacturing equipment,
crop irrigation, cooling towers and boilers. We are proud to work with suppliers like this one, who
share our focus on environmental stewardship, and we routinely partner with these suppliers to
exchange ideas about additional environmental programs and activities.
Along with our efforts to protect the environment through green sourcing, we are committed to
responsible disposal of goods and materials at the end of their life cycle. In 2012, our electronic
waste recycling program surpassed over 95 percent of all the computers in the United States, as
well as over 50 percent of all the computers in Europe. Last year, the Abbott eWaste program
generated more than 595,000 pounds of electronic equipment such as computers, printers, servers,
monitors, telephones, copiers and fax machines. Proper recycling of this equipment is important
because the equipment often contains toxic materials like lead and mercury that can leach into the
environment when not disposed of properly. To ensure that this eWaste is handled appropriately,
our certified eWaste suppliers dispose of electronic assets; recover and reuse relevant parts; and
recycle parts that cannot be reused. Our suppliers first conduct a rigorous sanitization process to
ensure that Abbott data is permanently erased from the electronic equipment we send them. Then
they repair, test and refurbish this electronic equipment for resale. All items not fit for reuse are de-
manufactured and the materials are sorted into the appropriate commodity streams, where they are
ultimately reprocessed for use in future manufacturing. No eWaste is exported, incinerated or sent
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 67 | July 3, 2013to landfills.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Risk and Crisis Management
Every year, the world endures both man-made and natural disasters that disrupt supply chains and
make it challenging for people to obtain critical medicines or fulfill other vital health care needs. To
protect access to important health care products and mitigate supply risks, Abbott has created an
Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT) to anticipate and prevent supply chain problems
through advance planning, preparations and practice.
While local Abbott emergency response teams around the world are able to handle many crises on
their own, the global ECMT provides assistance and leads Abbott’s response to major cross­border
events such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, wildfires or civil unrest.
The ECMT is structured with two subgroups, each of which includes senior leaders from functional
areas such as manufacturing, supply chain, human resources, public affairs, security and
commercial. If a team member from a certain functional area is unavailable when a crisis hits, this
redundant structure allows his or her counterpart from the alternate team to step into position and
begin seamlessly performing the necessary functional responsibilities. The “two teams within a
team” structure also provides Abbott the ability to operate around the clock if necessary.
When a major crisis erupts, the ECMT assembles as quickly as possible in a dedicated facility at
Abbott’s headquarters north of Chicago. This state­of­the­art facility includes all the technological
tools required to help the ECMT stay functional throughout the crisis. For example, the ECMT
control room is fully equipped with redundant systems, satellite feeds and telephone connections, as
well as backup heating, air conditioning, ventilation and power sources. All this technology is
essential, but the commitment and teamwork of the senior leaders who participate in the ECMT are
the key ingredients that make the team so effective.
Coordinated Emergency Response
During major crises, ECMT activities can continue for weeks, even after the initial impact subsides.
For instance, nearly three weeks after Hurricane Sandy began moving up the eastern seaboard of
the United States, the ECMT continued to actively monitor the impact of the disaster. Although
Abbott leaders quickly confirmed the safety of approximately 6,100 Abbott employees and the
security of Abbott facilities, the ECMT continued to monitor and support work with Abbott’s suppliers,
third-party manufacturers, distributors and other partners to assess impact and provide assistance
as needed.
Among other initiatives, the ECMT provided assistance to employees in the impacted region by
quickly identifying those impacted by Hurricane Sandy and ensuring their immediate needs were
provided for. In addition, the Abbott Fund provided more than $1 million in financial support and
product donations to support humanitarian relief efforts on the ground. “Sandy has been described
as ‘a storm of unprecedented proportions’ and efforts to recover from it could be among the most
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 68 | July 3, 2013extensive in U.S. history,” said Kathy Pickus, Divisional Vice President, Global Citizenship and
Policy. “To that end, we are making a long­term commitment to helping repair and rebuild the
communities where our families, friends and Abbott operations have been impacted by this
disaster.”
Planning Ahead
Meanwhile, Abbott Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning specialists spend a great
deal of time practicing various crisis scenarios with both the ECMT and country-specific crisis
response teams. These specialists travel the world helping Abbott manufacturing plants, distribution
centers and commercial offices build, revise or test their crisis management and business continuity
plans. The goal is to help our affiliates identify the most likely risks and develop proactive
contingency plans.
According to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), one of the world’s most prestigious
citizenship benchmarks, Abbott scored a perfect 100 on our risk and crisis management processes
and systems. While we take satisfaction in external recognition of our strong risk management
capabilities, the most important measure of our success is our ability to keep supply lines intact and
to give our patients, customers and employees the support they need to overcome unexpected
challenges.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 69 | July 3, 2013More than 500 executive­level leaders play a part on Abbott’s Global Crisis Management Team. A
“two teams within a team” structure means that members can step in to support one another for
round-the-clock crisis management.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Ethics and Compliance
Abbott is committed to doing business in a responsible manner and to building trust with all our
stakeholders. We work every day to earn that trust, making sure that our approximately 70,000
employees understand the importance of the actions and decisions they make and the manner in
which they conduct themselves. We are guided by the Abbott Promise for Life, by company policies
and procedures and by a clear understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our
ethics and compliance program and strategies work to the benefit of Abbott and our shareholders
by safeguarding our company’s reputation and enhancing trust.
For more on Citizenship at Abbott, click here.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 70 | July 3, 2013For more on our Citizenship Management and Governance, click here.
Business Ethics at Abbott
At Abbott, we are committed to meeting high ethical standards and to complying with all applicable
local, national and international laws wherever we do business. Our ethical standards and
commitments are embodied in our Abbott Promise for Life , a statement that describes – for our
customers, our communities, our shareholders and all other stakeholders – what we believe, what
we value, and what we strive to deliver in our day-to-day work. For the people of Abbott, the Abbott
Promise is a compass that guides our actions and decisions, ensuring that we live up to the high
expectations we set for ourselves so we can better serve our stakeholders. It challenges us to
continually improve and inspires us to always aim higher.
Effective Compliance Program
Abbott’s ethics and compliance program requires not just adherence to applicable laws and
regulations, but in many cases goes beyond them, in a manner consistent with our commitment to
honesty, fairness and integrity. Ours is an integrated, company-wide program that is organized
around the seven elements of effective compliance. These seven elements are:
Leadership
Written Standards
Effective Lines of Communication
Training
Accountability
Assessment
Remediation
Our program also requires compliance with many voluntary industry guidelines, as noted below. Our
approach to the seven key elements of effective compliance is as follows:
Leadership
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for the management and operation
of the Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) and the development and enhancement of the
compliance program. The CECO makes regular reports regarding compliance matters to the
Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, senior level leadership and Abbott’s Board
of Directors and committees. The Business Conduct Committee (BCC) consists of senior-level
leadership and is chaired by the CECO. The BCC is accountable directly to the Chairman of the
Board and the Chief Executive Officer and was established to assist in the implementation of the
compliance program. The BCC holds periodic meetings to discuss matters including the legal and
regulatory environment, risk areas and best practices, as well as modifications to the compliance
program on the basis of such evaluation. OEC staff provides dedicated support to each of Abbott’s
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 71 | July 3, 2013businesses.
Outside the United States, our Affiliate Compliance Program is managed by local Affiliate
Compliance Committees, which are composed of the Affiliate Management Representative and other
top executives representing all of Abbott’s businesses within a country. The Affiliate Compliance
Committees are responsible for the day-to-day function of the compliance program, including
monitoring of compliance, providing awareness of and training for the program, revising policies and
procedures, and providing guidance to local employees. The committees also meet on a regular
basis to discuss emerging issues and work with the International Ethics and Compliance
organization as new programs initiated by the OEC are rolled out. Compliance professionals are
located throughout the world and provide oversight and guidance to the Affiliate Compliance
Committees.
Written Standards
The Abbott Code of Business Conduct , published in print and online in 36 languages, sets forth our
basic guidelines and requirements for ethical behavior. Abbott employees read and certify
adherence to our Code annually. Our Code states clearly that Abbott does not tolerate illegal or
unethical behavior in any aspect of our business. It emphasizes the importance of ethical and
honest conduct, adhering to Abbott’s policies and procedures, treating confidential information
appropriately, avoiding conflicts of interest and maintaining Abbott’s books and records with
accuracy and integrity. Further, it requires our employees to ask questions or report any concerns.
Policies and Procedures
In addition to our Code, we adopt policies and procedures that guide employees as they conduct
their day-to-day activities. They encompass relevant laws and regulations, including food and drug
laws and laws relating to government health care programs. They also take into account industry
best practices, including provisions of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
& Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices  and the updated Advanced
Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care
Professionals, as well as other applicable industry codes. We regularly update our policies to
incorporate changes to the law and industry codes, including rules regarding gifts, meals and
education we provide to health care professionals.
A growing number of state laws in the United States require greater transparency in the
relationships between our industry and individuals and entities involved in providing health care.
These laws impose various combinations of code of conduct restrictions on activities involving
health care professionals and health care organizations and tracking and reporting of payments and
transfers of value (such as meals) provided. Abbott complies with all such laws , which currently exist
in California, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Nevada, Vermont and West Virginia. Abbott
also is preparing to comply with the federal Sunshine Act, for which tracking will begin on August 1,
2013.
Effective Lines of Communication
Creating an environment where employees can raise questions and concerns helps us advance our
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 72 | July 3, 2013commitment to ethical behavior. We have established systems and processes for employees to ask
questions and report suspected or actual violations of our Code, policies and procedures. We offer
a number of resources to employees, such as our Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and
Web-based hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Employees also may contact the
OEC or the CECO directly.
In 2012, we received approximately 660 inquiries and allegations. All allegations are analyzed and
corrective actions are taken where necessary, including terminating employees or supplier
relationships. When appropriate, we report information about breaches of our Code to senior
management. The OEC also creates opportunities to engage in face-to-face interactions with
employees by participating in national and regional sales meetings and local site meetings. Issues
also are highlighted on our OEC intranet site and through other targeted communications vehicles.
Training
Training and education programs for employees increase their awareness of our Code’s precepts
and the legal and ethical implications of their actions and behaviors. Abbott ethics and compliance
officers work with our local commercial teams throughout the world to help them conduct trainings
and education programs that help ensure compliance and strengthen Abbott’s reputation as a
responsible corporate citizen while enhancing relationships with customers and other stakeholders.
For example, employees in the United States, Puerto Rico, Latin America and various countries in
Europe and Asia participate in our Legal and Ethics Resource Network program, a Web-based
training system designed to increase awareness of the legal and ethical implications of business
decisions. More than 42,500 employees completed these training programs in 2012. Another
successful approach has been the use of interactive ethics challenge games, in which local
employees meet face-to-face with OEC representatives to ask questions and discuss company
policies.
Ethics and compliance training is a part of Abbott’s culture wherever we operate.
In Romania, for example, employees attending sales meetings are constantly engaged in enjoyable
yet challenging compliance refreshers using innovative methods such as puzzles and games. One
game, based on Edward de Bono’s Six Thinking Hats technique, has groups of five to ten literally
wearing different hats. Each hat is a different color and represents a different type of thinking. At the
end of the exercise, participants understand a problem from a 360-degree perspective and see
possible solutions, demonstrating how compliance decisions can make themselves. In other Eastern
European nations, Abbott employees are invited to play Road Signs, an ethics and compliance
board game that tests their knowledge of Abbott policies and products.
Additionally, more than 90 percent of our Latin American employees have participated in an
innovative workshop we call The Positive “No.” Begun in 2009, Positive “No” helps employees learn
and practice assertive communication skills that clarify expectations of customers and other
business partners. The program reminds employees that saying “no” in a positive manner not only
helps avoid ethical conflicts, but actually strengthens customer and partner relationships by
enhancing the reputation of the company and its people. The Positive “No” program has been
awarded an Abbott Chairman’s Award, and we plan to replicate it outside Latin America.
Accountability
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 73 | July 3, 2013Abbott employees are expected to adhere to our Code as a condition of their continued
employment. Any Abbott employee who violates our Code, or any policy or procedure, is subject to
appropriate disciplinary action. Any Abbott employee who fails to report a violation of Abbott policy
or procedure of which he or she is or should have been aware may also be subject to disciplinary
action. Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who makes a good-faith report regarding
a violation or potential violation of our Code, policies or procedures. These guidelines are well
publicized and enforced.
Assessment
The OEC utilizes results from internal investigations, internal audits and internal monitoring
programs to assess the effectiveness of, and identify areas for improvement in, the compliance
program and relevant business practices. In addition, we consider the external environment,
including government investigations, settlements, industry codes and government guidance to
identify new opportunities to enhance the compliance program.
Remediation
Results of investigations, audits and monitoring are communicated to the appropriate OEC staff and
business leaders. When an area for improvement is identified, the OEC partners with the business
to implement corrective actions.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Creating a Culture of Citizenship
Community Involvement
In communities large and small, in developed and developing nations, and wherever we live, work
and do business, Abbott strives to make a positive and lasting difference in people’s lives. We do so
by creating and distributing life-enhancing products; by providing our expertise to advance health
care quality and access around the world; and by providing financial support to the Abbott Fund, a
nonprofit 501(c)(3) foundation. In 2012, Abbott and the Abbott Fund  contributed more than $755
million in grants, product donations, community partnerships and efforts to strengthen health care
systems around the world.
In addition, Abbott employees around the world generously contribute their time, expertise, money
and enthusiasm to numerous community-based initiatives. Employees in Canada, Ireland, Puerto
Rico, the United Kingdom and the United States currently have access to an online system enabling
them to select volunteer activities that match their needs and interests, and to track their hours for
local reporting purposes.
Abbott employees also continued to expand their financial giving to nonprofit and community groups
in 2012, with more than 88 percent of U.S. employees contributing through the company’s annual
employee giving campaign and the matching grant program. Contributions from the Abbott Fund
and employees reached a new company record of $14.7 million. Abbott’s employee participation is
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 74 | July 3, 2013more than twice the rate typically seen in employee giving campaigns, according to JK Group, which
administers corporate philanthropy programs at Abbott and elsewhere.
To ensure that our philanthropic activities are strategic and impactful, Abbott begins by exploring
the needs of those we seek to assist, listening and asking questions until we understand their
challenges and can propose workable solutions. We identify partner organizations whose skills and
contributions complement Abbott strengths and expertise, and then we carefully measure the impact
of our programs and share what we learn with others.
Abbott’s approach to community involvement includes:
Science Education : Abbott works to inspire and engage students, their families and
teachers in scientific exploration to help prepare the next generation of innovators. We
sponsor and participate in programs that encourage young people to become proficient in
science and pursue careers in science and engineering. For example, our Family Science
program engages elementary school students and their families in stimulating evenings of
experimentation and discussion, led by some of Abbott’s top scientists. During the past seven
years, we have held more than 150 Family Science programs in China, Germany, Ireland,
Puerto Rico, Singapore, South Korea, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Community Vitality : Healthy communities possess vibrant and diverse institutions that serve
the public good. These institutions range from health and human welfare agencies such as
food banks, homeless shelters and health clinics to museums and universities. The Abbott
Fund supports creative programs that address unmet needs of local communities. When
natural disasters and emergencies strike communities, the Abbott Fund responds with grants
to trusted humanitarian relief partners. Grants are directed to both immediate needs and
longer-term reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts.
Anticipating and Responding to Natural Disasters
When natural disasters and other emergencies strike, Abbott and the Abbott Fund respond quickly
with grants and product donations to trusted humanitarian relief partners – not only to meet people’s
immediate needs, but also to assist with longer-term reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts. We
also work to anticipate disasters. For the past seven years, for instance, Abbott has worked with
Direct Relief and Feeding America to pre-position medical and nutritional products in targeted high-
risk locations in advance of hurricane season. By pre-positioning products that will be urgently
needed in food banks and clinics along the East and Gulf Coasts, the Caribbean and Central
America, we ensure that the right products are in the right places before a disaster occurs.
Prior to the 2013 hurricane season, Abbott, the Abbott Fund and our partners had pre-positioned
nearly $875 million worth of donated products, which could then be delivered within two or three
days of a disaster, compared with the seven to ten days that are typical of most relief programs.
Each clinic and food bank participating in our program receives disaster relief modules or packs
containing the most essential supplies. These packs can treat more than 100,000 people, helping to
mitigate mass referrals to local hospitals.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, which caused massive floods, fires and unprecedented
destruction across the eastern seaboard of the United States, Abbott and Abbott Fund committed
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 75 | July 3, 2013$1 million, including monetary grants, to four relief organizations: Direct Relief, American Red Cross,
AmeriCares and World Vets, as well as product contributions to food banks and free clinics in the
affected areas.
Employee Giving and Involvement
Giving back is an integral part of Abbott’s culture, and our employees’ generosity mirrors that of our
company. The Abbott Fund and Abbott employees contributed a record $14.7 million in 2012
through the Abbott Employee Giving Campaign and Matching Grant program, compared with $13.9
million the previous year. More than 88 percent of U.S. employees participated in the campaign –
compared with 87 percent in 2011 – and their contributions were distributed to more than 5,700
community organizations. Abbott employee giving includes pledges raised through the company’s
annual employee giving campaign, donations by employees throughout the year, and matching gifts
from the Abbott Fund.
The people of Abbott have a long history of supporting our communities through volunteerism and
by generously sharing their skills, scientific knowledge and enthusiasm with community-based
initiatives. For example, many of our scientists volunteer their time and expertise to reach young
people through our science education programs, while others assist our nonprofit partners in
investigating new treatments and developing new products to help relieve malnutrition.
Measuring Results
We assess our community investments based on the impact they have on our business and on
society. Abbott works with each community partner to measure and track outputs and the impact of
major philanthropic initiatives, including science education, access to health care, HIV/AIDS, patient
assistance and product donation programs.
Since 2009, Abbott has been a member of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), the
internationally recognized standard for measuring corporate community investment. Abbott is among
the more than 300 companies worldwide using the LBG framework to measure, manage and report
the value and achievements of the philanthropic contributions they make.
For example, we used the LBG framework to help measure the impact of the Abbott Fund Institute of
Nutrition Science (AFINS)  – a unique program aimed at advancing clinical nutrition practices in
developing nations through extensive training; the integration of nutrition education into local
medical school curricula; and the development of standardized nutritional guidelines.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Key Metrics
The Key Metrics section offers an easy­to­use, interactive charting tool to view Abbott’s
performance for a number of priorities over a number of years.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 76 | July 3, 2013Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Key Metrics
Financial
Sales
Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company Jan. 1, 2013.
Dividends Paid
Data in this chart reflects Abbott activities in 2012.
Income Taxes Paid
Data in this chart reflects Abbott activities in 2012.DOLLARS IN MILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Worldwide 35,167 38,851 21,494
DOLLARS IN BILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 2.7 3.0 3.2
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 810 1,800 1,400
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 77 | July 3, 2013R&D Investment
Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company Jan. 1, 2013.
Spend on Direct Suppliers
Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company Jan. 1, 2013.
Key Metrics
Social
Employees
Data in this chart reflects Abbott activities in 2012.DOLLARS BILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 3.7 4.1 1.5
DOLLARS BILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 15.3 16.0 8.0
2010 2011 2012
% of women in management (U.S.) 44% 45% 45.30%
% of minorities in management (U.S.) 22% 24% 25.40%
Total 91,440 91,000 91,000
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 78 | July 3, 2013GOAL
GOALSocial Investing
Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company Jan. 1, 2013.
U.S. Employee Giving Campaign Results
Data in this chart reflects Abbott activities in 2012.
Lost Time Case Rate
Data in this chart reflects Abbott-only activities.
Global Vehicle Accident Rate
Data in this chart reflects Abbott-only activities.DOLLARS IN MILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 625 630 60
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS 2010 2011 2012
Total 6.6 7.1 7.0
CASES PER 100 EMPLOYEES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012% change
from 2010
(goal)
Total 0.33 0.36 0.29 -12.1 -55
ACCIDENTS PER MILLION
MILES DRIVEN 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012% change
from 2010
(goal)
Total 10.0 7.2 5.7 1.2 -60
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 79 | July 3, 2013Recordable Injury or Illness Incident Rate
Data in this chart reflects Abbott-only activities.INCIDENTS PER 100
EMPLOYEES 2010 2011 2012
Total 0.83 0.68 0.57
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 80 | July 3, 2013GOALKey Metrics
Environmental
CO2e Emissions
Total
Normalized by Sales
By Region/Country
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO 2E EMISSIONS BY REGION1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Purchased fuels (Scope 1) CO 2 emissions (1) 525 478 465 -2.7
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO 2e emissions (3) 4 7 6 -12.6
Total direct (Scope 1) CO 2e emissions 529 485 471 -2.9
Purchased energy (Scope 2) CO 2e emissions (2) 585 558 538 -3.7
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO 2e emissions 1,114 1,043 1,009 -3.3
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012% change
from 2010
(goal)
Direct (Scope 1) CO 2e emissions 27 22 22 -3.0
Purchased energy (Scope 2) CO 2e emissions 30 26 25 -3.8
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO 2e emissions 56 48 46 -3.5 -40
1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 81 | July 3, 2013Scope 1Canada 28 23 26
USA 597 546 497
Region Total 625 570 523
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 4 4 5
Brazil 3 3 4
Costa Rica 0 0 1
Mexico 14 14 13
Puerto Rico 38 37 37
Regional – not available by country 14 12 14
Region Total 72 70 73
Europe
England 16 14 14
France 4 4 4
Germany 29 26 25
Ireland 67 61 59
Netherlands 68 61 60
Spain 14 15 13
Sweden 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0
Regional – not available by country 50 46 47
Region Total 250 229 223
Asia Pacific
China 14 14 15
India 18 18 16
Indonesia 2 2 2
Japan 7 6 6
Pakistan 16 17 16
Singapore 44 46 46
Regional – not available by country 66 70 88
Region Total 167 174 189
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 82 | July 3, 2013CO2E EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 16 14 15
USA 273 239 215
Region Total 288 253 230
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 2 2 2
Brazil 2 2 2
Costa Rica 0 0 0
Mexico 13 13 13
Puerto Rico 2 2 2
Regional – not available by country 13 12 13
Region Total 31 30 32
Europe
England 5 4 4
France 3 3 3
Germany 11 10 9
Ireland 38 32 32
Netherlands 40 36 33
Spain 5 5 5
Sweden 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0
Regional – not available by country 38 38 39
Region Total 140 129 126
Asia Pacific
China 1 1 1
India 1 2 1
Indonesia 0 0 0
Japan 2 1 1
Pakistan 14 15 14
Singapore 16 18 19
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 83 | July 3, 2013Regional – not available by country 35 35 47
Region Total 69 73 84
Scope 2
CO2E EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 12 10 11
USA 324 307 283
Region Total 336 317 293
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 2 2 3
Brazil 1 1 2
Costa Rica 0 0 1
Mexico 0 0 0
Puerto Rico 36 35 35
Regional – not available by country 1 1 1
Region Total 41 40 42
Europe
England 11 10 10
France 1 1 1
Germany 18 16 16
Ireland 29 29 27
Netherlands 27 25 26
Spain 9 10 8
Sweden 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0
Regional – not available by country 12 8 8
Region Total 110 100 97
Asia Pacific
China 14 13 14
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 84 | July 3, 2013GOALWater Intake
Total
Normalized by SalesIndia 17 16 15
Indonesia 2 2 2
Japan 5 5 5
Pakistan 2 2 3
Singapore 28 28 27
Regional – not available by country 31 35 40
Region Total 98 101 105
BILLION GALLONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Moderate to high stress locations 0.97 1.04 1.02 -2.1
Total water intake 3.30 3.28 3.13 -4.6
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012% change
from 2010
(goal)
Moderate to high stress locations 49 48 47 -2.2
Total water intake 166 150 143 -4.8 30
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 85 | July 3, 2013By Region/Country
WATER INTAKE BY REGIONBILLION GALLONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 0.22 0.18 0.20
USA 1.78 1.77 1.62
Region Total 2.00 1.96 1.82
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 0.02 0.02 0.03
Brazil 0.01 0.02 0.02
Costa Rica 0.00 0.00 0.01
Mexico 0.04 0.04 0.03
Puerto Rico 0.09 0.09 0.09
Region Total 0.17 0.17 0.18
Europe
France 0.02 0.02 0.01
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04
Ireland 0.18 0.17 0.19
Netherlands 0.41 0.40 0.36
Spain 0.08 0.09 0.09
Sweden 0.02 0.03 0.03
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.76 0.76 0.72
Asia Pacific
China 0.04 0.04 0.04
India 0.02 0.06 0.05
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.03 0.03 0.03
Pakistan 0.09 0.09 0.08
Singapore 0.19 0.17 0.20
Region Total 0.36 0.40 0.41
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 86 | July 3, 2013Water Consumed
Total
Normalized by Sales
Water Discharged (Impaired)
Total
Normalized by SalesBILLION GALLONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water consumed 0.59 0.66 0.63 -4.7
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water consumed 30 30 29 -4.9
BILLION GALLONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water discharged (impaired) 2.18 2.03 1.86 -8.4
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water discharged (impaired) 110 93 85 -5.8
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 87 | July 3, 2013Water Discharged (Non-Impaired)
Total
Normalized by Sales
BOD Concentration in Wastewater from Major Manufacturing
Plants
Waste
TotalBILLION GALLONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water discharged (non-impaired) 0.54 0.60 0.65 8.6
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total water discharged (non-impaired) 27 27 30 8.4
U.S. DOLLARS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 460 500 460 -8.0
TONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total waste not landfilled 52,764 44,121 44,422 0.7
Total waste landfilled 22,679 21,933 16,939 -22.8
Total waste recycled 33,466 26,032 26,413 1.5
Total waste 75,442 66,054 61,362 -7.1
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 88 | July 3, 2013GOALNormalized by Sales
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012% change
from 2010
(goal)
Total 3.80 3.03 2.81 -7.2 -40
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 89 | July 3, 2013By Region/Country
TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 1,236 1,052 1,123
USA 35,717 27,481 22,827
Region Total 36,953 28,533 23,950
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 402 310 318
Brazil 680 1,156 1,029
Costa Rica 0 261 605
Mexico 222 441 765
Puerto Rico 4,238 4,662 5,093
Region Total 5,541 6,830 7,810
Europe
France 1,346 1,224 1,325
Germany 7,868 7,810 8,524
Ireland 5,216 4,427 4,722
Netherlands 8,724 7,147 5,936
Spain 1,038 969 938
Sweden 407 456 429
Switzerland 50 100 115
United Kingdom 1,260 1,223 1,204
Region Total 25,909 23,355 23,194
Asia Pacific
China 413 407 388
India 439 1,772 1,348
Indonesia 205 172 61
Japan 733 583 704
Pakistan 1,257 1,017 1,188
Singapore 3,993 3,385 2,718
Region Total 7,039 7,335 6,408
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 90 | July 3, 2013Hazardous Waste
Total
Normalized by SalesTONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Hazardous Waste not landfilled 8,604 7,213 7,560 4.8
Hazardous Waste landfilled 166 1,396 249 -82.2
Hazardous waste 8,771 8,609 7,809 -9.3
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Hazardous waste 0.44 0.39 0.36 -9.4
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 91 | July 3, 2013By Region/Country
TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 150 116 140
USA 1,140 963 967
Region Total 1,290 1,080 1,107
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 96 51 68
Brazil 117 188 216
Costa Rica 0 2 12
Mexico 33 101 120
Puerto Rico 1,605 2,277 2,323
Region Total 1,850 2,618 2,738
Europe
France 101 50 479
Germany 486 258 267
Ireland 536 462 406
Netherlands 3,284 3,111 1,898
Spain 15 24 23
Sweden 308 352 340
Switzerland 2 2 3
United Kingdom 481 276 343
Region Total 5,214 4,534 3,760
Asia Pacific
China 9 16 12
India 254 105 101
Indonesia 7 6 7
Japan 58 37 43
Pakistan 65 179 9
Singapore 24 34 33
Region Total 417 377 204
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 92 | July 3, 2013Non-Hazardous Waste
Total
Normalized by SalesTONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Non-hazardous waste not landfilled 44,159 36,908 36,862 -0.1
Non-hazardous waste landfilled 22,512 20,537 16,690 -18.7
Non-hazardous waste 66,672 57,445 53,553 -6.8
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Non-hazardous waste 3.36 2.63 2.45 -6.9
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 93 | July 3, 2013By Region/Country
TONS 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 1,086 936 983
USA 34,577 26,518 21,860
Region Total 35,663 27,453 22,843
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 306 259 250
Brazil 563 968 814
Costa Rica 0 259 593
Mexico 190 341 645
Puerto Rico 2,633 2,386 2,771
Region Total 3,692 4,212 5,072
Europe
France 1,244 1,174 846
Germany 7,382 7,552 8,257
Ireland 4,679 3,965 4,316
Netherlands 5,439 4,036 4,038
Spain 1,023 945 916
Sweden 99 104 89
Switzerland 48 98 112
United Kingdom 779 947 861
Region Total 20,695 18,821 19,435
Asia Pacific
China 403 392 377
India 185 1,667 1,246
Indonesia 198 166 54
Japan 675 546 662
Pakistan 1,192 837 1,180
Singapore 3,968 3,351 2,686
Region Total 6,622 6,959 6,204
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 94 | July 3, 2013Energy Consumption
Normalized by Sales
By Region/Country
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION1,000 GIGAJOULES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Purchased fuels (Scope 1) (1) 8,593 8,248 8,123 -1.5
Purchased energy (Scope 2) (2) 4,205 4,027 3,998 -0.7
Electricity generated onsite from cogeneration 127 131 121 -7.6
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 energy consumption 12,798 12,276 12,121 -1.3
GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 433 378 372 -1.7
Purchased energy (Scope 2) 212 184 183 -0.9
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) energy consumption 645 562 554 -1.4
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 492 425 458
USA 6,426 6,181 5,795
Region Total 6,917 6,605 6,253
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 53 52 61
Brazil 81 91 91
Costa Rica 0 4 57
Mexico 238 240 235
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 95 | July 3, 2013Scope 1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGIONPuerto Rico 325 311 314
Regional – not available by country 211 191 212
Region Total 908 889 970
Europe
England 166 156 154
France 111 97 103
Germany 356 303 274
Ireland 721 669 656
Netherlands 963 882 813
Spain 170 189 189
Sweden 39 35 38
Switzerland 5 5 6
Regional – not available by country 696 643 664
Region Total 3,228 2,980 2,896
Asia Pacific
China 91 85 89
India 127 121 108
Indonesia 15 16 15
Japan 64 57 57
Pakistan 267 272 259
Singapore 470 520 529
Regional – not available by country 712 731 945
Region Total 1,745 1,801 2,002
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2010 2011 2012
North America
Canada 276 240 267
USA 4,469 4,311 4,021
Region Total 4,745 4,551 4,287
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 96 | July 3, 2013Scope 2Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 29 29 36
Brazil 25 27 23
Costa Rica 0 0 0
Mexico 235 238 232
Puerto Rico 20 19 20
Regional – not available by country 191 173 191
Region Total 499 485 501
Europe
England 82 76 76
France 54 44 50
Germany 176 145 134
Ireland 504 449 447
Netherlands 712 646 584
Spain 68 74 83
Sweden 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0
Regional – not available by country 573 558 581
Region Total 2,169 1,993 1,955
Asia Pacific
China 9 7 7
India 65 59 49
Indonesia 7 6 7
Japan 20 17 18
Pakistan 249 254 236
Singapore 283 329 333
Regional – not available by country 546 548 729
Region Total 1,179 1,220 1,379
1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 97 | July 3, 2013ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
North America
Canada 216 184 191
USA 1,956 1,870 1,774
Region Total 2,172 2,054 1,965
Caribbean & Latin America
Argentina 24 23 25
Brazil 56 64 68
Costa Rica 0 4 56
Mexico 3 2 3
Puerto Rico 305 293 294
Regional – not available by country 21 18 21
Region Total 409 404 469
Europe
England 84 80 78
France 58 53 54
Germany 180 158 140
Ireland 217 221 209
Netherlands 251 237 228
Spain 102 114 106
Sweden 39 35 38
Switzerland 5 5 6
Regional – not available by country 123 85 82
Region Total 1,058 987 941
Asia Pacific
China 81 78 81
India 61 62 59
Indonesia 9 10 9
Japan 44 40 39
Pakistan 18 18 23
Singapore 187 191 196
Regional – not available by country 166 183 216
Region Total 566 581 623
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 98 | July 3, 2013Environmental Fines
Notice of Violation (NOVs)
Inspections by Government Agencies
VOC Emissions
Total
Normalized by SalesU.S. DOLLARS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 94,050 22,400 2,055 -90.8
2010 2011 2012
Total 5 7 5 -28.6
2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 49 48 40 -16.7
1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.88 1.02 1.03 0.5
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.044 0.047 0.047 -0.4
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 99 | July 3, 2013SOx from Combustion(4)
Normalized by Sales
NOx from Combustion(4)
Normalized by Sales
(1) Reported Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet,
Abbott-owned aviation and non-manufacturing locations.
(2) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity
and steam.
(3) Per WRI GHG protocol, Scope 1 refrigerant CO2e emissions include only those covered in the1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.58 0.22 0.07 -65.4
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.029 0.010 0.003 -65.4
1,000 METRIC TONS 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.39 0.32 0.28 -12.3
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2010 2011 2012% change
from 2011
to 2012
Total 0.020 0.014 0.013 -12.5
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 100 | July 3, 2013Kyoto Protocol.
(4) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
All energy and greenhouse gas data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and
divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas
Protocol.
Totals may not add up to 100 percent due to rounding.
Data on this page reflects Abbott-only activities.
Citizenship Reporting
At Abbott, we have reported on our citizenship activities for almost 15 years and have produced
annual Global Citizenship Reports since 2000. While we once relied exclusively upon printed
reports, this Web site has become our primary means for communicating Abbott’s citizenship
initiatives.
Since 2006, we have published our complete Global Citizenship Report online, supplemented by a
printed summary that provides an overview of our activities during the year. Our reporting focuses
on material impacts and speaks to a range of stakeholders, including customers, patients,
employees, government and regulatory bodies, investors, special interest groups, non-
governmental organizations and opinion leaders in the areas of citizenship and sustainability. Abbott
has been honored  by many groups for its citizenship activities.
Scope of Reporting
Neither this Web site nor our printed reports contain performance information about our joint
ventures, unless otherwise noted. Ultra Rice is not a trademark of Abbott. The Abbott Fund is an
Illinois not-for-profit philanthropic corporation established by Abbott in 1951. All financial information
is stated in U.S. dollars. All data in this report reflects activities before the separation of Abbott and
AbbVie. Our Global Citizenship Report for 2012 will be published in the second quarter of 2013.
Feedback on Our Reporting
We draw upon many external resources in refining our citizenship strategy, facilitating our
engagements with key stakeholders, developing this Web site and producing our printed reports.
These resources include Corporate Citizenship , SustainAbility , Business for Social Responsibility ,
the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School  and Agenda . We
gratefully acknowledge their input. Our engagement with these groups better informs our approach
to reporting while also keeping us abreast of stakeholder expectations and helping us identify areas
of opportunity for strengthened citizenship activities.
We also refer to such external standards on reporting as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and SustainAbility’s Reporting Methodology. We produce  an
index against the GRI reporting requirements .
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 101 | July 3, 2013Report Assurance
Abbott engaged an external consultant, Environmental Resources Management (ERM), to conduct
an assurance  of selected environmental data and related management systems. In addition, we
invite external commentary on our reporting from leading experts in the field of corporate citizenship
and sustainability. Below, we reproduce the most recent such statement from David Vidal, Director
of the Conference Board Center for Sustainability.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
GLOBAL REPORTS
2011-2012 Interim Global Citizenship Report,
January 2013 (PDF)
2011-2012 Full Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2010 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)COUNTRY REPORTS
2012-2013 Russia Citizenship Report (PDF)
2012-2013 Vietnam Citizenship Report (PDF)
2011-2012 Ireland Citizenship Report (PDF)
2011 China Citizenship Report (English) (PDF)Citizenship Reporting
Our Reports
At Abbott, we have reported on our citizenship activities for more than a decade and have produced
annual Global Citizenship Reports since 2000. Our website is our primary means for communicating
Abbott’s citizenship initiatives, supplemented by a printed summary that provides an overview of our
activities during the year.
Abbott’s current Global Citizenship Report is available by clicking on the link below. Our 2012 Global
Citizenship Report will be published in the second half of 2013.
Current Report
 
You can search for content on specific topics using the search function at the top left corner of each
page. If you have any questions about the PDF function or any problems downloading content,
please send an email to globalcitizenship@abbott.com .
Note: Documents that exist on this website, such as PDF attachments, will not be included as part of
the PDF you download here. If you would like to print any of the PDF attachments on our website,
please return to the applicable pages.
Previous Reports
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 102 | July 3, 20132009 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2008 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2007 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2006 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2005 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2004 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2003 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2002 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)
2000-2001 Global Citizenship Report (PDF)2010-11 Ireland Citizenship Report (PDF)
2010-11 India Citizenship Report (PDF)
2009 Brazil Citizenship Report (Portuguese)
(PDF)
2009 China Citizenship Report (Chinese) (PDF)
2009 Italy Citizenship Report (Italian) (PDF)
OTHER DOCUMENTS
2000 Environment, Health & Safety Update (PDF)
1999 Environment, Health & Safety Report (PDF)
2006 Webcast Transcript (PDF)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Citizenship Reporting
External Commentary
BY DAVID VIDAL, DIRECTOR, THE CONFERENCE BOARD CENTER FOR
SUSTAINABILITY
APRIL 2012
In the decade since Abbott’s first global citizenship report, much has changed in the world and in
business. Some change has been momentous, and some slow and steady. The 2011 report
captures some of the magnitude of this two-speed change by illustrating the depth and the breadth
of the company’s global engagements in four areas: innovating for the future, enhancing access,
supporting patients and consumers and safeguarding the environment. The report projects
authentic commitment to global citizenship shows its successful application in many venues and
gives evidence of increasing integration of business and citizenship strategies. All of this is to be
commended.
But, as this first decade of reporting ends and a new one begins, Abbott has an opportunity to
reflect on what a decade’s worth of citizenship activity means to the company and how it matters for
its future. Beyond operational citizenship effectiveness or outcomes measurement alone, the newer
questions are directional and systemic. They suggest that more impact and benefit can be gained
by including attention to these issues:
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 103 | July 3, 2013Abbott’s Systemic Leverage
How the four areas of Abbott emphasis relate to and reinforce one another is an area of
opportunity and need as markets and issues globalize. For example, as a previously
neglected disease gets increased attention, this new knowledge helps support consumers,
and access to the remedies that ensue is improved. Abbott’s 2011 success in getting FDA
approval for a diagnostic test for Chagas disease is a case in point.
A more deliberate linkage between the environment and health, such as understanding the
health effects of climate change, particularly in growth markets, is another open area at the
intersection of innovation, safeguarding the environment and supporting consumers and
patients.
Abbott’s Growth Markets
Other trajectories are hinted at in the report, and these deserve more focused attention going
forward:
The gradual migration of Western disease burdens such as diabetes to the growth markets in
the East and the global south is a mega-theme. The report notes that more than 118 million
people in India have hypertension and 60 million Chinese people either have diabetes or
impaired glucose tolerance.
As these markets bend the trajectory of global Abbott revenues in their direction –
international markets account for 59 percent of 2011’s record revenues – the focus of
citizenship activity needs to adapt to follow suit.
Capturing and reporting on this co-evolution of business growth and citizenship responses in
new markets is important to designing the dual Abbott citizenship future.
Abbott’s Evolution
How will Abbott innovate the future of its own citizenship program as the plan to become two
companies is realized? The choices made will be of interest to all stakeholders.
Will the principles guiding the formation of the two companies apply in equal measure to the
area of global citizenship? Are different principles more appropriate, and if so, what principles
are these?
How does the prospective division of Abbott multiply, subtract from or add to the trajectory of
citizenship achievements to date?
Only by posing such questions can answers be provided.
In Abbott’s 2002 citizenship report, Chairman and CEO Miles D. White stated, “Success in issues
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 104 | July 3, 2013cannot be addressed adequately by the bottom line or within the confines of an annual report.” This
statement is true now more than ever.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Citizenship Reporting
GRI Index
The Global Reporting Initiative's Sustainability Reporting Guidelines
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a large, multi-stakeholder network of experts in dozens of
countries. GRI publishes the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which are now the global
standard for non-financial reporting. Abbott uses the G3 Guidelines to inform its reporting and align
itself with best practices. Since GRI does not currently provide guidance on sector-specific reporting
in the health care field, we have tried to identify and report upon those issues that have the greatest
relevance to our business and to our stakeholders.
Abbott's GRI G3 Index
The GRI G3 Index provides an overview of our reporting, compared to the GRI G3 Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines. It helps users locate relevant information and view our company's
performance within the context of the topics and requirements covered by the Global Reporting
Initiative's Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Citizenship Reporting Disclosures about the company profile
Strategy and analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of
sustainability to the organization and its strategy
Letter from the Chairman and CEO
1.2 Description of key risks and opportunities
Our Priorities , Innovating for the Future , Our Business
Organizational profile
2.1 Name of the organization
Our Business , About Abbott
2.2 Primary brands products and/or services
Our Business , Innovating for the Future , Products
2.3 Operational structure of the organization
Citizenship Management and Governance , Senior Leadership
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters
Our Business , Fast Facts
2.5 Number and name of countries where the organization operates
Abbott Worldwide
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 105 | July 3, 2013SEC filing
2.7 Markets served
Our Business , Abbott Worldwide , Note 6 – Segment and Geographic Area Information
2.8 Scale of reporting organization
Our Business
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership
Note 2 –  Supplemental Financial Information , Note 3 –  Financial Instruments, Derivatives and
Fair Value Measures
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period
Rankings and Honors
Report parameters
3.1 Reporting period for information provided
2011
3.2 Date of most recent report
Global Citizenship Report 2011
3.3 Reporting cycle
Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents
Your feedback
3.5 Process for defining report content
Citizenship Reporting
3.6 Boundary of the report
Citizenship Reporting
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope of the report.
Citizenship Reporting
3.8 Basis for reporting
Citizenship Reporting
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and
techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other
information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply or substantially diverges from the
GRI Indicator Protocols
Citizenship Reporting , Key Metrics
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and
the reasons for such restatement
Key Metrics
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement
methods applied in the report
Citizenship Reporting , Our Business , Key Metrics
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report
This index provides the location of the standard disclosures of the report
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance
Environmental Management and Policy , Assurance Statements
Governance, Commitments and Engagement
4.1 Governance structure of the organization including committees under the highest governance
body responsible for specific tasks such as setting strategy or oversight for the organization.
Citizenship Management & Governance , Citizenship at Abbott
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 106 | July 3, 20134.2 Indicate if the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer and if so their
function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement
Chair of highest governance body is an executive officer.
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure state the number of members of the
highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive directors.
Citizenship Management & Governance
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the
highest governance body.
2012 Proxy Statement (PDF)
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior
managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization's
performance (including social and environmental performance)
2012 Proxy Statement (PDF) , Compensation and Benefits
4.6 Processes of the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
2012 Proxy Statement (PDF) , Compensation and Benefits , Citizenship Management &
Governance
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest
governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental and
social topics
2012 Proxy Statement (PDF)
4.8 Internally developed mission and values statements, codes of conduct, and principles relevant
to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation.
Our Priorities , Citizenship at Abbott
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification
and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including the
identification and management of relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or
compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles.
Our Business , Ethics & Compliance , Citizenship Management & Governance
4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body, particularly with
respect to economic, environmental and social performance
Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body, particularly with
respect to economic, environmental and social performance
Citizenship Management & Governance , Governance Principles
4.12 Externally developed, economic, environmental and social charters, sets of principles, or other
initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.
Our Priorities , Environmental Management and Policy
4.13 Membership in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international
advocacy organizations in which the organization * Has positions in governance bodies; *
Participates in projects or committees: * Provides substantive funding beyond routine
membership dues; or Views membership as strategic.
Engaging Our Stakeholders,  Public Policy Engagement
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by organizations.
Engaging Our Stakeholders,  Public Policy Engagement
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage.
Engaging Our Stakeholders
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by
stakeholder group.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 107 | July 3, 2013Engaging Our Stakeholders
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the
organization has responded to those key issues and concerns, including through its reporting
Our Business , Engaging Our Stakeholders
Disclosures on Economic performance
Management approach disclosures
Innovating for the Future
Our Business
Economic performance
EC1 Direct economic value generated (core)
Our Business
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to
climate change (core)
Climate Responsible Energy Policy (PDF)
EC3 Coverage of organization's defined benefit plan obligations (core)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4
 
Market presence
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations
of operation (core)
Supply Chain Management
Indirect economic impacts
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for
public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement (core)
Enhancing Access , Educating Patients and Health Care Professionals , Improving Health Care
Infrastructure and Technology , Outreach to Patients and Family , Risk and Crisis
Management,  Community Involvement , Abbott Fund
Disclosures on Environmental performance
Management approach disclosures
Our Business
Environmental Management and Policy
Materials
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume
Product Stewardship
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are not recycled input materials
Product Stewardship
Energy
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (additional)
Key Metrics - Environment , Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect Impacts , Addressing
Global Climate Change: Direct Impacts
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and
reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 108 | July 3, 2013Key Metrics - Environment , Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect Impacts , Addressing
Global Climate Change: Direct Impacts , Green Procurement
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved (additional)
Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect Impacts , Addressing Global Climate Change:
Direct Impacts ,Key Metrics - Environment , Supply Chain Management , Green Procurement
Water
EN8 EN8 Total water withdrawn by source (core)
A Comprehensive Water Strategy , Key Metrics - Environment
EN9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water
A Comprehensive Water Strategy , Key Metrics - Environment
Emissions, effluents and waste
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (additional)
Addressing Global Climate Change: Indirect Impacts , Addressing Global Climate Change:
Direct Impacts , Key Metrics - Environment
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight
Key Metrics - Environment
EN20 NO SO and other significant air emissions by type and weight (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method (core)
Key Metrics - Environment
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills (core)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 – Litigation and Environmental Matters
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the
terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste
shipped internationally
Key Metrics - Environment
 
Products & services
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of impact
mitigation (core)
Product Stewardship
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category
Product Stewardship
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with environmental laws and regulations (additional)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 – Litigation and Environmental Matters
 
Transport
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting goods and materials used for organization's
operations, and transporting members of the workforce (additional)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 109 | July 3, 2013Key Metrics - Environment
 
Disclosures on Labor Practices and Decent Work
Management approach disclosures
Our Workplace
A Diverse, Inclusive Workplace 
Hiring & Advancement
Employee Learning & Development
Work-Life Harmony  
Listening to Our Employees
Compensation & Benefits
Human Rights
Healthy Living Initiatives  
Employee Health & Safety
Employment
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region (core)
Our Business , About Abbott
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time
employees, by major operations
Compensation & Benefits
Occupational health and safety
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work related
fatalities by region (core)
Key Metrics - Social
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist
workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases (core)
Healthy Living Initiatives
 
Training and education
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability
of employees and assist them in managing career endings (additional)
Our Workplace , Employee Learning & Development , Work-Life Harmony
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review
(additional)
Our Workplace , Employee Learning & Development , Work-Life Harmony
 
Diversity and equal opportunity
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to
gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity (core)
Our Workplace , A Diverse, Inclusive Workplace
 
Disclosures on Human Rights
Management approach disclosures
Human Rights  
Ethics & Compliance
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 110 | July 3, 2013Diversity and Equal Opportunity
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Human Rights
clauses or that have undergone Human Rights screening
Human Rights , Ethics & Compliance
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on Human
Rights and action taken (core)
Supply Chain Management
HR3 Total hours of employee training policies and procedures concerning aspects of Human
Rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained
(additional)
Ethics & Compliance
 
Disclosures on Society impacts
Management approach disclosures
Community Involvement  
Abbott Fund
Ethics & Compliance
Public Policy Engagement
Corruption
S02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (core)
Ethics & Compliance
S03 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures
(core)
Ethics & Compliance
S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (core)
Ethics & Compliance
 
Public policy
S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (core)
Public Policy Engagement
S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related
institutions by country (additional)
Abbott 2011 Corporate Political Contributions (PDF)
S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
and their outcomes (additional)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 – Litigation and Environmental Matters
 
Compliance
S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with laws and regulations (core)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 – Litigation and Environmental Matters
 
Disclosures on Product responsibility
Management approach disclosures
Supporting Patients & Consumers  
Enhancing Access  
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 111 | July 3, 2013Clinical Trials Registration & Results Disclosures  
Responsible Sales and Marketing Practices
 
Customer health and safety
PR1 Life cycle stages in which the health and safety impacts of products and services are
assessed for improvement (core)
Supporting Patients & Consumers , Ensuring Manufacturing Quality
 
Product and service labeling
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of
significant products and services subject to such information requirements (core)
Supporting Patients & Consumers , Clinical Trials Registration & Results Disclosures ,
Responsible Sales and Marketing Practices , Product Stewardship , Supply Chain Management
Marketing and communications
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing
communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship (core)
Responsible Sales and Marketing Practices
Compliance
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning
the provision and use of products and services
$10,000
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency
The following information represents Abbott’s policies and standards, which guide  our business
decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to the environment. We strive for transparency by
providing information on policies and standards applicable to each priority area. Additional
information can be found throughout the 2011 Global Citizenship Report.
Promise for Life
Abbott’s  Promise for Life  is a statement that describes – for our customers, our communities, our
shareholders and all of our stakeholders – what we believe in, what we value, and what we strive to
deliver in our day-to-day work.
Code of Business Conduct
Abbott’s  basic guidelines and requirements for ethical behavior are set forth in the Abbott Code of
Business Conduct .
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 112 | July 3, 2013Supplier Guidelines
Abbott suppliers are required to read and agree to our Supplier Guidelines , which set forth our
expectations in a wide variety of areas.
Animal Welfare Policy
Abbott animal research efforts are guided by our Global Animal Welfare Policy . Animals shall be
treated humanely, minimizing pain and distress. Before beginning work with Abbott, contract and
collaborating laboratories must be accredited by AAALAC, and/or their laboratory animal care and
use programs must be assessed by Abbott veterinary staff or animal welfare officers and approved
by the Corporate Animal Welfare Committee. After the work begins, Abbott monitors suppliers for
compliance with our Global Animal Welfare Policy on a periodic basis. For more information about
Abbottâ€™s animal welfare activities,  click here.
Environmental Policy
Abbott’s  environmental policy  aims and achieves targeted objectives, including requiring contractors
working on behalf of Abbott to conform to regulatory requirements and meet applicable internal
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards.
Energy Policy
Abbott’s  energy policy  sets aggressive goals to further reduce our environmental footprint, including
our commitments to dramatically reducing CO 2e emissions.
Water Policy
Abbott’s  water policy  details our commitments to improving access to clean water in communities
around the world and to reducing and efficiently managing our company’s own use of water.
Green Procurement Policy
Abbott’s  green procurement policy  formalizes our approach and provides guidance on incorporating
sustainable sourcing principles into the purchasing process.
EHS Technical Standards
Abbott’s  EHS technical standards  allow Abbott to have consistent technical expectations in all of our
sites around the world.
Global Environment Health and Safety Policy
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 113 | July 3, 2013Abbott’s  EHS policy  requires that we operate in a manner that promotes employee health while also
protecting the environment.
Environmental Assurance Statement
Abbott engaged an environmental consultant, Environmental Resources Management (ERM), to
conduct an assurance  of its greenhouse gas emissions data, water and waste data, as well as the
related management systems.
Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing Business with Abbott
Abbott is committed to conducting business in an ethical and legally compliant manner and adheres
to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and other applicable anti-
corruption and anti-bribery laws. Abbott requires that all companies with whom it does business or
which may act on Abbottâ€™s behalf (â€œthird partiesâ€ wwhich may act on Abbottâ€™s behalf (â View
a brief overview of the Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing Business with Abbott.
Click here  to view a brief overview of the Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing
Business with Abbott.
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency
Clinical Trials Registration and Results Disclosures
Clinical Trial Registration and Results Disclosures
Abbott understands that a critical component of medical product development is the conduct of
clinical trials (also referred to as clinical studies) in humans to evaluate the safety and effectiveness
of medical products for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease.
Abbott is committed to being transparent about the clinical trials we sponsor. We recognize that
there are important public health benefits to making clinical trial information available to health care
providers, patients and the public. Therefore, Abbott has adopted these principles regarding the
disclosure of information relating to the clinical studies that we sponsor.
Our registrations and results disclosures will adhere to the following laws:
Public Law 110-85, Section 801, Clinical Trial Databases, of the Food and Drug
Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA).
Any other applicable national law.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 114 | July 3, 2013In addition, Abbott respects the influence of the following organizations regarding registrations and
results disclosures. However, where policies of the following organizations conflict with the above
laws, Abbott will defer to the laws.
WHO Technical Consultation
Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information via Clinical Trial Registries and
Databases  (Updated June 10, 2010) (PDF)
International Council of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE), Uniform Requirements for
Manuscripts.
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Principles on Conduct of
Clinical Trials.
Clinical Trial Registrations
Abbott will register all applicable/covered clinical studies, regardless of outcome, in a publicly
accessible clinical trials registry ( www.ClinicalTrials.gov ). For pharmaceuticals, this means that we
will register Phase 1 studies conducted in patients and all Phase 2-4 interventional trials subject to
FDA regulation at a minimum. For medical devices, this means we will register prospective
interventional clinical studies of health outcomes, subject to FDA regulation at a minimum, except
feasibility studies, and FDA-designated pediatric post-marketing surveillance studies. Registration
information will be provided according to the laws and policies mentioned above.
Clinical Trial Results Disclosures
Abbott will disclose the results of all applicable/covered clinical trials, regardless of outcome, in a
publicly accessible clinical trials results database ( www.ClinicalTrials.gov ). For pharmaceuticals, this
means that we will report results for all Phase 2-4 interventional trials subject to FDA regulation at a
minimum. Consistent with the Joint Position Statement on the Disclosure of Pharmaceutical Clinical
Trial Information, we will also report the results of any exploratory pharmaceutical clinical trials if we
deem the findings to have significant medical importance (e.g., an important safety finding). For
medical devices, this means we will report results for prospective interventional clinical studies of
health outcomes, subject to FDA regulation at a minimum, except for feasibility studies. In addition,
we will post results for FDA-designated pediatric post-marketing surveillance studies of medical
devices.
Prior to the availability of disclosing clinical trial results for pharmaceuticals on
(www.clinicaltrials.gov ), Abbott disclosed certain clinical trial results on the Clinical Study Results
Database created by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA),
(www.ClinicalStudyResults.org); however, this database was phased out on 20 December 2011. The
clinical trial information previously posted to (www.ClinicalStudyResults.org) through August 2011 is
available via this link  and is organized via the generic name of the product.
Global Initiatives
In an evolving international regulatory environment around clinical trial disclosure, Abbott engages
with the aforementioned stakeholders to stay abreast of new requirements for registrations and
results disclosures and engages in continuing efforts to ensure compliance with global initiatives for
clinical trial transparency. We continue to work with industry partners, trade associations, regulators,
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 115 | July 3, 2013international health organizations, academics and patient groups to develop a global framework for
registrations and results disclosures. Abbott also actively participates in trade association activities
aimed at increasing clinical trial transparency.
As a member of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations
(IFPMA), Abbott supports the IFPMA Clinical Trials Portal . This portal helps users access
information about ongoing pharmaceutical clinical trials and the outcomes of completed trials
through custom searches. The portal is provided by IFPMA on behalf of its member companies and
associations. The portal offers a single entry point for the public to access comprehensive
information regarding pharmaceutical clinical trials and results of completed trials.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency
Global Product Protection (Counterfeit and Diversion)
Global Product Protection
Counterfeiting, illegal diversion and theft of Abbott products globally pose threats to Abbott’s
patients, consumers and the general public. We have four key strategies to address these threats:
Secure the Supply Chain.  By analyzing the global supply chain for weak points, evaluating
track and trace technologies and expanding the use of Exclusive Sourcing Agreements with
contracted wholesalers, Abbott reduces the possibility of product diversion and/or theft.
Ensure Ability to Authenticate.  By developing overt and covert security features on
packaging, Abbott presents significant barriers to counterfeiters and facilitates authentication
of its products, encouraging customer confidence.
Disrupt Criminal Organizations.  By building relationships with local law enforcement and
regulatory organizations, Abbott works to identify and dismantle criminal enterprises involved
in counterfeiting, diversion and theft.
Build Global Momentum.  By working with government, industry and not-for-profit
organizations, Abbott pursues stricter sanctions for individuals and organizations involved in
counterfeiting, diversion or theft.
Exclusive Sourcing Agreement (EAS)
The safety and integrity of Abbott products for the patients we serve is our highest priority. Abbott
understands that the threat posed to public health and safety by counterfeit products is a very
serious one. We regularly take action to keep counterfeit products out of the marketplace.
Secondary market products are generally products purchased from any source other than from the
original manufacturer and are commonly referred to as “secondary market,” “gray market” or
“diverted” products. It is often through  the secondary market that counterfeit, adulterated or
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 116 | July 3, 2013improperly stored and handled products make their way into the distribution channel. When product
comes from the secondary market, it is difficult to assure patients and health care professionals of
the product's quality or safety or to provide product updates.
Through the exclusive sourcing initiative, Abbott is working to prevent the introduction of unsafe
product into the United States. As of July 1, 2004, U.S.wholesale distribution of Abbott diabetes care
products is permitted only through wholesalers/distributors that have agreed to source their entire
product needs directly from Abbott. In select countries outside the U.S., Abbott has also
implemented EASs and in many situations the EASs are silent to the specific Abbott division and
simply say “Abbott”.
For additional Information, please see the following resources:
Questions and answers regarding these agreements
ESA for Abbott products
Letters required for signature for any wholesaler/distributor to purchase:
ESA for Abbott products  (PDF)
List of U.S. wholesalers/distributors agreeing to these policies  (PDF)
Standard Terms and Conditions
Abbott Diabetes Care (Non-Retail)  (PDF)
Abbott Diabetes Care (Retail)  (PDF)
Abbott Diabetes Care (Wholesalers)  (PDF)
Product Authentications
Abbott is committed to reducing the serious threat of counterfeit products. Included in this effort is
the development of overt and covert product security features. One way Abbott provides information
on these features to the marketplace is through product security flyers.
U.S. Product Security Fliers (overt security features on the packaging)
The following products have security fliers at www.abbvie.com/gpp.
Advicor®
Kaletra®
Lupron® (Also for Canada)Niaspan®  Bottles
Norvir®
Simcor®Trilipix®
Ultane®
Zemplar®
Outside United States Product Security Fliers (overt security features on the packaging)
Dayamineral®  (CACM only) Niaspan®  Blister Packs
Note: These Product Security Fliers highlight overt security features on the packaging. Although
individual packaging configurations for the products may differ, the security features will remain the
same.
The following products have security fliers at www.abbvie.com/gpp.
Aluvia™ Kaletra® Sevorane®
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 117 | July 3, 2013Humira® Norvir® Zemplar®
Related Links
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations
Interpol
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
For additional information on VIPPS (Verified Internet Pharmacy Practice Sites),
Pharmaceutical Security Institute
Safemedicines: A listing of weekly news updates
World Health Organization
All suspicions or leads on potential counterfeit, diverted or stolen Abbott product should be reported
to Abbott Global Product Protection, D-GS27 Building J48, 200 Abbott Park Road,
Abbott Park, Illinois 60064.
Or call (847) 936-5959.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency > Global Product Protection
Exclusive Sourcing Agreement: Questions and Answers Regarding
the Exclusive Sourcing Agreement
Q:Why has Abbott initiated this Agreement?
A:Discoveries of counterfeit product in worldwide distribution channels have highlighted risks to
patients, healthcare providers, and customers who have always recognized Abbott as providing
high-quality products. The safety and integrity of Abbott products are of the highest priority and
the threat posed to public health and safety by counterfeit products is taken very seriously.
Accordingly, Abbott has undertaken this initiative in the U.S., Caribbean and CACM (Central
American Common Market) countries to help prevent any unsafe products from being
introduced into the supply chain.
Distributors/wholesalers in other countries have exclusive sourcing and territory restriction
language in broader Distributor Agreements.
 
Q:What is the geographic scope of the Agreement?
A:The scope of the Agreement currently applies to entities within the 50 United States (excluding
U.S. territories and Puerto Rico) for ADC and for all Abbott divisions in specific countries
outside the U.S. where ESAs have been implemented. We are monitoring international markets
and will work closely with wholesalers/distributors and customers in taking further action, as
appropriate, to ensure the integrity of Abbott products and patient safety throughout the world.
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 118 | July 3, 2013Q:Have Abbottâ€™s Terms and Conditions been changed to incorporate this Exclusive
Sourcing Agreement?
A:Yes. The Terms and Conditions of Sale of each of the Divisions/Business Units included have
been changed appropriately to incorporate Wholesaler/Distributor adherence to this
Agreement.
 
Q:Can wholesalers/distributors buy from and sell to each other, products that are
manufactured by Abbott?
A:No. If wholesalers/distributors buy Abbott products from any source other than Abbott, they are
not in compliance with this Agreement. Because of the need to ensure product integrity and
patient safety, as well as a secure distribution channel, the Agreement does not allow trade
between wholesalers/distributors. Where specifically stated, products shall be purchased from
Abbott solely for resale to end customers who are properly licensed entities by the
states/countries in which they operate, for their own use or distribution to their own
consumers/patients. Any change or alteration of this agreement potentially creates a risk of
unauthorized product entering secure distribution channels.
 
Q:What is Abbott doing to reduce the supply of products currently moving into the
secondary market?
A:Abbott is committed to ensuring patient safety and the integrity of our products throughout the
world. Business practices and policies are being evaluated and refined with priority placed on
product integrity, to assure appropriate control of products in the marketplace. Immediate
emphasis includes education in the marketplace about the risk and existence of counterfeit
product and the importance of a secure channel to minimize risks in the secondary market.
In addition, Abbott is working with government agencies around the world and exploring product
protection programs, including the application of special features for our product packaging
and product tracing. We believe it is vital for our customers and patients to receive genuine
products so they can use our products with confidence. We are also monitoring markets to
ensure the safety of patients and the integrity of our products. We will continue to develop and
implement actions to address the issue.
 
Q:What is Abbott's Policy on auditing wholesalers/distributors?
A:As previously outlined, we reserve the right to enforce the commitments made in our notification
letter of April 30, 2004 to U.S. wholesalers and distributors, by requiring within thirty (30) days
after written request by Abbott, that the wholesaler/distributor shall provide or cause to be
provided, as elected by Abbott, (i) a certification of compliance from a senior officer or
executive with financial oversight responsibility for the wholesaler/distributor, or (ii) the
opportunity for an audit of the relevant books and records of the wholesaler/distributor. In
addition, Abbott reserves the right to cease shipments to the wholesaler/distributor if Abbott in
its sole discretion in good faith believes the wholesaler/distributor may not have complied with
the Agreement. There are also audit clauses in the ESA for customers outside the U.S.
 
Q:How does Abbott communicate the status of U.S. wholesalers/distributors?
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 119 | July 3, 2013A:Abbott maintains a listing of wholesalers/distributors  approved to purchase Abbott products.
Regular updates are made to this listing.
 
Q:Where should potential violations to the Exclusive Sourcing Agreement or
suspicions/leads on counterfeits, diverted or stolen Abbott products be reported?
A:Abbott Global Product Protection
D-07SD, AP6A-LL
200 Abbott Park Road
Abbott Park, IL 60064
global.productprotection@abbott.com
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency
Financial Reports for Health Care-Related Organizations
Grants & Donations - U.S.
Abbott has a long-standing commitment to supporting programs aimed at increasing the
understanding of scientific, clinical and health care issues that improve patient care. We partner with
a broad range of organizations to help address today's health care challenges. We want to do our
part to ensure that patients, and the health care providers who treat them, receive the information
and support they need.
In the interest of transparency, we began voluntarily disclosing grants and donations to U.S. medical
organizations beginning with the third quarter of 2008. Abbott will continue to report these payments
on a quarterly basis.
This report discloses charitable donations, patient support, educational grants, and fellowships and
scholarships. Recipients include medical and other health care professional organizations, patient
organizations, academic institutions, hospitals, medical education companies and other scientific
associations.
In addition, support from the non-profit, philanthropic Abbott Fund is aggregated and reported in an
annual Internal Revenue Service 990-PF filing. This information is available on the Web site
www.foundationcenter.org . Abbott continues to evaluate other ways to enhance transparency.
The following attached reports include direct payments more than $200 from Abbott's U.S. and
Puerto Rico businesses. The reports may be updated from time to time.
Abbott's reports are provided here:
Grants and Donations Reports (PDFs)
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 120 | July 3, 20132012
Third Quarter
Second Quarter
First Quarter2011
Fourth Quarter
Third Quarter
Second Quarter
First Quarter2010
Fourth Quarter
Third Quarter
Second Quarter
First Quarter2009
Fourth Quarter
Third Quarter
Second Quarter
First Quarter2008
Fourth Quarter
Third Quarter
Grants and Donations Reports Definitions  (PDF)
 
Support for European Patient Organizations
Relationships with European Patient Organizations
Abbott has a proud history of working with patient organizations in Europe and throughout the world.
Patient organizations provide valuable information and support to patients and to the people that
care for them, such as family and friends. We believe that we can support these organizations in
their efforts to help patients understand and manage their disease.
Abbott’s relationships with patient organizations are based on trust, respect and mutual benefit. We
aim for transparency and high ethical standards in all of our relationships.
We learn about issues of concern to patients and together, look for ways to address them in the
best possible way. By building sustainable relationships, we also work toward advancing dialogue
around healthcare issues and together, can seek ways to ensure optimal delivery of healthcare.
Our support to patient organizations takes the forms of event support, organizational support,
patient education and caregiver education.
Patient organizations that Abbott has supported in Europe (January 1 to December 31, 2012)
(PDF)
Patient organizations that Abbott has supported in Europe (January 1 to December 31, 2011)
(PDF)
Patient organizations that Abbott has supported in Europe (January 1 to December 31, 2010)
(PDF)
Patient organizations that Abbott has supported in Europe (January 1 to December 31, 2009)
(PDF)
 
Serbia
Abbott has a long-standing commitment to supporting programs aimed at increasing the
understanding of scientific, clinical and health care issues that improve patient care. In the interest
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 121 | July 3, 2013of transparency, we are disclosing the following list of professional conferences sponsored by
Abbott.
Sponsored Professional Conferences  (PDF)
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Transparency
Other Disclosures
California Compliance Program
A growing number of laws in the United States require greater transparency in the relationships
between our industry and individuals and entities involved in providing health care. These laws
impose various combinations of code of conduct restrictions on activities involving health care
professionals and health care organizations and tracking and reporting of payments and transfers
of value provided. Abbott complies with all such laws, which currently exist in California, the District
of Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, Vermont, and West Virginia.
Abbott Comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program  (PDF)
California HUMIRA Sharps Program
Abbott’s HUMIRA  (adalimumab) Sharps Mail-Back Program  (PDF)
 
Abbott and the U.S.-EU & U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Privacy Statement
Abbott Laboratories complies with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework and the U.S.-Swiss Safe
Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use,
and retention of personal information of employees of Abbott Laboratories and its affiliates and
subsidiaries in European Economic Area/ European Union member countries and Switzerland.
Abbott has certified that it adheres to the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles of notice, choice, onward
transfer, security, data integrity, access, and enforcement with respect to this information.
To learn more, please visit:
Abbott Data Privacy for Non-U.S. Employee Personal Information
Safe Harbor Program Certification
 
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 122 | July 3, 2013 
 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
Abbott believes in being a socially responsible company and doing what is right, not just by our
customers, but by the world in which we live. Abbott is committed to safe and fair working conditions,
beyond our employees and the stores in which our products are sold, but also extending to the
partners in our supply chain. Abbott always has had and will continue to have a zero tolerance
policy regarding human trafficking and slavery. Abbott has a global policy against trafficking and
slavery in supply chains. Abbott engages in verification of product supply chains to evaluate and
address risks of human trafficking and slavery. Specifically, Abbott utilizes a supplier classification
model to determine appropriate activity level to assess risk. A supplier may receive a letter, a survey
or an on-site audit (usually announced ahead of time) based on this model. Information received
from the supplier is then assessed to determine whether to take further steps. Currently, this
verification is conducted by Abbott employees in its Global Purchasing Services Compliance
department.
Abbott’s Supplier Guidelines state our expectations to suppliers conducting business with Abbott
that they are prohibited from engaging in illegal behavior, including human trafficking and slavery.
Abbott’s internal Code of Business Conduct also incorporates standards prohibiting
slavery/trafficking or engaging in illegal behavior. Abbott requires direct suppliers to certify that
materials incorporated into Abbott’s products comply with local and national laws of the country or
countries in which they are doing business. Certifications are also obtained from suppliers that they
comply with standards as outlined in our Supplier Guidelines. Abbott maintains internal
accountability standards and procedures for both employees and contractors failing to meet
company standards regarding slavery and trafficking. In particular, Abbott employees worldwide
train annually on Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct. Likewise, all contractors assigned to Abbott
are required to review and abide by Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct.
Employees and contractors assigned to Abbott who fail to abide by Abbott’s Code of Business
Conduct may be subject to reprimand or other adverse consequences, up to and including
termination of employment or assignment. Abbott provides training to its employees and
management who have direct responsibility for supply chain management, regarding human
trafficking and slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chains of
products.
 
 
U.S. Postmarketing Commitments
Following approval of a drug or biologic product, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may
request and/or require the sponsoring company to conduct further studies that are designed to
gather additional information about a product’s safety, effectiveness, and/or optimal use.  These
postmarketing commitment (PMC) studies build upon the data that was submitted for approval.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 123 | July 3, 2013This website contains Abbott’s U.S.  postmarketing commitments. Click here  to view Abbott’s PMC
Summary Table.
Our PMC Summary Table includes all active postmarketing commitments and provides the following
information, organized alphabetically by product name:
Name of Product
NDA/BLA Number
Description of Commitment
Date Commitment Given
FDA Projected Completion Date
Commitment Status
Please note that the status and/or number of Abbott’s  postmarketing commitments shown on the
FDA website  may differ from the information displayed on this site based on the timing of content
review and website updates. The status categories used in the PMC Summary Table are consistent
with categories used by the FDA.
Information about Abbott’s PMCs will be updated twice a  year, to reflect new commitments as well as
the progress we have made in fulfilling our existing postmarketing commitments. Once the FDA
determines a PMC is fulfilled, or they release Abbott from a commitment, or if Abbott terminates a
study before completion date, those PMCs will be removed from our PMC Summary Table.
The PMCs listed in the PMC Summary Table include preclinical (nonhuman), clinical (medical), and
epidemiological studies that Abbott has agreed to conduct to gather additional information about the
safe and effective use of our approved products. This website does not contain technical chemistry,
manufacturing and controls (CMC) PMCs, or PMCs issued by FDA for products where Abbott does
not hold the US regulatory approval.
 
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
 
 
Transparency > Other Disclosures
Data Privacy for Non-U.S. Employee Personal Information
Effective by date: February 2, 2012
Approved date: February 2, 2012
1.0 Overview Section
1.1 Purpose
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 124 | July 3, 2013Abbott (the “Company”) has issued this Privacy Policy (the “Policy”) to ensure that a
consistently high level or protection is applied to Abbott’s collection, use and disclosure of
Employee Personal Information. Abbott complies with the U.S. – EU Safe Harbor Framework
and the U.S. – Swiss Safe Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce
regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information from European Union
member countries and Switzerland. Abbott has certified that it adheres to the Safe Harbor
Privacy Principles of notice, choice, onward transfer, security, data integrity, access, and
enforcement. To learn more about the Safe Harbor program, and to view Abbott’s certification,
please visit ( export.gov/safeharbor ).
This Policy shall facilitate Abbott’s participation in the EU­U.S. Safe Harbor Agreement,
regulating transfers of Personal Information from the European Union to the United States and
the transfer of Personal Information from other jurisdictions that have data privacy legislation
such as Argentina and Japan. Abbott will comply with the rules and principles arising under the
Safe Harbor Program. This Policy supplements the Abbott Privacy Principles, which establishes
general standards for Processing Employee Personal Information within the Company.
1.2 Scope
1.2 Scope
This Policy specifically governs the Processing of Employee Personal Information relating to
Abbott employees ordinarily resident outside the United States, but who’s Personal Information
is processed by Abbott entities within the United States (the “Employees”). The U.S. Employee
Personal Data Policy applies to the Company’s Processing of Employee Personal Information
relating to employees resident in the United States.
1.3 Implementation
Implementation is in accordance with Effective by Date .
2.0 Definitions
Term Definition
Employee
Personal
InformationPersonal Information pertaining to a current, past and prospective Abbott
employee processed in the context of an employment relationship with the
Company.
Personal
InformationInformation about an identified or identifiable natural person regardless of
the format in which it is displayed (paper, electronic, etc). This includes
but is not limited to information available to the individual’s manager and
contained in an employee’s personal profile (e.g., home address and
phone number, work and compensation history, planned salary, earnings,
career development, paid time off, salary grade, language preferences,
education, emergency contacts) required by Abbott to meet regulatory
requirements (e.g., gender), or that is required to manage the employee’s
performance and development.
Process (or
Processing)Any operation or set of operations that are performed upon Personal
Information, whether done by automatic means or otherwise. It includes
collecting, recording, storing organizing, adapting, altering, retrieving,
consulting, using, disclosing or making available, destroying and/or
deleting Personal Information.
Sensitive Personal Information pertaining to an individual’s race, ethnic origin, or
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 125 | July 3, 2013Personal
Informationhealth or other information that has been classified as such under local
laws applicable to an Abbott employee.
3.0 General Policy
3.1 Notice to Non-U.S. Employees
The Company will inform Employees through appropriate channels about the purposes for
which it collects and uses their Employee Personal Information, how to contact Abbott where
they have issues or concerns about their Employee Personal Information,the types of third
parties with which it shares their Personal Information, and the choice and means Abbott offers
employees for limiting the use and disclosure of their Employee Personal Information. This
information will be provided as soon as practicable, and, in any event, before Abbott uses the
information for a purpose other than that for which it was originally obtained.
Among the reasons that the Company holds and may in the future collect Personal Information
about Employees include the following: normal business practices related to your role and
function in the company, employee management and administration generally (including both
during and after employment), employment verification,administering benefits, administering
personal short or long term compensation programs, conducting disciplinary proceedings,
addressing labor relations issues,processing health insurance claims, and maintaining and
monitoring usage of internal networks and IT systems. The Company may be required under
local labor and other laws (e.g., tax, health and safety, anti-discrimination) to maintain records
that can include personal information, such as government identifiers, information relating to
sickness,maternity or parental leave, pension and retirement.
3.2 Choice for Employees
The Company will not Process Employee Personal Information for purposes incompatible with
those given in any formal notice furnished to Employees without first informing Employees and
giving them the opportunity to object to such Processing. The Company will not Process
Employee Personal Information that qualifies as Sensitive Personal Information for purposes
incompatible with those given in any formal notice provided to employees unless the employee
in question has explicitly consented to the Processing or the Processing is:
in the vital interests of the Employee or another person;
necessary for the establishment of legal claims or defenses;
required to provide medical care or diagnosis;
necessary to carry out the Company’s obligations in the field of employment law;or
related to information that has been made public by the Employee.
3.3 Ensuring Information Integrity
The Company will Process only Employee Personal Information that is relevant taking into
account the business purposes for which it is to be processed. The Company will employ
reasonable means to keep Employee Personal Information accurate, complete,up-to-date and
reliable for their intended use. All employees have a responsibility to assist the Company in
keeping the Personal Information the Company maintains about them accurate, complete and
current.
3.4 Ensuring Information Access
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 126 | July 3, 2013With limited exceptions, Employees will be permitted to review and, where inaccurate,correct
Employee Personal Information that the Company holds about them by contacting a designated
contact point. However, the Company may not give Employees the ability to review their
Employee Personal Information when the burden or expense of doing so(including locating the
Employee Personal Information) is disproportionate to the risks to their privacy in a particular
case. Such cases include, but are not limited to, those where disclosure of Employee Personal
Information would:
require the disclosure of confidential commercial information and such confidential information
cannot be readily separated from the Employee Person Information;
interfere with execution or enforcement of the law, including the prevention, investigation or
detection of criminal offenses or the right to a fair trial;
interfere with private causes of action, including the prevention, investigation or detection of
legal claims or the right to a fair trial;
breach a legal or other professional privilege or obligation;
breach the confidentiality necessary for future or ongoing negotiations, such as those
involving the acquisition of companies;
prejudice employee security investigations or grievance proceedings;
prejudice the confidentiality necessary, for limited periods, in connection with employee
succession planning and corporate re-organizations; or
prejudice the confidentiality necessary in connection with monitoring, inspection or regulatory
functions connected with the Company’s sound economic or financial management.
The Company also may not give Employees the ability to review their Employee Personal
Information when doing so would affect the privacy interests of other individuals and the
Personal Information of those other individuals cannot be redacted.If the Company does not
provide Employees the ability to review their Employee Personal Information, it will indicate the
specific reasons why and provide a contact point for further inquiries. Irrespective of the
limitations set forth above, the Company will comply with all applicable local regulations and
ensure that Employees can review any Personal Information they have a right to access under
the law applicable in their country of residence.
3.5 Transfers to Company Affiliates and Third Parties
Employee Personal Information only may be disclosed to other Company affiliates or
independent third parties where required by law or legal process (including disclosures to law
enforcement authorities in connection with their duties), to protect the interests of the Company
and/or its employees, if there is an emergency situation involving the health and safety of an
employee, where necessary for the Company to perform a contractual obligation owed to an
Employee or for other lawful purposes.
Except where the disclosure is required by local law, regulation or court order or where the
transfer is necessary to perform contractual obligations owed to the Employee, an Employee
will be entitled to object to having their Employee Personal Information disclosed to other
Company affiliates or to independent third parties. If the employee Personal Information
qualifies as Sensitive Personal Information, the Company will seek affirmative consent from
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 127 | July 3, 2013Employees before making such disclosures, except in cases falling within Section 3.2 of this
Policy.
3.6 Transfers to Agents and Contractors
The Company may disclose Employee Personal Information to third party agents or contractors
that supply services to the Company that require the Processing of that Personal Information.
The Company will only transfer Personal Information where the agent or contractor has
provided assurances to the Company that it will protect the Personal Information consistent with
this Policy. If the Company has knowledge that an agent or contractor is Processing Personal
Information in a manner contrary to this Policy, it will take all reasonable steps to prevent or
stop the Processing.
3.7 Security
Appropriate administrative, technical, personal and physical measures will be used to
safeguard Employee Personal Information against loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access,
modification, disclosure and destruction. The Company will restrict access to Employee
Personal Information under its control to those employees, agents and contractors of the
Company who have a legitimate business need for such access.
3.8 Compliance
The Company will maintain an active program to ensure compliance with this Policy.Employee
and Labor Relations are responsible for implementing and overseeing the administration of this
Policy. All Company employees whose responsibilities include the Processing of Employee
Personal Information are required to adhere to this Policy and any implementing policies.
Failure to do so may be grounds for discipline up to and including termination.
3.9 Complaint Resolution
The Company is committed to assisting employees in protecting their privacy and in providing
opportunities to raise concerns about the Processing of their Employee Personal Information.
Retaliation against any employee who raises a concern under this Policy is against Company
policy and is strictly prohibited. Employees who have concerns about the Processing of their
Employee Personal Information are encouraged to notify their local Human Resources. Any
submitted complaints will be resolved in accordance with Abbott’s existing formal complaints
procedures.
For Abbott employees located in the European Union, if efforts to resolve a concern within
Abbott are unsatisfactory, employees may contact the panel of EU data protection authorities
established as an independent recourse mechanism under the Safe Harbor Agreement. Abbott
will cooperate in the resolution of such inquiries and will comply with the advice given by the
panel of EU data protection authorities.
For Abbott employees located in Switzerland, if efforts to resolve a concern within Abbott are
unsatisfactory, employees may contact the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information
Commissioner established as an independent recourse mechanism under the Safe Harbor
Agreement. Abbott will cooperate in the resolution of such inquiries and will comply with the
advice given by the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 128 | July 3, 2013Profiles
At Abbott, we believe society and business are inseparable, and we view citizenship as an
opportunity to deliver on the Abbott Promise by tackling longstanding health challenges affecting
people around the world. We believe we can achieve the greatest positive impact by leveraging
Abbott’s resources and expertise to develop lasting solutions through catalytic philanthropy; through
the intersection of good business practices and social responsibility; and by fostering socially driven
entrepreneurship. We are thinking beyond traditional philanthropic approaches by working with
others and supporting their efforts to address specific social issues and to build health care capacity
in distressed and underserved areas.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Access Highlights
Around the world, Abbott and its employees strive to create innovative solutions for sustainable
business. This section spotlights just a few of our dynamic programs, each one the result of
cooperation between Abbott, the Abbott Fund and our global partners. We are pleased to share our
successes and our ongoing efforts with our stakeholders.
Addressing Severe Malnutrition in Haiti
In Haiti, where severe malnutrition is a longstanding problem, Abbott and Partners In Health (PIH)
are constructing a new nutritional food production facility that will enable PIH and its sister
organization, Zanmi Lasante (ZL), to produce high-quality nutritional products. The facility will
produce Nourimanba , a therapeutic food used to treat severe malnutrition in children. Nourimanba
is distributed through PIH’s network of health facilities throughout rural Haiti, providing free, life­
saving treatment to thousands of Haitian children. Supported by $6.5 million from Abbott and the
Abbott Fund, the new plant also empowers Haitians to develop and sell nonmedical nutritional foods
like peanut butter that can help cover the costs of Nourimanba  production, with the goal of creating
a social enterprise that will be self-sustaining over the long term.
Help for India’s Malnourished
India is another country with widespread malnutrition. Abbott’s nutrition scientists are working with
the nonprofit organization PATH to perfect a food fortification technology called Ultra Rice, which
packs vitamins and minerals into race-shaped grains, resulting in a product far more nutritious than
traditional rice yet nearly identical in smell, taste and texture.
Modernizing Muhimbili National Hospital in Tanzania
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 129 | July 3, 2013For more than a decade, Abbott has worked closely with the Government of Tanzania to strengthen
health care there. Our efforts include work to comprehensively modernize Muhimbili National
Hospital as well as 23 regional-level hospitals. We are also partnering with the Baylor International
Pediatric AIDS initiative to build a pediatric AIDS Center of Excellence in Tanzania and have
supported more than 20,000 health care worker trainings in HIV care and treatment.
Advancing Clinical Nutrition Practices in China and Vietnam
The Abbott Fund Institute of Nutrition Science (AFINS) is a unique model for advancing
understanding and practice of clinical nutrition. Operating in both China and Vietnam, AFINS,
launched in China in 2007 and expanded to Vietnam in 2010, is focused on extensive training of
health care professionals, expanding clinical nutrition education opportunities and conducting and
sharing research results on clinical nutrition best practices.
Improving Women's Health in Afghanistan
Abbott plays a key role in addressing maternal and child health in Afghanistan, where the maternal
mortality rate is one of the highest in the world, and where one in five children do not live to see
their fifth birthday. We work to improve the lives of Afghan women and children through our
partnership with Direct Relief and the Afghan Institute of Learning (AIL). AIL’s five clinics, staffed and
operated by Afghan women, provide high-quality health services and offer health education. We
work to empower women through the training of female midwives to provide skilled assistance during
labor and delivery, care for infants and children and through donations of nearly $4.5 million in
product donations, as well as more than $1 million in grant support.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Haiti
Fighting Malnutrition and Spurring Development in Haiti
Abbott and the Abbott Fund are working together with Partners In Health (PIH), one of the world’s
most respected public health organizations, to find new answers to the longstanding challenges of
malnutrition and lack of economic opportunity in Haiti.
The $6.5 million initiative draws on the combined expertise of PIH and Abbott to open a new nutrition
production facility in Haiti’s Central Plateau region. The facility will produce  Nourimanba , a
therapeutic food used to treat severe malnutrition, providing free, life-saving treatment to thousands
of children through PIH's clinics in Haiti.
In addition, the facility will produce and sell peanut butter in Haiti. The long-term goal is to create a
social enterprise that will be self-sustaining, with revenue from peanut butter sales reinvested in the
facility to cover the costs of Nourimanba  production.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 130 | July 3, 2013Every aspect of the partnership aims to expand economic opportunity in the region, with local
production, extensive training of Haitian staff, and an agricultural program that will create market
opportunities and boost incomes for local farmers.
We recently launched a new microsite to share updates on this important work – please visit
partnershipinhaiti.org .
This partnership is an important part of Abbott’s broader work to expand access to health care in
Haiti and other developing regions of the world. Since 2007, Abbott and the Abbott Fund have
provided more than $55 million in grants and product donations to help address critical health
needs in Haiti, including maternal and child health, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and malnutrition.
Recent Related News Stories
"Corporate Social Responsibility Now a Staple at Davos ," CNBC , Jan. 22, 2012
"Peanut Crop Growing Hope in Haiti ," CBS Evening News , Jan. 14, 2012
“Making Nutrition a Sustainable Business in Haiti ,” New York Times , Nov. 2, 2011
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Community Diabetes Care
Improving Blood Sugar Levels, Together
In Kenya, Abbott and the Abbott Fund are partnering with a consortium of nonprofit organizations
and medical schools to improve the quality of care for chronic diseases while empowering patients
to manage their own conditions more effectively. This consortium, known as the Academic Model
Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH), includes Kenya’s Moi University School of Medicine, the
Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and a coalition of North American academic institutions led by
Indiana University.
AMPATH and its governmental and community partners currently provide comprehensive care
services for more than 160,000 patients at more than 60 clinical sites in rural and urban Kenya by
working to address food and income security needs, monitoring patient compliance with treatment
protocols and using community-based education programs to promote healthier behaviors. AMPATH
initially focused its efforts on developing a comprehensive approach to HIV/AIDS control and
treatment. More recently, AMPATH has expanded the scope of its activities to tackle chronic
illnesses such as diabetes through innovative strategies that leverage technology, community
support and incentive programs to forge a network of care.
BIGPIC Looks at the Big Picture
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 131 | July 3, 2013Determined to leverage the strong community spirit prevalent throughout Kenya, AMPATH
developed a pilot program called Bridging Income Generation with Provision of Incentives for Care
(BIGPIC). Simply put, BIGPIC uses a combination of group motivation, education and incentives to
encourage diabetes patients to improve not only their own health, but also the health of other
members of their community.
BIGPIC participants are divided into groups of 10 neighboring patients. The groups are structured to
include some patients who have gotten their diabetes under control, some with high blood sugar
levels and some with moderate blood sugar levels. All the patients’ blood sugar levels are measured
at the start of the program and then at three- and six-month intervals. At the end of that time period,
AMPATH hosts a celebration with diabetes-friendly foods, and also rewards the groups that achieve
the greatest levels of diabetes control with community-appropriate prizes such as farming supplies,
payment of school fees, cell phones or supermarket vouchers.
To have the best chance at winning a prize, groups must work together to find a way to lower the
blood glucose levels of the group members with the highest readings. This gives patients who
already have their diabetes under control an incentive to help their less healthy counterparts
achieve the same success in managing the disease.
AMPATH believes the BIGPIC approach has the potential to deliver both short-term and long-term
benefits. In the short term, the peer approach helps patients stay compliant and healthy. In the long
term, the system helps to establish a local, sustainable approach to health care management that is
not dependent on donor dollars.
Using Mobile Technology to Monitor Patient Progress
Helping Kenyan patients control their diabetes requires ensuring that they have opportunities to
conduct regular and reliable blood sugar readings. In the past, clinicians would take a single random
blood sugar reading on the day of a patient’s clinic visit, and then try to prescribe a treatment
protocol based on that single data point. Since blood sugar readings among diabetes patients can
vary dramatically from one day to the next or even within a single day, it was not clear that patients
derived any ongoing benefits from treatment based on a single blood sugar reading.
To address this problem, AMPATH has helped two Kenyan Ministry of Health diabetes clinics to
implement tests for HbA1c, a form of hemoglobin that shows whether patients’ average blood
glucose levels have been high or low over the previous three months.
The HbA1c test reveals which patients have ongoing challenges controlling their blood sugar. Since
trips to diabetes clinics can take up to six hours for patients in rural Kenya, AMPATH has piloted a
program using mobile phone technology to monitor high-risk patients at home and encourage them
to maintain compliance with their diabetes medications.
Patients with high HbA1c readings are sent home with a glucose measuring device and insulin
supplies. Most patients already have access to mobile phones of their own or through their
community, but AMPATH provides mobile phones to those who do not already have such access.
Community workers then call the patients weekly to record all blood sugar test results from the
patients and to make sure that patients are performing the necessary insulin injections. These
community workers enter data from their patient calls into electronic medical records, which are then
reviewed by clinicians who close the loop by sending patients a text message or by calling them with
a new recommended insulin dose for the upcoming week.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 132 | July 3, 2013So far, this innovative mobile diabetes management program has yielded impressive results. A pilot
study showed that 235 participating patients achieved a 25 percent reduction in their average blood
sugar ratings after receiving just three to six months of care through the AMPATH program. Patients
who maintain these lower blood sugar levels over time typically benefit from significantly fewer
diabetes-related complications.
AMPATH has been a pioneer in using mobile phone technologies in both its HIV and diabetes
programs to help identify, treat and monitor patients. These technologies can transform health care
in resource-poor settings, giving health care workers a sustainable way to reach people who
otherwise may not be able to access care due to lack of transportation, while empowering patients
to have more control over their own care.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Women’s Heart Health
Getting to the Heart of Women’s Health Issues
Women typically experience heart problems approximately a decade later than men. When women
do experience heart disease, they often suffer from accompanying diseases such as hypertension
and diabetes. In addition, women tend to have smaller and more contorted blood vessels than men,
which makes heart surgery and stent placement more complicated. As a result of all these factors,
women often have more complications and difficulty recovering from heart surgery than men.
To better understand the unique challenges surrounding women and cardiovascular disease,
Abbott in 2009 launched the Women’s Heart Health Initiative (WHHI), a comprehensive educational
program to increase cardiovascular disease awareness in women and their health care providers,
while simultaneously researching ways to close the gap in interventional cardiology outcomes in
men and women.
The SPIRIT WOMEN clinical trial – designed by Abbott to study the performance of our  XIENCE V
stent in female patients – was among the first clinical studies to focus solely on women. Data from
SPIRIT WOMEN built on findings from earlier trials showing that even though women with heart
disease continue to have higher incidences of other chronic illnesses such as diabetes and
hypertension, they can still experience equally good outcomes as men when using the XIENCE V
stent.
Building a New Tool to Raise Awareness
Having the right medical device to treat female stent patients is only part of the solution to improving
women’s heart health. A bigger challenge may be convincing women that they need to be
concerned about heart health issues. Many women still believe that breast cancer is the number-
one killer of women, but evidence shows that heart disease kills ten times as many women per year
as all cancers combined. The WHHI is designed to help health care professionals close this
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 133 | July 3, 2013awareness gap through increased education in a variety of settings.
Recognizing that many women around the world use their obstetrician/gynecologist (OB/GYN) as
their primary care physician, the WHHI worked with the Society for Cardiac Angiography and
Interventions (SCAI) to develop a heart disease screening tool that OB/GYNs can use to uncover
the presence of heart disease risk factors among their female patients. The goal was to raise
awareness of the scope of the women’s heart disease problem within the OB/GYN community so
that OB/GYN doctors could, in turn, teach their patients – and refer them if necessary to
cardiologists for further care and testing.
Preliminary results of the screening from one OB/GYN clinic in Peoria, Illinois, indicated that only 18
percent of patients knew all their risk factors for heart disease. Due to the efforts of WHHI and SCAI,
interest in the heart disease screening tool is growing among OB/GYNs. Meanwhile, the campaign to
raise awareness of heart disease risks among women was given a boost when the North American
Menopause Society recently recognized heart disease as an important factor in women’s health.
A Global Effort to Raise Awareness of Women’s Heart Health
Awareness of women’s heart health issues may be gaining traction in the United States, but the
challenge is even greater in developing nations such as India. Recent data suggest that as much as
60 percent of the world’s heart disease occurs in India. Yet many women in India who follow a
vegetarian diet are under the impression that they do not need to worry about heart disease.
Eager to start making inroads in countering this trend, Abbott and WHHI arranged for Sudhir
Mungee, M.D., an interventional cardiologist based in Illinois, to give a talk about the issue before
75 OB/GYN doctors at a recent meeting of the Indian Menopausal Society in Indore, India. Dr.
Mungee found that his audience enthusiastically supported the idea of screening women for heart
disease risk factors during OB/GYN visits. In fact, the Indian OB/GYNs in attendance expressed
interest in launching a local research project to assess the prevalence of risk factors among the
female population in their states.
Meanwhile, in Malaysia, Robaayah Zambahari, M.D., has worked with Abbott and WHHI to assist in
her national GO RED educational and screening campaign to raise awareness about women’s heart
health issues in Southeast Asia.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Smart Shipping
Abbott Partners with TNT to Improve Efficiency
A visitor to the Abbott Vascular warehouse in the southeastern Dutch city of Heerlen might notice
several workers wearing the iconic orange-and-black colors of delivery services company TNT
Express.
Since 2008, several TNT personnel have been embedded at the Heerlen facility, partnering with
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 134 | July 3, 2013Abbott staff to ensure that cartons of vascular stents, balloons and accessories are packed and
labeled properly for worldwide shipment. The TNT employees help make sure that the cartons are
not damaged and that all the shipment data is accurate. They thoroughly check the product before
it leaves the warehouse, and they help to load the boxes into outgoing vans or trailers. At any given
time, there may be two or three TNT employees on duty in the Heerlen warehouse, but TNT ensures
that several additional workers have the necessary training in Abbott processes to step up as
circumstances require.
"Having our employees on-site at Abbott helps us build a stronger partnership," says Wilfried van
Herpen, Contract Manager at TNT Express. "The TNT employees come to feel like part of the Abbott
team, which maximizes cooperation."
Petra Haesen, Operations Manager at the Heerlen facility, does all she can to make the TNT people
feel at home at Abbott. "The TNT personnel have their own uniforms and they are obviously not on
our payrolls, but we still treat them the same as our regular employees," she says. "They follow the
same procedures, receive the same code-of-conduct training and eat in the same canteen as
everyone else. I would characterize our relationship with TNT as being a peer relationship – and a
very good one."
Maximizing Communication, Minimizing Emissions
According to van Herpen, the Abbott-TNT partnership is built on a strong foundation of mutual
respect and good communication. The two companies also share a commitment to continuous
improvement, whether in reducing costs, improving quality or finding more efficient ways to get
products to customers with minimal environmental impact.
TNT's commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen has been recognized by the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index, which named TNT as the number-one company in its sector (Industrial Goods
and Services) from 2007 to 2010. Abbott is proud to have a partner that takes corporate citizenship
so seriously. For instance, over the past 10 years, TNT has used its supply chain management
expertise to help the United Nations' World Food Programme (WFP) optimize the efficiency of its
distribution system. In humanitarian crisis situations, TNT helps WFP with the
logistical/transportation capabilities it needs to quickly and effectively distribute food where it is
desperately needed.
On a day-to-day basis, TNT is working toward its goal of becoming the world's first zero-emission
transport company. Like Abbott, TNT has a concrete goal of reducing its carbon footprint. By 2020,
TNT Express is aiming to improve its CO 2 efficiency index by 40 percent (versus the 2007 baseline
year output). To help reach this goal, TNT has begun deploying a fleet of electric vehicles, and
today the company has dozens of these electric vehicles on the road.
Meanwhile, TNT makes sure that the trucks that transport Abbott Vascular's products are modern
and efficient. Most TNT vehicles are less than three years old, with the largest trucks five years old
at the most. Since older trucks tend to emit more carbon dioxide, having a young fleet ensures less
pollution. In urban environments, TNT also tries to use zero-emissions modes of transport, such as
bicycles or electric motorcycles, to get products to their final destination.
When it comes to deliveries of Abbott Vascular's products, TNT always tries to find the most efficient
and timely way of getting supplies from the warehouse to the hospital or medical center where they
will be utilized. For destinations within 1,500 kilometers – including countries such as France,
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 135 | July 3, 2013Germany and the U.K. – TNT relies on road transport to keep a lid on CO 2 emissions. Of course, for
more distant destinations where next-day delivery is imperative, TNT must use air transport
methods.
No matter what method is used to get Abbott Vascular items from the warehouse to the customer,
TNT makes sure that waste is minimized along the way. When products come into the Heerlen
warehouse from the Temecula, California, manufacturing facility, for instance, TNT repackages,
consolidates and ultimately tries to reuse as much packaging material as possible, helping Abbott
virtually eliminate its packaging waste.
In other cases, reducing waste is simply a matter of combining flexibility and logic. Although
perishable products must be shipped with ice packs and Styrofoam insulation in hot weather or
when the delivery time frame exceeds 24 hours, the in-house TNT shippers at Heerlen can minimize
packaging in cases where it is not warranted. When temperatures are below 25 degrees Celsius
along the entire shipping route, TNT can reduce the amount of packing material it uses by more
than 50 percent.
"There are three pillars to the TNT-Abbott partnership," says van Herpen. "We respect each other
very much. We are very good at listening to each other, and we accept each other. These three
pillars not only lead to good performance, they also help us to understand each other's goals, so we
can work together to mutually agree on the best path to get Abbott's products to their destination
safely, efficiently, dependably and sustainably."
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Green Partners
Employees Team Up to Help Abbott Go Greener
More than 1,200 employees in Abbott’s headquarters north of Chicago have teamed up to increase
environmental responsibility awareness and practices through Green Partners. This informal
employee network offers a wide range of educational programs and volunteer activities to help
employees make sustainable choices both at home and at work.
Among other activities, Green Partners recently sponsored:
A community outreach project in which the team built a community vegetable garden to
support the local food pantry, while teaching local middle school students about nutrition,
cooking and time management
A vendor presentation on recycling and the products that can be purchased made from
recycled materials
Two seminars on gardening; one about growing your own vegetables following organic
principles, and the other on how to identify and eliminate invasive species on a home property
A native plant rescue where members were able to dig up plants from a location that was
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 136 | July 3, 2013being demolished and replant them in their gardens
Green Partners also helped to organize and execute a household electronic waste collection day for
Abbott employees in 2012. Partnering with the local solid waste collection agency and multiple
Abbott experts, the event enabled Abbott employees to bring unwanted electronics such as
computers, mobile telephones and television sets to the Abbott campus for environmentally friendly
recycling and disposal. More than 150 donors contributed 14,000 pounds of waste – enough to fill a
semi-trailer with electronics equipment.
Complementing its programs, Green Partners distributes monthly informational email newsletters to
help share environmental best practices and encourage multiple work sites to adopt them. For
example, a recent edition of the newsletter showcased Abbott corporate initiatives keep office
buildings and production facilities cool during the summer and the irrigation techniques used on site,
along with how employees can apply similar efforts at home. Two editions highlighted ways to
reduce paper coming to homes and offices by going paperless in pay statements and W2s, along
with how to eliminate unwanted magazines and catalogs.
At year end of 2012, Green Partners went through the process of dividing in to two employee
networks. After the split Abbott Green Partners membership was at over 600 members.
Going forward in 2013, Green Partners members will work together to help multiple Abbott business
units improve their recycling rates and reduce waste generation. They are starting with an effort to
support Lake County Housekeeping with centralized recycling and waste collection and day
cleaning, along with support of ADD’s efforts to move toward zero waste to landfill.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Modernizing Healthcare in Tanzania
Similar to other developing countries, resource-limited infrastructure and a lack of trained health
professionals are key barriers to care in Tanzania. Patients face a myriad of challenges – from a
lack of emergency and outpatient care facilities, to extended travel and long waits to access testing
and treatment, to the fewest number of physicians in the world, at 1 per 100,000 people.
For more than a decade, Abbott and its foundation, the Abbott Fund, have worked together with the
Government of Tanzania to help find long-term solutions to these and other critical challenges. This
unique public­private partnership is strengthening the country’s underlying healthcare system to
elevate the level of care for people across the country.
To date, Abbott and the Abbott Fund have invested more than $100 million to modernize
infrastructure, train health workers, strengthen hospital management and systems and expand
access to high-quality testing, treatment and care across Tanzania. Abbott employee volunteers
also have provided extensive mentoring, technical support and expertise through the partnership.
Since 2001, the partnership has delivered significant results to improve healthcare for the people of
Tanzania.
Pioneering emergency medical care:  Opened the first Emergency Medicine Department in
Tanzania, providing life­saving care for more than 120,000 patients in the first three years (2011–
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 137 | July 3, 2013Tanzania, providing life­saving care for more than 120,000 patients in the first three years (2011–
13), and established the first residency program in Emergency Medicine in East Africa, with first
class graduating in 2013.
Improving patient care:  Built a three-story outpatient treatment center that serves hundreds of
patients a day (more than 1 million patient visits since 2005), and upgraded testing and treatment at
more than 90 sites across the country, bringing services to some rural areas for the first time.
Strengthening hospital labs and diagnostic services:  Modernized the national hospital
laboratory building, upgraded hospital labs at 23 regional hospitals and established the first
nationwide lab IT network to share test results, monitoring and management practices across the
country.
Training healthcare workers:  Conducted more than 20,000 health worker trainings in patient
care and treatment, voluntary counseling and testing, laboratory equipment operation, hospital
information technology and hospital management.
Advancing testing and care for people affected by HIV/AIDS:  A 2007 government assessment
found that nearly 1 in 3 people on HIV treatment in Tanzania were receiving care at sites that
benefited from Abbott Fund support. The partnership also provided support services for more than
200,000 children and families affected by HIV/AIDS.
Abbott Employees Volunteer 10,000+ Hours
A key component of the program is the involvement of highly specialized Abbott employee
volunteers. This includes lab technicians, who have provided extensive training and mentoring for
lab staff in Tanzania, as well as contributions from other experts working in construction,
engineering, facility and equipment maintenance, healthcare management, information technology,
security and waste management. To date, Abbott employees have contributed more than 10,000
hours of on-the-ground support for the initiative.
Sustainable Change
Every element of the partnership aims to deliver sustainable improvements to the underlying
healthcare system, rather than simply addressing short-term needs. A strong focus on training and
upgrading local capabilities, and strengthening management, IT and infrastructure systems, help
establish a strong foundation for long-term operations.
Building on these systemic improvements, Abbott and the Abbott Fund are working closely with the
government to develop innovative new models for healthcare financing in Tanzania. New business
units are being created that provide best-in-class medical care for all people, regardless of ability to
pay – while charging fair prices to insured patients to subsidize care for the majority of patients who
cannot afford to pay for care. Pilot programs will be launched and evaluated, with the long-term goal
of strengthening the economic sustainability of public healthcare in Tanzania.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 138 | July 3, 2013Profiles
Eye Banking
Precision Lasers for a Better Look at the Future
Corneal transplants represent some of the most commonly performed transplant procedures in the
United States. More than 700,000 corneal transplants have been performed during the past 50
years – and, as a result, “eye banks” housing tissues available for transplant have existed in many
communities for decades.
As corneal transplant procedures have grown more advanced, however, the technology and
expertise required to prepare donor tissue for transplant also have increased. Contemporary
procedures typically involve different layers of the cornea that are sometimes only tens of microns
thick – and cutting tissue at that level of delicacy is extremely difficult to achieve without the use of
specific laser technology. That’s why Abbott Medical Optics (AMO) is partnering with the National
Eye Bank Center in Memphis, Tennessee, to help prepare tissues for transplant efficiently and
rapidly, while serving as a hub for research and development on new ways of preparing corneal
tissue.
AMO’s  IntraLase  femtosecond laser gives surgeons the ability to create uniquely shaped corneal
incisions with great precision. With these customized, ultra-precise incisions, transplanted corneas
can exert less pressure on sutures, which may result in less astigmatism. Research shows that
corneal transplants performed with tissue that has been prepared using IntraLase  technology tend
to heal more strongly and more quickly, which allows for earlier suture removal and faster visual
rehabilitation.
Abbott Medical Optics and its predecessor organizations have been leading supporters of NEBC
since the early 2000s. Because the National Eye Bank Center relies so heavily on the IntraLase
femtosecond laser to prepare donor cornea tissue for surgery, AMO gave the organization the
single largest in-kind gift in its history: a pledge to cover $500,000 worth of laser-related upkeep
and fees.
But Abbott’s support for the National Eye Bank Center goes beyond dollars and cents.
“AMO provides more than just monetary support,” says Kathleen Terlizzese, President of Tissue
Banks International, the nonprofit foundation supporting the National Eye Bank Center’s parent
organization. “The relationship is much more than just benefactor and recipient. Both Tissue Banks
International and Abbott Medical Optics are leaders in innovation, and we both want to do what is
best for the surgeon in order to help patients see better and live better in the end. Everything AMO
does to help the National Eye Bank Center is rooted in the knowledge that surgeons will do better
work because of the high­quality tissue we provide to them.”
The gift has proven so valuable to improving eye care that AMO has committed to gifting a second
IntraLase  femtosecond laser to the Gavin Herbert Eye Institute at the University of California, Irvine.
The laser will be used to establish operations in Southern California for eye tissue banking
purposes.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 139 | July 3, 2013The NEBC Advantage
Although eye banks have been around for decades, the National Eye Bank Center offers certain
unique efficiencies and economies of scale that set it apart from other tissue processing centers. Its
location in Memphis, near the main transport hub for shipping giant FedEx, gives the center the
ability to receive donor tissue, prepare it for surgery and ship it out nationwide on an overnight
basis, with assurance that the necessary materials will arrive in time for early morning surgeries.
Time is of the essence in transplant operations – because most donor tissue is highly perishable,
and because many corneal transplant recipients need to undergo surgery immediately in order to
prevent loss of eyesight.
Beyond the quick turnaround time, the National Eye Bank Center offers additional advantages due
to its sheer size and the volume of corneas that it processes. Corneal tissue preparation is a skill,
and perfecting any skill takes practice. Most large eye banks process hundreds of corneas in a
year, but the National Eye Bank Center processes approximately 8,000 corneas annually.
About 75 percent of these corneas meet screening criteria and are deemed suitable for surgery,
while the rest are reserved for research and training purposes. The tissue is made available to
Tissue Banks International’s own research scientists, as well as to researchers from academic
centers and ophthalmic companies such as Abbott Medical Optics.
The National Eye Bank Center also uses IntraLase  to prepare more than 75 percent of its
VisionGraft Sterile Corneas. These special corneas are sterilized using gamma radiation to extend
their shelf life from 14 days when frozen all the way to 18 months – even when stored at room
temperature.
“We have had a successful relationship with Tissue Banks International and the National Eye Bank
Center for several years, including participation on the TBI board,” reports Leonard Borrmann,
Divisional Vice President, Research and Development at Abbott Medical Optics. “This partnership
has resulted in our ability to refine the tissue-cutting process, helping to treat eye disease in
thousands of patients around the world.”
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Profiles
Advancing Clinical Nutrition
Abbott Fund Institute for Nutrition Science
The Juans, residents of Shanghai, had experienced difficulties in starting a family, so they were
overjoyed when Ms. Juan became pregnant in June 2010. Unfortunately, despite taking great care
during her pregnancy, she experienced medical complications that caused her to experience early
labor. Her daughter, Xin Yu, arrived four weeks premature, weighing only 2 pounds, 13.5 ounces
(1.29 kg) at birth.
Xin Yu (whose name means “happiness”) was immediately admitted to the neonatal intensive care
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 140 | July 3, 2013unit at Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC). One of the immediate concerns was making
sure that all of Xin Yu’s nutritional needs were met. “Premature babies will have a significant
developmental disadvantage if they don’t meet the nutrient needs for development,” says Hong Li,
M.D., Executive Director of the Clinical Nutrition Department at SCMC. “Malnutrition as an infant can
have a lasting effect on cognitive ability or IQ later in life.”
Fortunately, Xin Yu was in good hands. The neonatal intensive care unit at SCMC is staffed by a
team of doctors and nurses who have received advanced training in clinical nutrition, thanks to the
Abbott Fund Institute for Nutrition Science (AFINS). Established in 2007 with an initial $2.5 million
grant from the Abbott Fund, AFINS represents a unique collaboration among Abbott, Shanghai
Children’s Medical Center and Project HOPE, a respected nonprofit organization that uses
education and humanitarian assistance programs to achieve sustainable advances in health care.
Two Abbott experts – one from the United States and one from China – work as AFINS senior
technical advisory consultants to strengthen program implementation and provide professional
consultation.
AFINS is designed to enhance clinical nutrition skills in hospital settings by providing health care
professionals with training, education and the opportunity to perform clinical research. So far AFINS
has trained more than 2,200 pediatric clinical health professionals in China in the essential
components of clinical support and dietitian practice. “Since its establishment, AFINS has further
enhanced SCMC’s capacities in nutrition research while providing evidence­based data that will
hopefully aid in the development of clinical nutrition support guidelines for China,” says Katherine
Pickus, Divisional Vice President for Citizenship at Abbott. “Most importantly, AFINS has
demonstrated the impact of nutrition support clinical practice for children with special dietary needs.”
Getting Results, Raising Awareness
There is ample evidence that the training provided by AFINS has had a beneficial impact at
Shanghai Children’s Medical Center. For example, the complication rate associated with nutrition
support therapy at the hospital has decreased from 1.4 percent to 0.45 percent since the AFINS
training began. At the end of 2010, SCMC became the first and only children’s hospital in mainland
China to successfully receive accreditation from Joint Commission International, which singled out
the hospital’s nutrition screening practices for particular praise. Additionally, 100 percent of SCMC
inpatients are now screened, upon admission, against the World Health Organization’s nutritional
standards, so health care professionals can flag any potential nutritional needs, risks or problems.
“The establishment of AFINS has significantly improved the awareness of nutrition assessment
among SCMC’s health professionals,” says Dr. Hong. “Over the last few years, pediatric malnutrition
rates have fallen, due in part to AFINS’ training, as well as growing nutrition awareness in society at
large.”
Xin Yu’s Success Story
All of the AFINS research and training proved their value in the care given to baby Xin Yu. A
nutrition assessment showed that the child was at high risk for malnutrition. Her prematurity
prevented her from tolerating oral glucose supplements. Ordinarily, doctors would have instructed
Ms. Juan to pump breast milk, but Ms. Juan was taking a steroid medication that could have been
transmitted to her baby via breast milk. So her doctors needed to find another way to get Xin Yu the
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 141 | July 3, 2013nutrition she desperately needed. Under the circumstances, SCMC nutritionists determined that it
would be best to administer nutrition intravenously.
Following ten days of this intravenous therapy, Xin Yu’s condition had improved. Her weight
increased to 4 pounds, 4 ounces (1.92 kg). As Xin Yu’s gastrointestinal system developed, the
neonatal intensive care team decided to supplement her intravenous treatment with a little oral
nutrition using a special infant formula designed for premature children.
By her three-week birthday, Xin Yu had improved to the point where intravenous treatment could be
discontinued and she could drink enough formula to meet all her nutritional needs. Four weeks after
she was born, Xin Yu’s weight had reached 4 pounds, 7 ounces (2.02 kg). Now her parents could
cradle their child in their arms, and Xin Yu was well enough to be successfully discharged from the
medical center. Thanks to the efforts of the AFINS-trained neonatal intensive care team, the therapy
had been a great success, without any complications from the prolonged intravenous nutrition
support. As part of the AFINS-designed protocol, the nutritionists and dietitians at SCMC gave the
Juan family both verbal and written information on proper infant feeding.
“When we visited Xin Yu later at home, we were so happy to see that she has grown into a healthy
baby girl,” says Jenny Xu, Senior Program Manager at Project HOPE’s Shanghai office. “She is very
active and curious, and you can tell that she is totally healthy and has no lasting effects from her
prematurity. Of course, Xin Yu is just one of the many children who have received essential medical
treatment at SCMC. The establishment of the AFINS has benefited many critically ill children through
the work of the nutrition support team at SCMC.”
Xin Yu still returns to SCMC for regular examinations, all of which indicate that she is in fine health,
with her height, weight and overall development in line with normal criteria. For Dr. Hong, Xin Yu’s
recovery just underscores the extent to which clinical nutrition plays a key role in the supportive
medical care of critically ill patients. “Without proper nutrition support, a patient’s wound will not heal
properly, a child’s immune system will be compromised and a patient’s body weight will significantly
decrease,” says Dr. Hong. “Patients need energy to fight their diseases and to boost their immune
system. Nutrition status is a critical driving force in a patient’s recovery. As medical science
continues to strive to save lives, nutrition and other forms of supportive care become even more
essential components to a patient’s full recovery from acute or chronic diseases.”
Extending SCMC’s Successes Throughout China and Beyond
The initial Abbott Fund $2.5 million three-year grant that created AFINS China in 2007 was intended
primarily to train physicians and nurses at Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC) and to prove
the value of nutritional training in a Chinese hospital setting. In 2010, the Abbott Fund awarded
SCMC-based AFINS another $2.5 million three-year grant through Project HOPE to ensure the
program’s ongoing sustainability.
During this second phase of the project, AFINS has worked to disseminate nutritional training to
seven major regional Chinese children’s hospitals and sponsor a dozen research projects on
nutritional assessments and clinical care in China. The publication of these research results, which
are currently under review by respected peer-reviewed research journals, is intended to encourage
the Chinese hospital community to develop and enhance hospital-based nutritional assessments
and standard of care in clinical nutrition throughout the country.
Meanwhile, AFINS research and training activities continue at SCMC and at the seven Chinese
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 142 | July 3, 2013regional hospitals, through nutrition education workshops. Numerous training sessions are held
throughout the year in order to maintain high quality and testing standards.
One long­term goal is to promote the standardization of China’s nutrition support guidelines by
showing the government the importance of clinical nutrition in disease recovery. With greater
awareness, AFINS hopes to expand the role of dietitians in clinical service, health education and
disease prevention.
Building on its success in Shanghai, AFINS expanded its program activities to Vietnam in 2010. In
Vietnam, the Abbott Fund is partnering with Boston University to support the National Institute of
Nutrition, Bach Mai Hospital and Hanoi Medical University. Funded through 2013 with $3.8 million in
Abbott Fund grants, AFINS Vietnam seeks to improve the nutritional status of patients in Vietnamese
hospitals across the country by establishing a center of excellence at Bach Mai Hospital, which will
serve as a model for hospital-based clinical nutrition best practices.
The program focuses on development and implementation of clinical nutrition guidelines, providing
training and health education as well clinical nutrition research and expansion of undergraduate and
postgraduate training in clinical nutrition. To date, AFINS Vietnam has conducted in-service training
in clinical nutrition for more than 300 staff members at Bach Mai, the National Institute of Nutrition,
Hanoi Medical University and other regional hospitals. In 2010, AFINS organized Vietnam’s first­ever
national conference on clinical nutrition. The conference has become an annual event.
Closely aligned and coordinated with the strategy of the Vietnamese Ministry of Health, AFINS
developed a training curriculum for a one-year specialty program in clinical nutrition at Hanoi
Medical University, enrolling the program’s first class in 2011. Planning is already under way to
design a more comprehensive bachelor’s program in clinical nutrition for nursing students at the
university, as well as a postgraduate specialty training program in clinical nutrition there for nurses
and, at Bach Mai, for medical doctors.
AFINS has developed clinical nutrition guidelines within Bach Mai Hospital that are being shared with
provincial hospitals nationwide, along with supporting guidance and training for implementation.
Under AFINS’ guidance, the National Institute of Nutrition conducted the country’s first­ever large­
scale hospital-based malnutrition study at Bach Mai Hospital in 2011, presenting the results of the
study at a medical conference in Bangkok. AFINS’ program partners in Vietnam have taken
enthusiastic ownership of the effort to build a hospital-based clinical nutrition infrastructure,
generating confidence that the program will achieve sustainable success far beyond the four-year
grant time frame.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been
adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company
on Jan. 1, 2013.
Note: All data reflects Abbott activities in 2012. Some content has been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate
company on Jan. 1, 2013.
www.abbott.com/citizenship
Page 143 | July 3, 2013