ABBOTT GLOBAL  
CITIZENSHIP REPORT  
2014FINDING  
 THE UPSIDEFROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO  3
OUR BUSINESS  4
NUTRITION  5
MEDICAL DEVICES  5
DIAGNOSTICS  5
ESTABLISHED PHARMACEUTICALS  5
APPROACH  6
FINDING THE UPSIDE  7
OUR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP  7
OUR PRIORITY AREAS  8
CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE  9
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS  10
PRIORITIES  11
DELIVERING PRODUCT EXCELLENCE  12
DEVELOPING NEW AND PROMISING PRODUCTS  14
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY  16
GLOBAL PRODUCT PROTECTION  20
ADDRESSING LOCAL NEEDS  20
RISK AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT  22IMPROVING ACCESS  23
INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE  24
EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING  
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS  27
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY  27
EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS  
AND COMMUNITIES  28
SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT  29
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND  
SAFETY MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT  30
ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE  31
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY  34
WASTE MANAGEMENT  37
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  38
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS  40
SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE  41
SUPPLIER GUIDELINES  42
 MANAGING SUPPLIER  
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  42
CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT (CDP)  
SUPPLY CHAIN PROGRAM  43
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  44
VALUING OUR PEOPLE  45
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE  46
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND  
TALENT MANAGEMENT  47
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS  49
WORK-LIFE HARMONY  49
HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES  50
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY  51
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES  53
HUMAN RIGHTS  53STRATEGIC PHILANTHROPY  54
ENGAGING AND INSPIRING YOUTH IN  
SCIENTIFIC EXPLORATION  55
IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH BETTER NUTRITION  56
EMPLOYEE GIVING AND INVOLVEMENT  59
MEASURING RESULTS  59
PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY  60
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  61
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM  61
RESPONSIBLE SALES AND  
MARKETING PRACTICES  63
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  64
TRANSPARENCY  65
TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES  66
REPORTING  67
SCOPE OF REPORTING  68
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING  68
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  69
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  69
METRICS  70
KEY METRICS  71
DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL  
PERFORMANCE  76
GRI INDEX  101
GRI G3 INDEX  102TABLE OF CONTENTS
Dear Fellow Stakeholder,
We launched a new brand identity in 2014 that captures 
Abbott’s mission, its philosophy, its spirit, and the way it 
does business – “Life. To the Fullest.” This expresses our company’s deep respect for people and our world, and our commitment to helping them both thrive through better health. 
Our purpose at Abbott is to help people live the best 
and fullest lives they can. We take that charge very seriously – in all its dimensions. We apply that thinking 
to everything we do as a company and to all of the many 
stakeholders whom we serve. To do so, we focus on three strategic priorities:
PRODUCT EXCELLENCE
First and foremost, we create products for people of all ages – in nutrition, diagnostics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices – to help them live healthier, fuller lives. 
We’re committed to advancing health and healthcare 
through continual innovation of new and better technologies. Last year this included the introduction of breakthrough products in glucose monitoring and infectious disease testing and advances in cataract 
treatment, vascular stents and nutrition targeted to  
meet specific needs and preferences.
IMPROVING ACCESS
We’re growing our company – and the benefits it 
delivers – around the world. Today approximately 50 percent of our sales come from faster-growing 
economies – countries where billions of people are 
gaining unprecedented access to care. In 2014 we built new manufacturing facilities in China, India, Malaysia, the Netherlands and the U.S. to serve growing demand in these regions and to help build local economies. 
We also struck an innovative agreement to co-develop 
a dairy farm hub in China to deepen our roots in the country and strengthen our supply chain.SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT
Recognizing that human health is inextricably linked to the health of our planet, Abbott has long been dedicated to operating in ways that are mindful and respectful of the world around us. We continue to set and meet 
ambitious goals to continually reduce the environmental 
impact of our operations. 
By 2020 we intend to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions 
by 40 percent from 2010 levels, total water intake by 
30 percent, and total waste generated by 50 percent. 
As a result of our excellent progress against these goals, and our broad-based efforts to operate as a responsible business, we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the tenth year in a row – once 
again leading our industry sector in this important 
benchmark.
Today’s Abbott is one of the most globalized companies 
in health care. Our 73,000 Abbott colleagues focus on 
making our business local to every community in which 
it works. We develop local answers to local needs – from our products, to the way we operate, to our community involvement. Our goal is to make every place that Abbott 
works better as a result of our being there.
Thank you for your interest in our company and in our 
efforts to continually make it better. That’s how we help all our stakeholders to enjoy “Life. To the Fullest.”
Sincerely,“  Abbott fulfills its potential as  
a company by helping others to 
fulfill theirs. It all comes down  
to keeping our promise, by striving to advance human health 
and happiness in all we do and by 
approaching every challenge with utmost respect and sensitivity to  
our world and its people.”
MILES D. WHITE  
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF  
EXECUTIVE OFFICERFROM OUR CHAIRMAN  
AND CEO
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
3
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20143
OUR  
BUSINESS
5 NUTRITION  
  From infants to the elderly, we offer 
science-based nutrition products to  make every stage of life a healthy one. 
5 MEDICAL DEVICES  
  Our advanced medical devices  enable people to live their everyday  lives better and healthier.5 DIAGNOSTICS  
  Our innovative technologies provide healthcare professionals the information they need to make the best treatment decisions, faster.
5 ESTABLISHED  
 PHARMACEUTICALS  
  We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded-generic medicines  that treat some of the world’s most pervasive health conditions.IN THIS SECTION:
Abbott is a globally diversified healthcare 
company, whose central purpose is to 
help people, at all stages of life, live their 
best possible lives through better health. 
Approximately 73,000 Abbott people  
carry out our mission, reaching more than 
150 countries.
Abbott has four core businesses of roughly 
equal size – each focused on advancing 
innovations that provide better options  
and outcomes for people in pursuit of 
healthier lives.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
4
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201444 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
 $8.8 BILLION
Spent with suppliers.
 $1.34 BILLION
Returned in dividends to shareholders.
 $1.35 BILLION
Invested in R&D.
 $20.2 BILLION
Net sales worldwide.
2014 REVENUE
Our balanced portfolio, with four leading 
businesses of roughly equal size, helps offset 
volatility in any single business or market.A GLOBAL  AND  
BALANCED PORTFOLIO
27% 34%
16% 23%NUTRITION
MEDICAL DEVICES
ESTABLISHED  
PHARMACEUTICALS
DIAGNOSTICSAbbott is a globally diversified healthcare company, 
headquartered in north suburban Chicago in the United States and serving customers in more than 150 
countries with approximately 73,000 employees.
Abbott has four major businesses – each focused on 
advancing innovations that provide better options and outcomes for people in pursuit of healthier lives.
We deliver results for patients and consumers, 
healthcare professionals, employees and shareholders. Moreover, our company’s financial success enables 
us to continually invest, innovate and introduce new 
products that are changing the practice of healthcare. Our success also benefits stakeholders around the world. In 2014, for example, Abbott spent approximately $8.8 billion with suppliers and invested $1.35 billion in 
research and development. Additionally, Abbott and our 
philanthropic foundation, the Abbott Fund, contributed more than $49.5 million in philanthropic grants, product donations and patient assistance.
NUTRITION
We offer science-based nutrition products for every stage of life – from infant and pediatric to adult healthy living and therapeutic nutrition. Our products include 
leading brands, as well as specialty products, that help 
meet the nutritional needs of people with a variety of health conditions, including cancer, diabetes, kidney disease and osteoporosis.
MEDICAL DEVICES
We offer minimally invasive solutions for vascular procedures. From fast, accurate glucose meters to innovative lenses to help restore vision to people with 
cataracts, our advanced medical device technologies are 
designed to help people return to their everyday lives faster and healthier.DIAGNOSTICS
Our innovative instrument systems and tests help monitor a range of health conditions with speed, accuracy and efficiency. From automated 
immunodiagnostics systems and blood analyzers to 
sophisticated molecular diagnostics and point-of-care devices, our technologies provide healthcare professionals with information they need to make  
the best treatment decisions.
ESTABLISHED  
PHARMACEUTICALS
We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded 
generic medicines that help treat some of the world’s most pervasive health conditions. Through such product 
enhancements as new formulations, new indications 
and new packaging, we tailor our offerings to address regional health needs and provide access to trusted, proven medicines for those who need them most.
In 2014, our Established Pharmaceuticals Division 
expanded Abbott’s presence in growing markets, in line with our long-term commitment to growing global healthcare markets and capabilities. The acquisition 
of CFR Pharmaceuticals expands Abbott’s presence in 
Latin America, making our company one of the region’s top 10 pharmaceutical companies. In addition to local pharmaceutical development capabilities, Abbott now has manufacturing facilities in Chile, Colombia, 
Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Brazil. Our acquisition 
of Veropharm, a leading Russian pharmaceutical manufacturer, also gives Abbott’s Established Pharmaceuticals business local manufacturing and development capabilities, building on our 40-year 
presence in Russia.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
5
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20145
7 FINDING THE UPSIDE  
  It’s a way of realizing our potential by 
helping others realize theirs. We work to find the Upside in everything we do. 
7  OUR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP  
  We focus our efforts on those areas that present key opportunities for long-term business growth, and where we can have the greatest positive impact.
8  OUR PRIORITY AREAS  
  We work to deliver positive results in our three priority areas, identifying opportunities to create shared value and invest in communities while operating as  a responsible and sustainable business. 9  CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT 
AND GOVERNANCE  
   At Abbott, we constantly work to  integrate our citizenship strategy with  our core business strategy.
10   ENGAGING OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS  
  Listening to our stakeholders is vital to  our success as a business enterprise and  to our progress as a global citizen.IN THIS SECTION:APPROACH
At Abbott, we believe that innovative, 
responsible and sustainable business plays  
an important role in building a healthy, 
thriving society. We strive to foster 
economic, environmental and social 
well-being through our operations and in 
partnership with others. 
It starts with responsible and sustainable 
business. Every day, people around the 
world depend on our products to live 
healthier lives. That’s why we run our 
business the right way, for the long term – 
for the benefit of the many people we serve.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
6
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201466 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
FINDING THE UPSIDE
At Abbott, we believe that innovative, responsible and 
sustainable business plays an important  role in building 
a healthy, thriving society. We strive to foster economic, environmental and
 social well-being through our 
operations and in our work with others.
It starts with responsible and sustainable business. 
Every day, people around the world depend on our products to live healthier lives. That’s why we run our business the right way, for the long term – for the benefit of the many people we serve.
But that’s just the beginning. We see potential 
everywhere.
By building a more inclusive business, we aim to 
reach more people, in more places, than
 ever before. 
From strengthening the capacity of suppliers to creating 
products that address local health needs, we are always 
finding new opportunities to expand the positive impact 
of our people, products and business in communities around the world.
We can’t tackle every challenge. But what we can do  
is address the critical issues that best
 match our 
scientific expertise, business acumen and unique 
resources, applying innovation and ingenuity to find 
the answers. Knowledge and optimism are resources 
that grow in value the more they are shared. Healthy economies contribute to healthy communities. Opportunity is
 contagious.OUR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP
Our Global Citizenship strategy addresses three priority areas that are most important for our stakeholders and our growth – Delivering Product Excellence,
 Improving 
Access and Safeguarding the Environment. These are the material areas where our core business can have the 
most significant impact on society and the environment. 
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
Abbott operates in a fast-moving, global business 
environment that continually presents new opportunities and demands. The issues our company 
needs to respond to are constantly evolving. A key 
role of our Global Citizenship team is to understand and anticipate future trends that will present both opportunities and challenges for our business. 
An important part of the process to identify emerging 
trends is our materiality assessment. At its core, materiality is a principle used in the decision-  
making process to identify issues that have the potential 
to significantly impact the long-term viability of the 
business. We continually strive to balance internal  
and external perspectives – rigorously assessing  
what is important to our stakeholders and what is relevant for commercial success in the markets in  
which we compete.
In 2014, Abbott commissioned an external agency, 
Corporate Citizenship, to undertake a materiality assessment to explore and prioritize the key issues.  
The insights we derive from this process will help to inform our Global Citizenship priorities over the coming months and years.GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP APPROACH
TO BE A RESPONSIBLE,  
SUSTAINABLE  
AND INCLUSIVE BUSINESS.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
WE WILL ACHIEVE POSITIVE RESULTS IN THESE  
THREE PRIORITY AREAS BY DELIVERING
RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS
PRACTICESSHARED VALUE  
INITIATIVESSTRATEGIC  
PHILANTHROPYSAFEGUARDING 
THE ENVIRONMENTIMPROVING 
ACCESSDELIVERING  
PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE
IT’S A WAY 
OF DOING  
BUSINESS.  
 
IT’S A WAY  
OF SOLVING PROBLEMS.IT’S A WAY OF REALIZING OUR POTENTIAL BY HELPING OTHERS REALIZE THEIRS.THAT’S  THE UPSIDE.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
7
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20147
THE PROCESS
There were three core steps in our materiality 
assessment:
1. Conducted extensive research to identify a 
comprehensive list of economic, governance, 
environmental and societal issues relevant to Abbott and the broader healthcare industry, and our stakeholders. 
2. Explored and tested these issues with our Global 
Citizenship Advisory Council, who were invited to 
prioritize based on significance and potential impact.
3. Hosted a series of interviews with senior leaders 
across Abbott to identify factors that may have the 
greatest potential impact on the long-term viability of  
the business and broader industry.
Based on the insight gained, 20 preliminary  
economic, governance, environmental and societal 
factors were identified: 
• Aging population
• Climate change
• Corruption and bribery
• Disruptive technologies
• Diversity
• Healthcare infrastructure
• Malnutrition
• Occupational health and safety
• Patient empowerment
• Political instability
• Product quality and safety
• R&D and product pipeline
• Regulatory pressures
• Resource scarcity
• Responsible marketing
• Rising middle class
• Supply chain resilience• Talent management
• Transparency
• Water scarcity
As a next step, we are testing this initial list with  
both internal and external stakeholders, including  
non-profit organizations, government, and investors. 
Based on the collective feedback, we will develop a materiality matrix, providing a clear picture of the potential sustainability risks and opportunities for  
the business, as well as those issues of greatest importance to our stakeholders.
OUR PRIORITY AREAS
Our approach to Global Citizenship enables us to deliver positive results in each of these priority areas by identifying opportunities to create shared value and 
invest in communities, all
 while ensuring we operate as 
a responsible and sustainable business.
Delivering Product Excellence – Everywhere we 
operate and in everything we do, we are  committed 
to innovation consistent with the highest standards of quality and safety and to ensuring
 we deliver leading 
products that help people get healthy and stay healthy, at all stages of life.
Improving Access – Our products and services play 
a vital role in improving healthcare around the world. We work with a range of partners, including healthcare professionals, patients, consumers and governments, to 
leverage our expertise and increase access to healthcare 
through a combination of educational and infrastructure development programs. Our continuing success depends on the empowerment of consumers and patients to 
make well-informed choices about their health.Safeguarding the Environment – We work to 
reduce our global environmental impacts through initiatives that help protect the planet while improving manufacturing efficiency, reducing costs and preserving 
our ability to do business in the future.
To achieve positive results against our strategic 
priorities, we will take action on three fronts:
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
The foundation of Abbott’s approach to citizenship  
rests on being a responsible business. Our business decisions are guided by a set of principles that preserve 
our ability to successfully meet society’s needs in 
a sustainable, successful manner while conserving resources and advancing social, environmental and economic best practices.
Supply Chain Excellence  – Supplier relationships 
are integral to our success, and we work closely with 
our suppliers to help ensure the highest levels of performance in all aspects of quality, environmental 
excellence, compliance and social responsibility.
Valuing Our People  – We are committed to helping  
our employees fulfill their potential and build  
rewarding careers, as demonstrated by our award-
winning workplace and employee programs.
Ethics and Integrity  – Abbott maintains the highest 
standards of ethics and integrity in
 everything we do, 
to ensure that we are consistently able to operate in a 
responsible manner.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
8
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20148
SHARED 
VALUE
CREATE POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT AT SCALE
 
 
DELIVER TANGIBLE BUSINESS VALUE
  
LEVERAGE ABBOTT’S KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTISE
  
ADDRESS ISSUES THAT ARE OF SIGNIFICANT 
RELEVANCE TO OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
CREATING SHARED VALUE
As part of our evolution in global citizenship, we see 
great opportunity to rethink our company’s social investment, particularly in reaching the growing 
consumer base in the
 markets of the future. We believe 
in the concept of shared value, which creates business 
value while solving  social problems. This approach is 
one way our company will sustainably address some of the
 most challenging social issues that are barriers to 
business success.
As we explore shared value at Abbott, we seek to 
establish proactive partnerships that  enable us to:
• Deliver tangible business value
• Create positive social impact at scale• Leverage Abbott’s knowledge and expertise
• Address issues that are of significant relevance to our key stakeholders
In the process, we apply our scientific expertise, 
commercial acumen, resources and employee talents 
to have a positive impact on the world around us as we advance our business.
STRATEGIC PHILANTHROPY
Abbott seeks to engage with the communities in which Abbott employees live and work, delivering programs that
 provide social and environmental benefits around 
the world and shaping our activities to reflect  local 
concerns and priorities. In doing so, we seek out opportunities for catalytic community
 investment, 
which means building partnerships with stakeholders and investing in strategic activities that
 align with  
our business.
CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE 
Our commitment to good citizenship begins at the top. Global citizenship is valued and
 championed by our 
Board of Directors and led by our company’s senior management.
At Abbott, we constantly work to embed and integrate 
our citizenship strategy with our core business strategy. For several years, our cross-functional Global Citizenship Working Group has led integration efforts 
throughout the company, while driving transparency in 
the reporting
 of our financial, social and environmental 
performance. The team includes representatives from Corporate Purchasing; Global Environment, Health 
and Safety; the Office of Ethics and Compliance, Quality 
and Regulatory Affairs; Human Resources; Supply Chain; Research and Development; Investor Relations; Global Marketing Organization; Government Affairs; 
and Commercial Operations. The team also includes
 
representatives from key functions and country affiliates
Several of our country operations, including China, 
Ireland and Russia, have formed their own local,  
cross-functional Citizenship Working Groups. Typically, 
these teams are comprised of senior leaders from each of the business units represented in that
 country, 
along with representatives of core functions, including Citizenship, Legal, Marketing,
 Public Affairs and 
Government Affairs. The country Citizenship Working Group directs the integration
 of responsible business 
practices throughout the organization and drives specific stakeholder engagement initiatives appropriate 
to local needs.
The following committees and working groups play an 
important role in our citizenship
 governance process.
Global Operations Council  – Comprised of our 
company’s heads of Operations, Quality, Engineering, Purchasing and Information Technology, this group sets priorities for all Abbott manufacturing
 operations 
around the world and drives key initiatives and actions to meet such corporate
 objectives as environmental, 
health and safety performance goals. The council reports  
to the Chairman and CEO and is chaired by the Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, who is both a senior corporate 
officer and the senior executive charged with Global 
Environment Health and Safety responsibility. 
• Public Policy Committee of the Board of 
Directors – Comprised solely of independent 
directors, this committee’s charter includes the review 
and evaluation of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social responsibility.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
9
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20149
• Business Conduct Committee of the Board of 
Directors – Comprised of business heads, this 
committee oversees implementation of our ethics and 
compliance programs.
• Executive Inclusion Council – Led by our Chairman 
and CEO, this council oversees our diversity and 
inclusion initiatives.
Responsibility for implementing our global citizenship strategy is led by the Global Citizenship and Policy (GCP) team. This department works with our four major businesses, key functional areas and affiliates 
around the world to ensure that we consistently deliver 
on our citizenship ambitions. The GCP team reports to our Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and External Affairs Officer, a corporate officer who reports directly to the Chairman and CEO.
In addition to these internal governance structures, we 
work externally with the Global
 Citizenship Advisory 
Council (GCAC) to identify opportunities and manage risks that impact
 our company across the value chain. 
In 2014, we restructured the GCAC to achieve a more efficient and focused process of strategic counsel. 
The new structure brings together a core group of 
independent, expert advisors with a broad knowledge of corporate responsibility. GCAC members include: 
• Margaret Flaherty, Senior Advisor, FSG and Professor 
at the Business School Lausanne
• David Logan, Co-Founding Director, Corporate 
Citizenship
• Jane Nelson, Senior Fellow and Director of CSR 
Initiatives, Harvard Kennedy School
• David Vidal, Emeritus Fellow, The Conference BoardThis past year, we convened the first meeting under 
this new structure. Members provided feedback on our global citizenship strategy, gave input for the materiality assessment process and discussed emerging business issues with some of our senior leaders. Going forward, 
Abbott will bring this advisory panel together on an 
annual basis. 
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue on health. We recognize that listening
 to our stakeholders, 
and responding thoughtfully to their concerns and ideas, is vital to our success as a business enterprise and to 
our progress as a global citizen. In addition, stakeholder
 
insights, gathered through one-on-one engagement or 
through wider forums, help us to develop  new products 
that address unmet health needs; educate patients, healthcare professionals and
 others about emerging 
diseases and treatment options; and understand how and where our company can make a difference.
To promote and ensure local implementation of our 
group-wide approach to stakeholder
 engagement, we 
have a defined method of stakeholder engagement, designed to be used on a cross-functional basis within 
each of our businesses and affiliates.
At the local level, we have developed a stakeholder 
engagement plan that guides Abbott leaders in setting local engagement strategies. Responsibility for 
implementation is often led by our Global Citizenship 
and Policy or Public Affairs teams locally.INTEGRATING CUSTOMER FEEDBACK
We are committed to ensuring that customer feedback is integrated into our activities. Toward that end, we employ a range of approaches, including the provision of round-the-clock feedback
 opportunities via the 
Internet, phone or mail. For example, in our nutrition business, we accept
 emails and responses to our social 
media Web sites 24/7 and also provide a toll-free  hotline 
five days a week for questions relating to our Similac  
and PediaSure products.
The Abbott Nutrition Consumer Relations team, which includes highly trained, licensed
 dietitians and 
nurses, provides product and program information, gathers feedback and
 suggestions and registers 
complaints. The quality of this service and its accuracy rates are
 reviewed daily to help our team improve its 
performance.
In addition, our Diagnostics team measures loyalty 
across all customers with a Net Promoter Score (NPS), an externally recognized metric of customer satisfaction. Our NPS has increased from 29.9 in 2009  
to 47 .2 in 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
10
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201410
12  DELIVERING PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE  
  We help people lead healthier lives  
and reach their potential with innovative  products that meet the highest  standards of quality.
23  IMPROVING ACCESS  
  To expand access to our products to people who need them, we partner with others to address key barriers, including building healthcare capacity.29  SAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENT  
  We work to help protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs  and preserving our ability to do business  in the future.IN THIS SECTION:PRIORITIES
We pursue the Upside by focusing our 
efforts on three strategic priorities: 
Delivering Product Excellence, 
Improving Access and Safeguarding the 
Environment. These areas reflect both our 
key opportunities for long-term business 
growth, and where we can have the greatest 
positive impact on people and communities. 
By applying our science, products and 
expertise in these three areas, we’re 
working to maximize the promise of human 
potential, around the world. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
11 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014 11
 2014 Highlights
•  Our powerful new molecular diagnostic platform, 
IRIDICA, currently available outside the U.S., 
can identify more than 1,000 infection-causing 
pathogens in less than six hours.
•  In medical devices, we are taking a new approach 
to product development that leverages innovative technologies to make decisions earlier in the 
development process.
•  The acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals in Latin 
America is part of our effort to expand access to our branded generic medicines in high-growth emerging markets.
•  For people who need a nutritional supplement  
but have difficulty drinking larger volumes of liquid or have poor appetite, we launched Ensure Compact, with vitamins, minerals and protein  
in only 125 ml.14  DEVELOPING NEW AND 
PROMISING PRODUCTS  
16  PRODUCT QUALITY  
AND SAFETY  
20  GLOBAL PRODUCT  
PROTECTION  20  ADDRESSING LOCAL NEEDS  
22  RISK AND CRISIS  
MANAGEMENT  IN THIS SECTION:DELIVERING PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
12
Abbott has a long-standing commitment to focused 
research and development, innovative products and solutions to health challenges around the world. Our 
continued success depends on our ability to deliver 
exceptional performance and operational excellence without compromising our manufacturing and distribution standards.Abbott has comprehensive processes in place to ensure we meet the highest safety and quality standards in the design, development, manufacturing, delivery and 
labeling of our products. These robust systems cover all 
facets of our business, from securing our supply chains and ensuring the development of high-quality products, to protecting stakeholders and our businesses with comprehensive risk-management systems.
BUSINESS DIVISION R&D APPROACH AND ACTIVITIES NEW DEVELOPMENTS
DIAGNOSTICS Next-generation solutions – Diagnostics play a critical role in evaluating and 
treating patients today and in the future. Abbott is developing the next generation of solutions to equip labs with the ability to further standardize processes, reduce costs, manage labor constraints and deliver accurate and timely information to  
aid in patient diagnosis.IRIDICA – This powerful molecular diagnostic platform, currently available outside the U.S., can identify more than 1,000 infection-causing pathogens directly from sample in less than six hours, rather than days. 
ARCHITECT 
STAT  High Sensitive Troponin-l (hsTnl) test – Currently 
available outside the U.S., this test can detect low levels of the protein within two 
to four hours of the onset of symptoms, and may help diagnose up to 50 percent of heart attacks in women that could be potentially missed.
MEDICAL DEVICES Rapid product development – New approach to product development that leverages innovative technologies, such as simulation modeling, to make decisions earlier in the development process with a reasonable risk level.
Vascular steering committee – The committee solicits R&D ideas and input, 
holds quarterly meetings and hosts technical exchanges for scientists, technologists and marketers to highlight ongoing innovation.The TECNIS Symfony intraocular lens has a unique design. Developed by 
Abbott researchers, it provides people with cataracts a full range of vision so they can see better, often without glasses. 
ESTABLISHED 
PHARMACEUTICALSScience and engineering collaboration – Our mechanism to drive collaboration 
through business encourages innovation and development of new ideas among employees through cross-functional collaboration. CFR acquisition – With the acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals, Abbott broadens its access to Latin American consumers. It augments our product offerings with more than 1,000 branded generic pharmaceuticals sold in 15 countries. Moreover, CFR’s comprehensive product portfolio aligns well with Abbott’s current therapeutic focus areas in women’s health, central nervous system, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases.
NUTRITION Consumer insights – New department established to assess consumer needs and preferences for nutrition products, supported by a rapid prototyping plant  
in Singapore.
Abbott Nutrition Health Institute – Global knowledge center that shares 
information about the value of science-based nutrition with healthcare professionals through a combination of education, advocacy and collaboration.Ensure Compact – For people who need an oral supplement to overcome disease-related malnutrition but have difficulty drinking larger volumes or  
have poor appetite. Ensure Compact provides vitamins, minerals and protein  
in only 125 ml.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
13
$1.35
BILLION INVESTED  
IN R&D IN 2014
DEVELOPING NEW AND 
PROMISING PRODUCTS
Innovation and discovery are at the heart of what we 
do at Abbott. We take a balanced approach to R&D, focusing our resources to achieve the greatest benefit for 
our patients and consumers.
INNOVATING TO RAISE STANDARDS OF CARE
The human drive to discover new technologies and 
solutions to old and new challenges has raised living standards dramatically across the globe. As the earth’s 
population grows, and as people enjoy the benefits of 
expanding economies, it is even more important that we find new ways to help provide full, healthy lives for all.
Good health is a positive not just for individuals, but also 
for the global economy and the environment as well. 
That’s why Abbott continually seeks innovative ways to deliver the enabling power of health – to fulfill the promise of human potential, in all places, in all aspects 
and stages of life. 
We do this by raising the quality of healthcare solutions 
at every step:
Groundbreaking research helps us better understand 
the body’s requirements for health and how best to maintain and enhance it.
The highest standards in healthcare solutions and 
practices deliver the best health outcomes.Innovative products help people live not just longer, 
but better, at every stage of life.
HIGHLIGHTS OF ABBOTT INNOVATIONS
In the past year, Abbott has introduced several breakthrough products and programs designed to improve human health across the globe. We’ve also 
developed new testing techniques that bring our 
products to consumers faster. These examples are  
just a few of the many innovative solutions that our company works to create every day. 
• The iDesign Advanced WaveScan Studio System,  
developed by Abbott, creates a personalized LASIK 
treatment plan unique to each person’s eye and vision needs. The system is based on the same technology, 
developed by Abbott scientists, used in NASA’s  
$8 billion James Webb Space Telescope, which will 
provide astronomers with high-resolution images of the universe. The iDesign Advanced WaveScan Studio System is CE Marked. This device is pending FDA 
approval, and not currently available for sale within 
the United States.
• Our scientists and experts in Abbott’s vision business streamlined the clinical trial and regulatory processes for our TECNIS
® Symfony Extended Range of Vision 
intraocular lenses (IOL) – trimming a year off the projected time it had previously taken to bring a new 
lens to the people who need it. The TECNIS Symfony  
IOL received CE Marking and became available in 
Europe in 2014 to treat people with cataracts. The TECNIS Symfony IOL is an Investigational device limited by U.S. law to investigational use, and is not currently approved or available for sale within the United States. 
• At Abbott’s vascular business, scientists and engineers apply benchtop testing for Absorb, the world’s first commercially available bioresorbable vascular scaffold for the heart, to test for everyday stresses on the device. While it’s standard practice to accelerate 
the testing of permanent metallic stents, Absorb is 
traditionally tested in real-time. We have discovered a way to double heart rate pulses and increase temperature to decrease testing time by 50 percent.
• Nutritional, safety and quality standards for the nutrients in formula are not universal. As a leading manufacturer of infant formula, Abbott is collaborating with other manufacturers to support the development of worldwide standard method 
performance requirements (SMPR) for such nutrients 
as vitamins A/E, vitamin D, vitamin B12, folate  
and inositol.
• Most people with diabetes dread the routine finger pricks needed to monitor blood glucose levels. Now, 
consumers across Europe, and soon many more 
markets globally, can avoid the pain and discomfort of routine finger pricks
1 with Abbott’s innovative 
FreeStyle®  Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring System, 
which monitors glucose levels continually for up to 14 
days. The system is truly a life-changing development 
for the growing number of people with diabetes around the world. 
• Abbott’s Ibis Biosciences has developed a powerful new molecular diagnostic platform, IRIDICA, which 
can identify more than 1,000 infection-causing 
pathogens directly from sample and provide results  
in less than six hours versus the current standard of care (culture-based testing), which can take days.  
1. A finger prick test using a blood glucose meter is required 
during times of rapidly changing glucose levels or if hypoglycemia or impending hypoglycemia is reported by the System or when symptoms do not match the System readings.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
14
INFOGRAPHIC
1,000
IRIDICA , ABBOTT’S NEW  
DIAGNOSTIC PLATFORM, CAN 
IDENTIFY MORE THAN 1,000 
INFECTION-CAUSING PATHOGENS DIRECTLY FROM SAMPLE IN LESS 
THAN SIX HOURS.
14 DAYS
THE FREESTYLE® LIBRE FLASH 
GLUCOSE MONITORING SYSTEM MONITORS GLUCOSE LEVELS EVERY 
MINUTE FOR UP TO 14 DAYS – WITHOUT THE NEED FOR ROUTINE 
FINGER PRICKS.
30%
More than 30% of diabetes patients  
do not check their blood sugar as often as their health practitioner advises, due 
in part to the pain and discomfort of 
finger pricks.*FINDING THE 
UPSIDE IN SEEKING NEW INNOVATIONS
Abbott works relentlessly to find the next  
breakthrough in healthcare – whether that  
innovation is new technology that speeds  
testing to enable faster treatment, or creating  new standards for product quality and safety.  
Our dedication to research and development  
helps make the world a healthier place  for all of us.
That’s the Upside.
5X
Abbott’s revolutionary iDesign system 
measures the surface of the human  eye with five times more detail than  
earlier instruments.50%
Abbott’s vascular business has discovered a 
way to double heart rate pulses and increase the temperature for benchtop testing of its 
bioresorbable vascular scaffold, Absorb – 
cutting testing time by 50%.
INFECTION-  
CAUSING 
PATHOGENS
* A survey of diabetes patients from across Europe was 
undertaken to seek their feelings about blood glucose 
monitoring. The survey was posted on the Internet 
from November 2013 to January 2014 and patients from France Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the U.K. participated. Based on 9,055 
respondents: Q5: When you think about how many 
times per day your doctor/nurse recommends that you check your blood sugar, how often do you test as 
much as you should?
15
By identifying the cause of infections – such as 
bacteria, viruses or fungi – sooner, doctors can optimize therapy and improve care for the critically ill. 
IRIDICA is CE Marked and not currently available in 
the United States. 
 
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY
Abbott strives to help people, at all stages of life, live their best possible lives through better health. Everywhere we operate and in everything we do, we are 
committed to innovation consistent with the highest 
standards of quality and safety.  
The Abbott Global Quality System is our foundation 
for delivering high-quality products. Our businesses 
incorporate quality and safety into their daily 
management of processes, procedures, responsibilities and resources for implementing effective quality management, and ensuring compliance with applicable 
regulations and standards.  Through our system, 
we foster and maintain a culture of continuous improvement and customer focus with product safety, efficacy and availability as the expected outcome.  
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY  
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
Our Senior Vice President (SVP) of Abbott Quality, Regulatory and Engineering Services directly reports to our Chairman and CEO. The divisional quality and 
regulatory heads report to their respective division 
presidents, with a dotted reporting line to the SVP of Abbott Quality, Regulatory and Engineering Services. The affiliate quality organizations have reporting relationships to the division quality/regulatory head or, 
in some countries, to the general manager of the affiliate. MANAGING PRODUCT QUALITY  
AND SAFETY AT ABBOTT
Quality management responsibilities include 
establishing the global quality system, which encompasses the development of policy, product and 
process, specifications, procedures, quality planning, 
quality audits, management review, customer feedback and continuous improvement of the system. Some key aspects of the quality system include corrective action and preventive action, complaints and product action, 
product design and development, and production and 
process controls. Alignment is achieved between our Quality/Compliance and Regulatory organizations, which work on common and shared initiatives, as well 
as through communities of practice.
The Abbott Quality Function drives continuous 
improvement activities collaboratively across our businesses as well as recognizes significant 
achievement. For example, 
• The Quality System IT Roadmap established a strategy 
to deliver high quality and standardized systems 
enabling efficiency in reporting, tracking and trending 
and responsiveness supporting inspections. 
• Annual Quality and Regulatory awards are received by individuals, teams, plants, and affiliates based on their contributions and performance in quality/
compliance and regulatory throughout the year. A Re-
claimed Treasure award was established to recognize contributions by a business based on successfully implementing a best practice learned via internal or external benchmarking.
The Abbott Quality and Regulatory function actively pursues initiatives beyond quality and safety requirements. 
• We host an annual Call to Action meeting with 
our manufacturing, quality, regulatory and R&D professionals. During this meeting, leaders have an opportunity to learn about business strategy from multiple divisions, as well as attend educational 
breakout sessions. Examples of breakout sessions 
include talent development, navigating through regulatory landscapes, cybersecurity, and design quality case studies. 
• On a monthly basis, we host cross-divisional meetings with employees in quality, operations and with regulatory professionals to evaluate the impact of current events, regulatory changes, and best practices on the quality system. 
INTERNAL  
AUDITCURRENT  
EVENTS/
REGULATORY CHANGES/  
BEST  
PRACTICES
QUALITY  
SYSTEM  
IMPLEMENTATIONINSPECTION 
READINESSMONITOR  
REGULATORY  
REQUIREMENTS
QUALITY & 
REGULATORYIMPLEMENT  
REGULATORY  
REQUIREMENTSDEMONSTRATE  
COMPLIANCE
QUALITY & 
REGULATORYQUALITY
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
16
• Proprietary metrics have been established at the 
division and site level as another means of continuous improvement. To continue to drive product quality,  
a multi-component model is used to monitor the overall health of a site utilizing industry data. Movement of a site on this model is discussed to understand drivers, address any potential concerns and capture best practices. 
• Abbott’s Vascular manufacturing plant in Clonmel, Ireland was the first Abbott site in Europe to receive the prestigious Shingo Prize, which is awarded to organizations that exhibit operational excellence. 
The prize, based on rigorous criteria and sustainable 
results, is awarded by the Shingo Institute at Utah State University’s Jon M. Huntsman School of Business. Adopting the Shingo model enabled our 
Clonmel plant to achieve a triple-digit increase in 
productivity without compromising our high quality standards in bringing innovative medical technologies to market. The culture at this site embodies quality from every angle of the operation.EMPLOYEE TRAINING 
Abbott employees are required to be trained with sufficient frequency on good manufacturing practices, good laboratory practices, good clinical practices,  
good distribution practices as well as health, hygiene, 
safety, and direct product contact requirements. 
Depending on the type of operation, additional training requirements may be necessary including certification/qualification. For our manufacturing sites with direct impact to product quality, employees are required to 
be trained annually. Informal training and educational 
sessions take place more frequently for our employees  
to stay abreast of quality and safety news as well as current events.
PRODUCT ACTIONS
Written procedures have been established related to product actions/recall management, which requires completion of a health hazard assessment, action plan 
development and notification to regulatory agencies 
as applicable.  The action plan includes customer notification, product replacement strategy, notification effectiveness checks and quantity reconciliation. 
CERTIFICATIONS 
To remain current in healthcare and customer needs, Abbott’s manufacturing facilities meet the quality and regulatory requirements by being certified to industry 
standards. Additionally, some Abbott employees have 
received individual certifications as part of their job functions. For example:
• International Standards Organization (ISO) 13485, 
Medical devices Quality management systems - 
Requirements for regulatory purposes - 100% of Device facilities are certified 
• ISO 14001:2004, Environmental Management Systems 
• ISO 17025, General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories • ISO 22000, Food Safety Management - Requirements for any organization in the food chain 
• ISO 9001 Quality management systems - Requirements 
• National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) – 83% of US Nutritional facilities are certified
• Gluten Free Certification Organization (GFCO)
• GMP + FSA, Good Manufacturing Practices + Feed Certification Scheme
• HACCP , Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
• Class A certification is a standard practice across many 
Abbott facilities in Nutrition, Devices, Diagnostics, 
and Pharma
INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS 
Abbott monitors evolving regulatory requirements and industry practices through our involvement in trade associations, patient groups and other organizations 
around the world that work to find policy solutions to 
the complex issues that challenge healthcare systems. We are committed to working with governments and regulatory bodies to understand the needs of the communities we serve, so that we can work together 
to improve people’s lives through better health. Abbott 
assists governments and regulatory bodies in the understanding of healthcare issues around the world. 
Our involvement with standard-setting organizations, 
our focused efforts to achieve rigorous quality certifications and our deep commitment to improving the health of the people we serve collectively ensure that Abbott products are of the highest quality and 
reliability for those who use them.
Examples of the organizations where Abbott holds 
leadership roles include:
• AdvaMed, Advanced Medical Technology Association
• RAPS, Regulatory Affairs Professionals SocietySITE  
HEALTHPERFORMANCE  
DATA
EFFICIENCY  
DATACOMPLIANCE  
DATA
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
17
• EUCOMED, European Medical Technology  
Industry Association 
• EDMA, European Diagnostic Manufacturers 
Association
• CDSCO, Central Drugs Standard Control 
Organization, India Medical Device Clinical Evaluation & Investigation Task Force for  
draft rules and regulations
• AHWP , Asian Harmonization Working Party
• ISO 14155, Medical Device Clinical  
Investigation standard 
• USAID ASEAN, United States Agency for 
International Development - Regulators  
Training Planning Committee 
• Quality Council of India (QCI) Core Committee 
member for the voluntary standards for Quality Management and Certification process  
for Medical Devices
• Conference of Indian Industries (CII) 
Additionally, Abbott Quality and Regulatory professionals routinely engage in various academic 
institutes and centers of excellence, industry groups  
as presenters/lecturers. Examples include:
• AAMI, Association for the Advancement of  
Medical Instrumentation
• EFGCP , European Federation of Good Clinical 
Practices
• Guest lecturers in academic programs  
(Purdue, Northwestern)
• Indian and South East Asian universities  
& Pharmacy Colleges
• IVT, Institute for Validation Technology 
• NIPERs, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research at Ahmedabad  
and Mohali India
• RAPS, Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society ABBOTT INDUSTRY 
PARTNERSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY BODIES  
Examples of additional 
organizations where Abbott actively participates 
include:
• AABB, American 
Association of Blood 
Banks
• AAMI, Association for the Advancement of Medical 
Instrumentation
• ABPI, Association of the 
British Pharmaceutical Industry
• AFDO, Association of Food and Drug Officials
• AIPM (Russia), Association of 
International 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
• AmCham, American Chamber of Commerce 
in India, Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations
• AMDI Singapore, Association of Medical 
Device Industry 
Singapore
• AMDM, Association of Medical Diagnostics 
Manufacturers
• ANSI, American National 
Standards Institute
• APG, American 
Pharmaceutical Group• APIC, Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredients Committee
• ASQ, American Society for Quality
• CANIFARMA (Mexico), Camara Nacional de la 
Industria Farmaceutica
• China Dairy Industry 
Association
• CII, Confederation of Indian Industries
• CPC Combination Products Coalition
• EDMA, European Diagnostic Manufacturers 
Association
• EFPIA, European 
Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industries and 
Associations
• European Union Chamber of Commerce 
in China
• FDLI, Food and Drug Law 
Institute
• FICCI, Federation of Indian Chambers of 
Commerce & Industry
• GMA, Grocery 
Manufacturers Association
• IDFA, International Dairy Foods Association
• IFPMA, The International Federation 
of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers
• IMEDA, International Medical Device Manufacturers Association
• INTERFARMA, 
Brazilian Research-
based Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association.
• ISPE, International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineers
• MDIC, Medical Device Innovation Consortium
• MDMA (Malaysia), Medical Device Manufacturers Association
• National Dairy Research Institute
• PDA, Parental Drug Association
• QCI, Quality Council of India
• RAPS, Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society
• RAWG (Gulf ), Gulf Regulatory Working Group
• Singapore Quality Centre
• TAMTA, Taiwan 
Advanced Medical 
Technology Association
• THAIMED, The Thai Medical Device 
Technology Industry 
Association EXTERNAL 
CONFERENCES  
THAT ABBOTT PARTICIPATES IN  
Abbott personnel attend 
a variety of external conferences to remain  
up to date with product quality, safety and regulatory developments. Examples include:
Global
• AAMI, Association for 
the Advancement of 
Medical Instrumentation 
Standards Conference
• AdvaMed, Advanced Medical Technology 
Association
• AFDO, Association of 
Food and Drug Officials
• AHWP , Asian 
Harmonization  
Working Party
• American Dairy  
Products Institute
• American Electric  
Power Safety Training
• ASQ , American  
Society for Quality
• CAPPS, Center for Advanced Processing  
and Packaging 
• FDLI, Food and Drug  
Law Institute
• Food Safety Summit 
• GMA, Grocery 
Manufacturers Association
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
18
• IHS , Information
Handling Global 
Plastics Summit 
•
 International D
airy 
Foods Association
•
 M
edCon – Xavier 
University Health
•
 NIZ
O Dairy Institute
•
 Oilseed and Gr
ain
Trade Summit
•
 RAPS
, Regulatory Affairs 
Professionals Society
•
 U
.S. Dairy Export Council 
Asia
•
 CIFSQ
, China 
International Food
Safety and Quality
•
 Indian Ins
titute of
Management
•
 L
uboxun Food Safety
Research Centre
•
 N
ational Dairy 
Research Institute
•
 Singapor
e Quality Centre
•
 U
SAID ASEAN, 
United States Agency for International Development, Association of Southeast Asian NationsEurope
•
 APICS
, American 
Production and Inventory
Control Society 
•
 DIN
ALOG,  Dutch 
Institute for AdvancedLogistics 
•
 Engineers Ir
eland
•
 EU
COMED, European
Medical Technology Industry Association
•
 IMI, Irish M
anagement
Institute 
•
 TOPRA
, The 
Organization for Professionals in Regulatory AffairsREGULATORY 
ORGANIZATIONS AND PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS WHERE ABBOTT HOLDS LEADERSHIP ROLES  
• A dvaMed, Advanced
Medical Technology 
Association
 −E
xecutive Vice 
President Diagnostics Products, Board of Directors 
 −Divisional V
ice 
President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs, Chairman of the Diagnostics Pre-IDE Working Group 
 −Dir
ector Regulatory 
Affairs, Chair of the 510(k) Working Group 
 −Dir
ector HEOR and 
Data Analytics, Chair  
of the Statistics Working Group 
 −Dir
ector Government 
Affairs, Special Representative to Payment Committee 
 −Senior Dir
ector 
Federal Government Affairs, Washington Representative •
 RAPS
, Regulatory Affairs 
Professionals Society 
 −Divisional V
ice 
President Development and Regulatory Affairs, President Board of Directors 
 −Senior Director 
Regulatory Strategy and Advocacy, Co-chair of the European Advisory Committee
•
 EU
COMED, European
Medical Technology Industry Association 
 −Senior Dir
ector 
Regulatory Strategy and Advocacy, Chair of the Post Market Task Force, Notified Body Task Force, Co-chair of the clinical Task Force, IMDRF Task Force, International Regulatory Task Force, member of the Regulatory Affairs Committee
 −Dir
ector Market Access 
and HE EMEA, Chair of the Reimbursement Task Force•
 EDMA
, European 
Diagnostic ManufacturersAssociation
 −VP Diagnostics 
Commercial Op erations 
EMEA, Board Member
• CDSCO, Central Drug 
Standard Control Organization, India Medical Device Clinical Evaluation & Investigation Task Force for draft rules and regulations 
 −Dir
ector Global 
Regulatory Strategy Advocacy, Industry Chair
•
 AHWP
, Asian 
Harmonization Working Party
 −Dir
ector Global 
Regulatory Strategy Advocacy, Co-Chair  
of Technical Committee WG5 Clinical Evidence for Performance  
& Safety
•
 ISO 1
4155, Medical 
Device Clinical Investigation standard
 −Dir
ector Global 
Regulatory Strategy Advocacy, Chair, Technical Committee Registries and Audits & Inspections Subgroups•
 U
SAID ASEAN, 
United States Agency for International Development - Regulators Training Planning Committee
 −Director Global 
Regulatory Strategy Advocacy, Core Committee member and Faculty
•
 Quality Council of
 
India (QCI) 
 −Dir
ector Global 
Regulatory Strategy Advocacy, Core Committee member for the voluntary standards for Quality Management and Certification process  
for Medical Devices
•
 Confer
ence of Indian 
Industries (CII)
 −Chair S
ubgroup on 
Price Regulations of Medical Technology Division
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
19
GLOBAL PRODUCT PROTECTION
The Global Product Protection team is part of Abbott’s 
Global Security organization and focuses on incidents of counterfeit, diversion and theft.
Counterfeiting, illegal diversion and theft of Abbott 
products are a threat to patients, consumers and the general public globally. Because ensuring the safety and integrity of Abbott products is our highest priority, 
we regularly take action to keep counterfeit, illegally 
diverted and stolen Abbott products out  
of the marketplace. 
Our Global Product Protection program includes  
four key objectives:
Secure the supply chain – By analyzing the global 
supply chain for weak points, evaluating track and 
trace technologies and expanding the use of Distributor 
Agreements with contracted wholesalers and distributors, Abbott reduces the risk of counterfeit, diverted and stolen product in the marketplace. It is often through the secondary market that counterfeit, 
adulterated or improperly stored and handled products 
make their way into the supply chain. When a product comes from the secondary market, it is difficult to assure patients and healthcare professionals of the security or integrity of the supply chain. Among other 
protections, where allowed, Abbott works to include 
exclusive sourcing and audit clauses as well as territory restrictions in distributor agreements. 
Ensure ability to authenticate – By implementing 
overt and covert security features on our packaging, Abbott hinders counterfeiters and makes authentication of its products easier, enhancing customer confidence. Specifically, the Global Product Protection team recently 
worked to develop and deliver new security features for Duphaston and Lipanthyl blister packages and Heptral  
vials in specific regions. While these overt security 
features are easily recognizable, they are very difficult  
to duplicate – improving the security of the product.
Disrupt criminal organizations – By building 
relationships with local law enforcement and regulatory organizations, Abbott works to identify and dismantle criminal enterprises involved in counterfeiting, 
diversion and theft.
Build global momentum – By working with 
government, industry and not-for-profit organizations, Abbott pursues stricter penalties for individuals  
and organizations involved in counterfeiting,  
diversion or theft.
ADDRESSING LOCAL NEEDS
Around the world, Abbott is using innovative approaches to solve a range of healthcare
 challenges  
for patients, consumers and caregivers in the communities we serve.
TAILORING PRODUCTS TO LOCAL TASTES
Many companies assume that ingredients consumers enjoy in the U.S. and Europe are equally accepted worldwide. Abbott takes a different approach – one  
that is based on intensive hands-on research to  
ensure a more tailored approach to meeting local  
tastes and preferences.Abbott food scientists travel the world, conducting 
in-person experiments that help determine how taste 
preferences differ based on geographic location. Local participants in the tests rate product samples on factors such as sweetness, flavor intensity and aftertaste, generating up to 250,000 data points. This data is then 
used to build a custom sensory profile for each region, 
which acts as a model for new product formulations. 
Abbott’s commitment to providing products that 
address local needs has led us to create many market-
specific products. For example, in India, Abbott 
Nutrition has introduced PediaSure Kesar Badam, a version of the children’s nutritional product with the flavor of saffron and almonds. Also in India, our Established Pharmaceuticals business developed the 
world’s first liquid formulation of divalproex sodium 
at its development center in Mumbai. Sold under the brand name Valance, this product greatly helps pediatric and geriatric patients suffering from epilepsy.
EXPANDING ACCESS TO OUR PRODUCTS  
IN EMERGING MARKETS
Expanding on our 40-year presence in Russia, we acquired Russian pharmaceutical manufacturer Veropharm, giving our Established Pharmaceuticals 
business a local manufacturing footprint as well as 
local development capabilities. The acquisition also complements our focus on serving markets with our products for women’s health, central nervous system, cardiovascular and gastroenterology. 
Part of our effort to expand access to our branded 
generic drugs for high-growth emerging markets,  
the purchase follows the acquisition of Chile-based  
CFR Pharmaceuticals to expand our presence in  
Latin America.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
20
1. QUALITY FEED  
High-quality feed free of aflatoxins 
prevents cattle from passing  contamination on to humans.2. VETERINARY CARE  
Monitoring dairy animals and providing treatment as needed helps ensure  healthier, more productive cattle.
3. BULK MILK  
CHILLERS  
Chilling milk within four hours of milking reduces chances of spoilage.
4. COLLECTION HUBS  
Abbott is supporting the installation of milk chillers at 10 dairy hubs in rural India to collect milk from small farms.INFOGRAPHIC
FINDING  
THE UPSIDE  
IN A GLASS  
OF MILK
By bringing modern dairy farming techniques to rural 
farmers, Abbott is helping to build local economies 
and a sustainable supply chain. In India, for example, 
the world’s No. 1 producer of milk, Abbott and our nonprofit partners are helping to build the quality 
and quantity of milk produced by small and marginal 
farmers. Developing a reliable supply of high-quality milk for Abbott products will also strengthen rural 
economies and families. 
That’s the Upside.
70 MILLION  
Nearly half of India’s rural households –  
70 million families – depend on dairy  farming for at least part of their income.*
1,500  
Some 1,500 small dairy farmers are getting training, support and infrastructure to help increase milk production and incomes, while 
expanding the supply of high-quality milk 
needed for Abbott’s growing nutrition business.
HOW ABBOTT IS  
IMPROVING MILK QUALITY  
IN INDIA
* http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2012/03/15/
us-352-million-for-national-dairy-support-project-india--17-
million-rural-milk-producing-households-to-benefit-directly.5. MANUFACTURING  
The milk from small and marginal dairy farmers 
trained by Abbott is used for manufacturing the top-quality ingredients required for Abbott’s 
nutritional products in India.
21
HELPING INDIA’S DAIRY FARMERS IMPROVE QUALITY, 
BOOST YIELDS AND INCOMES
By bringing modern dairy farming techniques to rural 
farmers, Abbott is helping to build local economies and a sustainable, high-quality supply chain.
Like rural populations in much of the developing world, 
nearly half of India’s rural households depend on dairy farming for income. But many small dairy farmers lack training, modern tools and business skills. To meet  
the growing demand for milk in India – which is estimated to grow from 176 grams per person per day in 1990 to 350 grams by 2020
2 – as well as build the 
supply of high-quality milk needed for Abbott’s growing nutrition business, our new production facility in 
Jhagadia will source up to 80 percent of our ingredients 
locally in India.
“Our approach as a sustainable business is to meet 
the Indian consumer’s need for high-quality nutrition 
products with high-quality ingredients sourced from 
local dairy farmers,” explains Maharaj K. Pandita, Director, Dairy Technical Operations. 
Working with local suppliers, Abbott is providing  
tools, training and modern milk cooling facilities to 
increase the production of high-quality milk, which  
will in turn raise rural farmers’ incomes. Because women play a key role in dairy farming – yet often have 
little decision-making power – we are also training 
women dairy farmers, improving their technical  
and business skills. Studies have shown that empowered women overwhelmingly make decisions that benefit their entire families.
Abbott is pursuing a similar strategy around the world, 
as demand for dairy products, and better nutrition generally, rises with incomes and with growing urbanization. For example, milk consumption has 
historically been low in China, about 4.5 kg per capita per year in 1987 , but consumption more than quadrupled 
to 28.6 kg in 2007 .
3 And as incomes across the country 
rise, higher levels of milk consumption may become the norm in China. If that were to happen, China would 
require 72 million tons of milk annually – almost equal 
to the production volume of the U.S.
4 
To help meet the rising demand for safe, high-quality 
milk, Abbott is partnering with Fonterra to develop a 
dairy farm hub in China, expected to bring more than 16,000 dairy cows into production and produce up to 160 million liters of milk annually.
RISK AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT 
According to the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters, the incidence of natural disasters around the world continues to grow – from 50 
in 1950 to some 400 in 2011. Aon Benfield reported that, 
in 2013, natural disasters resulted in economic losses of $196 billion globally. Such events create increased demand for critical food and medicines, while also complicating the delivery of these life-saving products. 
To ensure our continued ability to fulfill vital healthcare 
needs in communities around the globe, and to support our stakeholders and mitigate risks to our supply chain, Abbott created the Executive Crisis Management Team 
(ECMT). The ECMT is tasked with:
• Managing the safety and security of Abbott employees
• Managing the risks to business continuity
• Being prepared to serve others during  
catastrophic events
Led by our Senior Vice President of Quality Assurance, 
Regulatory and Engineering Services, who is a corporate officer and reports to the Chairman and CEO, the  
ECMT is comprised of two senior leadership teams with cross-divisional, multifunctional representation. The skills captured within the teams enable us to address the wide range of potential crises that Abbott might face across the globe. Having two teams also ensures full-shift coverage of a crisis with around the clock management, when necessary. Once the team 
has gathered sufficient information about a crisis and 
devises an action plan, the ECMT transitions into business continuity/recovery mode.
Abbott has a network of trained Crisis Action Teams 
(CATs) that also help manage our crisis response. There 
are 26 country-specific CATs that support the ECMT as necessary. In 2015, we plan to launch four additional country CATs. Our Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning Specialists around the world spend 
a significant amount of time practicing crisis scenarios 
with both the ECMT and CATs. These specialists work to develop and test crisis management and business continuity plans.
While Abbott has been recognized for our strong risk 
management capabilities, the most important measure of our success is our ability to keep our supply lines intact and to give consumers, our customers and 
our employees the support they need to overcome 
unexpected challenges. 
2. Suruchi Consultants, Dairy Industry Vision 2030, 2014.
3. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,  
Milk Availability: Trends in production and demand and medium–
term outlook, 2012.
4. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Status and Prospects for Smallholder Milk Production A Global Perspective, 2010.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
22
 2014 Highlights
•  A study supported by Abbott showed that oral 
nutritional supplements decrease the probability 
of hospital readmission, length of stay and costs 
among Medicare patients 65 and over in the United States.
•  In partnership with the Saudi Ministry of Health’s 
diabetes awareness program, we have distributed 
600,000 FreeStyle Optium blood glucose 
monitoring devices since June 2013.
•  Residents graduating from the Abbott Fund-
supported Emergency Medicine Residency Program in Tanzania provided critically needed 
care to more than 47,000 people in 2014.
•  Abbott’s ARCHITECT 
STAT  High Sensitive 
Troponin-I (hsTnl) test allows doctors to evaluate whether or not patients are having a heart attack 
within two to four hours.24  INCREASING ACCESS  
TO HEALTHCARE  
27  EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING  
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS  27  INFRASTRUCTURE AND  
TECHNOLOGY  
28  EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS 
AND COMMUNITIES  IN THIS SECTION:IMPROVING  
ACCESS
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
23
Developments in healthcare science and the creation of 
innovative, effective new products  enable us to address 
many present and emerging healthcare issues, including the most
 pressing challenges put forth in the United 
Nations’ Millennium Development Goals and the new Sustainable Development Goals that will go into effect 
after 2015. However, healthcare practitioners and 
consumers must be informed of and have access to these
 
advances in order for global healthcare needs to be met.
Abbott was founded with the purpose of improving 
health worldwide. This  commitment remains a critical 
component of our citizenship approach and is integral to 
our core business strategy. To achieve this goal, we must 
continue to engage our stakeholders, providing them 
with the knowledge and support they need to address pressing healthcare
 challenges.
Abbott collaborates with 
healthcare professionals around the globe to develop customized patient education materials.
Through a combination of targeted programs, shared 
value initiatives and responsible business practices, we work to expand access and use our products and 
services, improving
 health outcomes. We do so by 
addressing disparities in healthcare infrastructure, 
by providing  support to healthcare providers and by 
working to help even those in the most hard-to-reach communities
 access our products and services.
Our work includes:
• Increasing access to healthcare by providing 
practitioners with the latest information about  
effective patient care, and also by supporting the establishment of healthcare infrastructure and  the 
dissemination of new tools and technologies.
• Empowering communities and consumers with 
education programs on prevention, diagnosis and 
treatment of many diseases and health conditions.
• Building and strengthening partnerships to gain deeper insight into the needs and challenges
 of 
patients; to improve the standard of care they  
receive; and to raise public awareness  and  
educate governments and policymakers about healthcare challenges and the need for expanded 
access to treatment.
INCREASING ACCESS TO 
HEALTHCARE
Much of the world lacks basic healthcare infrastructure, 
with critical shortages of professionals  trained in 
modern diagnosis and treatment protocols, as well as insufficient numbers of facilities and healthcare 
services. In addition, healthcare practitioners in 
developing nations often
 lack access to the latest 
information about such chronic diseases as diabetes, cancer and heart
 disease, all of which are increasingly 
prevalent in many countries. In China, for example,  
more than 40 million people have diabetes, and an additional 20 million suffer impaired
 glucose tolerance. 
The incidence of such diseases will intensify as more people adopt Western-style diets and sedentary habits. 
To compound these issues, the social stigmas
 that may 
accompany certain diseases often interfere with proper 
diagnosis and treatment.
Despite such challenges, Abbott is successfully 
boosting access to a wide range of healthcare  services 
and products, working in partnership with numerous government agencies, healthcare
 professional societies, 
non-governmental organizations and other key stakeholders.In India, our business units host a variety of health camps, screening events and patient
 awareness 
programs, often targeting remote and underserved populations. Continuing medical
 education programs 
also provide healthcare providers with updates on the latest diagnostic
 techniques and treatment practices 
for such conditions as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, acute care and other aspects of prevention, treatment 
and care. In 2013, more than 2 million patients were  
screened at more than 73,600 camps and events, and 
nearly 35,700 medical
 professionals participated in 
educational programs.
ABBOTT IN INDIA
14,000
EMPLOYEES
2 MILLION
PEOPLE SCREENED FOR CHRONIC 
CONDITIONS AND ACUTE CAR E
73,600
HEALTH CAMPS AND EVENTS
35,700
MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS PARTICIPATED 
IN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
24
DIABETES CARE IN SAUDI ARABIA
Abbott is committed to addressing the rising prevalence 
of diabetes around the world and is working with governments to develop effective programs for disease identification, treatment and education. One example: 
our partnership with the Saudi Ministry of Health’s 
innovative Sahsehlo
 (“Watch Out”) Saudi National 
Diabetes Awareness Program (SNDAP).
Saudi Arabia has one of the highest prevalence rates of 
diabetes in the world, coupled with a low incidence of glucose testing. According
 to the Ministry of Health, 
14 percent of Saudi citizens across all ages, and 28 percent of those over age 30, are living with diabetes. 
SNDAP , in collaboration with Abbott’s diabetes care 
business, is increasing awareness of the disease in local communities, helping diabetic patients manage and control their condition and helping others to adopt preventive measures. Through this partnership, we 
continue to work towards our goal to reach 800,000 
Saudi citizens over a three-year period.
One of the most effective efforts has been awareness 
activities at shopping malls across the country. Ministry 
of Health team members answer questions, carry out free blood screenings and distribute Sahsehlo’s awareness materials to consumers. People with diabetes are advised to visit and register at one of 21 diabetic 
centers or with one of the 1,500 primary healthcare 
centers located in cities and towns around the country. 
Under the current Ministry of Health program, 600,000 
FreeStyle Optium blood glucose monitoring devices have 
been distributed since June 2013.
BETTER NUTRITION FOR BETTER HEALTH
Improving health requires strong, cost-effective 
healthcare systems, quality standards and continuous discovery – in addition to great products and great ideas. 
Some of the most important work we do to enhance access to healthcare around the world is supporting 
groundbreaking research in nutrition and training healthcare providers to assess nutritional status and treat malnutrition.
Here are just a few of the stories that showcase our 
dedication to better nutrition for all.
Supporting Recovery with Better Nutrition
To help healthcare providers understand the critical 
role of nutrition, Abbott supported a groundbreaking 
study in the United States that found that oral nutritional supplements decreased the probability  
of 30-day hospital readmission, length of stay and  
costs among hospitalized Medicare patients aged 65  
and over. Results showed that all Medicare patients 65 and older, regardless of diagnosis, benefited from nutritional supplements: patients experienced a 16 percent reduction in length of stay and a 15.8 percent reduction in hospital cost – an average of $3,079 per 
episode. Nutrition can speed recovery, and save U.S. 
taxpayers more than $17 billion in additional hospital 
bills, according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
5
Our research clearly shows that “Something as simple as empowering hospitals and all healthcare practitioners to screen and identify the nutritional status of their 
patients can go a long way in reducing costly healthcare 
problems,” explains Robert H. Miller, Ph.D., Head of Global Research and Development, Scientific and Medical Affairs for Abbott Nutrition.
5
Modernizing Nutritional Standards
Nutritional, safety and quality standards for the 
nutrients in formula are not universal. As a leading 
manufacturer of infant formula, Abbott is collaborating with other manufacturers on the Stakeholder Panel  
on Infant Formula and Adult Nutritionals to support  
the development of worldwide standard method performance requirements (SMPR) for such nutrients as vitamins A/E, vitamin D, vitamin B12, folate and inositol. With help from Abbott, the panel has  
already developed worldwide SMPR for 15 key 
nutrients, including vitamin A, vitamin E, vitamin D  
and vitamin B12.
Championing Nutritional Therapy Among Professionals
Abbott is a co-founder of the Alliance to Advance 
Patient Nutrition, which was launched in 2013 to 
champion effective patient nutrition practices among 
more than 100,000 dietitians, nurses and physicians.
Developing and Supporting Healthy Brains
To understand and apply the benefits of nutrition on  
the development and maintenance of healthy brains  
and learning, Abbott is supporting the Center 
for Nutrition, Learning and Memory (CNLM). A partnership between the University of Illinois and Abbott’s nutrition business, CNLM hosts an annual research competition to answer the “big questions” 
about nutrition’s role in learning and memory. 
5. http://health.usnews.com/health-news/hospital-of-tomorrow/
articles/2014/03/18/op-ed-is-nutrition-the-first-step-in-addressing-hospital-readmissions
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
25
INFOGRAPHIC
FINDING 
THE UPSIDEIN A SQUARE MEAL
Good nutrition means better health.  
Abbott is working to make sure that people 
everywhere have access to safe, reliable 
nutritional products, and that healthcare professionals know how to assess nutritional 
status and treat deficiencies. Our efforts  
are making it easier for people around the  world to stay healthy. 
That’s the Upside.
100,000
Through the Alliance to Advance Patient Nutrition, 
more than 100,000 dietitians, nurses and physicians benefit from Abbott-supported nutrition resources.
§+31%
Food-insecure kids in the U.S. are 31% more likely to have been hospitalized since birth than children growing up in food-secure households.
‡Working with other leading manufacturers of infant  formula, Abbott has helped to develop worldwide  performance requirements for 15 key nutrients,  
including vitamins A/E, vitamin D and vitamin B12.15-16%
 
Medicare patients ages 65 and older provided with nutritional 
supplements experienced a 
16% reduction in length of stay and a 15.8% reduction  in hospital cost – an average  
of $3,079 per episode.
†$17BN
 
Nutrition can speed recovery and lower hospital 
readmission rates. Those 
reduced readmission rates have the potential to save U.S. taxpayers more than  
$17 billion in additional 
hospital bills, according to the Centers for Medicare  
and Medicaid Services. 
* http://malnutrition.com/getinformed. † Lakdawalla D, Snider JT, Perlroth DJ, LaVallee C, Linthicum MT, Philipson TJ (2013, October). “Oral Nutrition Supplements’ Impact on Hospital Outcomes in the Context of the Affordable Care Act  
and New Medicare Reimbursement Policies. ” Poster session presented at the meeting of the Society for Medical Decision Making, Baltimore, MD. ‡ Feeding America, Child Food Insecurity: The Economic Impact on Our Nation.  
§ http://www.abbott.com/newsroom/news/benefits-nutrition-intervention.html.
ONE IN THREE HOSPITAL 
PATIENTS IS MALNOURISHED 
WHEN ADMITTED.*1 IN 3
26
EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING 
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS
Some of the most important work we do to enhance 
access in countries around the world  involves training 
and educating local healthcare providers to address gaps in healthcare services. Our interventions vary, including 
working with governments to improve healthcare 
access and services, making
 health outcome data readily 
available and running nutrition education programs for healthcare
 professionals.
To advance understanding of emerging products and 
treatments, we follow local regulations to sponsor and 
collect patient outcome data related to the usage of our products, and we make this data easily accessible to healthcare professionals, payers, regulators and the public. Around the world, we offer a wide range 
of training, meetings, conferences and educational 
activities targeting multiple stakeholders.
TOTAL NUTRITION THERAPY 
As the world population ages, Abbott is helping medical professionals improve nutrition for the elderly. In  
Brazil, working with the European Union of Geriatric 
Medical Societies (EUGMS), Abbott has introduced  
the EUGMS’s Total Nutrition Therapy (TNT) Geriatric 
program to medical professionals. Doctors who participate in these educational seminars explore the latest updates on malnutrition in the elderly, along with 
screening and assessment tools and best practices in 
nutritional intervention. 
Evidence shows that malnutrition in older adults 
affects every system of the body and takes a major toll 
on health, function and well-being.
 TNT Geriatric 
programs update physicians on advances in science-led nutrition for older adults, providing them with 
a practical understanding of key geriatric nutrition 
issues. More than 20,000 doctors have already been trained through TNT programs around the world, with impressive results. Plans call for more than 300 doctors to be trained in geriatric nutrition in full-day programs 
held across Brazil in 2015.
ABBOTT NUTRITION HEALTH INSTITUTE
The Abbott Nutrition Health Institute, a global nutrition 
knowledge center, strives to illuminate the power of science-based nutrition for healthcare professionals 
through education,
 advocacy and collaboration. Its Web 
site, anhi.org, provides free, 24/7 access to nutrition 
resources, along with  dozens of conference videos. 
In addition to the institute’s educational programs,  
Abbott’s nutrition  business partners with the 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to fund nutrition and cognition
 studies through the Center for 
Nutrition, Learning and Memory. The center, governed by representatives from both the university and 
Abbott, aims to advance the field of nutrition science 
research through cutting-edge brain imaging and supercomputing technologies.
INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
TECHNOLOGY
As in developed nations, modern information 
technology and digital recordkeeping can  revolutionize 
the delivery of healthcare services in developing regions. Abbott is partnering
 with a wide range of nonprofit 
organizations, government agencies, healthcare professionals and other stakeholders to help improve 
healthcare system capacity and infrastructure through
 
digital innovation.
SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE AND  
TECHNOLOGY IN TANZANIA 
Abbott and the Abbott Fund have long supported 
healthcare infrastructure  and technology development 
in Tanzania, partnering with the Government of Tanzania to strengthen the country’s healthcare system for more than 13 years. To date, Abbott and the Abbott 
Fund have invested more than $114 million in this 
comprehensive program.
Together, we have worked to modernize Muhimbili 
National Hospital with a new emergency department 
and outpatient treatment center, a state-of-the-art laboratory building
 and a hospital-wide information 116,000
Abbott employee volunteers and our  
partners have contributed 116,000 hours  to our efforts in Tanzania.23
Twenty-three regional labs have been  modernized and connected via Tanzania’s first national IT network.1,000
At the new outpatient center, some  1,000 people are cared for each day.
47,000
Residents graduating from the Abbott Fund-supported Emergency Medicine Residency Program in Tanzania provided critically needed care to more than 47,000 people in 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
27
technology system that tracks inventory, prescriptions 
and patient health history. We are also working to 
modernize the nation’s laboratories to improve diagnostic
 and monitoring capabilities at 23 regional 
hospitals. Additionally, we have conducted more than 116,000 hours of training in patient testing, emergency 
medicine, laboratory equipment operation, hospital 
management and information technology.
In 2014, Abbott and the Abbott Fund celebrated several 
important program milestones. Tanzania’s second  
class of residents graduated from the Abbott Fund-supported Emergency Medicine Residency Program, the first in East Africa. These experts provided critically
 
needed care to more than 47 ,000 people in 2014, while also serving as mentors for the next generation
 of 
healthcare providers.
We also made significant progress in 2014 in expanding 
use of Tanzania’s first nationwide lab IT network. The network links all 23 regional labs and is creating capacity for sharing test results, disease surveillance and management practices across the country. More than 
450,000 new patients were registered in the system 
in 2014, and Abbott lab technicians spent 6,200 hours providing on-the-ground training and mentoring for local teams. 
Finally, with Abbott’s support, Tanzania’s public 
healthcare system took a significant step toward achieving sustainability. Now, Tanzania’s national hospital is capturing more revenue from patients who 
can afford to pay for quality services. That revenue, in 
turn, helps fund the same services for those who cannot afford hospital care.EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS 
AND COMMUNITIES
Abbott works with a wide range of partners to educate 
families on the importance  of maternal and child health, 
including the role of proper nutrition in childhood  
development. Cambodia, for example, has high rates of childhood malnutrition and maternal mortality, the result of years of war and civil unrest. Abbott and the 
Abbott Fund are working with Direct Relief and Angkor 
Hospital for Children to teach thousands of families how to grow and prepare
 nutritious foods, while also training 
nurses and other healthcare workers in nutrition and  
healthcare issues.
PREEMIE CARE CALL CENTER
Many parents of premature infants – babies born before 37 weeks’ gestation – lack an understanding of a preemie’s special needs. These infants usually face such 
challenges as insufficient nutrient reserves; hypoplasia 
of musculature and the gastrointestinal tract; and easy infection due to the prematurity of the digestive and immune systems.
To help parents of preemies in China, Abbott’s nutrition 
business has introduced a new helpline, the Call Center Professional Support to Preemie Care Program. Parents who call the center receive immediate answers 
to their questions, along with guidance from medical 
professionals. The call center fielded questions from more than 6,700 calls in 2014. The center received the JinYin Award for China’s Best Customer Experience of the Year in September 2014.FASTER HEART ATTACK DETECTION
Globally, cardiovascular disease is a leading killer of both men and women each year. But current tests can take up to nine to 12 hours to detect heart attacks. 
Abbott’s ARCHITECT 
STAT  High Sensitive Troponin-I 
(hsTnl) test, currently available outside the U.S., can 
measure low levels of troponin, a protein that can 
indicate injury to the heart muscle, which allows 
doctors to evaluate whether or not patients are having a heart attack within two to four hours.
6 This faster 
evaluation could allow doctors to reduce the time to diagnosis and treatment by several hours when 
compared to standard troponin tests. 
Women have lower levels of troponin than men.  
Recent research suggests that Abbott’s hsTnl test,  
which can measure these low levels of troponin, 
represents a step forward in helping doctors more 
accurately diagnose heart attacks among women,  
who are often underdiagnosed. 
6. Abbott ARCHITECT STAT  High Sensitive Troponin-I Product 
Insert (PI), January 2013.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
28
 2014 Highlights
30  ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH  
AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT 
OVERSIGHT  
31  ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE  34  A COMPREHENSIVE  
WATER STRATEGY  
37 WASTE MANAGEMENT  
38  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  IN THIS SECTION:SAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
•  In Ireland, Abbott’s Cootehill plant received  
Origin Green certification in September 2014,  
for its commitment to sustainability all along the 
supply chain.
•  In Costa Rica, conservation and engineering efforts 
at Abbott’s vascular business produced a 96 percent reduction in waste sent to landfill since Q1 2012.
•  Since 2012, our manufacturing facility in Singapore 
has delivered more than $8.5 million in utility savings 
and reduced carbon emissions by 6.7 percent.
•  At our Tlalpan, Mexico, site, we reduced the  
weight of our Pedialyte packaging by more than  
10 percent, eliminating about 350,000 pounds  
of packaging annually.
•  At our Altavista nutrition facility, water reduction 
projects contributed to an 8.5 percent drop in  
water intake.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
29
OUR 2020  
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
40%
REDUCTION IN CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
30%
REDUCTION IN TOTAL WATER INTAKE
50%
REDUCTION IN TOTAL WASTE GENERATED
At Abbott, we are committed to reducing our global 
environmental impacts across our business – from the sourcing of raw materials and the manufacturing and 
distribution of our products,
 to the use and disposal of 
our products by patients, consumers and healthcare 
providers. Our environmental stewardship initiatives 
help protect the planet while improving efficiency, 
reducing costs and preserving our ability to do business in the future. We are guided by our own tradition  
of environmental stewardship, as well as national  
and international legislation
 and feedback from  
our stakeholders.We have three environmental priorities:
• Climate change
• Water usage
• Waste management
Environmental issues are inextricably interconnected 
and, as a result, so are the solutions.  Recognizing this, 
we have developed comprehensive management and 
governance systems  that reflect our three priorities and 
enable us to ensure that they are fully integrated into our day-to-day planning and business processes.
2020 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE DAT A
To ensure that we achieve our overall aim of reducing our global environmental impact, we have set ambitious goals for 2020, compared with 2010 levels and adjusted  
for sales:
• A 40 percent reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO
2e) emissions (i.e., greenhouse gas [GHG] 
emissions) from direct emissions and from the electricity we purchase
• A 30 percent reduction in total water intake
• A 50 percent reduction in total waste
The following are a few examples of our accomplishments in 2014.
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
Improving our performance requires clear lines of 
accountability and senior-level leadership and support. We have multiple levels of environmental management 
oversight – within businesses and across the company. 
The Senior Vice President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a senior corporate officer who reports to the Chairman and CEO, reviews metrics, key programs and progress on a regular basis, including quarterly highlights with the CEO and staff. The following groups implement our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs and initiatives:
Global Operations Council – This body oversees  
the strategy for all Abbott Operations (Manufacturing, 
Supply Chain, Engineering and Environment,  
Health and Safety) and makes resources available to meet local needs based on internal assessment of 
performance, benchmarking of best practices internally 
and within the industry and risk profiles. The council  
is chaired by the Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services and is comprised of the heads of Operations, Quality, Global 
Purchasing and Global Information Systems. For more 
information, please see the Citizenship Management and Governance Section. 
Environment, Health and Safety Executive Council –   
This group drives programs and targets with actions 
that are consistent with the priorities set by the Global Operations Council and the Commercial EHS Executive Council. This team meets regularly to share best 
practices and discuss EHS issues with company-wide 
implications. This group also builds awareness of  
EHS performance, promotes our EHS Excellence Awards (Individual/Team EHS Awards, Plant of the Year for manufacturing operations and Affiliate of 
the Year for commercial organizations), supports 
EHS training and conferences and communicates our performance improvement initiatives. The group consists of EHS heads from each of our operating businesses.
Commercial Environment, Health and Safety 
Executive Council – This council sets priorities and implements EHS goals and objectives for our sales operations around the world. This includes driver 
safety and reducing vehicular accidents among the 
sales force and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
30
fleet vehicles, as well as global community outreach 
initiatives related to vehicle and pedestrian safety  
in commercial emerging markets. The Executive  
Vice President of Established Pharmaceuticals chairs this group. The EVP sponsoring this council reports to the CEO.
MANAGEMENT, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
Clear policies, standards and management systems ensure we operate in a manner that protects
 both  
human health and the environment. Our environmental management metrics, auditing and reporting mechanisms 
are evaluated regularly, and we hold our managers 
responsible for improving their performance against established goals as part of our annual performance appraisal process.
Our environmental programs aim to improve the 
efficiency and sustainability of our business activities and products, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste. We integrate sound EHS practices 
consistent with our management system into all aspects 
of the business. These practices include: 
• Environmental, Energy, and Water Policies – In 
Abbott’s environment, energy and water policies, 
we commit to focus on and address Abbott’s 
environmental footprint, including our commitments to dramatically reduce CO
2e emissions. Our policies 
also detail our commitment to improving access to clean water in communities around the world, and 
to reducing and efficiently managing our company’s 
own use of water. We are currently in the process of updating our water policy to better reflect our current actions and position on water management. 
• Global EHS Audits – Abbott’s Global EHS audit 
function systematically evaluates our EHS-related 
performance and compliance status. These periodic assessments serve several purposes, including identifying potential risks to employees, the environment and the company; fostering continuous 
improvement; developing staff expertise; and 
promoting knowledge transfer. The EHS audit team is comprised of internal subject matter experts knowledgeable about internal requirements, and external experts to help provide an independent 
assessment and ensure knowledge of local standards 
in the various locations around the world in which we operate. Abbott facilities are typically audited once every 36 months to help ensure compliance with regulatory and internal requirements. Abbott 
EHS professionals also partner with commercial 
management to complete formal on-site EHS gap assessments. During these assessments, our affiliates are provided with compliance tools and 
implementation resources designed to ensure 
sustainable compliance and program improvement.
• EHS Reporting and Assurance – Abbott had key 2014 environmental and safety data externally verified by the independent company Bureau Veritas. A copy of 
the verification statement is provided on our Web site.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change continues to be a global concern, with 
governments gathering to participate in United Nations climate change conferences and industries addressing 
their potential supply chain and operation risks and 
business impacts.
While Abbott’s direct GHG emissions are small in 
relative terms, we continue to take action to reduce 
them. The bigger issue is addressing the predicted 
consequences of climate change such as severe weather, flood and drought and our ability to address global healthcare needs. Clearly, climate change poses serious 
challenges for humanity and our planet, and has the 
potential to affect our company, our employees and our customers in a multitude of ways. For example, extreme weather patterns and water scarcity pose challenges for sourcing, operations and 
distribution. Additionally, climate change could lead 
to significant changes in the global disease burden, and has the potential to contribute to disruptions in manufacturing operations and the supply chain.
It is clear that action is required, not only to mitigate 
these risks, but also to help society adapt to the climate changes already under
 way. As a global healthcare 
company, we are committed to doing our part to address this issue – by reducing our direct and indirect impacts 
across our value chain.
ABBOTT’S CARBON FOOTPRINT
The nature of our business encompasses a wide range 
of potential sources of carbon emissions.  These include 
our manufacturing, warehousing and office activities, as well as our vehicle fleets. Through our global value 
chain, we also indirectly contribute to carbon emissions. 
These arise from our sourcing and distribution of products, as well as the ways that consumers and health professionals use and dispose of our products. Our 2020 carbon emission reduction
 target – to reduce our 
emissions by 40 percent against 2010 levels, adjusted for sales – is evidence of our commitment to address this 
and reduce emissions in every aspect of our business.
We have been measuring and managing our direct 
emissions since 2000. One important way in which we do this is through participation in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) emissions reporting programs. 
This international initiative provides an important framework for us to measure and manage our key
 
environmental impacts. Through this program, we share critical data on energy consumption
 and emissions. In 
2014, our climate change disclosure score increased from 84 to 93. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
31
In addition to fostering greater transparency, this work 
has enabled us to identify our three greatest sources of impact – our manufacturing fuel combustion, our 
electricity use and our global fleet, representing in total 
more than 90 percent of our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas inventory – and develop a comprehensive management program to address them. This program includes such features as increasing energy efficiency 
across our operations and integrating green engineering 
technologies and concepts into our projects. 
It has resulted in a 7 percent reduction in our absolute 
energy consumed since 2010, along with an 11 percent 
reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions. In 2014, we began operating in three newly constructed manufacturing facilities, which increased our absolute GHG emissions by 54,000 metric tons of CO
2e 
compared to 2013. This increase was partially offset by 2014 reduction projects and initiatives of 24,000 metric 
tons. For example, our new plant in Jhagadia minimizes 
air emissions by using petroleum natural gas (PNG) as a fuel for boilers. Efforts to make energy consumption more efficient have resulted in the Jhagadia plant being 15 percent more efficient than other Abbott sites across 
the world.
In addition to internal actions to reduce CO
2e, some 
sites work with the community to make improvements. 
An example is our nutrition plant in Granada, Spain, 
which held a reforestation event in November 2014. 
Abbott employees, employees of contractor companies and their families and friends planted around 120 pines and 70 holm oaks in a nearby forest that was damaged due to fire several years ago.  SCOPE 1  
Direct emissions from 
purchased fuel and  
refrigerant releases
  SCOPE 2  
Indirect emissions from purchased electricity,  steam, cooling and heating
  SCOPE 3   
Indirect emissions from 
upstream and downstream 
activitiesUse of Sold Products
Business TravelEmployee Commuting
End-of-Life Treatment
Waste ManagementREDUCING OUR 
CARBON FOOTPRINT
We are committed to reducing  
our carbon emissions, and we encourage our  
suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders  
to reduce their own impacts.
Purchased  
Goods and Services
Transportation  
and Distribution
Outside our areas of direct responsibility, we work 
across our global value chain to reduce our emissions and encourage our suppliers, distributors and other 
stakeholders to manage and reduce their impacts, as 
we estimate that our Scope 3 emissions account for more than 90 percent of our total emission footprint. To facilitate this process, Abbott joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Program in  
2013 and participated again in 2014. In 2014, we increased the number of suppliers we 
invited to participate by 15 percent. More importantly, 
our supplier response rate increased by 27 percent from 2013. We also saw increases in the number of responding suppliers reporting Scope 1 and 2 emissions, along with climate change-related risks and 
opportunities, all at levels above the CDP global average. 
Our supplier’s average disclosure score increased from 52 to 60 in 2014, which is now greater than the CDP global average. 
Normalized by sales 22%
REDUCTION IN  
CO 2e EMISSIONS  
SINCE 2010
One area of focus this year was to invite our major transportation providers to participate in CDP . By collecting this information through the CDP Supply 
Chain Program, we can calculate emissions using 
primary data instead of estimates. Our analysis indicates that upstream and downstream transportation and distribution accounts for about three million metric tons of emissions each year. These emissions equate to 
about three times our total Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 
(indirect) emissions. For more information on our green purchasing and supplier selection program, as well as the results of our CDP Supply Chain participation, refer 
to the Supply Chain section of our report.
REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT: ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Our Climate Responsible Energy Policy provides 
guidance and goals to help our employees around the world manage energy use and related emissions. Our 
policy focuses on increasing energy efficiency in our 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
32
manufacturing operations; investing in low-carbon 
energy; improving efficiency within our transportation fleet; encouraging a lower carbon footprint within our 
supply chain; and publicly reporting our performance.
Our Global Energy Council includes representatives 
from our most energy-intensive businesses. The council works to monitor, evaluate and reduce total 
energy consumption globally, while negotiating best-
in-class price and delivery contracts and promoting the installation of financially beneficial energy conservation and alternative energy projects.
Through our numerous energy management  
initiatives, we:
• Perform energy audits to identify energy conservation 
opportunities
• Share best-in-class energy practices
• Evaluate and test new energy conservation 
technologies
• Prioritize and allocate funding for projects that reduce 
carbon and energy
• Source low-carbon fuels
• Negotiate competitive energy contracts and 
implement financial hedges to reduce price volatility
50%
REDUCTION IN UTILITY USE
With its Utility Excellence (UEx) program, Abbott Nutrition  
is working to reduce utility use by 50% by 2017.
Our ambitious carbon emissions reduction target of 40 percent by 2020, compared with 2010 levels, adjusted for sales, has catalyzed our efforts to improve energy 
efficiency across the organization. This has included switching to “clean” energy in many of our operations – 
including the use of low-carbon fuels, cogeneration and renewable energy, which will help us to reduce our overall carbon footprint.
CARBON REDUCTIONS IN MANUFACTURING 
Abbott Nutrition’s manufacturing work is particularly energy- and water-intensive, accounting for around  
45 percent of Abbott’s greenhouse gas emissions.  
With the likelihood of future volatility in fuel and  
water availability, this was clearly an area that needed  
to be addressed.
For this reason, Abbott Nutrition launched the Utility 
Excellence (UEx) program in February 2013. The 
objective of UEx is to cultivate a culture of sustainable utility management through employee awareness and accountability. The goal is to achieve reductions in 
utility usage of 50 percent by 2017 . To date, the UEx 
program has resulted in efficiency savings exceeding $11.3 million, as well as significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
Since the program launch, Abbott Nutrition has 
established UEx teams at 16 sites, embarking on a journey to transform site culture through employee awareness and engagement initiatives. For example, our manufacturing facility in Singapore set the target 
to reduce annual utilities spending by 45 percent by 
2017 . By 2014, the plant has delivered more than $8.5 million in utility savings, reducing carbon emissions by 6.7 percent since 2012. This is equivalent to saving the amount of energy required to power more than 7 ,000 
Singapore households for a year. 
A key success factor in the initiative has been internal 
engagement – helping employees understand how they 
can contribute to energy saving and water reduction 
programs. In one instance, a risk analysis identified  
the opportunity to switch from operating the boiler in hot standby mode to operating the boiler in a low-pressure operation, a change that saves 20 million kWh of natural gas energy and lowers operating costs by 
$115,000 annually. 
As a result of collective efforts, the plant has been 
accredited to the Energy Management Certification, ISO 50001 standard in 2014 and has won a number 
of awards, including an Energy Efficiency National 
Partnership (EENP) award from the National Environmental Agency of Singapore (NEA),  
recognizing the site’s high level of commitment to 
energy management.
Other examples of energy efficiency programs that help 
reduce carbon emissions at our plants include:
• LED lighting in Jiaxing, China, resulted in annual 
energy savings of 1.17 million kWh and annual cost savings of almost $172,000. 
• In our Zwolle, Netherlands, plant, liquid baby formula is converted into powder using a drying process.  
The dryer operation is thermally driven, using natural gas as a heating medium. When the liquid has a higher solids content, less energy is needed overall to convert the liquid to powder. Based on engineering and R&D investigations, Abbott Nutrition has begun to deliver 
a higher solids product formulation to the drying 
process. This resulted in annualized thermal energy savings of 1.4 million kWh, with more than $60,000  
in cost savings.
• Numerous other reduction projects, including HVAC optimization, lighting upgrades and building recommissioning across the company, save more than 7 million kWh of energy, enough to power more than 650 homes in a year.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
33
MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF OUR FLEET
In the United States, our 2,800-vehicle fleet continues 
to improve its carbon profile as a result of vehicle leasing program improvements. With these ongoing enhancements, the fleet is now composed of nearly 14 
percent hybrid vehicles. In addition, a small percentage 
of the service vehicles located at our headquarters campus in Illinois have been converted to plug-in electric models. Abbott will continue to evaluate the use of charging stations and the feasibility of installing these 
at other domestic company locations.
In addition to our sales fleet, we are focused on reducing 
the environmental footprint of our distribution network. For example, over the last three years, Abbott Diabetes 
Care has made a concerted effort to shift international 
shipping volumes from air to ocean freight, which produces fewer GHG emissions than road or air transportation. The program initially focused on the finished goods lane between our manufacturing plants 
in Witney, United Kingdom, and Donegal, Ireland,  
and the United States – reducing transportation  
carbon emissions at these locations by approximately  
90 percent.
COSTA RICA
Abbott’s vascular business in Costa Rica is the first 
medical company in that country to receive SIREA (Environmental Reward System) recognition from 
the Costa Rica Environmental Ministry. SIREA 
distinguishes those organizations, companies or communities that support sustainable development  
in Costa Rica through environmentally friendly  
projects or practices.
Abbott also developed an integral program called Somos 
Verdes (We Are Green) for water, energy and waste management, attaining the following accomplishments:• A 96 percent reduction in waste sent to landfill  
since Q1 2012
• A 40 percent reduction in clean water consumption  
in 2014 from 2013, by using captured rainwater in  
the cooling tower system, irrigating green areas  
and for bathrooms
• A 29 percent reduction in energy use for the three months ending February 2015 compared to Q4 of 2012, through improved lighting control and optimizing the 
air conditioning system
• Partnerships developed to process biodegradable 
waste from the cafeteria, transforming it into compost used in the maintenance of green areas
IRELAND
Ireland enjoys a strong and enduring international reputation as a source of natural, high-quality food, drink and ingredients. Recent research shows the 
Ireland dairy industry to have the lowest carbon 
footprint in Europe. Abbott’s Cootehill plant received Origin Green certification in September 2014. Origin Green is the only sustainability program in the world that operates on a national scale, uniting government, 
the private sector and food producers through Bord Bia, 
the Irish Food Board. It provides verified commitment to sustainability all along the supply chain. Certification allows Abbott Cootehill to use the Origin Green logo in 
marketing and communication campaigns.
The Cootehill plant’s sustainability plan includes  
these actions:
• Sourcing raw materials from suppliers with 
recognized certifications
• Reducing CO
2e, water use and waste
• Increasing the number of community and employee well-being project hoursIn addition, six Abbott Ireland sites received the Chambers Ireland Corporate Social Responsibility 
Excellence in Environment Award in 2014.
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER 
STRATEGY
Clean water is a critical resource, essential to sustaining 
human health, economic growth and the environment. Access to water is essential for our manufacturing 
operations and for all
 those who use our products. 
Abbott is committed to managing our water use in an 
efficient, sustainable manner and to improving people’s 
access to clean water in the communities where  we 
work and live.
REDUCING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
Since 2010, we have lowered our total worldwide water 
intake by three percent on an absolute basis and 14 percent when adjusted for sales. By 2020, we seek to 
reduce our company’s total water intake by 30 percent, 
adjusted for sales. Our water intake increased in 2014 by 234 million gallons as a result of bringing three newly constructed manufacturing plants online. These increases were offset through the incorporation of green 
design principles, process optimizations and other 
water-related initiatives at other operating locations.
Normalized by salesTOTAL WATER  
INTAKE REDUCED BY  
14%
SINCE 2010
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
34
Abbott uses the World Resource Institute (WRI) 
Aqueduct global water risk mapping tool in  
combination with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global
 Water 
Tool to help identify Abbott manufacturing plants that are operating in water-stressed regions. Results 
of our global water assessment have identified 16 
manufacturing sites that are currently operating in regions with significant baseline water stress. 
Having our sites mapped relative to varying degrees of 
water stress by the global water tools helps facilitate
 
communication with internal and external stakeholders 
on water challenges and serves as a  mechanism to 
facilitate change. It also allows our company to focus on manufacturing sites
 that are at greatest risk for water 
supply interruptions now and in the future.
Abbott’s internal requirements require manufacturing 
sites identified as significant water users or operating in water-stressed regions to perform more detailed local water analyses. In these
 local analyses, sites identify 
external water-related impacts and business water risks; outline
 opportunities to reduce or eliminate these 
impacts or risks; and develop water strategies  complete 
with performance targets that drive reduction in risk based on the opportunities
 identified. This information 
is collected and maintained in each site’s Water Management Plan. 
To facilitate performance improvement, Abbott collects 
key water performance data across all operations. Progress toward achieving the 30 percent reduction of water intake is evaluated and reported back to our sites 
on a quarterly basis, along with other key water data. 
This process allows us to monitor progress and make any adjustments needed to stay on track with the goal. 
Abbott also participates in the CDP water reporting 
program. Through this program, we share critical data on our company’s water performance and also gain valuable insight on the performance of other companies in the healthcare and other sectors. In 2014, Abbott participated in CDP’s new water pilot scoring project. Companies were scored on their progress in the 
following four key areas of water stewardship:
• Disclosure – Transparency about water issues
• Awareness – Knowledge of impacts on, and of, water
• Management – Taking coordinated action on  
water issues 
• Leadership – Implementing current best practice
Our manufacturing plants continue to implement 
water reduction projects. As previously noted, the UEx 
program implemented in our nutrition business, which 
accounts for over 60 percent of Abbott’s total water usage, is working to achieve significant reductions in water usage, realizing environmental and economic 
benefits for the business.
For example, our Columbus, Ohio, UEx team 
investigated the carbon filtration system on the plant’s incoming water system. To more effectively eliminate 
the potential for any build-up of microorganisms, 
carbon filters are periodically sanitized with chemicals and water. The Columbus UEx team optimized the frequency and duration of the sanitization cycle, saving more than 15,000 cubic meters of fresh water annually, 
resulting in cost savings of more than $30,000 a year. The Columbus plant also optimized its soft water boiler 
feed system to save more than 32,000 cubic meters of fresh water and $72,000 annually.
In another water conservation effort, at our 
manufacturing plant in Rio de Janeiro, we implemented 
a tertiary wastewater treatment system that uses existing systems to recycle wastewater for use in the HVAC cooling tower, fire water tanks and gardening. This resulted in a water use reduction of around 2.4 
million liters per year. In addition, by reusing rather 
than immediately discharging the water, we have also achieved a 23 percent reduction in the amount of treated wastewater being released into a local river.
Brazil – Abbott’s Established Pharmaceuticals plant 
in Brazil is saving water in many ways: harvesting rainwater, installing water and sewage treatment facilities on-site and using recycled wastewater for 
cooling and air conditioning. The team is working 
toward raising its reuse of wastewater from current levels, 6 to 8 percent, to around 50 percent.
Singapore – At our plant in Singapore – a water-
stressed area – workers in the plant kitchen noted that 
recirculation pumps ran constantly. Their suggestion to run the pumps only when needed, and many other similar ideas from Abbott employees, helped the Singapore plant reduce water use by 13.6 percent from 
2012 to 2014. This has been recognized by the local 
authorities Public Utilities Board (PUB), which awarded the site the Water Efficient Building Certificate.
India – Our newly constructed Jhagadia plant is 
the first nutrition facility in Gujarat to harness new 
environmentally friendly Karnal technology to reuse water from the plant to nourish a new 10-acre forest of 6,800 eucalyptus and casuarina trees planted on-site. 
This innovative approach minimizes water waste, while 
creating a green area that adds to the local ecosystem.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
35
INFOGRAPHIC
FINDING  
THE UPSIDE  
IN A DROP OF WATER 
At Abbott, we’re constantly working to 
conserve water – both for the good of our 
bottom line, and for the good of the earth.  
At our plants around the globe, we’re using new technology and innovative ideas to  
meet our goal of a 30% decrease in water  
use by 2020. 
That’s the Upside. 
7BN INHABITANTS OF EARTH CONSUME           9BN CUBIC METERS OF WATER EACH
 YEAR*
-30%
ABBOTT HAS SET AN  
AMBITIOUS GOAL TO REDUCE 
TOTAL WATER INTAKE  
BY 30% BY 2020.
* http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/graphic-science-how-much-water-nations-consume. † 2030 Water Resources Group. “Charting Our Water Future: Economic Frameworks to Inform Decision Making, 2009”.
MORE THAN 780 MILLION 
PEOPLE – NEARLY 
11% OF THE WORLD’S 
POPULATION – DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO CLEAN 
DRINKING WATER.
†1 IN 10
WHAT 
ABBOTT IS  
DOING  
IN...BRAZIL SINGAPORE CHINA IRELAND
2.4 MM  
LITERS
Our plant in Rio de Janeiro 
recycles wastewater in  order to reduce water use by  
about 2.4 million liters per year.–13.6%
Suggestions from plant 
employees in Singapore, along with other changes, 
reduced water use there by 
13.6% from 2012 to 2014. 5,500
The amount of water saved at our Shanghai plant would provide 5,500 people with 
the water they need every 
day for a year. 5 LITERS
At one Abbott plant in Ireland, we return five liters of water to the local river  
for every four we take in.
36
China – In China, which has 20 percent of the world’s 
population but only 7 percent of its fresh water, water management is an important issue. Abbott’s new 
Shanghai plant saved 5,500 cubic meters of water in just 
one year – enough to provide 5,500 people with their daily minimum of drinking water for a year.
7
Ireland – At our nutrition plant in Cootehill, Ireland, by 
conserving water and evaporating the milk we use, we return five liters of water for every four we use – and the 
returned water is cleaner than we found it.
EDUCATING COMMUNITIES ON WATER CONSERVATION
Along with reducing our own water footprint, we are 
committed to helping the communities where we work and live with water conservation. Abbott engages  
with community partners and nonprofit organizations,  
when opportunities arise, conducting water audits and helping to develop timelines for water use reduction goals. We are committed to collaborating with key stakeholders to identify water conservation 
opportunities, especially in water-stressed regions 
where Abbott has manufacturing operations.
Abbott and the Abbott Fund partnered with Project 
WET in Brazil, where we are working with local 
communities and nonprofit partners to educate children and their families about the importance of clean water, water conservation, sanitation and hand washing in preventing the spread of infectious diseases. Together, 
we are creating change and improving health outcomes 
in the favelas in Rio de Janeiro. Abbott employees in Brazil have volunteered their time and expertise, assisting the organization in the development of local water conservation educational materials.WASTE MANAGEMENT
Our goal is to reduce the total waste we generate by 50 percent from 2010 levels by 2020, adjusted for sales. By the end of 2014, we achieved a 22 percent reduction 
in generated waste volume on an absolute basis, and a 
31 percent reduction adjusted for sales. Despite adding three new manufacturing facilities in 2014, we were able to maintain an absolute reduction of almost 500 tons of waste through source reduction and finding reuse 
opportunities.
23
ZERO-WASTE-TO-
LANDFILL SITES
98%
REUSED OR  
RECYCLED
At Abbott’s Cootehill, Ireland,  
facility, 98% of waste is reused  
or recycled.
All vendors responsible for the management of Abbott-
generated waste are expected to meet minimum requirements in areas such as compliance, financial 
assurance, inventory control, record keeping, facility 
design, operating conditions and approvals, among others. Vendors who do not meet these standards are not permitted to do business with our company. These firms are identified through the implementation 
of Abbott’s waste-vendor assessment program, 
which includes periodic on-site evaluations and documentation reviews to help ensure that only appropriately qualified and responsible vendors are permitted to manage Abbott waste.
Our approach helps us to quickly identify emerging 
issues and resolve problems in a timely fashion.
Abbott is also committed to reducing the amount of 
waste that we send to landfill. However, permitted landfill space has become increasingly scarce over 
the past several years. For many years, the Global 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Energy (GEHS&E) organization has partnered with our operating businesses to investigate more environmentally friendly ways to manage our waste. This effort has grown into 
a comprehensive program to certify Abbott sites as 
zero waste to landfill. This program has resulted in a decrease of 43 percent in landfilled waste since 2010, as well as increases in efficiency, costs savings and 
reductions in our carbon footprint.
ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL
Zero waste to landfill is defined as the process whereby 
a site finds ethical, economical, efficient means to manage processes to avoid and eliminate the volume 
and toxicity of waste and materials, and to conserve 
and recover all resources. Implementing zero waste to landfill eliminates all waste sent to a landfill and diverts it to become a resource for other beneficial use.
By the end of 2014, 30 percent of our manufacturing 
sites and four non-manufacturing sites had achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status. The reductions achieved by these sites are truly impressive. 
At Abbott Established Pharmaceuticals in Weesp, 
Netherlands, we have developed an innovative reuse program. The facility produces life-saving flu vaccines, which are produced by injecting the influenza virus into 
eggs. After the flu vaccine is harvested, the eggs are no 
7 . World Health Organization, “Right to Water.” 2003. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
37
longer needed. Previously, the egg waste stream was 
being incinerated with energy recovery. Starting in 2014, the egg waste was approved to be used as a feed stock 
to generate biofuel. In 2014, 1,437 tons of egg waste was 
converted into biofuel, and going forward, the facility expects to recycle some 3,000 tons annually – enough to supply the energy needs of 300 homes for a year.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Abbott is committed to improving lives through the products we make. This includes ensuring that our products keep adverse environmental impacts to a 
minimum. We address this through improved packaging 
and product design to reduce waste and energy demands from using our products. 
GREEN PRODUCT INNOVATION
At Abbott, our Product Stewardship team works closely with our research scientists to incorporate environmental considerations into the research and 
development process. For example, our Product 
Stewardship team collaborated with a team of scientists to develop a guide to identifying safer alternatives  
for chemical reagents and calibrants. Additionally, Abbott’s EHS function provides updates to the R&D 
team about emerging environmental issues related to 
product design. 
We are now in the process of standardizing these 
efforts across our business divisions to identify further 
opportunities to integrate life-cycle considerations in our research and development process. 
CONFLICT MINERALS
Abbott has a defined structure and process to conduct due diligence to understand the use and sources of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TGs) in our products 
across our complex global supply chain. Our Product 
Stewardship team works with closely with the business divisions to query suppliers using the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) conflict minerals reporting template. In 2014, Abbott filed a Form SD  
and Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. 
EU ROHS COMPLIANCE
Abbott electronic medical devices in the EU are now compliant with the EU Directive on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electronic equipment. 
This required significant effort to obtain compliance 
documentation for each component, assess suppliers’ RoHS knowledge and summarize each product’s compliance in a Technical File.
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 
With all of our healthcare products, Abbott’s primary concern is to ensure quality, safety, integrity and ease of use. Product packaging plays an essential role in 
fulfilling those responsibilities. At the same time, we  
are well aware of the ways in which our product
 
packaging affects the environment – from the materials 
and energy required for its manufacture  through its 
ultimate end of life.
In balancing the need to reduce the environmental 
impacts of our packaging with the necessity  of ensuring 
the protection of our products, we are guided by what we call the four R’s of sustainable packaging:
• Reduce – optimize packaging design to reduce the 
amount of materials used
• Renew – source packaging with renewable materials when feasible
• Recycle – improve the use of recycled content in our packaging, and expand the use of packaging that is recyclable
• Reuse – design packaging to allow reuse opportunitiesSustainable packaging is a necessary design feature  
of packaging materials and systems. For example,  
many of our milk-based nutritional products come in packages that can be
 shipped and stored without 
refrigeration for up to 36 months. Development and design of this packaging reduces energy used by 
distributors and throughout the supply chain; it is an 
especially important benefit for people in countries where refrigeration facilities can be less readily  
available or reliable.
REDUCE 
RENEW 
RECYCLE 
REUSE WE FOLLOW THE  
4 R’S OF SUSTAINABLE 
PACKAGING
Looking at packaging through a sustainability lens 
enables us to consider the complete life  cycle of 
energy use impacts, emissions and solid waste. Abbott is committed to leadership
 in developing and 
implementing sustainable packaging innovations. We will continue to work collaboratively to improve the 
social, environmental and economic benefits of our 
brands by employing sustainable packaging principles.
PACKAGING PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND PROGRESS
To proactively address the sustainability of our packaging, Abbott is aggressively working to reduce the amount of packaging we use and distribute to our 
customers. Our target goal is to reduce 10 percent 
of packaging weight by 2020 from a 2010 baseline. Achieving this goal will represent the elimination of approximately 30 million pounds of packaging from  
our supply chain.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
38
We continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal. 
By the end of 2014, the cumulative reduction on an annualized basis was approximately 4.1 percent, the 
equivalent of 12.3 million pounds of packaging.
Achievements in 2014 include:• Development and commercial launch of an eight-
ounce aseptic bottle for Abbott Nutrition liquid 
products. The bottle is made from HDPE, a widely recycled material, and bottle weight was reduced  
by 13 percent. 
• At our Tlalpan, Mexico, manufacturing site, we successfully reduced the bottle weight of our  
Pedialyte packaging by more than 10 percent. This optimized packaging initiative eliminates approximately 350,000 pounds annually from our 
supply and distribution chains. 
• We redesigned multipack carriers used to bundle our 
eight-ounce nutritional bottles. This change provides improved convenience to our consumers and reduces the weight of plastic carriers by greater than 50 
percent – eliminating more than 700,000 pounds of 
packaging on an annual basis.
•  In India, our Established Pharmaceuticals team 
converted packaging of liquid products from glass bottles to amber- colored bottles made from PET – 
reducing the bottle weight by more than 80 percent. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING PARTNERSHIPS
Abbott works with a number of industry and independent groups to advance sustainable packaging systems and was a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition in 2014. We work with suppliers who have 
achieved or are pursuing certification with respected 
sustainability organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council.
We also pursue green purchasing goals with suppliers 
around the world, working with them in many cases 
to help raise their own sustainability performance. We carefully screen suppliers, holding them to stringent packaging requirements. Additionally, we work with major retail customers to share information on the 
packaging reductions we have made.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
39
41  SUPPLY CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE  
  Our suppliers play a critical role in fulfilling 
our commitment to global citizenship. We work closely with them to ensure quality, compliance and socially and environmentally responsible practices.
45  VALUING OUR PEOPLE  
  The key to Abbott’s success is our people. Their skill and their dedication to advancing human health and well-being are the heart and soul of our company. IN THIS SECTION:
54  STRATEGIC  
PHILANTHROPY  
  Abbott and its foundation, the Abbott Fund, support social programs that  address critical unmet needs that align  with our business.
60  PROMOTING ETHICS  
AND INTEGRITY  
  Our people understand the global impact of our work and our products, and we strive to do the right thing, in the right way, in every aspect of our daily activities.RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS
Every day, through actions big and small, 
we ensure that our business works for 
the benefit of the many people we serve. 
This includes managing the direct impacts 
of our business operations and building 
strong relations with key stakeholders, 
including employees, suppliers, healthcare 
professionals, customers and consumers. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
4040 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
 2014 Highlights
42 SUPPLIER GUIDELINES
42  MANAGING SUPPLIER  
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY43  CARBON DISCLOSURE 
PROJECT (CDP) SUPPLY 
CHAIN PROGRAM
44 SUPPLIER DIVERSITYSUPPLY CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
IN THIS SECTION:
•  In Ireland, Abbott relies on about 1,000 
Irish dairy farms to supply the 500,000 
liters of milk processed each day for  
the nutritional products manufactured  at its Cootehill plant. 
•  Working with the CDP Supply Chain 
initiative, we map the carbon footprint of 
our supply base by gathering information 
from our suppliers on their climate strategies and activities.
•  Diverse suppliers are essential to 
compete globally. In 2014, our spend 
with small businesses increased by 10 
percent, and with small women-owned businesses by 13 percent.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
41
As a global healthcare company, Abbott recognizes 
that managing our relationships with suppliers is an integral part of our success. We work closely with our 
suppliers to maintain high levels of performance in all 
aspects of our business – ensuring quality, compliance and socially and environmentally responsible practices. This includes monitoring and helping our suppliers to enhance their performance according to robust, clear 
metrics. Our suppliers play a critical role in fulfilling  
our commitment to global citizenship and ensuring 
we can continue to deliver quality products to people around the world.
Our Green Procurement Policy is the cornerstone of our 
supply chain practices, encouraging the procurement of environmentally preferable products and services.
Suppliers are selected based on a documented 
evaluation of their ability to meet predefined requirements, the adequacy of their quality systems and facilities, their business and process capabilities and their overall conformance to applicable regulatory and 
Abbott specific requirements. 
We apply additional focus to the subset of suppliers 
responsible for the materials and services that have the potential to most directly impact the quality of our 
products. This group accounts for approximately 40 
percent of our total suppliers. Suppliers within this group are audited on a routine basis to ensure that adequate processes and controls are in place to deliver 
quality materials or services. In 2014, Abbott completed 
more than 360 on-site supplier quality audits of suppliers within this group.
Suppliers are re-evaluated at regular intervals to ensure 
that they are able to consistently provide materials and 
services meeting our specified quality requirements. In addition, ongoing monitoring measures the performance of suppliers against our minimum performance criteria. This allows us to determine the need for adjustments to the supplier evaluation criteria, frequency or other mitigating actions.
SUPPLIER GUIDELINES
All Abbott suppliers have access to and are expected to follow our Supplier Guidelines, which document our principles, guidelines and expectations in
 areas 
including ethical behavior, business integrity and fair competition, human rights, privacy, labor rights and 
worker protection, animal welfare, environmental 
stewardship and health and
 safety practices. Our 
guidelines are published in multiple languages.
We host an external Web site, Resources for Suppliers, 
which includes answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) related to social responsibility and also provides insights
 into Abbott’s expectations for suppliers. In 
2014, we added a supplier training on Conflict Minerals to the Web site, which has already been accessed by 90 
suppliers. In addition, all Abbott
 procurement staff is 
expected to be compliant with our policy on supplier 
social responsibility. Our Supplier Performance 
Program, established in 1991, is designed to both 
measure the  performance of suppliers and to encourage 
improvement and innovation.
MANAGING SUPPLIER SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
Our supply chain encompasses more than 150 countries, 
includes more than 22,000 suppliers  and, in 2014, 
represented an estimated spend of $10 billion. Using a risk-based approach, we are able to manage this complex 
system by applying appropriate levels of focus and rigor
 
throughout the process and carrying out routine audits, 
both remotely and on-site.Our Master Service Agreement with suppliers 
contains a clause that requires them to adhere to social 
responsibility standards that align with both our supply chain management strategy and our global citizenship strategy. These standards are set out in our Supplier 
Social Responsibility guidelines and managed through 
our Supplier Social Responsibility program, established in 2011. This program includes a supplier classification model, a quarterly results tracking scorecard and a semi-automated audit report.
Abbott is a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI), a consortium of major pharmaceutical companies that share a vision of better social, economic and environmental outcomes for all those involved 
in the pharmaceutical supply chain. We survey our 
suppliers using the principles established by the group.
Our global purchasing compliance team, responsible 
for conducting these assessments, proactively identifies 
suppliers for screening, with a focus on those in 
business-critical industries, geographies and spend categories, as well as those in emerging markets. Based on the outcomes of these surveys, we may 
subject suppliers to an additional layer of scrutiny by 
conducting on-site audits. These enable us to check  
that suppliers are providing:
• Safe working conditions
• Dignified and respectful treatment of employees
• Responsible manufacturing processes
• Adequate management systems
• Ethical practices
In addition to the audits carried out by our global 
purchasing team, more than 100 suppliers completed self-audits in 2014. The self-audits were then reviewed by third parties. These checks formed the basis for 29 on-site audits, adding another layer of robustness to our 
monitoring and management practices.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
42
SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE
Our global purchasing compliance team audits  
our suppliers to check that they provide:
 
SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS
 
RESPECTFUL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES
 
RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING 
PROCESSES
 
ADEQUATE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
 
ETHICAL PRACTICESREDUCING OUR INDIRECT IMPACTS THROUGH GREEN 
PURCHASING AND SUPPLIER SELECTION
The sourcing, distribution and use of our products is 
linked to the production of carbon emissions. We are committed to addressing this area, referred to as Scope 
3, by encouraging our suppliers and distributors to 
reduce the carbon emissions for which they are directly responsible, and also by educating end users about the carbon emissions related to the use of our products.
In evaluating our Scope 3 carbon footprint, we are first 
focusing on indirect emissions in the supply chain and distribution. We believe that by understanding the carbon impact of our supply chain, we can encourage 
optimization where we have some level of influence, and 
this will ultimately lead to carbon-footprint reductions across the supply chain.
Abbott continues to work on assessing its Scope 3 
emissions using the methodology outlined in the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have identified areas where we may have the ability to quantify and potentially influence 
emissions, as well as several key emission sources 
outside our direct control. These sources include emissions from transportation suppliers, commercial business travel, waste management and product distribution. We continue to evaluate and report our 
Scope 3 emissions as we are able to collect and improve 
these estimates.
Abbott also continues to partner with our global 
transportation suppliers to estimate the greenhouse-
gas emissions associated with Abbott’s activities. Our analysis indicates that upstream and downstream transportation and distribution accounts for about 4 million metric tons of emissions each year. These 
emissions equate to about four times our total Scope 1 
(direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions. In 2014, we included our major transportation suppliers in our CDP Supply Chain initiative to refine our analysis.
CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT 
(CDP) SUPPLY CHAIN PROGRAM
Abbott joined the CDP Supply Chain program in 2013. This annual process allows us to map out the carbon footprint of our supply base by gathering information 
from our suppliers on their climate strategies and 
activities. In 2014, we increased the number of suppliers we invited to participate by 15 percent, but more importantly, our supplier response rate increased by 27 percent from 2013. We also saw increases in the 
number of responding suppliers reporting Scope 1 and 
2 emissions along with climate change-related risks and opportunities. Our suppliers’ average disclosure score increased from 52 to 60 in 2014, which is now greater 
than the CDP global average. 
One area of focus this year was to invite our major 
transportation providers to participate, as our initial Scope 3 screening calculations indicated that our 
upstream and downstream transportation and 
distribution represented over one-third of our entire Scope 3 footprint. By collecting this information through the CDP supply chain program, we can calculate emissions using primary data instead of estimates. As 
a result of our CDP Supply Chain response review, we 
are identifying areas where we can improve Abbott’s supplier sustainability and gain further operating efficiencies through collaboration.
Additionally, we are working to assess other sources 
of indirect emissions
 that lie outside our boundaries 
and on which we have less influence, such as employee commuting, third-party manufacturing and consumer 
use and disposal of our products. We
 will continue to 
better quantify and report on these Scope 3 emissions 
and the actions we are  taking to minimize them. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
43
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
At Abbott we believe that our potential is fulfilled  
when we help others to fulfill their potential.  
This fundamental value is illustrated in how we  
live our mission daily to build a diverse supply base.  
As with our own workforce, Abbott believes that 
diversity in our suppliers is essential to our ability to compete globally. We are committed to procuring products and services from a supply base that reflects 
our global community, including but not limited  
to small businesses and those owned by minorities, 
women and veterans. For example, in 2014 our spend with small businesses increased by 10 percent and  
our spend with small women-owned businesses increased by 13 percent. In 2014, Abbott purchased  
$844 million spend on small and diverse suppliers across the world.
Abbott is equally focused on driving program best 
practices as we seek to work with diverse suppliers.  
In 2014, we launched the Supplier Diversity Governance Council, a group of executive senior leaders from  
across the organization, focused on continued 
acceleration of diverse spend best practices. 
+10%
In 2014 our spend with small businesses increased  
by 10% and our spend with small women-owned  
businesses increased by 13%.With the leadership of this council, Abbott has been 
able to increase the level of external engagement with advocacy organizations such as the National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, where Abbott now 
holds a board of directors position. The council also championed the inauguration of Supplier Diversity Category Ambassadors, a diverse group of individuals within Global Sourcing who expand the internal impact 
of the supplier diversity program by leading the strategic 
inclusion of diverse suppliers up, down and across their own category. With these program refinements, we are now focused more than ever on bringing together a 
variety of perspectives to drive innovation and flexibility 
within our supply base.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
44
 2014 Highlights
46  A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE  
WORKPLACE  
47  EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT  
AND TALENT MANAGEMENT  
49  COMPENSATION AND   
BENEFITS  
49  WORK-LIFE HARMONY  50  HEALTHY LIVING  
INITIATIVES  
51  EMPLOYEE HEALTH  
AND SAFETY  
53  LISTENING TO OUR  
EMPLOYEES  
53  HUMAN RIGHTS  IN THIS SECTION:VALUING  
OUR PEOPLE
•  The percentage of minorities in 
management positions at Abbott has 
increased from 22 percent in 2010 to  
27 percent in 2014.
•  Our Professional Development Program 
gives new talent the opportunity to rotate through different positions in 
different Abbott businesses and locations 
across the globe.
•  In 2014, Abbott launched a Web-based 
support tool to help parents better understand, advocate and care for 
children with exceptional needs.
•  In 2014, our lost time rate of 0.17 cases 
per 100 employees was an improvement of 29.2 percent over 2013.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
45
Abbott’s ability to adapt to changing health care needs – 
quickly and continually – is vital to our ongoing success. The key to Abbott’s agility is, of course, our people. 
Their skill and their dedication to advancing human 
health and well-being are the heart and soul of  
our company. 
That is why we choose our people carefully, selecting 
those with energy, enthusiasm, expertise and 
commitment to create a positive impact on the health of the world. It is also why we provide our employees with opportunities to pursue fulfilling careers at Abbott. 
Our company’s human resources strategies, across the 
breadth and diversity of our global businesses, reflect the depth of our commitment to employees.
As a global health care company, we need a wide array 
of skills to help us effectively deliver on our mission. 
We recognize that current and prospective employees’ skills, interests, values and priorities may differ from one country or region to another. Therefore, we make a concerted effort to attract a diverse group of employees 
wherever we operate. We use internal and external 
research to develop a competitive, locally relevant employee value proposition and a total rewards package. This approach enables us to address local talent challenges more effectively in areas such as diversity 
and inclusion and work-life harmony.
The core components of Abbott’s award-winning 
workplace environment include:
• Commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion
• Extensive professional development, mentoring and 
training programs
• Efforts to encourage and support work-life harmony
• Competitive compensation and benefits, tailored to each market
• Protection of human rights• Wellness campaigns
• Commitment to employee health and safety
We have been recognized with a number of workplace excellence awards globally. For a list of these, please  
see Awards and Recognition in the Reporting section of the report.
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
Diversity of perspectives, experiences and skills is critical to our global competitiveness. Abbott is committed to fostering diversity within our company. 
Therefore, our diversity and inclusion programs ensure 
that our workforce reflects the customers and patients we serve. 
Our approach also helps us attract and retain talent, 
while simultaneously driving innovation throughout 
our business. We work to leverage our diversity and learn from our differences to optimize results across all levels of our company. As testament to our efforts in this 
area, Abbott has appeared on DiversityInc’s list of top 
companies for diversity for the past 11 years.
We promote diversity and inclusion across our 
businesses in a variety of ways. Abbott’s Executive 
Inclusion Council, led by our Chairman and CEO, 
monitors the hiring and advancement of women  
and minorities in U.S. management positions and supports programs that promote an inclusive work environment. In the U.S., the representation of women 
and minorities in management has been an area of 
particular focus for Abbott for more than a decade. As a result, the percentage of women in management positions has increased from 44 percent in 2010 to 46 percent in 2014. The percentage of minorities in 
management positions has also increased, from 22 
percent in 2010 to 27 percent in 2014.We strive to promote diversity and inclusion in locally and culturally appropriate ways around the world. For example, our European mentoring program is designed to encourage employees to form mentoring 
partnerships with employees from backgrounds other 
than their own. In addition, many Abbott businesses have developed their own function-specific diversity and inclusion initiatives. For example, our established pharmaceutical business introduced several training 
programs that encourage inclusion, with special focus 
on the advancement of women.
We also encourage inclusion of individuals with 
disabilities across all of our businesses and locations. 
In Ireland, Abbott is a founding member of the Kanchi 
network, a leadership group of companies working to revolutionize the relationship between business and disability so that people with disabilities will be 
recognized and valued as consumers, talent, suppliers 
and members of the community. Abbott Ireland is helping to develop a benchmark that will recognize excellence in disability equality in all businesses.
RECRUITING FOR DIVERSITY
In 2014, Abbott used an integrated approach to attracting, building a pipeline of and delivering diverse talent to meet the needs of our businesses. We used 
targeted engagement through employer branding and 
outreach efforts, while leveraging partnerships with  
key schools and associations. We continued to strengthen our early intake programs in key markets to create a sustainable pipeline for Abbott. We partnered 
with local diversity partners to support Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Math programs for students of varying ages.
We partner with multiple organizations focused on 
advancing women and minorities in specific areas of study. Our U.S. recruiting partners include the National Society of Black Engineers; the Society of Hispanic 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
46
Engineers; the Society of Women Engineers; the 
Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and Accounting; and the National Association of Black 
Accountants, among others. Outside the U.S., we 
continue to implement new recruiting partnerships with local schools and student organizations while expanding internship and entry-level rotational opportunities.
To help recruit diverse candidates at more experienced 
stages of their careers, we partner with a wide range of organizations, including the National Black MBA 
Association, the National Society of Hispanic MBAs, the 
National Sales Network and the Consortium.
EMPLOYEE NETWORKS
Complementing our inclusion programs and initiatives, Abbott’s employee networks play a vital role in building an inclusive culture and supporting business operations. 
The networks are sponsored by corporate officers, who 
help align group objectives with business strategies. By focusing on career development, mentoring, community involvement, informal networking and leadership skills development, our networks are expanding visibility and 
opportunity for their nearly 3,000 participants. Our six 
networks include:
• Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN)
• Black Business Network
• La Voice Network (Hispanic/Latino)
• Flex Network (part-time and flexible schedules)
• PRIDE (LGBT)
• Women Leaders in Action (WLA)
MENTORING
Mentoring is an integral part of the Abbott culture of 
continuous learning and knowledge sharing. It takes a variety of forms, going beyond the traditional one-to-
one relationship. In 2014, our employee networks also launched a series 
of global mentoring circles. For example, these circles 
allow one or more subject matter experts to mentor a 
group of protégés sharing similar interests – combining education with networking opportunities. A finance circle might invite Abbott guest speakers to give presentations on topics such as long-range planning, 
health economics research, cost accounting, commercial 
sales and forecasting. In some cases, senior executives, such as the corporate controller, might join the circle to participate in an informal question-and-answer session on leadership topics and career paths. 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND 
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Global competition for talent is intense. By taking 
a proactive approach to recruitment and offering advancement and leadership development programs at 
all levels, we help our employees realize their potential, 
which also helps us attract and retain the best talent.
All employees worldwide have access to job-specific 
training and development to ensure successful 
performance in their current roles across the full range 
of Abbott jobs – from commercial and operations to research and development, as well as human resources, finance and information technology. We also conduct 
ongoing learning, training and career development 
programs to help employees at all levels realize their potential. We develop
 current and future leaders 
through a robust combination of training, on-the-job experiences and
 formal and informal mentoring. Nearly 
7 ,200 managers attended learning and development  
classes in 2014.ALL EMPLOYEES 
WORLDWIDE
Around the world, our 73,000  
employees have access to job-specific 
training and development.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
To complement our skills training initiatives, we 
also offer focused training programs for employees transitioning into management roles. We are committed 
to helping our new leaders
 around the world succeed 
more quickly in their expanded positions, in part 
by better understanding and leveraging the Abbott 
resources available to them. Our programs not only 
help train employees – they also help strengthen our networks. Alumni of these programs routinely reach out and connect with former classmates to share ideas, gain insights and explore new ideas. These programs include: 
Global Leadership Program
The Global Leadership Program (GLP) helps new 
general managers in our international affiliates become more effective by preparing them to successfully lead our business in a changing environment. The program  
is designed to enable global
 leaders to benefit from  
the teachings and advice of Abbott’s successful, experienced senior leaders from across our different 
regions and divisions.
The program consists of two one-week sessions that 
take place approximately six months apart. The first week includes an in-depth simulation that allows 
participants to experience and learn from the kinds of 
challenges general managers face in the marketplace. The second week focuses on scenario planning, enabling new general managers to explore the 
potential challenges they may face and prepare to lead 
successfully during a variety of potential situations.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
47
The GLP has not only helped us to bring new general 
managers on board faster and more  effectively, it has 
also produced strong global networks of GLP alumni. GLP graduates
 routinely reach out and connect with 
their former classmates to share ideas, gain insights and
 explore new ideas. Additionally, the strong 
alumni connections enable deep trust and shared  
organizational understanding at some of the highest levels of management in our company. The 2014 GLP class included roughly 40 participants from 22 countries 
across all regions of the globe.
Emerging Leader Program
We recognize the importance of developing leaders early 
in their careers, and our Emerging
 Leader Program is 
a valuable tool for doing working toward this goal. This program accelerates development of high-potential 
managers at the regional level in Latin America, Europe 
and Asia Pacific.
Integrated into each manager’s personal assessments 
and growth plans, the Emerging Leader
 Program 
includes discussions of strategy, leadership and people management. In 2014, nearly 160 leaders in six cohorts 
completed the Emerging Leader Program. Europe 
hosted two cohorts,
 Asia supported one cohort and the 
Americas ran three cohorts.
Executive Compass Program
Abbott’s Executive Compass Program provides ongoing  
training for the most senior-level employees. In the past 
eight years, more than 350 divisional vice presidents and general managers
 of our large business units have 
graduated from the Executive Compass Program (and its
 precursor, Leadership Forum), which we view as the 
capstone of our leadership development  series.
The program consists of a week-long extensive training 
delivered by some of the top leaders in our company 
as well as external experts and leaders in their fields. The program provides new senior leaders with a deep dive
 into Abbott strategy and challenges them 
to think through a broad range of scenarios affecting stakeholders and customers. The Executive Compass 
Program was revised to ensure the
 program builds  
the critical leadership skills needed for continued 
success today and in  the future. In 2014, more than  
30 participants from six different countries completed the program.
Professional Development Program
Our Professional Development Program (PDP) is open 
to entry-level employees and gives new talent the opportunity to rotate through key positions in different Abbott businesses and locations across the globe. 
PDP participants work side by side with Abbott 
professionals, learning and growing from their mentors and benefiting from hands-on experience in a range of areas over the course of the two-year program. 
Depending on career track, participants might work  
in engineering, environmental health and safety,  
finance, IT, manufacturing, regulatory affairs or  
quality assurance. 
Since its launch in 1974, more than 2,000 employees 
have participated in the program. Because 70 percent of Abbott’s sales come from overseas markets, we have expanded the PDP to include 15 different countries and 
territories including China, Costa Rica, Germany, India, 
Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, the U.K., the U.S. and Vietnam. Today, approximately 40 percent of program participants are outside the U.S., and more than 
50 percent are based in key emerging markets that are 
core to Abbott’s growth.
CROSS-CULTURAL TRAINING
Because the scope of our business is global, many of our employees work or travel outside of their home countries – and cross-cultural competency is a key 
business need. Accordingly, Abbott provides all 
employees with free access to Cultural Navigator™, an Internet-based toolkit containing more than 100 country-specific modules with extensive information 
on local business practices, management tools, social 
etiquette and customs.
ALL 
EMPLOYEESAll employees have access to  
Cultural  Navigator™, an online  
toolkit  with more than 100  
country-specific modules.
The Cultural Navigator tool also encourages employees 
to fill out a self-assessment that yields a personal cultural profile. This profile enables users to gauge 
their own business practices, management approach 
and behavioral styles so that they can compare their personal
 habits to standard practices in other cultures. 
Additionally, users can run business simulation exercises to identify potential cross-cultural stumbling 
blocks and prepare
 themselves for potential challenges 
in their future business activities. Nearly 430 employees  
actively used this tool in 2014, accessing it nearly  
1,000 times.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Abbott takes a robust approach to talent management, incorporating skills assessments, performance appraisals, succession and development planning and 
career pathing. A key element is our talent mapping – 
employee-developed and manager-approved talent profiles that capture key information that allows managers and employees to work together to create accelerated or multiyear development plans to support 
career objectives. In addition, all Abbott employees 
participate in our annual performance management process, known as Performance Excellence. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
48
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
Abbott’s compensation philosophy is to pay for 
performance, and it is designed to attract and retain employees whose talents contribute to improving the 
health of people around the world, while also sustaining 
the profitable growth of the company.
Our compensation is intended to compare favorably 
with the pay programs of other global, consumer-facing 
and manufacturing-driven organizations with financial, 
operational and employment characteristics similar  
to Abbott.
Our total rewards program combines elements of 
base and variable pay, with a broad array of benefits and opportunities for growth and development. Our compensation and benefits programs have contributed to a corporate culture that encourages employees to 
regard Abbott as a place to build their careers.
While our total compensation targets reference the 
median of other leading companies, average individual pay varies, based on employee competencies, experience 
and performance. Our pay for performance philosophy, 
combined with internal and external analysis and reviews, helps drive our total compensation strategy.
Our compensation program is designed to provide 
an appropriate mix of elements that motivate our 
executives to achieve our business strategies and goals, in line with shareholder interests. Our executive compensation program is competitive, performance-
based and balanced between short-term and long-term 
objectives.
For all staff, Abbott has set the following guiding 
principles for our compensation programs:• Base salaries are competitive in the markets where we 
compete for employees.
• Incentive plans are designed to balance short- and 
long-term financial and strategic objectives that build shareholder value and reward overall company and individual performance.
• Incentive compensation (both annual and long-term) is a key component of Abbott’s pay-for-performance philosophy. Our structure ties individual awards to both business and individual results, to motivate our 
employees to achieve superior performance.
• Compensation elements are designed to encourage 
behavior that is consistent with the ethical values established in Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct.
• Benefits packages are competitive in and appropriate 
for the markets where we compete for talent.
WORK-LIFE HARMONY 
We recognize the importance of creating and 
maintaining supportive and healthy work environments that enable our employees to achieve balance in their 
work and personal responsibilities and activities. Abbott 
offices in more than 60 countries offer flexible work schedules, including flex time, summer hours, part-time, job sharing, compressed work weeks, phased retirement and telecommuting. We view these initiatives not only 
as important tools for talent attraction and retention, 
but also as key components in our approach to diversity and inclusion.
As an example of Abbott’s award-winning work-life 
initiatives, U.S. employees caring for elderly family members or friends have access to personalized assistance through Abbott’s Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs), including help in finding housing 
options and community resources and paying for care. 
In 2014, we offered a four-part elder care education and discussion series to help support caregivers in  
the workplace.CHILD CARE 
Abbott’s commitment to helping employees better manage their personal and professional lives is exemplified by our comprehensive child care programs, including on-site child care centers, emergency child 
care assistance, on-site parenting and counseling 
services, full-day kindergarten programs and school holiday child care programs. 
Our Early Discoveries on-site child care center – based 
in our headquarters location – is one of the five largest 
centers in the Bright Horizons network and was ranked in the top 8 percent of U.S. child care centers for quality in 2014. Abbott also continues to fund, through the Lake County YWCA, a child care provider training program.
Additionally, in 2014, Abbott launched myEdGPS, a 
Web-based information and one-on-one support tool that simplifies education planning by helping parents better understand, advocate and care for children 
with exceptional needs, including learning disabilities, 
ADHD and autism. Last year we also offered all employees six weeks fully paid maternity leave and added discounts for infant child care as part of our child 
care provider discount program – saving U.S. employees 
nearly $170,000.
NEARLY  
$170,000
IN CHILD CARE SAVINGS
Our child care provider discount program saved U.S.  
employees nearly $170,000 in 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
49
In 2014, Abbott was named among the Top 10 
companies on Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies list. This marked the 14th consecutive year 
that Abbott has been included on this prestigious list 
of family-friendly companies. In 2014, Abbott was also named one of the National Association for Female Executives’ Top 50 Companies for Executive Women.
Abbott was included on 
Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies list for the 14th consecutive year.14
YEARS
EDUCATING MANAGERS TO HELP EMPLOYEES ACHIEVE 
WORK-LIFE HARMONY
Abbott launched a new manager training seminar – 
called Helping Your Employees Thrive – and more than 670 managers registered in 2014. The purpose of this 
training was to demonstrate to leaders how Abbott’s 
Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs) and work-life programs can help employees become more resilient and thrive, leading to enhanced engagement, retention and well-being. Specific topics included how to:
• Communicate effectively to lead teams through tough 
or stressful times
• Support employees with the tools and resources they 
need to do their jobs
• Access additional tools, tips and resources to help 
managers and their teams thrive
• Help team members resolve issues that are affecting job performance
Surveyed after the training, 98 percent of managers agreed that they had gained a better understanding of how EAPs could assist them as leaders. Nearly all managers indicated they would encourage employees to 
use the resources.PRODUCTIVE TRANSITION TO RETIREMENT 
We are especially mindful of the complex and changing 
definition of retirement today, especially for the first wave of baby boomers, who are retiring in record numbers. Abbott’s Freedom to Work program, available 
to eligible U.S. employees, offers employees considering 
retirement the option to scale back their hours and/or change their responsibilities without affecting their benefits, thus allowing for knowledge transfer. Since Freedom to Work was launched in 2008, 640 U.S. 
employees have enrolled in the program.
Freedom to Work offers employees two different 
options as they approach retirement:
• Our Custom Schedule Program allows employees 
to reduce hours and compensation without losing benefits. This option allows employees to work four days a week all year or take up to an additional five weeks of vacation.
• Our Emeritus Program allows employees to change their responsibility (for example, from managing staff to becoming an individual contributor) without sacrificing pay or grade.
HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES
 At Abbott we inspire and motivate our employees with all types of health and wellness programs designed to help them live healthy lives. 
Our education and wellness programs vary from country 
to country, reflecting local needs and customs. Most Abbott locations offer on-site influenza immunizations and health screenings, and several sites facilitate 
employee exercise by offering on-site fitness centers, 
health club membership subsidies or discounts and sports and recreation clubs.Exercise Across Abbott is one of our most popular – and global – wellness programs and has been in place for more than 15 years. Nearly 20 percent of Abbott employees across 60 countries participate in Exercise 
Across Abbott annually. People team up by department 
and/or with colleagues. Teams of employees track their minutes of daily exercise, up to a maximum of two hours per day, six days per week. Each team is responsible for 
reporting their minutes online to compete for prizes in a 
variety of categories. Teams who increase their minutes each week consistently for four weeks are awarded T-shirts at the end of the challenge – and approximately 60 percent of participants win a T-shirt. 
60
COUNTRIES
Employees in 60 countries 
participated in our global fitness program, Exercise Across Abbott.
LIVELIFEWELL
In the United States, we offer LiveLifeWell, an 
integrated wellness program; 75 percent of employees and their spouses participate. LiveLifeWell includes:
• Online health assessment and tools
• Personal health coaching and nutrition counseling
• Awareness-raising campaigns and events
• On-site immunizations and health screenings
LiveLifeWell helps our employees learn about their 
health risks and encourages them to make healthy choices.
 Examples of these activities include healthy-
heart events with free blood pressure screenings, and posting nutritional information in
 Abbott cafeterias to 
promote healthy meal choices.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
50
In 2014, the program increased its focus on a leading 
risk factor in today’s workplace – stress – through our Healthier You Series: Be Strong, Stress Less. We also 
introduced the Step It Up! exercise program, focused 
on moving and staying active during employees’ daily tasks. More than 10,000 people enrolled in the program, resulting in an estimated 13 percent reduction in health risks over the year.
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Abbott’s commitment to employee well-being is further demonstrated by our programs addressing emotional health needs. In 24 countries worldwide, Abbott 
employees and their families have access to company-
funded Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs). These programs help employees address personal problems and concerns to improve their overall health and help them to be more successful at work and home. EAPs 
provide individual support in identifying and resolving 
personal concerns regarding health, family, stress, finances, alcohol, legal concerns, grief and other issues.
Abbott’s EAPs help promote a productive and healthy 
workplace by applying specialized knowledge and expertise about human behavior and mental health, thus extending the program’s beneficial effects further into the community. Beyond individualized assistance, our 
EAPs provide ongoing support for employees and their 
families through seminars and online education on such topics as stress management, child/elder care resources, grief, depression and personal health. Abbott EAPs also include crisis intervention services and workplace 
emergency response.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
Abbott has clear, consistent global policies and 
standards regarding how we manage employee  
health, safety and productivity, while also protecting 
the environment. All Abbott manufacturing plants, R&D centers and 
commercial operations sites adhere to technical 
requirements, including metrics, auditing and 
reporting, which serve as a baseline for health and safety performance worldwide. Each facility is regularly evaluated against the following categories:
• Health and safety policy and program
• Strategic planning
• Self-assessment/risk assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measures
• Assurance reviews
• Health and safety global standards
In 2014, Abbott updated its Environment Health 
and Safety (EHS) strategic plan, aimed at fostering continued EHS improvement and standardized program development. The strategic plan aims to effectively 
drive Abbott’s EHS activities to ensure a safe and 
efficient working environment and minimize any adverse environmental impacts. The company strives to create and maintain the highest standards of EHS practice, in both emerging markets and mature markets, 
by identifying and implementing best practices. The 
strategic plan focuses on four key areas:
• Performance improvement – Driving continued 
reductions in injury and illness rates and 
environmental metrics
• Compliance assurance and risk reduction –  
Implementation of standardized risk assessment processes and enhanced EHS audits
• Sustainability and social responsibility –  
Integration of product stewardship initiatives into product development• People and culture – Recognizing EHS excellence through the EHS Awards, and Plant of the Year and 
Commercial Affiliate of the Year processes.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Improving our performance requires clear lines of 
accountability and senior-level leadership and support. For example, our Senior Vice President of Quality, 
Regulatory and Global Engineering Services, a senior 
corporate officer, reviews metrics, key programs and progress with the Chairman and CEO and his staff  
on a regular basis. The following groups are charged with implementing our health and safety programs  
and initiatives:
• Global Operations Council – This body oversees  
the strategy for all Abbott operations (Manufacturing, 
Supply Chain, Engineering and Environment, 
Health and Safety) and makes resources available to meet local needs based on internal assessment of performance, benchmarking of best practices internally and within the industry and risk profiles. 
The council is chaired by the Senior Vice President, 
Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services and is comprised of the heads of Operations, Quality, Global Purchasing and Global Information Systems. For more information, please see the 
Citizenship Management and Governance section. 
• Environment, Health and Safety Executive 
Council – This group drives programs and targets with actions that are consistent with the priorities set by the Global Operations Council and the Commercial 
EHS Executive Council. This team meets regularly 
to share best practices and discuss EHS issues with company-wide implications. This group also builds awareness of EHS performance, promotes our EHS 
Excellence Awards (Individual/Team EHS Awards, 
Plant of the Year for manufacturing operations and Affiliate of the Year for commercial organizations), supports EHS training and conferences and 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
51
communicates our performance improvement 
initiatives. The group consists of EHS heads from each of our operating businesses.
• Commercial Environment, Health and Safety Executive Council – This council sets priorities and implements EHS goals and objectives for our sales operations around the world. This includes driver safety and reducing vehicular accidents 
among the sales force and reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions from fleet vehicles, as well as global community outreach initiatives related to vehicle and pedestrian safety in commercial emerging 
markets. The Executive Vice President of Established 
Pharmaceuticals chairs this group and is joined by senior commercial leaders across all Abbott divisions. The EVP sponsoring this council reports to the CEO.
REDUCING INCIDENTS 
We believe that employee health and safety incidents are preventable and that safety is the responsibility of every employee. We use an annual review process 
and routine performance reporting to help us set and 
monitor appropriate health and safety targets and to drive continuous improvement of our performance. In addition, our EHS leaders share best-in-class programs across the business and those external to our industry 
with the aim of implementing these approaches to 
further reduce risk and employee injuries.
Two of our key health and safety goals are: 1) reducing 
the number of incidents that result in time off work; and 
2) reducing the incidence of vehicle accidents among our employees.
Our 2020 lost-workday case rate target is 0.15 cases  
per 100 employees. In 2014, our lost time case rate was 
0.17 per 100 employees, a reduction of 29.2 percent from 2013 figures. To successfully deliver on these goals, we focus on two key areas. • Specific manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates 
with the greatest opportunities for health and safety 
performance improvement each year. Each business unit is responsible for addressing concerns within its identified facilities, by reviewing specific risks and 
implementing measures to improve performance.
• Behavior-based safety programs. Senior leaders 
in each Abbott business have embraced our safety culture strategy, Moving to Zero, which means moving to zero workplace accidents. Sites around the world 
also share best-in-class programs designed to reduce 
employee injuries. This global initiative encourages all employees to think and act safely and helps lead Abbott toward an injury-free culture.
NEARLY 30%  
REDUCTION IN LOST 
TIME CASE RATE
In 2014, we reduced our lost time  
case rate by 29.2% to 0.17 cases  per 100 employees.
VEHICLE SAFETY 
In 2014, our global vehicle accident rate dropped 12.5 
percent from the 2013 rate, to 4.2 accidents per million miles driven. 
We finalized the rollout of a comprehensive global 
education campaign to help our employees at our international affiliates. It is designed to help our employees better understand the risks associated 
with distracted driving. Formally known as Helping 
Employees Reduce Risk Across the
 Organization 
(HERO), the campaign focuses on our commercial sales force around the world. The program encourages 
field-based employees to use safe driving habits, and 
it raises awareness about the risks posed by in-vehicle distractions such as mobile telephone use. Since the
 campaign’s launch, 100 percent of our commercial business sector has taken formal
 steps to prohibit 
calling and texting while driving.
12.5%  
REDUCTION IN 
ACCIDENTS
In 2014, vehicle accidents were 
reduced by 12.5% to 4.2 accidents per million miles driven.
In addition to our efforts to reduce vehicle accidents 
among our own employees, we have partnered with the United Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety 
Initiative designed to reduce global traffic fatalities and 
injuries by 50 percent between 2011 and 2020. 
We launched two new programs across Vietnam  
and India, designed to provide children with high-
quality helmets and raise awareness about the 
importance of road safety near local schools. To date Abbott has provided more than 8,000 high-quality helmets to students and parents across four elementary 
schools within Vietnam. Across India, the road safety 
awareness campaign was launched in a school of over 2,000 students located in one of Mumbai’s most deprived neighborhoods.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
52
GLOBAL HEALTH SCORECARD 
In early 2011, we launched a new Global Health 
Scorecard to monitor each site’s performance on key occupational health measures and to identify areas  
for improvement. 
The Abbott Global Health Scorecard ranks sites 
according to how many targets they have reached,  
based on a menu of 15 global health criteria. In 2014,  
59 of our manufacturing and R&D sites and 30 
commercial affiliates met the year’s target. Seventy-eight 
percent of the manufacturing sites achieved 2015  
targets ahead of schedule.
We amended our initial targets for 2015 and created 
new targets for 2020 to further increase our focus 
on employee health that will include annual road safety awareness for employees and their families and colorectal cancer screening for employees at higher risk.
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
Employee feedback provides us with valuable insight as we continue to shape our culture to achieve our business strategy. We seek employee feedback through a variety 
of channels, including formal surveys and informal 
channels. Our divisions, geographic areas and country affiliates integrate this feedback and create actions plans in response to concerns. These efforts result in more robust company strategies and strengthen the Abbott 
culture by reflecting the priorities and concerns of our 
businesses and our employees alike. For example, most recently, with the launch of the new Abbott identity globally, employees were randomly surveyed to assess 
Abbott’s reputation as an employer. These responses 
factored into the development of key strategies and prioritized efforts to drive employees’ perceptions of Abbott as an employer.HUMAN RIGHTS
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being and respects individual rights as set forth
 in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. These principles are reflected in our company’s mission and core values. 
While governments have the primary responsibility 
for respecting,
 protecting, promoting and fulfilling the 
human rights of their citizens, Abbott recognizes that companies play a supporting role in promoting human 
rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights 
through compliance with laws and regulations wherever we operate, as well as through our policies and 
programs. Our guidelines
 include:
• Providing a healthy and safe working environment
• Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting 
any form of forced, bonded or indentured labor or involuntary prison labor
• Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating against any employee for reasons such as race, 
religion, color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability,  
marital status, sexual orientation or any other status 
protected by law
• Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane 
treatment in the workplace
• Protecting individual privacy
• Providing compensation and benefits that are 
competitive and comply with applicable laws  
for minimum wages, overtime hours and  
mandated benefits
• Encouraging open communication between management and employees
Abbott’s position on human rights is reinforced in 
our employment, ethics and procurement
 policies, 
which are designed to ensure that neither we, nor our 
suppliers, engage in human  rights abuses.ABBOTT RECOGNIZED FOR CHILD-FRIENDLY PRACTICES
Abbott is among a select group of Brazilian and multinational companies permitted to use the Fundação Abrinq’s seal on its products – in acknowledgment of our commitment to the welfare of children and 
adolescents in Brazil. The Abrinq seal, widely 
recognized and valued by Brazilian consumers, recognizes Abbott as an Empresa Amiga da Criança (Child-Friendly Company). Abbott was recognized in January 2012 by Fundação Abrinq/Save the Children 
for its public commitment to refrain from the direct 
or indirect use of child labor and to work only with suppliers who also commit not to use child labor. Going further, the organization acknowledged Abbott’s commitments to creating health and education 
programs for its employees’ children and to promoting 
public health and education programs for Brazilian children and adolescents.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
53
 2014 Highlights
55  ENGAGING AND INSPIRING 
YOUTH IN SCIENTIFIC  
EXPLORATION  
56  IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH 
BETTER NUTRITION  59  EMPLOYEE GIVING AND  
INVOLVEMENT  
59  MEASURING RESULTS  IN THIS SECTION:STRATEGIC  
PHILANTHROPY
•  Abbott Family Science, a major initiative 
to interest children in science and scientific 
careers, has engaged more than 100,000 
participants in eight countries.
•  Abbott is partnering with international 
nonprofit organization PATH to fortify  rice and help more than 1 billion people 
around the world who suffer from 
micronutrient malnutrition.
•  In 2014, more than 86 percent of U.S. 
employees contributed through the company’s annual employee giving 
campaign and matching-grant program.
•  Social investing by Abbott and the Abbott 
Fund totaled nearly $50 million in 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
54
Strategic philanthropy is an integral part of our 
approach to Global Citizenship at Abbott. 
We define philanthropy as local social investments 
that focus on strategic activities aligned with Abbott’s business. To execute initiatives in this area, we leverage employee time and skills through volunteering, as  
well as cash and product donations. We focus efforts  
in four core areas:
• Enabling people to lead healthier lifestyles at all ages
• Improving and maintaining good nutrition habits
• Promoting STEM education and careers in  
health science
• Safeguarding the environment
• In 2014, Abbott and the Abbott Fund contributed 
nearly $50 million in grants, product donations, 
community partnerships and efforts to strengthen 
healthcare systems around the world.
NEARLY 
$50 MILLION
Total social investing by Abbott and the Abbott  
Fund was $49.5 million in 2014. 
To ensure that Abbott’s philanthropic activities are both strategic and effective, we begin by exploring the needs of those we seek to assist by listening and 
asking questions to better understand the challenges 
and propose workable solutions. We then partner with organizations whose skills and resources complement ours. Finally, we carefully measure the impact of our programs so that we can continue to improve and to 
share what we have learned with others.ENGAGING AND INSPIRING YOUTH 
IN SCIENTIFIC EXPLORATION
Abbott’s science and engineering education platform 
focuses on K-12 out-of-school programs providing an understanding of the science and innovation behind 
healthcare, medical devices and nutrition. These 
programs encourage young people to be more proficient in science, technology, engineering and math, thus giving them pathways to a promising future. Abbott believes that inspiring the young people of today can 
produce the scientific leaders of tomorrow, as science 
and technology will play an increasingly important role in the future of the planet. 
100,000+
CHILDREN AND PARENTS
More than 100,000 children and parents 
have enjoyed Family Science events in eight countries around the world. 
ABBOTT FAMILY SCIENCE
Abbott Fund Family Science is one of our major 
initiatives to interest children in science and inspire them to pursue scientific
 careers. The program brings 
children ages seven to 10 together, along with their parents and teachers, to learn about science
 and 
innovation through exciting experiments and activities led by Abbott scientists and
 engineers. To date, the 
program has engaged more than 100,000 participants and nearly 4,700 Abbott volunteers in eight countries: 
China, Germany, Ireland, Puerto Rico, Singapore,  
South Korea, the United Kingdom and the U.S. In China alone, we have conducted Family Science 
programs in more than 30 cities, teaching children such fundamental skills
 as problem-solving and teamwork, 
while demonstrating the basics of the scientific  method. 
Ninety-five percent of families who have participated in the program say they would recommend it – a strong 
indicator of the program’s value. In addition, Abbott 
Family Science has won numerous awards, including the Asia Corporate Social Responsibility Award for programs in China, Singapore and South Korea in 2011 and Highly Commended at the
 inaugural CSR Europe 
awards in 2013.
OPERATION DISCOVERY
Another Abbott science program, Operation Discovery, brings students to an Abbott facility, where our scientists and engineers serve as mentors and role 
models, guiding the students through hands-on lab 
experiments using the same tools and procedures that Abbott scientists deploy in their daily work.
In the past 12 years, more than 1,000 Abbott scientists 
have conducted on-site science exploration programs 
in Abbott communities across the U.S., China, Germany, Ireland and Singapore.
“The practical experiments allowed us to be 
independent and individualistic while still 
allowing us to ask questions and enlightening  
us on science.”
2014 Operation Discovery participant, Singapore 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
55
IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH 
BETTER NUTRITION
 
WONDER GRAIN
More than 1 billion people around the world suffer from 
micronutrient malnutrition, in countries where rice is a staple food.
8 Abbott is partnering with international 
nonprofit organization PATH to address this health issue in a sustainable way – by packing vitamins and 
minerals into rice.
More than a dozen Abbott scientists collaborated with 
PATH to improve its Ultra Rice fortification technology, trying more than 100 different variables to develop 
enhanced formulations. These experts worked to:
• Improve the nutrient content with different 
combinations of iron, vitamin A, zinc and B vitamins, 
which can be customized to meet the needs and 
standards of each country
• Ensure the grains are nearly identical in taste, aroma and appearance to traditional rice
• Reduce costs to make Ultra Rice closer to the cost  
of traditional rice
Fortified grains are blended with milled rice to create a highly nutritious food that is nearly identical to traditional rice. The new formulations are already 
having an impact: in the United States, the Department 
of Agriculture recently approved fortified rice for distribution through U.S. food aid programs around  
the world.Moving forward, we aim to introduce new Ultra Rice 
formulations in India, Brazil and Myanmar by late 
2015 – working with local producers and rice millers so that the fortified grains are widely available on a sustainable basis. 
Hunger and malnutrition are truly global problems. 
“Over a billion people worldwide could benefit from Ultra Rice. Knowing that is what really drives our work,” says Peiman Milani, Director, Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition at PATH. 
NOURIMANBA IN HAITI
Childhood malnutrition and lack of economic opportunity have long plagued Haiti, the Western Hemisphere’s poorest nation. Now, real progress is 
being made with the opening of a new, state-of-the-
art nutrition production facility – the centerpiece of a broader partnership in Haiti between Partners In Health (PIH), Abbott and the Abbott Fund. 
Thanks to a new nutrition production facility in the 
country’s Central Plateau, PIH’s sister organization, Zanmi Lasante, is scaling up and distributing Nourimanba, their free-of-charge, ready-to-use 
therapeutic food product for the treatment of severe 
childhood malnutrition. The facility, built by Haitians with the support of Abbott’s engineers, scientists and other specialists, is operated and managed by more than 30 Haitians, who have produced more than 220,000 
pounds (100,000 kilograms) of Nourimanba since the 
plant’s opening in July 2013. Looking forward, the facility’s strategy is to sell high-quality food products, creating income to drive long-term sustainability.
The partnership is also working to support local 
farmers by expanding the supply of high-quality, 
cost-competitive peanuts. Training, as well as follow-
up support provided by nonprofit organization TechnoServe, is improving beneficiaries’ understanding of farming as a business – developing better practices and increasing yields while linking to markets and 
boosting income. 
300% GOAL
Our agricultural program is working to raise  
incomes for Haitian farmers by 300%.
    10,000+
HOURS VOLUNTEERED
Abbott experts have volunteered more than  10,000 hours to the partnership in Haiti.
8. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, The 
State of Food Insecurity in the World 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
56
INFOGRAPHIC
200MM+
More than 200 million  
people in India, many of them children, suffer from hunger  and malnutrition.65%
Some 65% of  the population  of India relies on  rice as a staple.
20%
In Brazil, an estimated 20%  of children under age 5 suffer from anemia. 6TH
Myanmar is the  world’s sixth-largest producer of rice.
FINDING 
THE UPSIDE IN A GRAIN OF RICE 
Rice, a staple for half the world, could help 
overcome micronutrient malnutrition, a global 
problem. Working with the international 
nonprofit organization PATH, Abbott scientists reformulated PATH’s Ultra Rice®, a fortified 
grain that looks and tastes like rice. Ultra Rice 
could improve the quality of life for over a billion people worldwide.
That’s the Upside. 
WHITE RICE  
(100G)WHITE RICE  
(99G) + ULTRA 
RICE (1G)
Vitamin A 0 IU 1667 IU
Thiamin 0.070 MG 3.4 MG
Niacin 1.6 MG 8.2 MG
Iron 0.8 MG 8.7 MG
Folic Acid 8 G 140 G
Phosphorus 115 MG 120 MG
Vitamin B12 0 G 2 G
Vitamin B6 0.16 MG 0.83 MG
*100 grams of unenriched, long-grain white rice, as listed in the USDA Nutrient 
Database (NDB 20444), compared to 99 grams of the same rice fortified with  1 gram of Ultra Rice.Nutrition Facts    More Nutrients Than White Rice* Alone 100+More than a dozen Abbott scientists 
collaborated with PATH, trying more than 100 different variables to identify the best 
new formulations of fortified grains.
57
100%
OF NEW PATIENTS
All new patients at Shanghai  
Children’s Medical Center are  screened for malnutrition.
30% DROP
IN MALNUTRITION RISK
Since 2010, Bach Mai Hospital in Vietnam has seen the  
risk of malnutrition drop approximately 30%.
2.2 MILLION
BACKPACKS
More than 2.2 million BackPacks of food have been  
delivered to children and their families since 2009.ABBOTT FUND INSTITUTE OF NUTRITION SCIENCE
Working with leading experts in China and Vietnam, the 
Abbott Fund Institute of Nutrition Science (AFINS) is designed to advance clinical nutrition within hospitals by supporting training and health education, clinical 
research and high-quality nutritional patient care. 
Launched as a partnership between the Abbott Fund, Project HOPE and Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC) in China, and Boston University, Bach Mai Hospital, the National Institute of Nutrition and Hanoi 
Medical University in Vietnam, AFINS has trained more 
than 6,000 healthcare professionals since 2007 . 
In China, AFINS has helped to reduce malnutrition 
risk among children at SCMC by 81 percent. In both 
China and Vietnam, AFINS has been embraced by local 
government and hospital leaders, ensuring the long-term sustainability of efforts to strengthen hospital nutrition and provide better patient care. 
BACKPACKS FULL OF GOOD NUTRITION
Each Friday, thousands of otherwise hungry American children leave school toting backpacks filled with nutritious foods and juices for themselves and their 
families. The backpacks are distributed discreetly before 
weekends and school vacations. Feeding America, the nation’s largest network of food banks, manages the BackPack Program, serving hundreds of thousands of children annually. 
The Abbott Fund is a major supporter of this program, 
helping to feed more than 27 ,000 families by sponsoring BackPack Programs near Abbott sites in Alameda, Irvine 
and San Jose, California; Columbus, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; 
Altavista, Virginia; Kenosha, Wisconsin; North Chicago and Chicago, Illinois; and Puerto Rico. The Abbott Fund is also sponsoring programs outside the U.S. through the Global FoodBanking Network. In 2010, the 
first international BackPack Program was launched in 
Mexico City, Mexico.BUILDING HEALTHY COMMUNITIES
Healthy communities possess vibrant and diverse institutions that serve the public good. At Abbott,  
we are committed to building healthy communities wherever we operate, and we support innovative 
programs that address unmet needs of local 
communities. When natural disasters and emergencies strike communities, we work closely with our trusted humanitarian relief partners. 
PROTECTING PRECIOUS WATER RESOURCES
The quality and quantity of local water resources are vital to the health and well-being of everyone on earth, yet one in eight lacks access to clean, abundant 
water. Project WET, a longtime Abbott partner in 
community health, is dedicated to educating children, parents, teachers and communities about safeguarding and optimizing this precious natural resource, helping people of all ages to understand the complex 
environmental issues involved. Abbott, the Abbott Fund 
and Project WET, for example, worked in the favelas of North Rio de Janeiro to help alleviate water-related diseases that are common there. Together, we have 
also created a suite of educational activities, reaching 
some 20,000 residents in 11 favelas and focused on such vital issues as hand-washing, waste management, germ transmission, water conservation and the preservation of water quality. 
DISASTER RELIEF
When natural disasters and other emergencies strike, Abbott and the Abbott Fund work closely with our trusted humanitarian relief partners to address both 
immediate needs and longer-term reconstruction and 
rehabilitation efforts. We also understand the value of preparation. For the past seven years, for instance, Abbott has worked with Direct Relief and Feeding America to pre-position critical products in targeted 
high-risk locations in advance of hurricane season. By 
pre-positioning products that will be urgently needed in 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
58
food banks and health facilities along the East and Gulf 
Coasts, in the Caribbean, Central America and Asia, we ensure that the right products are in the right places 
before disaster strikes.
Prior to the 2014 hurricane season, Abbott, the Abbott 
Fund and our partners had pre-positioned $700,000 worth of donated products at almost 90 sites across 73 
cities, helping communities to prepare in advance of 
hurricanes and other natural disasters.
In 2014, Abbott and the Abbott Fund responded with 
more than $500,000 in product and cash donations in 
response to disasters in the Balkans, Chile, China, the Dominican Republic, India, Pakistan, the Philippines and West Africa.
EMPLOYEE GIVING AND 
INVOLVEMENT
Abbott employees share our commitment to  
creating healthier communities worldwide. They give  
generously – of their time, expertise, money and 
enthusiasm – contributing to numerous community-
based initiatives. To facilitate their work, we updated our online system enabling employees globally to access volunteer activities that match both their needs and interests, and their professional skills and expertise.
Abbott employees also continued to expand their 
financial giving to nonprofit and community groups in 2014, with more than 86 percent of U.S. employees 
contributing through the
 company’s annual employee 
giving campaign and matching-grant program. 
Contributions  from the Abbott Fund and employees 
totaled $12 million. Abbott’s employee participation is more than twice the median percent (30.5 percent) 
participation in workplace giving campaigns, according 
to the 2014 Giving in Numbers report by the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP).$12 MILLION
Employees and matching grants  
contributed $12 million to community programs in 2014.
MEASURING RESULTS
Since 2009, Abbott has been a member of the global 
LBG group, formerly the London  Benchmarking 
Group. Abbott is among the more than 300 companies worldwide using the
 LBG model to measure, 
manage and report the value and achievements of the philanthropic
 contributions they make.
Using this model, we were able to assign a monetary 
value to the time and services of our employees  
involved in community activities, as well as our  
cash and product donations. Our total community 
contributions using LBG methodology came to more than $34.2 million in 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
59
 2014 Highlights
61  ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  
61  OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE  
PROGRAM  63 RESPONSIBLE SALES  
 AND MARKETING PRACTICES  
64  PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  IN THIS SECTION:PROMOTING ETHICS 
AND INTEGRITY
•  The Abbott Code of Business Conduct, 
updated in 2015 and available in print 
and online in 10 languages, sets forth our 
basic guidelines and requirements for ethical behavior.
•  More than 85 percent of Abbott 
employees around the world participate 
in our Legal and Ethics Resource 
Network (LERN) program.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
60
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Abbott has a long history of safeguarding our 
company’s reputation and enhancing trust. More than 125 years ago, our founder, Dr. Wallace Abbott, was 
one of the creators of what was known as the ethical 
pharmaceutical industry, which first established the high standards of safety and efficacy that are the foundation of the modern healthcare business. Abbott employees understand the global impact of our work 
and our products, and we strive to do the right thing, 
in the right way, in every aspect of our daily activities. We support employees in this area by ensuring that everyone clearly understands our company values,  
the Abbott Code of Business Conduct and our policies and procedures and our legal obligations related to ethical conduct.
BUSINESS ETHICS A T ABBOTT
At Abbott, we are committed to meeting high ethical standards and to complying with all applicable laws wherever we do business. 
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE 
PROGRAM
Reflecting our commitment to operating honestly,  
fairly and with integrity, our integrated, company-wide 
ethics and compliance program goes beyond simple 
adherence to applicable laws and regulations.  
We have organized our program according to the  
seven elements of an effective compliance program, 
as set forth in the voluntary “Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers,” 
published in April 2003 by the Office of Inspector 
General, U.S. Department of Health and Human  
Service (“HHS-OIG Guidance”). The seven elements are:
• Leadership
• Written standards
• Effective lines of communication
• Training
• Accountability
• Assessment
• Remediation
LEADERSHIP
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) 
is responsible for the management and operation of the Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) as well 
as the development and enhancement of our global 
compliance program. The CECO makes regular reports regarding compliance matters to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, to senior level leadership and to Abbott’s Board of Directors and  
its committees.
10 LANGUAGES
The Abbott Code of Business Conduct is published  
in print and online in 10 languages to support  
colleagues around the world.
The Business Conduct Committee (BCC) consists of senior-level leadership and is chaired by the CECO. Established to assist in the implementation of the 
compliance program, the BCC is accountable directly to 
the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The BCC meets periodically to discuss matters such as the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate globally, risk areas and best practices, as well  
as modifications to our compliance initiatives within each business and affiliate. OEC staff members also provide dedicated support to each of Abbott’s 
businesses at their headquarters.
Outside the United States, local Affiliate Compliance 
Committees manage our Affiliate Compliance Program. These committees are composed of the Affiliate 
Management Representative and other top executives 
representing all of Abbott’s businesses within a country. The Affiliate Compliance Committees are responsible for the day-to-day functioning of the compliance program, including monitoring of compliance,  
providing awareness of and training for the program, revising policies and procedures and providing  
guidance to local employees. The committees also meet on a regular basis to discuss emerging issues and 
to work with the ethics and compliance organization 
in rolling out new programs initiated by the OEC. Compliance professionals located throughout the world provide oversight and guidance to the Affiliate Compliance Committees.
WRITTEN STANDARDS
In 2015, we updated the Abbott Code of Business Conduct. Available in print and online in 10 languages, it sets forth our basic guidelines and requirements for 
ethical behavior. The fundamental message of the Code 
is straightforward: it is up to each Abbott employee to build our company and our brand by holding our company to the highest ethical standards and by living our values and continually operating with honesty, 
fairness, and integrity. 
We earn our reputation by the decisions we make and 
the actions we take. Our Code embodies our company 
values and provides a foundation for the responsibilities 
and behaviors that will help us make the best choices for Abbott, for ourselves and for the many stakeholders we serve. We all share in the responsibility to live our values every day. That includes keeping a watchful eye on our 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
61
business activities and reporting concerns in good faith 
without fear of retaliation. 
Our work at Abbott is of the utmost importance to the 
people we serve. Our products affect people’s health and lives in the most crucial ways.
Abbott employees are required to read and certify 
adherence to our Code annually. Our Code states 
clearly that Abbott does not tolerate illegal or unethical behavior in any aspect of our business. It emphasizes the importance of ethical and honest conduct; of 
adhering to Abbott’s policies and procedures; of treating 
confidential information appropriately; of avoiding conflicts of interest; and of maintaining Abbott’s  
books and records with accuracy and integrity.  
Further, it requires our employees to ask questions  
or report any concerns.
We regularly update our policies to incorporate changes 
to the law and industry codes, including rules regarding gifts, meals and education we provide to healthcare 
professionals. A number of laws require increased 
transparency in our interactions with individuals and entities involved in providing healthcare. These requirements consist of various combinations of certifications, tracking and reporting payments and 
transfers of value (such as meals), and restrictions on 
conduct. Transparency laws exist at the federal and state level in the United States, and in countries outside the United States such as France. Abbott complies with 
these requirements as applicable. 
EFFECTIVE LINES OF COMMUNICATION
Creating an environment in which employees can 
raise questions and concerns helps us advance  our 
commitment to ethical behavior. We have established systems and processes for employees
 to ask questions 
and report suspected or actual violations of our Code or our policies and
 procedures. We offer employees a number of resources, including our Ethics and Compliance
 Helpline, a Web-based hotline with live 
telephone support, including translation services for non-English speakers, available 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week. Employees also may contact the OEC or 
the CECO directly. We also have established means for responding to questions or reports of suspected or actual ethical violations that come through our social media channels.
ABBOTT’S ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
Is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
In 2014, we received approximately 640 inquiries and allegations. All allegations are analyzed and corrective actions are taken where necessary, including terminating 
employees
 or third-party relationships. When 
appropriate, we report information about breaches  
of our Code to senior management. 
The OEC also creates opportunities to engage in face-  
to-face  interactions with employees by participating  
in global, national and regional sales meetings and  
local  site meetings. Issues also are highlighted 
on our OEC intranet site and through targeted  
communications vehicles.TRAINING
Ethics and compliance training is a part of Abbott’s 
culture wherever we operate. Training and education programs for employees increase their awareness of our Code’s precepts and the legal and ethical 
implications of their actions and behaviors. Abbott 
ethics and compliance professionals work with our local commercial and operations teams throughout the world to support them in conducting trainings and education programs. These programs help ensure compliance 
and strengthen Abbott’s reputation as a responsible 
corporate citizen, while enhancing relationships with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
For example, more than 85 percent of Abbott employees 
around the world participate in our Legal and Ethics 
Resource Network (LERN)
 program, a Web-based 
training system designed to increase awareness of the legal and ethical
 implications of business decisions. In 
2014, we launched the LERN system in 17 additional  
countries, bringing LERN to 57 countries in total, and introduced new LERN modules addressing Global Promotional Practices, Scientific Research and an 
Overview of Abbott’s Ethics and Compliance Program. 
We also rolled out a new, live, facilitator-led instruction program focused on anticorruption/antibribery.
85%
More than 85% of Abbott employees  
participate in our Legal and Ethics Resource  
Network program. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
62
ACCOUNTABILITY
Abbott employees are expected to adhere to our  
Code of Business Conduct as a condition of their 
continued employment. All reports of potential violations of our Code or any policy or procedure are 
taken seriously and handled appropriately through 
follow-up steps such as investigation, remediation and, where necessary, corrective actions to address issues, learn from mistakes and avoid recurrence. Any Abbott employee who violates our Code or any policy or 
procedure is subject to appropriate disciplinary action. 
Any Abbott employee who refuses to cooperate in the investigation of an alleged violation or reports a concern that is knowingly false or is intended to threaten, intimidate or retaliate against any person may also be 
subject to disciplinary action.
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone 
who makes a good-faith report regarding a
 violation or 
potential violation of our Code, policies or procedures. These guidelines are well publicized and enforced 
throughout the company.
ASSESSMENT
The OEC uses results from internal investigations, 
internal audits and internal monitoring programs to assess the effectiveness of our compliance program 
and relevant business practices, and to identify 
areas for improvement. In addition, we consider the external environment, including industry codes and best practices, government guidance and enforcement actions against other companies in order to identify 
new opportunities to enhance our compliance program. 
An example of one of our assessment programs is the Affiliate Compliance Enhancement (ACE) program, in which we conduct an in-depth evaluation of the 
commercial practices of a particular country.REMEDIATION
Results of investigations, audits, assessments and 
monitoring are communicated to the appropriate OEC staff and business leaders. When an area for improvement is identified, OEC partners with business 
leaders to take corrective action.
RESPONSIBLE SALES AND 
MARKETING PRACTICES
An important part of our commitment to supporting 
patients and consumers and healthcare professionals is an obligation to
 communicate responsibly about our 
products and  services, and the alternatives that exist.
We respect the expertise of healthcare professionals 
who provide guidance about healthcare treatment 
options and healthy living. Healthcare professionals, such as physicians, pharmacists, nurses, researchers and laboratory staff, must use their independent judgment to determine the best course of care for their patients 
based on their training and expertise. We are committed 
to working with healthcare professionals to provide them with timely and accurate information that will assist them in making decisions and providing advice to 
their patients. We can achieve our mission of supporting 
health only through a truly collaborative approach.
In addition to our Code, we adopt policies and 
procedures that guide employees as they conduct their 
day-to-day activities. These policies and procedures 
encompass relevant laws and regulations, including food and drug laws and laws relating to government healthcare programs. They also take into account industry best practices, including provisions of 
applicable industry codes.Abbott’s activities conform to the regulatory licenses and approvals we obtain from government agencies 
such as ministries of health and food and drug authorities to promote, sell and import pharmaceuticals, medical devices and other products. We comply with each country’s laws and regulations that govern how, 
where and when we are permitted to promote our 
products, such as the United States Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We maintain and follow internal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance 
with such requirements and with respect to government 
healthcare programs.
We comply with all relevant laws, regulations and 
promotional standards around the world. This 
includes adhering to principles of the World Health 
Organization’s (WHO) International
 Code of 
Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes where it has been implemented by governments.
 Abbott has been 
a leader in researching and developing nutritional solutions for infants for 50 years and is committed to 
helping all babies receive the right nutrition to help 
them get a
 healthy start on life. Abbott agrees with 
medical and health organizations throughout  the world 
that breastfeeding is the best form of infant nutrition and should be the first choice for babies. When an 
alternative to breastfeeding is necessary or chosen, 
we offer high-quality
 infant formulas and nutrition 
products. We also conduct audits of our marketing and sales
 practices in each market where our infant formula 
is sold to ensure compliance with the  provisions of the 
WHO International Code mentioned above.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
63
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by the 
following principles:
• Abbott is committed to transparency and is  
guided by our Code of Business Conduct in all public 
policy engagement.
• All activities shape policies to benefit patients,  
with a focus on improving patient access to new 
medical advances.
• We are committed to participating in public policy 
discussions with the potential to impact our patients, consumers and employees and our ability to continue 
to produce new medical advances.
We engage with governments, think tanks, trade 
associations, patient groups and other
 organizations 
around the world to find policy solutions to the  
complex issues that challenge healthcare systems.  
It is our responsibility to help governments and regulatory bodies
 understand Abbott views on major 
healthcare issues and to learn from them about the needs of their communities, so that we can work 
together to better the lives of patients.
 Fulfilling that 
responsibility requires that we meet  with and brief 
policymakers, convening forums and discussions and 
contributing information and expertise.
W e strive to align with organizations whose overall 
advocacy platform demonstrates values  that mirror our 
own. For example, we support trade associations and other membership
 organizations that understand how 
government actions can affect patients’ access to medical  
advances and that will work to promote an environment that fosters continued medical
 progress. When we 
work with other constituencies, we are better able to advance policies that
 are consistent with Abbott’s values 
and benefit society. Even though we cannot control  the outcomes of discussions, we work to have a strong  voice at the table.
Abbott also participates in the political process by 
contributing to state and local candidates and political 
organizations. Our Government Affairs team reviews and approves all corporate political contributions to ensure they are consistent with the company’s 
guidelines and are in compliance with applicable laws. 
More information can be found on our Web site in our most recent disclosure report.
The Public Policy Committee of Abbott’s Board of 
Directors is responsible for the review and
 evaluation  
of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to  
social responsibility.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
64
66   TRANSPARENCY  
ON POLICIES  
    We strive for transparency by providing 
information on policies and standards applicable to each priority area.IN THIS SECTION:
Abbott’s policies and standards guide our 
business decisions, ethical conduct and 
commitment to the environment. We strive 
for transparency by providing information 
on policies and standards applicable to each 
priority area.TRANSPARENCY
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
6565 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES
We strive for transparency by providing information 
on the policies and standards that guide our business decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to the 
environment. Our policies always seek to meet or 
exceed the national and international standards in the countries where we operate.Following is a listing of some of our most critical policies which can be found on our Web site.
• Code of Business Conduct
• Supplier Guidelines
• Position Statement on Conflict Minerals
• Environmental Policy
• Energy Policy
• Water Policy
• Green Procurement Policy
• Global Environment Health and Safety Policy
• Environmental and Safety Assurance Statement
• Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing 
Business with Abbott
• Clinical Trials Registration and Results Disclosures
• Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related Organizations
• Stakeholder Engagement Policy
• Position Statement on Tax
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
66
68  SCOPE OF REPORTING  
    Our reporting focuses on our most 
material impacts and speaks to a range  of stakeholders.
68  FEEDBACK ON OUR 
REPORTING  
    We draw upon many external resources in refining our citizenship strategy.
69  EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  
    Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider to conduct assurance of selected 2014 environmental and safety data. 69  AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITION  
    Abbott has been recognized around the world for our comprehensive approach to responsible corporate citizenship.IN THIS SECTION:REPORTING 
Our reporting focuses on our most 
material impacts and speaks to a range of 
stakeholders, including customers, patients, 
employees, government and regulatory 
bodies, investors, special interest groups, 
non-governmental organizations and 
opinion leaders.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
6767 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
17 YEARS 
OF REPORTING
Abbott has reported on our citizenship activities for 17 years.
No. 1 IN HEALTHCARE
Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry 
Group Leader on the prestigious Dow Jones 
Sustainability World Index and North 
America Index for the first time in 2013.At Abbott, we have reported on our citizenship 
activities for 17 years, beginning with a focus on Environment, Health and Safety. We moved toward 
more comprehensive annual reporting, issuing our 
first citizenship report in 2000. Our reporting focuses on our most material
 impacts and speaks to a range of 
stakeholders, including customers, patients, employees,  
government and regulatory bodies, investors, special interest groups, non-governmental
 organizations and 
opinion leaders in the areas of responsible, sustainable and inclusive
 business.
Most recently, our affiliates in China, Russia and 
Vietnam also produced citizenship reports.  
This approach enables us to target our citizenship 
communications to local markets and provide greater  
coverage on issues relevant to those areas. Copies  
of our local reports are available on our Web  site  
for the following countries:SCOPE OF REPORTING
• All financial information is stated in U.S. dollars.
• All data in this report reflects Abbott’s activities,  
with a focus on activities and results for 2014.
• Neither this report nor our Web site contains performance information about our joint ventures
 
unless otherwise noted.
• Select information and data calculations from prior years have been adjusted to reflect the company’s 
separation from AbbVie in January 2013.
• The Abbott Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit 
philanthropic corporation established by Abbott  
in 1951.
• Our Global Citizenship Report for 2015 will be
 
published in the second quarter of 2016.
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING
We draw upon many external resources in developing and executing our citizenship strategy, facilitating our engagements with key stakeholders, developing 
our Web site and producing our annual report. These 
resources include Corporate Citizenship, Business for Social Responsibility, the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School, the Conference Board, Agenda and the Clinton Global 
Initiative. We gratefully acknowledge their input. Our 
engagement with these groups better informs our approach to reporting while also keeping us abreast of stakeholder expectations and helping us identify areas 
of opportunity for strengthened citizenship activities.
We also refer to external standards on reporting 
such as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We produce an 
index against the GRI reporting requirements.CHINARUSSIA
VIETNAMINDIAIRELAND
ITALY
BRAZIL
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
68
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider , 
Bureau Veritas, to conduct assurance of selected 2014 environmental and safety data. The Policy section of  
our web site houses a pdf of the Bureau Veritas  
Assurance Statement.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Abbott has been recognized around the world for its comprehensive approach to global citizenship.
• Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry Group 
Leader on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and North America Index for the second consecutive year. This is the tenth consecutive year that Abbott has been included in both the North 
America Index and the World Index – recognition 
of our continued global leadership in economic, environmental and social performance.
• Abbott was ranked the No. 1 company overall and 
No. 1 for Social Responsibility in our industry sector 
(Medical Products and Equipment) on the Fortune  
Most Admired Companies 2014 list.
• Abbott continues to improve disclosure with the CDP carbon program, as well as encouraging our suppliers 
to do the same throughout the CDP supply chain.  
In 2014, we improved our carbon disclosure score  
by 10 percent, to 93, and our suppliers exceeded  
the CDP global average.• Abbott received the 2013 Climate Leadership Award 
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
for our programs and results in reducing carbon 
pollution and addressing climate change.
• In India, Abbott received the 2013 Golden Peacock Global Business Excellence Award in recognition of 
our company’s stakeholder engagement, commitment 
to transparency, leading workplace programs, high standards of ethics and compliance and the quality of its involvement with communities. 
• In China, Abbott was awarded the 2013 China Best 
Corporate Citizen Award for the third time from the 
Corporate Citizenship Committee of CASW; Abbott  
in China also received the Top Employers 2014  
award for the fourth time in 2014, from the Top Employers Institute.
• Abbott has been recognized as a Great Place to Work by the Great Place to Work Institute in many different countries, including Brazil, Ireland, Japan, Australia, France and the U.K.
• In 2014, Abbott was recognized as number 11 on 
the global 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. Abbott 
has appeared on the list, compiled by Corporate Responsibility magazine, for six consecutive years, 2009 to 2014. BEST CORPORATE CITIZEN
Abbott has been included in the global 100 Best Corporate 
Citizens list compiled by Corporate Responsibility  
magazine for six consecutive years, 2009 to 2014. This year, 
Abbott appeared as number 11 on the list.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
69
71 KEY METRICS  
76   DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL  
PERFORMANCE  IN THIS SECTION:METRICS
The charts and tables on the following  
pages spotlight our key metrics in financial, 
social and environmental areas for 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
70 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014 70
KEY METRICS – FINANCIAL
** 2013-2014 data reflect Abbott’s new business profile following our separation  
from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.* 2011-2013 financial results have been adjusted to reflect Abbott’s developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses as discontinued operations; 2011-2012 financial results have also been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company on Jan. 1, 2013.SALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013 2014
2014
2014
2014TOTAL 18,663* 19,050* 19,657* 20,247Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.183 0.882** 1.342**Dollars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.424* 1.461* 1.371*Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.51.345
8.8Dollars in Billions0500010000150002000025000SALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013 2014
2014
2014
2014TOTAL 18,663* 19,050* 19,657* 20,247Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.183 0.882** 1.342**Dollars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.424* 1.461* 1.371*Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.51.345
8.8Dollars in Billions0500010000150002000025000
SALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013 2014
2014
2014
2014TOTAL 18,663* 19,050* 19,657* 20,247Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.183 0.882** 1.342**Dollars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.424* 1.461* 1.371*Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.51.345
8.8Dollars in Billions0500010000150002000025000SALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013 2014
2014
2014
2014TOTAL 18,663* 19,050* 19,657* 20,247Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.183 0.882** 1.342**Dollars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.424* 1.461* 1.371*Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.51.345
8.8Dollars in Billions0500010000150002000025000
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
71
*  Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate  
company Jan. 1, 2013.**  2013 data reflect Abbott’s new business profile following our separation  
from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) KEY METRICS – SOCIAL
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management 
(U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201472
***  Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees assuming the average  
employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year. This is equivalent to  200,000 hours worked.
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44 0.36Incidents per 100 Employees*** -18.2%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -12.5%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.17 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-29.2%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6 $49.5Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45% 46%
27% 27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013 2014
2014
201469,000** 73,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2013 to 2014*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
73
KEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTALWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
5341,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
5341,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOAL
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
74
WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
5341,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
534
1,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
5341,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.36 0.39 0.37 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2013 to 20143.32 3.15 3.060.35
3.312014
+8.4%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013 2014
42,373 42,150 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
20,562 16,571 Total waste landﬁlled
26,166 26,732 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2013 to 201462,935 58,72143,241
15,577
27,771
58,81844,215
14,137
26,971
58,353-0.8%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013 2014
520 511Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
528 518
571 544503
5 6
508
516
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2013 to 20141,099 1,061 1,024514
520
5341,054+2.9%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 155 147 140 150WATER IN TAKE
2012 2011 2013 2014 2020
17 18 17 16
122Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales+7.0%* -30%**
2.73 2.94 2.69 2.64 1.92TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-2.0%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
25 24CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020 2014
24 23
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions
492725
51 472423
48 36+1.6%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2013 to 2014 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOAL
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201475
CO2e EMISSIONS
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 23 26 24 20
USA 588 542 543 546
Region Total 611 568 567 566
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 4 5 5 5
Brazil 3 4 2 3
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 14 14 14 14
Puerto Rico 46 41 27 27
Commercial Region Total 12 14 13 14
Region Total 79 78 62 63
EUROPE
France 4 4 3 3
Germany 28 25 25 23
Ireland 60 60 52 50
Netherlands 65 60 61 65
Spain 15 13 13 13
Sweden 2 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 14 14 14 15
Commercial Region Total 46 47 46 45
Region Total 233 226 217 215DETAILED  
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
76
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 15 15 17 39
India 19 17 16 32
Indonesia 2 2 2 3
Japan 6 6 6 7
Pakistan 18 17 18 19
Singapore 45 46 42 40
Commercial Region Total 70 87 75 70
Region Total 175 190 178 210
Total 1,099 1,061 1,024 1,054
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
77
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 14 16 15 12
USA 280 259 273 277
Region Total 294 275 288 289
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 2 2 2 2
Brazil 2 2 1 2
Costa Rica 0 0 0 0
Mexico 14 13 13 14
Puerto Rico 2 2 2 1
Commercial Region Total 11 13 12 13
Region Total 31 32 30 32
EUROPE
France 2 3 3 2
Germany 10 9 10 8
Ireland 32 32 27 24
Netherlands 37 34 34 33
Spain 5 5 4 4
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 4 4 4 4
Commercial Region Total 38 39 39 36
Region Total 130 127 121 113
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
78
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 1 1 1 12
India 2 1 0 4
Indonesia 0 0 0 1
Japan 1 1 1 1
Pakistan 15 14 16 16
Singapore 19 19 16 16
Commercial Region Total 36 47 35 36
Region Total 74 84 69 86
Total 528 518 508 520
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 10 10 9 8
USA 308 283 270 269
Region Total 317 293 280 277
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 2 3 3 3
Brazil 1 2 1 1
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 0 0 1 0
Puerto Rico 44 39 26 26
Commercial Region Total 1 1 1 1
Region Total 49 46 32 32
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
79
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1 1 1 1
Germany 18 16 16 15
Ireland 28 28 24 26
Netherlands 28 26 27 32
Spain 10 8 8 8
Sweden 2 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 10 10 10 11
Commercial Region Total 8 8 8 8
Region Total 104 99 95 102
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 14 16 27
India 17 16 16 28
Indonesia 2 2 2 2
Japan 5 5 5 6
Pakistan 2 3 3 3
Singapore 26 27 27 24
Commercial Region Total 35 40 41 34
Region Total 101 106 109 124
Total 571 544 516 534
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
80
WATER INTAKE
WATER INTAKE BY REGION
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 0.18 0.20 0.17 0.16
USA 1.80 1.65 1.64 1.75
Region Total 1.98 1.86 1.81 1.91
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03
Brazil 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01
Costa Rica 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01
Mexico 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03
Puerto Rico 0.12 0.12 0.09 0.08
Region Total 0.21 0.21 0.17 0.17
EUROPE
France 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04
Ireland 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.17
Netherlands 0.37 0.33 0.32 0.34
Spain 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.09
Sweden 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.73 0.68 0.67 0.68
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
81
WATER INTAKE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.16
India 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.10
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02
Pakistan 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.09
Singapore 0.17 0.20 0.19 0.18
Region Total 0.40 0.41 0.41 0.56
Total 3.32 3.15 3.06 3.31
 
WATER CONSUMED (IN PROCESS)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Consumed 0.67 0.64 0.64 0.66 2.9
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Consumed 31 30 29 30 1.6
 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
82
WATER DISCHARGED (IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.02 1.91 1.85 2.00 8.0
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 94 89 85 90 6.6
 
WATER DISCHARGED (NON-IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.62 0.60 0.57 0.66 15.8
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 29 28 26 30 14.4
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
83
BOD CONCENTRATION IN WASTEWATER
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Concentration in Wastewater Discharged to Environment (6)8 30 7 5 -26.3
 
TOTAL WASTE
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,052 1,123 955 633
USA 27,181 22,964 23,022 22,659
Region Total 28,233 24,087 23,977 23,292
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 371 402 472 301
Brazil 1,138 1,007 826 566
Costa Rica 261 605 179 146
Mexico 205 373 537 432
Puerto Rico 4,874 4,888 3,484 3,475
Commercial Region Total (7)1,159 1,159 1,159 1,159
Region Total 8,007 8,434 6,656 6,079
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
84
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1,217 1,170 2,039 1,705
Germany 2,026 1,957 2,112 2,360
Ireland 4,427 4,751 4,701 4,520
Netherlands 7,544 7,923 8,635 7,734
Spain 969 938 1,009 888
Sweden 456 351 417 406
Switzerland 128 133 149 92
United Kingdom 1,223 1,204 1,133 1,050
Commercial Region Total (7)894 894 894 894
Region Total 18,884 19,320 21,089 19,649
ASIA PACIFIC
China 438 419 380 2,146
India 1,777 1,353 1,435 3,145
Indonesia 172 61 19 29
Japan 583 702 1,223 664
Pakistan 1,017 1,188 1,214 842
Singapore 3,385 2,718 2,386 2,068
Commercial Region Total (7)439 439 439 439
 Region Total 7,811 6,880 7,097 9,333
Total 62,935 58,721 58,818 58,353
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
85
HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 8,659 9,293 9,851 8,435 -14.4
Hazardous Waste Landfilled 305 233 339 328 -3.4
Hazardous Waste 8,964 9,526 10,190 8,762 -14.0
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Normalized by sales 0.42 0.44 0.47 0.40 -15.1
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 116 140 200 151
USA 963 967 1,093 825
Region Total 1,080 1,107 1,293 976
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 50 67 131 68
Brazil 171 193 172 113
Costa Rica 2 12 24 25
Mexico 56 75 65 67
Puerto Rico 2,295 2,316 1,564 1,435
Region Total 2,573 2,663 1,956 1,708
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
86
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 49 624 1,557 1,196
Germany 258 267 340 491
Ireland 462 412 354 382
Netherlands 3,508 3,595 3,944 3,092
Spain 24 23 10 9
Sweden 352 271 333 316
Switzerland 2 3 3 3
United Kingdom 276 343 136 208
Region Total 4,930 5,538 6,677 5,696
ASIA PACIFIC
China 16 12 12 26
India 109 106 127 183
Indonesia 6 7 5 7
Japan 37 52 65 91
Pakistan 179 9 22 27
Singapore 34 33 33 47
Region Total 381 218 265 382
Total 8,964 9,526 10,190 8,762
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
87
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Non-Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 33,714 32,857 33,390 35,781 7.2
Non-Hazardous Waste Landfilled 20,257 16,338 15,238 13,810 -9.4
Non-Hazardous Waste 53,971 49,196 48,628 49,590 2.0
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Non-Hazardous Waste 2.52 2.29 2.23 2.24 0.7
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 936 983 755 482
USA 26,218 21,997 21,929 21,834
Region Total 27,154 22,980 22,684 22,316
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 321 335 341 233
Brazil 968 814 654 452
Costa Rica 259 593 155 121
Mexico 149 298 472 365
Puerto Rico 2,578 2,572 1,920 2,040
Commercial Region Total (7)1,159 1,159 1,159 1,159
Region Total 5,434 5,771 4,700 4,371
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
88
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1,168 545 482 509
Germany 1,768 1,690 1,772 1,869
Ireland 3,965 4,339 4,346 4,138
Netherlands 4,036 4,328 4,692 4,642
Spain 945 915 999 879
Sweden 104 80 85 90
Switzerland 126 130 146 89
United Kingdom 947 861 997 842
Commercial Region Total (7)894 894 894 894
Region Total 13,954 13,782 14,412 13,952
ASIA PACIFIC
China 423 407 368 2,120
India 1,668 1,247 1,308 2,962
Indonesia 166 54 14 21
Japan 546 650 1,158 573
Pakistan 837 1,180 1,192 815
Singapore 3,351 2,686 2,353 2,020
Commercial Region Total (7)439 439 439 439
Region Total 7,430 6,663 6,832 8,951
Total 53,971 49,196 48,628 49,590
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
89
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Purchased Fuels (Scope1)(1) 8,283 8,158 8,010 8,290 3.5
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(2)4,256 4,155 3,890 3,909 0.5
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption 12,539 12,313 11,900 12,200 2.5
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) 387 380 367 375 2.2
Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 199 193 178 177 -0.8
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) energy consumption 586 573 545 551 1.2
ELECTRICITY GENERATED ONSITE
MILLION KILOWATT HOURS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
From cogeneration 36.3 33.5 34.7 37.6 8.3
From renewables 0.050 0.108 0.120 0.332 177.3
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
90
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 427 461 440 372
USA 6,177 5,787 5,856 5,942
Region Total 6,604 6,247 6,297 6,314
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 53 62 62 57
Brazil 91 92 70 64
Costa Rica 4 57 52 49
Mexico 243 238 242 245
Puerto Rico 535 457 318 315
Commercial Region Total 191 212 200 210
Region Total 1,116 1,117 943 940
EUROPE
France 95 101 94 89
Germany 305 278 273 248
Ireland 668 667 598 624
Netherlands 892 821 843 851
Spain 188 189 177 172
Sweden 35 38 34 35
Switzerland 5 6 6 1
United Kingdom 157 155 156 154
Commercial Region Total 643 664 652 626
Region Total 2,987 2,919 2,834 2,800
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
91
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 87 91 108 355
India 133 118 120 229
Indonesia 16 15 16 21
Japan 57 57 54 52
Pakistan 275 262 295 282
Singapore 525 534 471 471
Commercial Region Total 739 952 763 736
 Region Total 1,831 2,030 1,826 2,146
Total 12,539 12,313 11,900 12,200
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 243 270 258 211
USA 4,305 4,011 4,157 4,250
Region Total 4,548 4,280 4,415 4,461
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 30 37 37 31
Brazil 27 23 19 17
Costa Rica 0 0 1 1
Mexico 241 235 237 243
Puerto Rico 19 20 22 18
Commercial Region Total 173 191 181 194
Region Total 489 506 498 505
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
92
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 44 49 45 41
Germany 147 138 146 129
Ireland 447 448 395 423
Netherlands 655 593 601 588
Spain 74 84 75 73
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 78 77 79 75
Commercial Region Total 558 581 569 537
Region Total 2,002 1,970 1,908 1,867
ASIA PACIFIC
China 7 7 17 209
India 67 56 54 120
Indonesia 6 7 7 10
Japan 17 18 15 15
Pakistan 257 240 272 260
Singapore 333 338 280 285
Commercial Region Total 555 736 545 557
Region Total 1,244 1,401 1,190 1,458
Total 8,283 8,158 8,010 8,290
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
93
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013 2014
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 184 191 183 161
USA 1,872 1,776 1,700 1,691
Region Total 2,056 1,967 1,882 1,853
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 23 25 26 26
Brazil 64 68 50 47
Costa Rica 4 56 51 48
Mexico 2 3 5 2
Puerto Rico 516 437 296 297
Commercial Region Total 18 21 19 16
Region Total 627 611 446 435
EUROPE
France 51 52 49 48
Germany 158 140 128 119
Ireland 221 219 203 200
Netherlands 237 228 243 262
Spain 114 106 103 99
Sweden 35 38 34 35
Switzerland 5 6 6 1
United Kingdom 80 78 78 79
Commercial Region Total 85 82 83 89
Region Total 986 949 926 933
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
94
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 80 84 91 146
India 66 62 65 109
Indonesia 10 9 9 11
Japan 40 39 39 37
Pakistan 18 23 23 22
Singapore 191 196 192 185
Commercial Region Total 183 216 218 179
Region Total 587 628 636 688
Total 4,256 4,155 3,890 3,909
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
95
ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(UNITS BELOW)
2011 2012 2013 2014 UNITS
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 952 937 895 904 million kWh
Natural Gas 5,408 5,346 5,486 6,110 million cubic feet
Fuel Oils 4 3 2 0million gallons
Coal 10 1 5 2thousand tons
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) N/A N/A N/A N/A n/a
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 134 113 82 81 million kWh
Biofuels N/A N/A N/A N/A n/a
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 36 34 35 38 million kWh
Leased Building Electricity 96 105 104 101 million kWh
Leased Building Natural Gas 164 178 178 172 million cubic feet
Stationary Total N/A N/A N/A N/A
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 9.1 10.5 8.6 8.4 million gallons
Sales Fleet Diesel 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.7 million gallons
Sales Fleet E85 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 million gallons
Aviation Fuel 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.6 million gallons
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 million gallons
Mobile Total N/A N/A N/A N/A
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
96
ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE (CONTINUED)
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(1,000 GIGAJOULES)
2011 2012 2013 2014
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 3,427 3,373 3,220 3,254
Natural Gas 5,568 5,502 5,643 6,266
Fuel Oils 501 419 257 58
Coal 275 30 152 50
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) 22 63 55 72
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 482 406 294 291
Biofuels 52 41 50 52
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 0 1
Leased Building Electricity 346 376 376 363
Leased Building Natural Gas 178 194 194 187
Stationary Total 10,853 10,404 10,240 10,594
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,197 1,382 1,134 1,107
Sales Fleet Diesel 394 426 426 392
Sales Fleet E85 0 0 0 0
Aviation Fuel 66 72 77 83
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 29 29 24 22
Mobile Total 1,686 1,909 1,661 1,605
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
97
ENERGY CONSUMPTION-CO2 BY FUEL (CONTINUED)
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (8)  
(1,000 METRIC TON CO2-EQUIVALENT)
2011 2012 2013 2014
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 494 466 443 464
Natural Gas 292 289 296 330
Fuel Oils 37 31 19 4
Coal 25 3 14 4
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) 1 4 3 5
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 25 22 17 17
Biofuels 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 0 0
Leased Building Electricity 51 55 56 54
Leased Building Natural Gas 9 10 10 9
Stationary Total 935 880 858 887
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 80 92 76 74
Sales Fleet Diesel 28 30 30 28
Sales Fleet E85 0 0 0 0
Aviation Fuel 46 50 54 58
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 2 2 2 2
Mobile Total 156 174 161 161
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
98
ENVIRONMENTAL FINES
US DOLLARS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 4,400 2,055 99,810 33,333 -66.6
 
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOVS)
2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 8 5 3 3 0.0
 
INSPECTIONS BY GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 50 55 42 32 -23.8
 
VOC EMISSIONS
TOTAL
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 1.04 1.05 1.15 0.90 -21.2
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 0.048 0.049 0.053 0.041 -22.2
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
99
SOX FROM COMBUSTION(9)
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 0.22 0.08 0.11 0.04 -68.1
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 0.010 0.004 0.005 0.002 -68.5
NOX FROM COMBUSTION(9)
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 0.316 0.277 0.288 0.292 1.3
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013 2014% CHANGE  
FROM 2013  
TO 2014
Total 0.015 0.013 0.013 0.013 0.0
All environmental data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the WRI/
WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We report data from acquisitions as soon as practical, generally after collecting one full year’s financial data; therefore acquisitions occurring in 2014 are not yet reflected in these metrics.
(1) Reported Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet, Abbott-owned aviation, and non-manufacturing locations.(2) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam.(3) Per WRI GHG protocol, Scope 1 refrigerant CO
2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(4) Water stressed locations have been determined using World Resource Institute Aqueduct Global Water Risk Mapping Tool and World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool.
(5) Waste generation data does not include materials that are reused beneficially, which was roughly 56 thousand tons in 2014.(6) BOD data for water directly discharged to the environment only. Water discharged to the environment represents about 15% of total water discharge.(7) Waste Commercial Region Total data collection and calculation methodology was improved in 2014. As it is the best available information, 2014 data is 
applied to the baseline.
(8) Abbott’s non-energy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted from the tables. The 
total CO
2-equivalent from non-energy sources are 8, 7, 5 and 6 thousand metric tons in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively.
(9) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
Totals may not add up to 100 percent due to rounding.Environmental data reflects Abbott-only activities.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
100
102  GRI G3 INDEX  
  The GRI G3 Index provides an overview of 
our reporting, compared to the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.IN THIS SECTION:GRI INDEX
The GRI G3 Index provides an overview 
of our reporting, compared to the GRI G3 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
101 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014 101
THE GLOBAL REPORTING 
INITIATIVE’S SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORTING GUIDELINES 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a large, multi-
stakeholder network of experts in dozens of countries. GRI publishes the G3 Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines, which are now the global standard for non-
financial reporting. Abbott uses the G3 Guidelines to inform its reporting and align itself with best practices. Since GRI does not currently provide guidance on sector-specific reporting in the healthcare field, we 
have tried to identify and report upon those issues that 
have the greatest relevance to our business and to our stakeholders. 
ABBOTT’S GRI G3 INDEX 
The GRI G3 Index provides an overview of our reporting, compared to the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. It helps users locate relevant 
information and view our company’s performance 
within the context of the topics and requirements covered by the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
CITIZENSHIP REPORTING 
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE 
COMPANY
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker 
of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy  
Letter from our Chairman and CEO (pg. 3)1.2 Description of key risks and opportunities  
Business (pg. 4), Approach (pg. 6), Priorities 
(pg. 11)
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 Name of the organization  
Business (pg. 4)
2.2 Primary brands products and/or services  
Business (pg. 4), Priorities (pg. 11), Our Products 
2.3 Operational structure of the organization  
Business (pg. 4), Approach (pg. 6), Transparency  
(pg. 65)  
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters  
Business (pg. 5)  
2.5 Number and name of countries where the organization operates  
Business (pg. 5), Abbott Global 
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  
SEC filing
2.7 Markets served  
Business (pg. 4), 2014 Annual Report Note 15 in 
Consolidated Financial Statements
2.8 Scale of reporting organization  
Business (pg. 4)2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership  
2014 Annual Report Note 2 – Separation from AbbVie, 2014 Annual Report Note 3 – Discontinued Operations, 2014 Annual Report Note 4 – Supplemental Financial Information, 2014 Annual Report Note 6 – Business 
Acquisitions 
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  
Reporting (pg. 67)
REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1 Reporting period for information provided  
2014
3.2 Date of most recent report  
Global Citizenship Report 2014 
3.3 Reporting cycle  
Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 
or its contents  
globalcitizenship@abbott.com
3.5 Process for defining report content  
Reporting (pg. 67)
3.6 Boundary of the report  
Reporting (pg. 67)
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope of the report.  
Reporting (pg. 67)
3.8 Basis for reporting  
Reporting (pg. 67)
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
102
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases 
of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to 
the compilation of the indicators and other 
information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply or substantially diverges from the GRI Indicator Protocols  
Reporting (pg. 67), Metrics (pg. 70)
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement  
Metrics (pg. 70)
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report  
Reporting (pg. 67), Business (pg. 4), Metrics 
(pg. 70)
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report  
This index provides the location of the standard disclosures of the report
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Transparency (pg. 65), Bureau Veritas Assurance 
Statement 
GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT
4.1 Governance structure of the organization including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks 
such as setting strategy or oversight for the 
organization.  
Citizenship Management & Governance (pg. 9), 
Transparency (pg. 65)4.2 Indicate if the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer and if so their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement  
Chair of highest governance body is an executive 
officer.
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 
structure state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent 
and/or non-executive directors.  
Citizenship Management & Governance (pg. 9)
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 
to provide recommendations or direction to the 
highest governance body.  
2015 Proxy Statement 
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 
managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance)  
2015 Proxy Statement, Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
4.6 Processes of the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided  
2015 Proxy Statement, Transparency (pg. 65), Citizenship Management & Governance ( pg. 9)
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 
governance body for guiding the organization’s 
strategy on economic, environmental and social topics  
2015 Proxy Statement 4.8 Internally developed mission and values statements, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation.  
Approach ( pg. 6), Transparency (pg. 65), 
Responsible Business (pg. 40)
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and 
management of economic, environmental and 
social performance, including the identification and management of relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of 
conduct and principles.  
Business (pg. 4), Approach (pg. 6), Responsible 
Business (pg. 40), Transparency (pg. 65) 
4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance 
of the highest governance body, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance 
body, particularly with respect to economic, 
environmental and social performance.  
Citizenship Management & Governance (pg. 9), Transparency (pg. 65), Governance
4.12 Externally developed, economic, environmental and social charters, sets of principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.  
Approach (pg. 6), Priorities (pg. 11), Responsible 
Business (pg. 40)
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
103
4.13 Membership in associations (such as industry 
associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization 
* Has positions in governance bodies; * 
Participates in projects or committees: * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic.  
Approach (pg. 6), Transparency (pg. 65)
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by organizations.  
Citizenship Management & Governance (pg. 9)
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage.  
Engaging Our Stakeholders (pg. 10), Citizenship 
Management & Governance (pg. 9)
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.  
Engaging Our Stakeholders (pg. 10), Citizenship 
Management & Governance (pg. 9), Strategic Philanthropy (pg. 54)
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the 
organization has responded to those key issues 
and concerns, including through its reporting  
Approach (pg. 6), Priorities (pg. 11), Engaging 
Our Stakeholders (pg. 10), Strategic Philanthropy 
(pg. 54)
DISCLOSURES ON ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
 Management approach disclosures  
Business (pg. 4), Approach (pg. 6), Delivering 
Product Excellence (pg. 12), Transparency 
(pg. 65)ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
EC1 Direct economic value generated (core)  
Business (pg. 4)
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due 
to climate change (core)  
Climate Responsible Energy Policy
EC3 Coverage of organization’s defined benefit plan 
obligations (core)  
2014 Annual Report Note 13 – Post-Employment 
Benefits 
MARKET PRESENCE
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation (core)  
Supply Chain Excellence (pg. 41)
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or 
pro-bono engagement (core)  
Priorities (pg. 11), Strategic Philanthropy (pg. 54)
DISCLOSURES ON ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
 Management approach disclosures  
Citizenship Management & Governance (pg. 9), 
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29)
MATERIALS
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are not recycled input materials  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)ENERGY
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (core)  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Key 
Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Key 
Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Key 
Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved (additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Key 
Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
WATER
EN8 EN8 Total water withdrawn by source (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29), Key 
Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
104
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
by weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29) 
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN20 NO SO and other significant air emissions by type and weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 
(core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal 
method (core)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills (core)  
2014 Annual Report Note 12 – Litigation and 
Environmental Matters 
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or 
treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms 
of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, 
and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)PRODUCTS & SERVICES
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation (core)  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29)
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category  
Safeguarding the Environment (pg. 29)
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (additional)  
2014 Annual Report Note 12 – Litigation and 
Environmental Matters 
TRANSPORT
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 
transporting goods and materials used for organization’s operations, and transporting 
members of the workforce (additional)  
Key Metrics – Environmental (pg. 74)
DISCLOSURES ON LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT 
WORK
Management approach disclosures  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
EMPLOYMENT
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 
employment contract and region (core)  
Business (pg. 4), Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45)OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work related fatalities by region (core)  
Key Metrics - Social (pg. 72)
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases (core)  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 
managing career endings (additional)  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development review 
(additional)  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45)
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership 
and other indicators of diversity (core)  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45), Key Metrics - Social 
(pg. 72)
DISCLOSURES ON HUMAN RIGHTS
Management approach disclosures  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45), Transparency 
(pg. 65)
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
105
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 
investment agreements that include Human Rights clauses or that have undergone Human Rights screening  
Valuing Our People (pg. 45), Promoting Ethics 
and Integrity (pg. 60)
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on 
Human Rights and action taken (core)  
Supply Chain Excellence (pg. 41)
HR3 Total hours of employee training policies and 
procedures concerning aspects of Human Rights 
that are relevant to operations, including the 
percentage of employees trained (additional)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60)
DISCLOSURES ON SOCIETY IMPACTS
Management approach disclosures  
Transparency (pg. 65), Promoting Ethics and 
Integrity (pg. 60), Abbott Fund 
CORRUPTION
S02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60)
S03 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60)
S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60)PUBLIC POLICY
S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (core)  
Public Policy Engagement (pg. 64)
S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country (additional)  
Abbott 2014 Political Contributions 
S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes (additional)  
2014 Annual Report Note 12 – Litigation and Environmental Matters 
COMPLIANCE
S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations (core)  
2014 Annual Report Note 12 – Litigation and Environmental Matters 
DISCLOSURES ON PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Management approach disclosures  
Delivering Product Excellence (pg. 12), Supply 
Chain Excellence (pg. 41)
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
PR1 Life cycle stages in which the health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement (core)  
Delivering Product Excellence (pg. 12), Supply 
Chain Excellence (pg. 41)PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60), Transparency (pg. 65)
MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications including advertising, 
promotion and sponsorship (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity (pg. 60), 
Transparency (pg. 65)
COMPLIANCE
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services  
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2014
106
WWW.ABBOTT.COM/CITIZENSHIP
 
Please contact us with your questions and comments: Abbott Global Citizenship and Policy 100 Abbott Park Road, Department 0383, Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048 globalcitizenship@abbott.com
Copyright © 2015 Abbott. All rights reserved.