ABBOTT GLOBAL  
CITIZENSHIP REPORT  
2015CEO MESSAGE  3
OUR BUSINESS  4
APPROACH  6
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP AT ABBOTT  7
OUR PRIORITIES  8
CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE  9
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS  10
STARTING A GLOBAL CONVERSATION  10
PRIORITIES  11
DELIVERING PRODUCT EXCELLENCE  12
DEVELOPING THE INNOVATIONS PEOPLE NEED  13
TAILORING OUR APPROACH TO LOCAL TASTES  14
PROTECTING AUTHENTICITY  14
BRINGING PRODUCTION CLOSER TO PEOPLE  16
ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY  16
MAINTAINING BUSINESS CONTINUITY  19
IMPROVING ACCESS  20
EXTENDING THE REACH OF HEALTHCARE  21
EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING  
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS  23
BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY  24
EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS  
AND COMMUNITIES  25SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT  27
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY  
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT  28
ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE  30
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY  33
WASTE MANAGEMENT  34
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  35
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS  38
SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE  39
EMBEDDING OUR PROCUREMENT STRATEGY  40
SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  41
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN SUPPLY CHAIN  42
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  43
VALUING OUR PEOPLE  44
A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE  45
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT  
MANAGEMENT  46
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS  48
WORK-LIFE HARMONY  49
HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES  50
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY  51
HUMAN RIGHTS  54
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES  54
PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY  55
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  56
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM  56
COMBATING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY  59
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  59SHARED VALUE  60
THE ROLE OF SHARED VALUE AT ABBOTT  61
SHARED VALUE IN ACTION  61
STRATEGIC  
PHILANTHROPY  62
INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE TO EXPLORE SCIENCE  63
IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH BETTER NUTRITION  64
PROVIDING A HEALTHY LIVING ENVIRONMENT  65
CONTRIBUTING THROUGH OUR EMPLOYEES  66
TRANSPARENCY  68
TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES  69
REPORTING  70
SCOPE OF REPORTING  71
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING  71
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  71
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  72
METRICS  73TABLE OF CONTENTS
Dear Fellow Stakeholder,
When I’m asked what we do at Abbott, my answer is 
that we help people live the best and fullest lives they 
can. The primary way we do that is by bringing high-quality healthcare products to people around the world. But we apply that same fundamental purpose to all we do as a company. As a global leader, we recognize the 
impact of both the actions we take and the example we 
provide, so we’re mindful and purposeful in our policies and the decisions they drive. 
Your business affects your worldview. Our business, 
healthcare, gives us a sense of what’s truly important in life and a commitment to making things better. We endeavor to do so in three primary ways:
DELIVERING PRODUCT EXCELLENCE 
We believe firmly that health is the foundation of everything else we can do in life; consequently, there is no more important business than healthcare. The 
products that we develop and supply affect people’s 
lives in the most essential and personal ways. To ensure that we live up to the trust implicit in this work:• We conduct groundbreaking research  to help  
us advance health for all people, in all cultures  
and circumstances.
• We emphasize innovative product design  that 
addresses all aspects of how people can live longer, more fulfilling lives.
• And we maintain the highest standards  in research, 
manufacturing and business practices to ensure that our products deliver the best health outcomes.
IMPROVING ACCESS 
Creating new healthcare technologies is the critical first step, but those products are only useful when they actually get to the people who need them.
Abbott is dedicated to developing products that meet 
local needs around the world and providing them at prices that expand access to care, in keeping with the healthcare-related challenges set out in the United 
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. 
We take a partnership-based approach, working with 
healthcare professionals, governments and NGOs 
and, above all, with consumers themselves to improve 
healthcare access on four levels: 
• Geographic breadth: By increasing the physical 
availability of healthcare solutions and nutrition for 
hard-to-reach communities.
• Knowledge: By training and educating healthcare 
practitioners to advance understanding of emerging products and treatments.
• Infrastructure and technology: By using new tools to revolutionize the delivery of healthcare services in developing regions.• Consumer empowerment: By informing people about better health and nutrition choices while working to overcome social barriers.
SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT 
Of course, the ultimate determinant of our health as individuals is the health of our planet. Healthy people and communities can only thrive in a 
healthy environment. Abbott is deeply committed to 
environmental stewardship initiatives that help protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs and preserving our ability to do business in the future. We are guided by our own tradition of environmental 
stewardship, as well as by national and international 
legislation and feedback from our stakeholders. 
As a result of our efforts, Abbott was named to the  
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and North 
America Index for the eleventh consecutive year  
and ranked the Global Industry Group Leader for the third year in a row. At the same time, Corporate Responsibility magazine named Abbott to its global  
100 Best Corporate Citizens list for the seventh consecutive time. We consider these honors to be recognition of our commitment to doing business  
right, as well as motivation to do better still.
In keeping with our positive mission as a business, our 
goal is to make every place that Abbott works better as  
a result of our being there. Thank you for your interest in our company and in our efforts to continually improve in every dimension of our operations. 
Sincerely,
MILES D. WHITE  
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERFROM OUR CHAIRMAN  
AND CEO
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
3
OUR  
BUSINESS
5 NUTRITION  
  From infants to the elderly, we offer 
science-based nutrition products to make 
every stage of life a healthy one. 
5 MEDICAL DEVICES  
  Our advanced medical devices enable 
people to live their everyday lives better 
and healthier.5 DIAGNOSTICS  
  Our innovative technologies provide 
healthcare professionals the information 
they need to make the best treatment 
decisions, faster.
5 ESTABLISHED  
 PHARMACEUTICALS  
  We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded-generic medicines  
that treat some of the world’s most 
pervasive health conditions.IN THIS SECTION
Abbott is a globally diversified healthcare 
company, devoted to improving life through the development of products and technologies that span the breadth of healthcare. Approximately 74,000 Abbott people carry out our mission, reaching more than 150 countries.
Abbott has four core businesses of roughly 
equal size – each focused on advancing innovations that provide better options  and outcomes for people in pursuit of healthier lives.
4 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 44
 $8.3 BILLION
Spent with direct suppliers.
 $1.4 BILLION
Returned in dividends to shareholders.
 $1.4 BILLION
Invested in R&D.
 $20.4 BILLION
Net sales worldwide.
2015 REVENUE
The breadth and balance of our product 
portfolio lets Abbott help more people in 
more places, and gives us increased stability 
in an ever-changing world. A GLOBAL  AND  
BALANCED PORTFOLIO
25% 34%
23% 18%NUTRITION
MEDICAL DEVICES
ESTABLISHED  
PHARMACEUTICALS
DIAGNOSTICSAbbott is a globally diversified healthcare company 
committed to helping people around the world live their best possible lives through the power of health. 
Headquartered in north suburban Chicago for more 
than 125 years, we’ve brought new products and technologies, creating more possibilities for more people at all stages of life. Today, 74,000 of us are working to help people live not just longer, but better, 
in the more than 150 countries we serve.
We have four major businesses – each focused on 
advancing innovations that provide better options 
and outcomes for people in pursuit of healthier lives. 
The breadth and balance of our product portfolio lets Abbott help more people, in more places, and gives us increased stability in an ever-changing world.
We deliver results for patients and consumers, 
healthcare professionals, employees and shareholders, and we work to continually invest, innovate and introduce new products that are changing the practice of healthcare. In 2015, we invested $1.4 billion in 
research and development. Additionally, Abbott and our 
philanthropic foundation, the Abbott Fund, contributed more than $37 million in philanthropic grants, product donations and patient assistance.
NUTRITION
We understand that proper nutrition is the foundation for living the best and fullest life possible. That’s why we develop science-based nutrition products for people 
of all ages. With a focus on consumers and healthcare 
professionals, Abbott develops products that help babies and children grow, keep bodies strong and active and support the unique nutrition needs of individuals with chronic illnesses. We work to make every stage of life a 
healthy one.MEDICAL DEVICES
More advanced medical devices mean faster, more 
effective and less invasive solutions. Our advanced vascular, diabetes care and vision technologies are 
designed to improve outcomes, helping people to 
recover more quickly, monitor more accurately and see more clearly. As the global population ages and the incidence of chronic diseases increases, we’re able to help more people, in more places, than ever before.
DIAGNOSTICS
Our innovative instruments and tests help diagnose and monitor a range of health conditions with speed, accuracy and efficiency. From automated 
immunodiagnostics systems and blood analyzers to 
sophisticated molecular diagnostics and point-of-care devices, our diagnostics solutions are designed to deliver information that helps improve decision-making and patient care across the entire healthcare system.
ESTABLISHED  
PHARMACEUTICALS
We offer high-quality, affordable and trusted branded 
generic medicines that help millions of people around the world lead healthier lives. Through such product 
enhancements as new formulations, delivery methods, 
and packaging, we tailor our offerings to address the specific needs of the regions we serve. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
55
7  GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP  
AT ABBOTT  
  Our Global Citizenship strategy focuses 
on the areas where opportunities for our 
business intersect with positive social 
impact: we aim to achieve sustainable growth, deliver innovative solutions and 
build stronger communities to help more 
people live their best lives.
8  OUR PRIORITIES  
  We work to deliver positive results in our three priority areas: Delivering Product 
Excellence, Improving Access and 
Safeguarding the Environment.9  CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT 
AND GOVERNANCE  
   Our approach to citizenship management 
and governance is focused on integrating 
sustainability with our core business 
strategy.
10   ENGAGING OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS  
  Listening to our stakeholders is vital to our success as a business and to our progress as 
a global citizen.IN THIS SECTIONAPPROACH
Abbott is in the business of life, believing 
that good health is the starting point for  all of life’s possibilities. We look at health from all sides, working to create solutions that make life better for people of all ages, in all aspects and stages of life, wherever they are in the world. And this belief in the power of health informs our approach to Global Citizenship.
66 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 6
Abbott exists to help people live the best lives they 
can through the power of health. We believe that good health is the starting point for everything people can 
accomplish, and our business is built around delivering 
innovative solutions and opening up possibilities that can push healthcare further, empowering more people to achieve their potential.
For Abbott, this begins with being responsible, 
sustainable and inclusive. Our approach to Global Citizenship focuses on doing the right things, for the long term, for the benefit of everyone who relies on our 
products and services. At the same time, we work hard 
to maximize the impact of our business in creating fuller lives and stronger communities around the world.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP AT ABBOTT
The goal of our Global Citizenship strategy is to achieve sustainable growth, deliver innovative solutions and build stronger communities around the world 
to help more people live their best lives. In order to 
focus our efforts in the areas where we can have the greatest possible impact, we must understand people’s changing healthcare needs, but also our most important environmental, social and governance issues.
Half of Abbott’s business 
now involves selling products directly to the people who  
need them.
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
We partnered with the external agency Corporate 
Citizenship to undertake a materiality assessment 
that identifies and prioritizes our most important environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP APPROACH
TO BE A RESPONSIBLE,  
SUSTAINABLE  
AND INCLUSIVE BUSINESS
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
WE WILL ACHIEVE POSITIVE RESULTS  
IN THESE THREE PRIORITY AREAS  
BY DELIVERING:
SHARED VALUE  
INITIATIVESSAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENTIMPROVING  
ACCESSDELIVERING  
PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE
2RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS
PRACTICES1
STRATEGIC  
PHILANTHROPY3
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
77
This involved rigorously assessing what matters to 
our stakeholders and what is relevant for commercial success in our markets. The issues that emerged from 
the process are those that can most significantly impact 
the long-term viability of our business, and that will inform our Global Citizenship priorities over the coming months and years. They are also a valuable guidepost to our opportunities and challenges as a business.
THE PROCESS
We undertook a three-step process:
1. We conducted extensive research to identify the 
economic, governance, environmental and societal 
topics relevant to Abbott, our stakeholders and the broader healthcare industry. 
2. We interviewed external experts in sustainability, 
environmental management, healthcare and public 
policy and invited them to prioritize these topics based on their significance and potential impact relative to our business. We also used the expertise of our 
Global Citizenship Advisory Council, a core group of 
independent, expert advisors with a broad knowledge  
of corporate responsibility, to guide the process.
3. We interviewed senior leaders across Abbott  
to identify which of the topics would have the  
greatest potential impact on the long-term viability  
of our business.Through this process, we identified a preliminary list of 
20 ESG topics that are of material importance to Abbott, 
our industry and our priority stakeholders. We will now work on building these into a materiality matrix that identifies the importance of each issue, its potential impact on our business and our degree of influence over 
the topic. This matrix will play a key role in developing 
an actionable sustainability plan in 2016. The 20 areas identified for inclusion in the  
materiality matrix are:
• Affordability
• Climate change
• Corruption and bribery
• Demographic shifts
• Disruptive technologies
• Diversity
• Healthcare infrastructure
• Malnutrition
• Occupational health and safety
• Patient and consumer empowerment
• Political instability
• Product quality and safety
• R&D and product pipeline
• Resource scarcity
• Responsible marketing
• Rise of NCDs
• Supply chain resilience
• Talent management
• Transparency
• Water management
OUR PRIORITIES
We have focused our Global Citizenship efforts around 
three areas that are fundamental to our sustainability as a business – and support us in helping more people live 
full, healthy lives:
Delivering Product Excellence – Everywhere we 
operate and in everything we do, we are committed to innovation consistent with the highest standards 
of quality and safety. This innovation will ensure we 
deliver leading products that help people get healthy and stay healthy, at all stages of life.
Improving Access – Our products and services play 
a vital role in improving health around the world. We work with a range of partners to increase access and 
empower people to make well-informed choices about 
their health. We do this through a combination of educational and infrastructure development programs, supporting healthcare professionals, governments, patients and consumers.
Safeguarding the Environment – We work to reduce 
our global environmental impacts, protecting the planet and ensuring a healthy living environment while improving manufacturing efficiency, reducing costs and 
preserving our ability to do business in the future.
To achieve positive results against our priorities, we aim 
to conduct our business responsibly while identifying 
opportunities to create shared value by growing our 
business through solving social problems. We also aim to build on the positive impacts of our business through strategic philanthropy.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
The future success of our business depends on 
consistently applying responsible business practices,  
in particular in the following areas: 
Supply Chain Excellence – We work closely with our 
suppliers to help ensure the highest levels of quality, 
environmental excellence, compliance and social 
responsibility.
Valuing Our People – We operate award-winning 
workplace and employee programs to empower our 
people to fulfill their potential and build rewarding 
careers.
Ethics and Integrity – We maintain the highest 
standards of ethics and integrity in everything we do.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
88
SHARED  
VALUE
CREATE POSITIVE  
SOCIAL IMPACT AT SCALE
 
 
DELIVER TANGIBLE BUSINESS VALUE
  
LEVERAGE ABBOTT’S  
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTISE
  
ADDRESS ISSUES THAT ARE OF SIGNIFICANT 
RELEVANCE TO OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
CREATING SHARED VALUE
We believe in the concept of shared value, whereby 
a business is able to achieve growth and deliver 
measurable business value through the process of solving social problems. For details of how we are applying this principle when growing Abbott’s business, see our Shared Value chapter.
STRATEGIC PHILANTHROPY
Abbott and our philanthropic foundation, the Abbott Fund, invested $37 million in community initiatives during 2015. We focus investments on engaging in areas that align with our business and our core skills, on leveraging opportunities to share our employees’ 
time and skills with local communities and on building 
partnerships with stakeholders that enable us to achieve sustainable change. For more details of our approach, see our Strategic Philanthropy chapter.CITIZENSHIP MANAGEMENT  
AND GOVERNANCE 
Our commitment to good citizenship begins at the top. Our Global Citizenship efforts are led by our Board of Directors and senior management. The Public Policy 
Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible 
for the review and evaluation of Abbott’s policies and practices with respect to social responsibility.
The Global Citizenship and Policy (GCP) team has lead 
responsibility for implementing our Global Citizenship 
strategy. This department works with our four major businesses, key functional areas and affiliates around the world to ensure that we consistently deliver on our 
citizenship ambitions. The GCP team reports to our 
Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and External Affairs Officer, who in turn reports directly to the Chairman and CEO.
We are committed to embedding our citizenship 
strategy ever more closely within our core business strategy. Our cross-functional Global Citizenship Working Group leads these integration efforts, while also overseeing the reporting of our financial, social 
and environmental performance. The team includes 
representatives from Corporate Purchasing; Global Environment, Health and Safety; Office of Ethics and Compliance, Quality and Regulatory Affairs; Human Resources; Supply Chain; Research and Development; 
Investor Relations; Global Marketing Organization; 
Government Affairs; and Commercial Operations. The team also includes representatives from our affiliate operations in different countries.
Several of our country operations, including China, 
India, Ireland and Russia, have formed their own local, cross-functional Citizenship Working Groups, which are responsible for embedding responsible business 
practices throughout the organization and driving specific stakeholder engagement initiatives appropriate to local needs.
In addition, the following committees and working 
groups play an important role in our citizenship governance process.
• Global Operations Council – Chaired by our Senior 
Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, who reports directly to our CEO, the council comprises our heads of Operations, 
Quality, Engineering, Purchasing and Information 
Technology. It sets priorities for Abbott manufacturing operations around the world and drives initiatives to meet our environmental, product excellence and health and safety performance goals. 
• Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors – Comprised solely of independent directors, this committee’s charter includes reviewing and evaluating Abbott’s policies and practices with 
respect to social responsibility.
• Business Conduct Committee of the Board of 
Directors – Comprised of business heads, this committee oversees implementation of our ethics and compliance programs.
• Executive Inclusion Council – Led by our Chairman and CEO, this council oversees our diversity and inclusion initiatives.
We also work externally with our Global Citizenship 
Advisory Council (GCAC), a core group of independent, 
expert advisors with a broad knowledge of corporate responsibility. Members of the GCAC provide guidance on strategic issues, identifying opportunities and advising on risks across our value chain. They include: 
• Margaret Flaherty, Senior Advisor, FSG and Professor 
at the Business School Lausanne
• David Logan, Co-Founding Director, Corporate 
Citizenship
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
99
• Jane Nelson, Senior Fellow and Director of CSR 
Initiatives, Harvard Kennedy School
• David Vidal, Emeritus Fellow, The Conference Board
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue on health, believing that good health opens up life’s possibilities. We know that listening to our stakeholders 
and responding with relevant, local solutions that  
meet people’s changing needs and tackle the world’s 
most important health challenges are vital to our  
success as a business. 
We look at health from all sides and work to develop 
solutions that are meaningful to people, wherever they are in the world, so we can have the most impact. Stakeholder insights help us understand, anticipate  
and stay ahead of global health and economic trends,  
so that we can adapt our business to help people  
around the world. 
At Abbott, we value the trusted partnerships we 
have built over the years with government officials, 
healthcare professionals, educational institutions  
and non-governmental organizations. We have a  
defined process of stakeholder engagement that guides Abbott leaders to ensure that we gather insights from all 
relevant people across the different countries in  
which we operate. In this way, we are able to engage 
and offer solutions that create real and lasting change in people’s lives. These partnerships lead to healthier communities, while at the same time helping create  
new economic opportunities for people in developed and emerging countries. SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
Providing our customers with clear channels of 
communication is an important element in our ability to 
support them and help meet their healthcare needs. We offer customers a number of different ways to connect with us around the clock, whether online, through social media, over the phone or through the mail. For our 
Similac and PediaSure nutrition products, for example, 
we operate dedicated social channels and a toll-free hotline that provides customer support and answers their questions.
Our Net Promoter score (NPS) is an externally 
recognized metric for customer satisfaction – and we see it as an important measure of our success in meeting our customers’ needs. Our NPS has increased from 32.1 
in 2010 to 52.1 in 2015.
STARTING A GLOBAL 
CONVERSATION
Does living fully look the same to an accountant in 
Shanghai as it does to an architect in New Delhi or a street artist in São Paulo? What about a factory 
worker in Detroit or a new mother in Berlin? We’ve 
been exploring and collecting such insights through our LIFE. TO THE FULLEST. digital hub and our 
global social media channels. 
Asking consumers what living a full life means to 
them, both as individuals and communities, has enabled us to create a global conversation and understand what people around the world value the most, in order to serve them better. So far, more than 
1 million people across the globe have shared their 
thoughts with us. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
1010
12  DELIVERING PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE  
  We help people lead healthier lives  
and reach their potential with innovative  
products that meet the highest  
standards of quality.
20  IMPROVING ACCESS  
  To expand access to our products to people who need them, we partner with others 
to address key barriers, including building 
healthcare capacity.27  SAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENT  
  We work to help protect the planet while improving efficiency, reducing costs  
and preserving our ability to do business  
in the future.IN THIS SECTIONPRIORITIES
We focus our efforts on three  
strategic priorities: Delivering Product Excellence, Improving Access and Safeguarding the Environment.  These areas reflect both our key opportunities for long-term business growth, and where we can have the greatest positive impact on people and communities. By applying our science, products and expertise in these three areas, we’re working to maximize the promise  of human potential, around the world.
11 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 11
 2015 Highlights
•  Supera stent tackles the effects of peripheral 
artery disease while still enabling active lifestyles through flexibility of movement.
•  Innovative LiDoCon device makes it easier for 
patients in India to take the right dose of liquid medicines, while avoiding bottle contamination.13  DEVELOPING THE  
INNOVATIONS PEOPLE 
NEED  
14  TAILORING OUR  
APPROACH TO LOCAL TASTES  
15  PROTECTING  
AUTHENTICITY  16  BRINGING PRODUCTION  
CLOSER TO PEOPLE  
16  ENSURING QUALITY  
AND SAFETY  
19  MAINTAINING BUSINESS  
CONTINUITY  IN THIS SECTIONDELIVERING PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
12
Abbott products have been helping people live the best 
life they can for more than 125 years. For us, this starts with an understanding of what a full life means for 
different people in different circumstances. We pursue 
advancements in science, technology, medicine and nutrition that make fuller lives possible, and we are committed to the quality, safety and authenticity of our products. We have robust systems in place to ensure that 
the design, development, manufacturing, delivery and 
labeling of our products always meet the highest safety and quality standards. 
$1.4 BILLION
INVESTED IN R&D IN 2015
DEVELOPING THE INNOVATIONS 
PEOPLE NEED
We aim always to deliver innovation that makes life 
better and has a lasting impact on human health. We conduct ongoing research and development around 
the world so that we can leverage our scientific and 
technology resources to anticipate health challenges, meet local needs and deliver solutions to fit different cultures, tastes and circumstances. 
We believe that all people, everywhere on earth, deserve 
to live the best possible life through the power of good health. As the world’s population grows, and as people live longer, we need constant innovation to enable full 
lives for all. Fortunately, the human drive to explore new 
possibilities and discover new solutions has succeeded in raising living standards dramatically around the globe. We are committed to continuing this process and to linking innovation ever more closely with the different healthcare needs that people have.
We do this by focusing on delivering the highest 
possible standards at every stage of the research and 
development process.
Groundbreaking research to help us better 
understand the body’s requirements, and help us deliver 
the right solutions.
Innovative product design that explores all aspects of 
helping people to live longer, more fulfilling lives.
The highest standards in healthcare solutions and 
practices that ensure our products deliver the best health outcomes.
OUR INNOVATIONS IN 2015
Innovation at Abbott takes place on several levels. We 
strive to make better health available by designing 
specific products to meet emerging needs and addressing the challenges our patients face every day and by making new products available in new markets. The following are just some of the solutions that our 
company works to create every day. 
• Most people with diabetes dread the routine finger 
pricks needed to monitor blood glucose levels. Now, consumers across Europe, can avoid the pain and 
discomfort of routine finger pricks
1 with Abbott’s 
innovative FreeStyle® Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring 
System. This system monitors glucose levels continually for up to 14 days and provides physicians 
with insights to drive better-informed treatment decisions. We are expanding this product to many more markets around the world; in India, we have launched the professional version, Free-Style Libre Pro 
Flash Glucose Monitoring System.
• China welcomes 17 million new babies each year, 
creating a huge demand for safe, high-quality nutrition products to support growing children. In order to meet the increasing demand for a world-
class infant formula product, we are now offering two 
new product lines in China that elevate baby’s senses to explore the world: Eleva Blue and Eleva Organic. 
Manufactured in Ireland and recognized as high quality by the Irish Government, Eleva Blue offers 
a high-quality premium product designed for child 
development. Eleva Organic formula is imported from 
Denmark, produced from pasture-raised cows and  
has received organic certifications from authorities 
in both the European Union and China by the China 
Organic Food Certification Center (COFCC).
• As people around the world live longer lives, a growing number find their later years impacted by peripheral artery disease (PAD). Caused by the buildup of fat 
and cholesterol, often in the arteries of the legs, PAD 
causes pain and increases the risk of heart attack or stroke. Abbott’s new Supera stent system features a unique interwoven-wire technology that mimics the natural movement of arteries and is able to restore 
blood flow to areas of the body affected by PAD, 
while still enabling strength and flexible movement – helping sufferers to feel better and stay active.
• For patients who are prescribed liquid medicines, taking the right dose each time is extremely 
important, as is preventing contamination that could 
reduce the medicine’s effectiveness. The team at our pharmaceuticals development center in Mumbai, India, developed LiDoCon, an innovative device that 
can be added to medicine bottles so that patients  
get the exact amount of liquid medicine they need. 
This addresses several problems associated with dosing, such as possible spillage and contamination due to multiple opening/closing of bottles.
1 A finger prick test using a blood glucose meter is required during 
times of rapidly changing glucose levels when interstitial fluid glucose levels may not accurately reflect blood glucose levels or if hypoglycemia or impending hypoglycemia is reported by the system or when symptoms do not match the system readings. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
13
• An estimated 94 million people globally are visually 
impaired as a result of cataracts. Abbott is focused on developing innovative products, such as our TECNIS®  
Symfony Extended Range of Vision Intraocular Lens (IOL). These lenses can provide patients in Europe and other parts of the world such as Brazil, Australia and Canada with clear vision after cataract surgery to help them maintain active, healthy lifestyles. This lens 
is pending FDA approval and not available for sale in 
the United States.
TAILORING OUR APPROACH  
TO LOCAL TASTES
Tastes vary from country to country and culture to culture. While these differences are fairly common when it comes to food, the importance of taste 
preferences is often forgotten when it comes to 
medicines and nutrition. Many companies assume that flavors enjoyed by consumers in one market are equally accepted worldwide. Abbott takes a different approach in order to make products that are better suited to 
people’s lives. 
Abbott food scientists travel the world, conducting 
in-person experiments that help determine how taste 
preferences differ based on location. Local participants 
in the tests rate product samples on factors such as sweetness, flavor intensity and aftertaste, generating up to 250,000 data points. This data is then used to build a custom sensory profile for each region, which acts as a 
model for new product formulations. This approach allows Abbott to create large numbers of  
market-specific products that ensure our products meet  
local taste preferences. For example, in China Abbott 
has created a line extension for Ensure Complete – 
professional complete nutrition for adults – with the 
new flavor of red date and wheat, a good match with local taste preferences. 
PROTECTING AUTHENTICITY 
People around the world depend on Abbott products and trust in the reliability and quality that our  
brands represent. Protecting the authenticity of our 
products is an important part of earning that trust.  
We take a proactive approach, taking forceful action  
to keep counterfeit, illegally diverted and stolen  
Abbott products out of the marketplace. We have a 
dedicated Global Product Security team, which focuses 
on reducing incidents of counterfeit, diversion and theft 
of Abbott products. 
GLOBAL PRODUCT SECURITY HAS FOUR  
KEY STRATEGIES 
Securing the Supply Chain 
By analyzing the global supply chain for weak points, 
utilizing specific supply chain risk mitigation tools to identify suspicious activities and expanding the use of distributor agreements with contracted wholesalers and distributors, Abbott reduces the risk of counterfeit, 
diverted and stolen product in the marketplace. 
Where allowed, we include clauses in our contractual agreements requiring exclusive sourcing, regular audits and enforcement of territory restrictions. We also 
apply “Intended for sale in” stickers to certain products 
intended for specific regions.Ensuring Ability to Authenticate 
We include overt and covert security features on select 
packaging to hinder counterfeiters and to make it easier 
to identify authentic Abbott products. Our overt security 
features are easily recognizable by our customers, but very difficult to duplicate. This improves the security of our products and deters counterfeiting. In addition, several Abbott packaging sites and authorized 
distributors are adding security features to our cartons 
for select products in select markets to reduce the risk of counterfeiting and of our products being diverted. 
Disrupting Criminal Organizations 
We use investigative tools and strategies to identify 
suspect Abbott products. We then work with local  
law enforcement and regulatory organizations to identify and dismantle criminal enterprises involved  
in counterfeiting, diversion and theft. In December  
2015, Abbott’s
 outside investigators in Colombia 
participated in one of the largest government raids in the nation’s history, targeting criminal networks 
manufacturing and selling counterfeit and diverted 
pharmaceuticals. There were numerous arrests,  
and the government seized property and assets with a  
value exceeding $7 million.
Building Global Momentum
Working with government, industry and not-for-profit 
organizations, Abbott pursues stricter penalties for individuals and organizations involved in counterfeiting, diversion or theft. Abbott also works closely with the 
industry group Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) 
to learn of industry-wide trends and problem areas, to share strategies and to formulate joint action plans where appropriate.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
14
INVESTING IN  
INNOVATION
Our commitment to making the world a healthier 
place for all of us is backed by our relentless  
pursuit of innovative breakthroughs in new  
products designed to the highest standards of 
quality – to help people live not just longer, but 
better, at every stage of life.$X.X BILLION$1.4BILLION
INVESTED IN R&D  
IN 2015
EASING LEG PAIN
Abbott’s unique wire-technology 
Supera stent is helping aging 
people in 43 countries suffering 
from the leg pain of peripheral 
artery disease return to an active lifestyle by easing their pain.JUST RIGHT
To help ensure that people get just the right amount of oral medication, Abbott developed the 
LiDoCon dispenser, which also 
protects the bottle’s contents from contamination.ORGANIC FORMULA
To meet the nutritional needs of 17 million babies born each year in China, Abbott became one of the first 
to offer parents in China the choice 
of organic infant formula – Eleva Organic.
BRINGING PRODUCTION  
CLOSER TO PEOPLE
Part of our effort to increase access to healthcare 
and nutrition in emerging and rapid-growth markets involves investing in local R&D and manufacturing 
sites. This helps us to deliver products and solutions 
that are attuned to local needs and tastes. It also creates more effective distribution, increases product accessibility, supports jobs for local communities and ensures that more of the value created by our products 
stays within these markets.
In 2015, we opened a new nutrition research-and-
development pilot plant in Singapore that allows us to 
more rapidly pair nutrition science innovation with 
local tastes and texture preferences. The plant includes both manufacturing and quality control functions and enables Abbott scientists to prototype or pilot new products and formulations tailored to the needs of Asian 
consumers. Similar efforts have begun in Brazil, where 
we are building a new pharmaceutical development center in Rio de Janeiro to develop pharmaceutical products that meet local needs. 
In many cases, establishing new supply chains enables 
us to leverage our knowledge and expertise to solve wider social problems and create positive impacts at scale. For example, introducing modern dairy farming techniques to rural farmers in India, we are helping to 
build local economies and a sustainable, high-quality 
supply chain. For more information about this initiative, see the Shared Value chapter of this report.
ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY
Consumers trust Abbott products to help them live their best possible lives through better health. We do not take this responsibility lightly. We are fully 
committed to delivering products with the highest standards of quality, safety and performance. Our 
quality culture is embedded in everything we do.
Our commitment to quality begins with our quality 
policy, which ensures compliance across the business and commits us to improving healthcare by providing high-quality, safe and effective products. The quality 
policy is supported by our quality management 
system, designed to deliver a culture of continuous improvement. Our efforts are fully focused on meeting consumer needs by maintaining product safety, efficacy 
and availability. 
Quality Management
Our ability to maintain consistent quality standards 
across our organization is rooted in the commitment to quality and safety at the highest levels of the organization. Our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services 
has responsibility for quality and regulatory matters across the company, is a corporate officer and reports directly to our Chairman and CEO. Each operational division of Abbott also has a dedicated quality and 
regulatory leader. These leaders report to the SVP of 
Abbott Quality, Regulatory and Engineering Services, in addition to the heads of the businesses they support.Cross-divisional councils representing quality, regulatory and operations work routinely to address  
the changing regulatory landscape, plan initiatives, develop talent and share best practices. In addition, senior quality, regulatory and operations leaders representing each operational division meet on a quarterly basis to review and analyze quality trends  
and take appropriate actions.
Managing Quality Systems at Abbott
Our quality management team establishes the 
global quality system. The system includes all quality activities, from developing quality policy and specifications to conducting quality audits and 
implementing continuous improvement plans. We 
maintain leading quality management systems and standards through a variety of elements, including: 
• Continuous improvement programs 
• Employee training and development
• Compliance
• Certifications
• Industry partnerships 
• Awards and recognition
GLOBAL OPERATIONS COUNCIL
AMERICAS  
COUNCILQUALITY  
COUNCILREGULATORY  
COUNCILEHS  
COUNCILENGINEERING  
COUNCILCHINA  
OPERATIONS  
COUNCILINDIA 
OPERATIONS  
COUNCILRESTRICTED  
SUBSTANCES  
COUNCIL
EUROPE  
COUNCILCHINA  
COUNCILCHINA  
COUNCILINDIA  
COUNCIL
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
16
Continuous Improvement Programs
We continuously strive to maintain leading quality 
management systems. For us, this means staying on top of emerging trends and changes in the regulatory landscape. We use an integrated intelligence process that builds emerging requirements into the development of quality management systems. This approach enables 
our quality and regulatory teams to align their activities 
with emerging expectations.
In addition, we have numerous programs in place to 
drive continuous improvement across our operational 
divisions. For example:
• Each of our operating businesses conducts quarterly 
executive management reviews involving key leaders 
in their division. These reviews are structured to 
support continuous improvement by reviewing quality systems in each division to ensure their suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.
• We have a corporate-wide program for auditing 
compliance to quality and regulatory standards. In 
2015, 44 percent of our manufacturing, quality and R&D operations were evaluated by this program. Our corporate and division compliance audits are focused on quality systems, including CAPA, Complaints, 
Design Controls, Production and Process Controls, 
Purchasing Controls/Supply Chain and Data Integrity. We develop corrective plans to address all relevant observations made during the audit. In addition, 
each operating division fulfills local regulatory 
requirements for performing internal quality audits at their facilities in defined timeframes.
• We continue to use proprietary metrics to drive continuous improvement. We use a multi-component 
model to monitor the overall performance of a site 
compared with industry norms. When a site registers changes in performance, we analyze potential drivers to address any concerns and capture best practices.Employee Training and Development
We believe that everyone in our organization is 
responsible for ensuring we provide high-quality, safe and effective products. Abbott provides employees  
 with both formal and informal quality training. Employees with the potential to impact the quality system are required to be trained with sufficient 
frequency on good manufacturing, laboratory, clinical 
and distribution practices based on the latest industry standards. Additional trainings cover health, hygiene, safety and job-specific training, also based on the  
latest industry standards. 
Abbott delivers education, training and professional 
certification programs through various channels based on the learning objective. Examples include: 
• ASQ and RAPS certification programs
• Abbott instructor-led and computer-based training
• EduNeering/Kaplan computer-based training
• Monthly communication meetings presenting the 
latest information on quality and regulatory industry 
trends, regulation changes and best practices
• Educational webinars on key topics, from various industry sources
• An annual event focusing attention on quality and 
regulatory awareness and education programs 
throughout the month of November
• A cross-functional leadership meeting providing updates on industry trends and key topics, with 
educational hands-on workshops and expansion of 
business knowledge.  
In addition to Abbott-led training activities, we encourage our employees to remain up-to-date with 
product quality, safety and regulatory developments. 
Abbott personnel participate in a variety of industry conferences. In 2015, Abbott participated in more than 25 external events, including global and regional conferences. For example, we participated in events hosted by the Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society, China International Food Safety and Quality and the European Medical Technology Industry Association. 
For a representative list of our external engagement,  
see our list of external quality memberships, 
partnerships, and events . 
Product Quality and Compliance
We have established written procedures for product 
actions and recalls, which require completion of a 
health hazard assessment, an action plan development 
and a notification to regulatory agencies as applicable. The action plan includes customer notification, product replacement strategy, notification effectiveness checks and quantity reconciliation.
During 2015, Abbott experienced a combined total 
of 286 external quality/regulatory inspections in 35 countries, with an average number of 0.7 findings per 
inspection, representing a 28 percent decrease from 
2014, when we had 309 inspections in 33 countries. Through ongoing inspection readiness activities, we strive to continue to decrease the number of findings per inspection even further. No Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) warning letters were received in 
2015, extending the period since Abbott last received a warning letter to five years.
Certifications
External certification is an effective tool for our 
quality team to remain current in quality standards 
and customer needs. Abbott maintains certification to 
global industry standards and has achieved independent quality certifications across our global manufacturing, R&D and commercial operations. Our standards include:
• ISO 13485, Medical devices quality management 
systems, with 100 percent of device facilities certified 
• ISO 14001: 2004, Environmental Management Systems
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
17
• ISO 17025, General requirements for the competence 
of testing and calibration laboratories
• ISO 22000, Food Safety Management 
• ISO 90013, Quality management systems 
• NSF International
• Gluten Free Certification Organization (GFCO)
• GMP + FSA, Good Manufacturing Practices + Feed Certification Scheme
• HACCP , Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point 
• Class A certification is a standard practice across many Abbott facilities in nutrition, devices, diagnostics and pharmaceuticals
Industry Partnerships
Given the complexity of issues that challenge 
healthcare systems, we are committed to working 
with governments and regulatory bodies to promote understanding of healthcare issues for communities around the world. We work with these groups to achieve 
rigorous quality standards that result in products of the 
highest quality and reliability for consumers. Abbott monitors evolving regulatory requirements and industry practices through our involvement in trade associations, patient groups and other organizations.
Abbott holds leadership roles in several industry 
organizations, including the Advanced Medical Technology Association, United States Agency for International Development Regulatory Training Planning Committee and the Conference of Indian 
Industries. Additionally, Abbott quality and regulatory 
professionals routinely engage with academic institutes and centers of excellence, such as the European Federation of Good Clinical Practices and National 
Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research at 
Ahmedabad and Mohali, India. For a representative list of our industry partnerships, see the external quality memberships, partnerships and events list.
Awards and Recognition
As a result of our quality and regulatory team’s efforts, 
we have been recognized for our commitment to quality 
and safety by several independent organizations. Our vascular manufacturing plant in Clonmel, Ireland, received the prestigious Shingo Prize®. This award is given to organizations whose operational excellence is deeply embedded in the thinking and behavior of all 
leaders, managers and associates. Adopting the Shingo 
model enabled our Clonmel plant to achieve a triple-digit increase in productivity without compromising our high quality standards.
Additionally, our Abbott Diagnostics manufacturing 
plant in Longford, Ireland, was named Med-Tech Company of the Year by Enterprise Ireland, IDA Ireland and the Irish Medical Devices Association. This 
award recognizes innovations in product and service 
development. The Longford manufacturing site has developed an organization focused on customer needs and a culture of continuous improvement that enables operational and product quality excellence. 
We recognize our individuals, teams, manufacturing 
plants and commercial affiliates’ contributions to quality and regulatory performance throughout the year through Abbott’s Annual Quality and Regulatory 
awards. In 2015, we established an award to recognize 
successful implementations of best practice learned through internal or external benchmarking. 
Managing Quality and Safety in the Supply Chain
We take our responsibility to embed the highest 
product quality and safety standards across our supply 
chain very seriously. We maintain an evaluation 
and approval system that requires evidence that a supplier can consistently provide material or services meeting specified quality and safety requirements. Potential suppliers are selected based on a documented 
evaluation of:
• Their ability to meet the predefined requirements
• The adequacy of their quality systems and facilities
• Their business capabilities
LOCATIONS WHERE ABBOTT 
HOLDS INDEPENDENT QUALITY CERTIFICATIONS IN GLOBAL MANUFACTURING, R&D AND COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS AROUND THE WORLD
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
18
• Conformance to applicable regulatory and additional 
Abbott requirements
 
Suppliers are reevaluated on a periodic basis to ensure 
capability of providing the material or service to our organization. The performance of all active suppliers is monitored against a set of minimum performance criteria designed to determine the need for adjustments 
to the audit/assessment criteria, frequency, incoming 
inspection criteria, sampling plan and other mitigating actions. Performance criteria is defined by the:
• Nonconformance rate (lot acceptance and/or unit 
acceptance)
• Recalls/field alerts/field actions (only as they occur)
• Audit history
• Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) closeout 
timeliness for critical observations
• Complaints attributed to a supplier
• Internally obtained CAPA history
 
Resources are available to coach and train our 
suppliers on quality and safety, including third-party 
manufacturing (TPM) partners when appropriate. For example, in our nutrition business, supplier and ingredient quality assurance teams work with suppliers and TPMs by qualifying, monitoring and discussing 
maintenance and improvement initiatives. In our 
engagement with these suppliers and TPMs, we focus on the areas that benefit both Abbott and our partners. These may include:
• Preventive maintenance best practices
• Compliance audits
• Root cause investigation
• Statistical process control training 
• Environmental monitoring MAINTAINING BUSINESS CONTINUITY
According to Aon Benfield, global catastrophe losses 
remained below average in 2015 despite an uptick  
in disaster events. In 2015, natural disasters resulted  
in economic losses of $123 billion globally. Such  
events create increased demand for critical food and medicines, while also complicating the delivery of  
these life-saving products. 
To ensure our continued ability to fulfill vital healthcare 
needs in communities around the globe, and to support our stakeholders and mitigate risks to our supply chain, Abbott created the Executive Crisis Management Team 
(ECMT). The ECMT is tasked with:
• Managing the safety and security of Abbott employees
• Managing the risks to business continuity
• Being prepared to serve others during  
catastrophic events
Led by our Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, 
Regulatory and Engineering Services, who is a corporate officer and reports to the Chairman and CEO, the ECMT 
comprises two senior leadership teams with cross-
divisional, multifunctional representation. The skills captured within the teams enable us to address the wide range of potential crises that Abbott might face across the globe. Having two teams also ensures full-shift 
coverage of a crisis with round-the-clock management, 
when necessary. Once the team has gathered  
sufficient information about a crisis and devises an action plan, the ECMT transitions into business 
continuity/recovery mode.
Abbott has a network of country Crisis Action Teams 
(CATs) that also help manage our crisis response.  
There are currently 32 country-specific CATs that 
manage events locally and support the ECMT as 
necessary. Our crisis management team and business continuity coordinators spend a significant amount of time practicing crisis scenarios with the ECMT, CATs and site business continuity management teams, working to develop and test crisis management and 
business continuity plans.
While Abbott has been recognized for our strong risk 
management capabilities, the most important measure of our success is our ability to keep our supply lines 
intact and to give consumers, our customers and 
our employees the support they need to overcome unexpected challenges. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
19
•  We worked with the Centers for Disease Control 
to develop faster and safer diagnostic techniques to help those tackling the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa.
•  We launched a four-year screening program, in 
cooperation with the Egyptian government, aimed at tackling one of the world’s highest prevalences of hepatitis C.
•  Our WomenFirst campaign empowered women in 
Russia to take a confident, active role in managing their health.
•  We trained 180 Indian doctors in advanced 
cataract surgery techniques, giving them the skills to save the sight of 36,000 people per year.21  EXTENDING THE REACH OF 
HEALTHCARE  
23  EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING 
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS  24  BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE 
AND TECHNOLOGY  
25  EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS 
AND COMMUNITIES  IN THIS SECTIONIMPROVING  
ACCESS
 2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
20
Abbott exists to help people live better, longer and 
healthier lives. Improving access to healthcare worldwide is central to this mission. Bringing improved 
healthcare to global markets is a fundamental driver of 
growth for our business.
Abbott’s scientific resources enable us to develop 
new and more effective solutions in nutrition, 
medical devices and diagnostics. Our established 
pharmaceuticals business also focuses on making high-quality medicines available at affordable prices. All of these efforts help people live fuller lives. They 
also help our business make a positive contribution to 
the healthcare-related challenges set out in the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. 
The task of improving healthcare access must take place 
on four levels: 
• Geographic  – Increasing the physical availability of 
healthcare solutions and nutrition for hard-to-reach 
communities.
• Knowledge  – Training and educating healthcare 
practitioners to advance understanding of emerging products and treatments.
• Infrastructure and technology  – Using advances 
in IT and digital connectivity to revolutionize the 
delivery of healthcare services in developing regions.
• Consumer empowerment  –Informing people about 
better health and nutrition choices, while working to 
overcome social barriers.
In each of these areas, we take a partnership-based approach to improving education and access, working with healthcare professionals, governments and NGOs and, above all, with consumers themselves.EXTENDING THE REACH OF 
HEALTHCARE
Emerging and developing economies face a rapidly 
evolving set of healthcare challenges. Many regions lack access to nutrition, medical knowledge and healthcare 
facilities, and are particularly vulnerable to crises such 
as the recent Ebola outbreak in West Africa. At the same time, urbanization and sudden shifts in lifestyle are triggering a rapid rise in non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. 
Extending the benefits of nutrition and healthcare 
involves addressing all of these different issues.
HEPATITIS C IN EGYPT
Egypt has one of the highest burdens of hepatitis C in the world,
2 with more than 400 people estimated to 
be infected each day.3 More than 10 percent of those 
between 15 and 59 years is infected with hepatitis C. A challenge in fighting the virus is that many of those 
infected do not realize it. This may lead to spreading of 
the disease through shared needles, a needle-stick injury in a healthcare setting or exposure to infected blood. Proper screening at blood transfusion centers is an essential starting point for informing people about their 
hepatitis C status, directing them toward the treatment 
they need and helping to turn the tide of infection. In 2014, Abbott launched a four-year program, in cooperation with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Egyptian Ministry of Health, to work toward the prevention and treatment of the hepatitis C virus. To date, the program has established 26 centers 
where patients are routinely screened before and after 
treatment. The goal is to continue to expand these centers to be able to screen and treat 300,000 people each year. 
RESPONDING TO THE EBOLA CRISIS
Following the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Abbott was approached by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to help develop diagnostic tools that 
could respond to the pandemic. We sent our i-STAT  to 
the region– handheld blood analyzer, a portable device 
that provides real-time, lab-quality results within minutes. The i-STAT  system features a full range of 
tests using blood in the areas of chemistry, electrolytes, 
hematology, blood gas, coagulation, cardiac markers and 
pregnancy testing.
We are currently developing a new handheld device 
that uses molecular analysis to detect the presence of 
Ebola in blood. With this technology, we will aim to map occurrences of Ebola more reliably and distinguish the virus from other diseases more quickly. 
BETTER NUTRITION FOR BETTER HEALTH
Better nutrition is an essential ingredient for fuller, healthier lives, and the work we do in this area has  
some of the most dramatic impacts in enabling people 
to fulfill their potential. We focus our efforts on 
establishing robust guidelines and standards, which empower people to make better choices in getting the nutrition they need.
2 World Health Organization, WHO Calls for Urgent Action  
to Curb Hepatitis, 2015.
3 Plan of Action for the Prevention, Care and Treatment of Viral 
Hepatitis, Egypt 2014–2018.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
21
DIAGNOSTICS  
TO THE RESCUE IN  
CURBING HEPATITIS C
More than 6 million Egyptians are estimated to be infected with the 
hepatitis C virus. Yet many don’t know it, due to lack of access to 
screening. Abbott is lending its expertise to provide IT solutions, training 
and best practices to screen people during and after treatment.
10%
An estimated 10 percent of the 
population of Egypt – more than 6 million people ages 15 to 59 – are 
infected with hepatitis C.
1300K
Egypt’s Ministry of Health reached 
approximately 150,000 patients in 2014 and 2015, with the ultimate goal 
of treating 300,000 people annually.
126
Egypt’s people are now able to 
be diagnosed and treated for the hepatitis C virus in 26 designated 
government centers.150K
An estimated 150,000 new people 
in Egypt are being infected with hepatitis C each year.
1
1. Source: Plan of Action for the Prevention, Care and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis, Egypt 2014-2018.
Nutrition and Maternal Health Guidelines
Working with the International Federation of 
Gynecology and Obstetrics, Abbott supported the development of new nutrition guidelines to improve maternal health, protect mothers and babies and reduce the burden of non-communicable diseases globally. The guidelines address adolescent, pre-conception and 
maternal nutrition. By improving nutrition in adolescent 
girls and helping them develop healthy dietary habits, the guidelines can reduce the incidence of nutrient deficiencies, obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease 
for both mom and baby later in life. The guidelines 
support a number of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including reducing premature mortality and ending all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
Modernizing Nutritional Standards for  
Mothers and Babies
We know that breastfeeding provides the best nutrition 
for babies, and we are committed to supporting and educating mothers on how to breastfeed exclusively for the first six months of their babies’ lives. We also 
believe that mothers have the right to make decisions 
about the most appropriate ways to feed their babies, and that clear, ethical, responsible and scientific communication is an essential part of helping them to 
make the right choices. This is why Abbott is committed 
to developing modern, universal standards on nutrition, safety and quality, for all nutrition products for mothers and their children. As a member of the Stakeholder Panel for Infant Formula and Adult Nutritionals 
(SPIFAN), we work collaboratively through the Infant 
Formula Council of America (INCA), with other infant formula manufacturers, to establish standard method performance requirements (SMPRs) for all label claim nutrients in infant formula. The goal is to 
publish globally recognized CODEX standard methods 
that ensure accurate levels of key nutrients, including vitamins A, E, B12, inositol, nucleotides, fatty acids, iodine, pantothenic acid and ultra-trace minerals (chromium, molybdenum, selenium). We are now working with stakeholders to develop SMPRs and methods for vitamins C, K and the B vitamins (B1, B2, 
B3 and B6), as well as folate major minerals, biotin, 
GOS, FOS, carotenoids, amino acids, chloride, fluoride, choline and carnitine.
Our work on nutrition and maternal 
health guidelines supports the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), including reducing 
premature mortality and ending all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING 
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS
Training and educating local healthcare providers 
have a key role to play in addressing gaps in healthcare services. We work directly with local governments, 
providing a wide range of training, conferences and 
educational programs. We also advance understanding of new and emerging treatments by collecting and sharing the data from patients’ use of our products.
TACKLING GESTATIONAL DIABETES IN INDIA
One in five pregnant women in India are estimated to have gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), a condition that risks the health and well-being of both mothers and 
their children. Yet despite the growing prevalence of 
GDM and its serious consequences, these women often lack support from healthcare practitioners familiar with the condition. Inconsistent diagnostic criteria and lack of awareness among healthcare providers make 
identifying and treating GDM challenging, leading to 
poor outcomes for mother and child.Abbott launched the WINGS (Women in India with Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Strategy) project to define a model of care approach for women with 
GDM to establish guidelines for GDM management 
in developing countries. We implemented the pilot program in partnership with the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), the Madras Diabetes Research Foundation (the president and director, V . Mohan, MD, 
is a world-renowned diabetologist working throughout 
India) and diabetes expert Sonak Pastakia, PharmD, MPH, BCPS, and with financial support from the Abbott Fund. The program was deployed across seven 
clinics and trained 60 healthcare workers in the new 
guidelines. Since the roll-out of the WINGS program, we have helped 250 women with GDM to manage their condition, supporting more than 177 healthy deliveries of babies. We have also developed a training manual 
for healthcare workers and an educational handbook 
for mothers that can be used across India and in other emerging markets.
EXCHANGING EXPERTISE ACROSS BORDERS
Israel is a recognized leader in neonatal care, and in overcoming feeding difficulties and failure-to-thrive during the early years of life. For the past three years, 
Abbott has been helping Russian physicians, medical 
influencers and healthcare professionals to tap into this knowledge and to spread understanding of the latest techniques in neonatal care throughout the Russian healthcare system, where there is currently a knowledge 
gap on diagnosis and treatment of feeding disorders.
Since 2012, approximately 75 Russian neonatologists 
have visited the Sourasky Tel Aviv Medical Center 
as part of our experience-based learning exchange 
program. The doctors have visited intensive care units and other neonatal departments, participated in training and attended lectures and workshops on preterm nutrition. An additional 25 Russian pediatricians have 
visited the Failure to Thrive and Feeding Difficulties 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
23
Clinic at the Edith Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, 
Israel. There they have been able to advance their knowledge and learn the latest diagnosis and treatment 
techniques for feeding disorders in young children.
ADVANCING UNDERSTANDING  
OF NUTRITIONAL NEEDS
People’s nutritional needs change as they move from 
infancy through to adulthood. Abbott has conducted more than 500 clinical studies since 1995 to map 
these changing needs, as part of our commitment to 
developing science-based nutrition that can help people live a fuller life at all ages. Since 1951 we have hosted more than 100 research conferences. 
Through a partnership with the University of 
Illinois, we fund the Center for Nutrition, Learning, and Memory, which focuses on increasing our understanding of how nutrition influences the brain. 
The center is governed by representatives from both  
the university and Abbott. 
Additionally, the Abbott Nutrition Health Institute  
is a global nutrition knowledge center that collates  
our knowledge on nutrition and makes it accessible  
to healthcare practitioners worldwide. The institute’s 
Web site, anhi.org, provides free 24/7 access to  
nutrition education resources, along with dozens  
of conference videos.
BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE  
AND TECHNOLOGY
New healthcare technologies and digital information systems have the potential to revolutionize the delivery of healthcare services in developing regions. Abbott is 
partnering with a range of stakeholders to help upgrade 
healthcare systems, improving capacity and unlocking solutions through digital innovation.47,000
Graduates of the Abbott Fund-supported 
Emergency Medicine Residency Program in Tanzania provided critically needed care 
to more than 47 ,000 people in 2015.
23
Twenty-three regional laboratories have 
been modernized and connected via Tanzania’s first national IT network.
130,000
Abbott employee volunteers and our  
partners have contributed more than 130,000 hours to our efforts in Tanzania.
 
BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR 
HEALTHCARE IN TANZANIA
We continue to partner with the Government of 
Tanzania to strengthen the country’s healthcare system. More than 600,000 patients have now registered 
with Tanzania’s first nationwide laboratory network, 
the latest result of the $120 million investment that Abbott and the Abbott Fund have made in the country’s healthcare infrastructure. Linking all 23 of the country’s regional healthcare 
laboratories, the new IT network enables the immediate 
sharing of test results, disease surveillance reports and healthcare management practice across the country.  
It will help Tanzanian healthcare practitioners battle HIV/AIDS, the leading cause of death in the country, 
and will ensure that the treatment people receive 
reflects the latest medical advances. 
In addition to leveraging the benefits of digital 
healthcare infrastructure for Tanzania, the partnership 
provides medical training for the healthcare providers 
of the future. During 2015, the third class of residents graduated from the Abbott Fund-supported Emergency Medicine Residency Program, the first such program 
in East Africa. These graduates have already provided 
critically needed care to more than 47 ,000 people. 
In 14 years of partnership, Abbott has enabled more 
than 130,000 hours of training in patient testing, 
laboratory equipment operation and IT management, 
as well as emergency medicine. During 2015, Abbott lab technicians spent 3,000 hours providing on-the-ground training and mentoring for local teams. 
The Muhimbili National Hospital has been  
modernized under the Abbott and Abbott Fund 
program, with a new emergency department and outpatient treatment center, a state-of-the-art laboratory building and a hospital-wide information 
technology system that tracks inventory, prescriptions 
and patient health history. This IT infrastructure is also helping the national hospital take important steps toward sustainability for Tanzania’s public healthcare 
system, capturing more revenue from patients who can 
afford to pay for quality services. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
24
RESTORING VISION IN EMERGING MARKETS
An estimated 94 million people globally are visually 
impaired as a result of cataracts.4 As people around 
the world live longer on average, more find themselves dealing with these cloudy patches that develop in the 
lens of the eye and reduce the ability to see clearly. But 
cataracts do not have to cause blindness. In fact, the true problem is that too few people in developing countries have access to the treatment and surgery that can restore their sight.
Abbott’s advanced vision technologies and solutions 
can help millions of people live fuller lives by protecting their ability to see. We are committed to bringing these 
solutions closer to the places that need them most, 
increasing access to the equipment and expertise that can enable people to see better.
In India, this has changed cataract surgery. Abbott’s 
Phacoshaala program provides nearly one month of training for doctors, and we have supported the training of 180 surgeons since the program began in 
2013. Abbott provides doctors with expertise in the 
phacoemulsification techniques used in cataract surgery. Each Indian surgeon who receives training is able to perform about 200 cataract surgeries each year.
We also built a new manufacturing plant in Malaysia 
that will enable us to meet the increasing demand for intraocular lenses around the world. The site was selected for its high-tech manufacturing capabilities and 
strong local talent pool. EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS  
AND COMMUNITIES
Across many of Abbott’s markets, we find people taking 
a more empowered and active role in choosing the healthcare and nutrition that they need. We believe that 
providing knowledge and choice is hugely important 
for enabling all people and communities to take control of their health. Helping people to make informed healthcare choices is therefore an important part of our efforts to improve access to healthcare worldwide.
EMPOWERING WOMEN
Of the estimated 3.5 billion women in the world, 2 billion are at an age where gynecological healthcare has an important role to play in enabling a full and healthy life. However, in many cases, these women do not know about the most relevant treatments for 
gynecological disorders or are worried about the social 
stigma attached to the disorders.
Launched in 2014, Abbott’s WomenFirst program aims 
to empower women with knowledge and support to 
help manage their health at all stages of life. In Russia, one aspect of this program included the “Don’t Wait to Know” campaign, which focuses in particular on educating women about hormone replacement therapy 
(HRT), used to treat the symptoms of menopause. 
Only 1 percent of Russian women use this therapy, 
compared with 50 percent of women in Europe – largely due to “hormone phobia” that prevents women from 
using modern treatment options (such as hormone 
replacement therapy) to manage symptoms. The program aims to encourage women to take an active role in managing their health and includes a women’s health Web site, WomenFirst.ru, plus a TV campaign, 
educational workshops and pH testing. EMPOWERING THOSE AT RISK FROM  
NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES (NCDS)
The UAE has one of the world’s highest rates of non-
communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and 
diabetes. Abbott has partnered with the Abu Dhabi 
National Insurance Company (ADNIC), the second-largest insurance company in the UAE, to improve awareness in the region, since early detection and  
timely treatment can be key to long-term survival  
and quality of life. 
During 2015, we hosted five workshops in the 
country, with more than 1,000 people taking part in 
cardiovascular screenings, attending disease awareness 
lectures and completing risk assessment surveys. More than 80 percent of those attending reported that they were far more informed about cardiovascular disease as a result of the sessions. The UAE program provides 
a model with the potential for a wider roll-out across 
other states in the Gulf Cooperation Council region.
4 Global Estimates of Visual Impairment, 2010.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
25
HELPING MORE  
PEOPLE SEE CLEARLY
Cataracts are the world’s leading cause of blindness, and around 94 million people in the 
world are visually impaired by cataracts. Abbott is bringing its manufacturing capacity 
closer to the places that need treatment, as well as providing surgeons with subsidized 
training for cataract surgery to help prevent blindness and restore clear vision as we age.
94M
Around 94 million people in the world are 
visually impaired by cataracts.1180
Abbott has provided 
highly subsidized cataract 
treatment training to 180 
surgeons in India through 
2015.23.8M
Approximately 23.8 million cataract 
procedures were performed each year 
worldwide in 2015. The number  
of procedures is expected to reach  
28.3 million by 2020.1/2
HALF OF WORLD 
BLINDNESS IS CAUSED 
BY CATARACTS.
1. Source: Global Estimates of Visual Impairment, 2010.
28  ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH  
AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT 
OVERSIGHT  
30  ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE  33  A COMPREHENSIVE  
WATER STRATEGY  
34 WASTE MANAGEMENT  
35  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  IN THIS SECTIONSAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
•  Across the organization, we have reduced absolute 
energy consumption by 9 percent and absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent from 2010.
•  In Germany, investments in energy projects at 
our diagnostics facility will result in an emissions reduction of 3.2 million pounds of CO
2e, or 14 
percent of the site’s total emissions.
•  In China, our nutrition facility has decreased water 
usage by 12 percent compared to 2014, saving more than $130,000. 
•  By the end of 2015, 20 of our manufacturing sites 
and four non-manufacturing sites had achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status.  2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
27
A healthy environment is essential for better health, 
stronger communities and more fulfilling lives. We  
are committed to safeguarding healthy environments  
for all by reducing our global environmental impacts across our business. This shapes the way that we source our raw materials and manufacture and distribute  
our products. 
In line with this commitment, we also seek to influence 
how patients, consumers and healthcare providers use and dispose of our products. Our environmental stewardship initiatives help protect the planet while 
improving efficiency, reducing costs and preserving our 
ability to do business in the future. We are guided by our own tradition of environmental stewardship, as well as national and international legislation and feedback from our stakeholders. 
Our environment health and safety strategy – Our 
People, Our Planet and Our Values – commits us to advancing Abbott Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) by:
• Protecting our people: Fostering a work 
environment that promotes employee health and productivity and strives to be injury-free. 
• Protecting our planet: Respecting our natural 
resources by improving the efficiency and 
sustainability of our business and products, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and water use and minimizing waste. 
• Adding value: Continuing to strengthen EHS practices across all aspects of the business, in addition to maintaining compliance with applicable requirements. 2020 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE DATA
We have identified three environmental priorities.  
In each one, we have set ambitious goals for reducing 
our impact by 2020, compared to 2010 levels and adjusted for sales.
• Climate change: A 40 percent reduction in carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) emissions (i.e., greenhouse 
gas [GHG] emissions) associated with our business operations and the electricity we purchase  
(i.e., Scope 1 and 2 emissions)
• Water usage: A 30 percent reduction in total  
water intake
• Waste management: A 50 percent reduction in  
total waste
Achieving these goals will involve everyone at Abbott working together. To this end, we launched a new collaborative process between our EHS and Corporate 
Engineering teams in 2015. Under this initiative, 
every Abbott division will be accountable for setting environmental targets and tracking progress toward them. Each has set a goal for 2016 and identified action plans to make progress toward that goal, including 
prioritizing actions at sites with higher emissions. 
We have also designed a process for calculating the environmental impact of new Abbott initiatives, so that we can better predict how these affect our environmental performance.
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
Our environmental impacts are closely interconnected –  
and our approach to managing them must be 
integrated as well. We have developed comprehensive 
management and governance systems that reflect our 
three priorities and ensure they are fully incorporated within our day-to-day planning and business processes.OUR 2020  
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS  
40%
REDUCTION IN  
CARBON EMISSIONS 
30%
REDUCTION IN  
TOTAL WATER INTAKE 
50%
REDUCTION IN  
TOTAL WASTE GENERATED
 Improving our performance requires clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership and support. 
A key role is taken by our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a senior corporate officer who reports to the Chairman and CEO. The responsibilities for this role include reviewing our environmental metrics, key programs 
and progress regularly, and reporting key developments 
to the CEO and senior staff on a quarterly basis. In addition, the following groups implement  
our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs 
and initiatives.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
28
Global Operations Council – This body oversees the 
strategy for all Abbott Operations (Manufacturing, Supply Chain, Engineering and Environment, Health 
and Safety) and deploys resources to where they are 
needed based on internal assessment, risk profiles and industry best practices. The council is chaired by our Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services and comprises the heads  
of Operations, Quality, Global Procurement and Business and Technology Services. For more information, please see the Citizenship Management and Governance section. 
Commercial Environment, Health and Safety 
Executive Council – This council sets priorities and implements EHS goals and objectives for our sales operations around the world. This includes driver 
safety and reducing vehicular accidents among the 
sales force and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fleet vehicles, as well as global community outreach initiatives related to vehicle and pedestrian safety in commercial emerging markets. The Executive Vice 
President (EVP) of Established Pharmaceuticals chairs 
this group and reports directly to the CEO.
Environment, Health and Safety Leadership 
Council – This group drives programs and targets with 
actions that are consistent with the priorities set by the 
Global Operations Council and the Commercial EHS Executive Council. It meets regularly to share best practices and discuss EHS issues with company-wide 
implications. The group also builds awareness of EHS 
performance, promotes our EHS Excellence Awards (Individual/Team EHS Awards, plus Plant of the Year for manufacturing operations and Affiliate of the Year for commercial organizations), supports EHS training 
and conferences and communicates our performance 
improvement initiatives. It consists of EHS heads from each of our operating businesses and Corporate EHS.MANAGEMENT, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
We need to ensure that we operate consistently in 
a manner that protects both human health and the 
environment. It is therefore important that we have clear policies, standards and management systems 
where environmental management is concerned. We 
evaluate our environmental management metrics and our auditing and reporting mechanisms regularly. We also hold our managers responsible for improving their performance against established goals as part of their 
annual performance appraisals.
We apply the principles of our EHS management system 
in all aspects of the business, with the aim of reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste through 
the following practices: 
• Environmental, Energy, and Water Policies  – Our 
policies express our commitment to addressing our 
environmental footprint, including reducing CO
2e 
emissions, practicing good water management and 
measuring performance. 
• Global EHS Audits  – We carry out EHS assessments 
to identify potential risks to employees, the environment and the company and to ensure compliance with internal standards and regulatory requirements. Our system of audits aims to foster 
continuous improvement, develop staff expertise and 
promote the sharing of best practices. Our audit team includes external experts with knowledge of local standards, who provide an external perspective on 
compliance. Abbott EHS professionals also partner 
with commercial management to complete formal on-site EHS gap assessments. During these assessments, our affiliates are provided with compliance tools and implementation resources designed to ensure 
sustainable compliance and program improvement.
• EHS Reporting and Assurance  – Our key 2015 
environmental and safety data was externally verified by the independent company Bureau Veritas. A copy of the verification statement is provided on our Web site.
RECOGNIZING SUCCESS
We believe in fostering a culture of continuous 
improvement and recognizing outstanding performance in EHS programs. The EHS Plant of the Year Award is Abbott’s highest recognition for EHS performance, 
recognizing a commitment to superior performance and 
excellence in EHS programs.
The 2015 Large Plant of the Year award recognized our 
Established Pharmaceuticals facility in Weesp, Netherlands. 
Weesp was selected for its commitment to raising the bar 
in all facets of EHS. The site reduced waste by 28 percent and completed several infrastructure and site consolidation projects while maintaining high levels of productivity. It 
also achieved zero recordable injuries and went more than 
800 workdays without a lost time accident.
The Small Plant of the Year award was given, for the second 
consecutive year, to our diagnostics site in Longford, 
Ireland. Longford has continually demonstrated exemplary 
EHS performance by embedding EHS into its business processes and culture. The site has continued to improve its performance in several areas, resulting in a 27 percent reduction in waste and reaching a milestone of more than 
3,000 workdays without a lost time accident. 
Our Global EHS Excellence Awards recognize teams or 
individuals that excel in specific aspects of environmental management, including air and energy, health and safety, 
product stewardship, waste and water. We awarded 
10 individuals and teams with this distinction in 2015, recognizing achievements such as a 31 percent reduction in natural gas consumption at our medical optics facility 
in Alcobendas, Spain, and a 13 percent reduction in water 
consumption at our established pharmaceutical facility in Baddi, India, even as production increased by 32 percent. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
29
31%
Our medical optics facility in Spain 
reduced natural gas used by 31 percent. 
13%
Our EPD facility in India reduced water consumption by 13 percent, even as production rose 32 percent.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL  
CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change represents a serious threat to healthy 
living environments worldwide, through consequences such as severe weather, flood and drought. Extreme 
weather patterns and water scarcity could lead to 
significant changes in the nature of global diseases and their impact on people’s opportunity to live healthy lives. They also pose challenges for our sourcing, operations and distribution. By 2030, it is estimated that 
climate change will contribute to an additional 250,000 
deaths annually from malaria, diarrheal disease, heat stress and undernutrition.
5While society takes action to adapt to the effects of climate change, as a global healthcare company, we are committed to doing our part to address this issue. We 
support international commitments to reducing carbon 
emissions by taking actions to reduce our own emissions and encourage reductions in our supply chain. 
Though Abbott’s direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions are small in relative terms, we continue 
to take action to reduce them, and we work with international frameworks and standards to reduce emissions throughout our supply chain. As a business 
committed to enabling fuller lives through better 
health, we also take actions to address the predicted consequences of climate change on our ability to address global healthcare needs. 
ABBOTT’S CARBON FOOTPRINT
The nature of our business encompasses a wide  
range of potential sources of carbon emissions. These 
include our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions from manufacturing, warehousing and office activities, as well as our vehicle fleets. Through our global value chain, we also indirectly contribute 
to carbon emissions also known as Scope 3 emissions. 
These arise from sourcing and distribution of our products, as well as the ways that consumers and health professionals use and dispose of our products. Our 2020 carbon emission reduction target – to reduce our Scope 
1 and 2 emissions by 40 percent against 2010 levels, 
adjusted for sales – is evidence of our commitment to address and reduce emissions.SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS
We have been measuring and managing our direct emissions since 2000 and participating in the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, now 
referred to as just CDP upon expanding scope beyond 
carbon) emissions reporting programs since 2004. This international initiative provides an important framework for us to measure and manage our key environmental impacts. Through the program, we share 
critical data on energy consumption and emissions. In 
2015, our climate change disclosure score improved from 93 to 99. 
In addition to fostering greater transparency, this work 
has enabled us to identify our three greatest sources of impact. These are our manufacturing fuel combustion, our electricity use and our global fleet, which together represent more than 90 percent of our Scope 1 and 
2 greenhouse gas inventory. We have developed a 
comprehensive management program to address these impacts, including increasing energy efficiency across our operations and integrating green engineering technologies and concepts into our projects. 
These actions have resulted in a 9 percent reduction 
in our absolute energy consumption since 2010, along with a 15 percent reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions. When the growth in our sales is taken 
into account, we have reduced energy consumption 
by 22 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by 27 percent, compared to 2010. In 2015, our absolute energy consumption and CO
2e emissions decreased 2 percent 
and 4 percent, respectively, from 2014. This reduction was due in large part to focusing on energy efficiency 
and improved technologies, as well as the Utilities 
Excellence program, which is focused on improving energy efficiency in our nutrition business.
5 World Health Organization, “WHO Director-General addresses event 
on climate change and health,” 2015. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
30
The above data represents our progress using the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 location-based method. In order to align with the GHG Scope 2  
dual reporting guidance released in January 2015, we have also calculated and verified our 2015 Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method. Our 2015 market-based Scope 2 emissions are 546,000 metric tons, which is 4 percent higher than our location-based 
method Scope 2 emissions. 
We have not engaged in purchasing Renewable Energy 
Credits (RECs) or Guarantee of Origins (GOs) to date, 
but we do use energy providers that contract with 
Abbott for higher than standard renewable energy in certain locations, particularly in Europe. We anticipate that we will continue to contract electricity with renewable energy and aim to increase our renewable 
mix in the future. 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Abbott’s carbon footprint reaches far beyond the 
emissions associated with our own direct operations. We estimate that the emissions indirectly resulting from our activities (known as Scope 3 emissions) are almost 
10 times our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined. 
We are committed to working across our global value 
chain to reduce our emissions and encourage our suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders to manage 
and reduce their impacts. To facilitate this process, 
Abbott joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Program in 2013 and has been an active member for the past three years. For more information on our involvement with the CDP Supply Chain 
program and our broader efforts to address supply  
chain emissions, please see the Supply Chain Excellence 
section of this report. We have quantified greenhouse gas emissions from the applicable 15 Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3 categories. We have also verified our 2015 Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel and 
operational waste through our third-party assurance process. Our business travel emissions are roughly 133 thousand metric tons CO
2e, which is about 14 percent of 
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. By implementing policies that focus on reducing travel, including using virtual 
meeting technology where possible, we have reduced 
emissions in this category over the past few years. 
Emissions resulting from our 2015 operational waste 
are 11,000 metric tons CO
2e. We are actively working 
to reduce these emissions by generating less waste and minimizing the amount of waste sent to landfill. Since 
2010, we have reduced waste we sent to landfill by 47 
percent. These landfill reductions, coupled with an overall waste reduction of 23 percent, have delivered a reduction of 11,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 2010 levels, effectively  
halving our impact in this area.
REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT:  
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
In order to meet our ambitious carbon emissions reduction target, we are switching to the use of low-
carbon fuels, cogeneration and renewable energy in 
many of our operations.
Our Climate Responsible Energy Policy provides 
guidance and goals to help our employees around the 
world manage energy use and related emissions. Our 
policy focuses on increasing energy efficiency in our manufacturing operations, investing in low-carbon energy, improving efficiency within our transportation fleet, encouraging a lower carbon footprint within our 
supply chain and publicly reporting our performance.
  SCOPE 1  
Direct emissions from 
purchased fuel and  
refrigerant releases  SCOPE 2  
Indirect emissions from 
purchased electricity,  
steam, cooling and heating  SCOPE 3   
Indirect emissions from 
upstream and downstream 
activitiesUse of Sold Products
Business Travel
Employee Commuting
End-of-Life Treatment
Waste ManagementPurchased  
Goods and Services
Transportation  
and DistributionREDUCING OUR 
CARBON FOOTPRINT
We are committed to reducing our carbon  
emissions, and we encourage our suppliers,  
distributors and other stakeholders to  
reduce their own impacts.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
31
Our Global Energy Council includes representatives 
from our most energy-intensive businesses. The council works to monitor, evaluate and reduce total 
energy consumption globally, while negotiating best-
in-class price and delivery contracts and promoting the installation of financially beneficial energy conservation and alternative energy projects.
Through our numerous energy management  
initiatives, we:
• Perform energy audits to identify energy conservation 
opportunities
• Share best-in-class energy practices
• Evaluate and test new energy conservation 
technologies
• Prioritize and allocate funding for projects that reduce 
carbon and energy
• Source low-carbon fuels
• Negotiate competitive energy contracts and 
implement financial hedges to reduce price volatility
As of the end of 2015, five of our facilities operate cogeneration units, generating 38 million kilowatt hours of electricity over the course of the year. We also generated 320,000 kilowatt hours of renewable energy in 2015 at our on-site renewable energy installations, 
which are primarily solar installations. These efforts 
have increased our on-site renewable energy generation by more than six times compared to 2010. 
Beyond our own energy production, we have engaged in 
purchasing electricity from utility providers that include a higher renewable energy mix. This has resulted in a reduction of 36 percent or 5,500 metric tons of CO
2e 
emissions, when comparing our market-based method to a location-based method for these locations.CARBON REDUCTIONS IN MANUFACTURING 
Abbott’s nutrition manufacturing work is particularly 
energy- and water-intensive, accounting for around 
48 percent of Abbott’s manufacturing greenhouse gas emissions and 66 percent of our water consumption. This is why Abbott’s nutrition business launched the 
Utility Excellence (UEx) program in February 2013. The 
goal of the program is to reduce our spend on utilities by 50 percent by 2017 . To date, it has resulted in energy savings exceeding $30 million, as well as significant 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
50% REDUCTION  
IN UTILITY SPEND
With its Utility Excellence (UEx) 
program, Abbott’s Nutrition business is working to reduce utility 
spending by 50 percent by 2017 .
Abbott’s nutrition team has established UEx teams at 14 
sites, embarking on a journey to transform site culture through employee awareness and engagement. At our 
Jhagadia, India, location, UEx projects such as LED light 
installations and process optimization have resulted in savings of over a million cubic feet of natural gas, 3.7 million kwh of electricity and $943,000 in utility costs.
In addition to the UEx program, Abbott is committed  
to obtaining ISO 50001 energy management 
certifications at all nutrition manufacturing locations  
by the end of 2016. Through 2015, four sites successfully 
completed audits to become fully certified. Three 
facilities in our diagnostics division and two in our established pharmaceuticals division have also  
obtained ISO 50001 certification. Through 2015, four Abbott facilities had active ISO14001 (Environmental Management), ISO 50001 (Energy 
Management) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health 
and Safety) certifications: our Longford diagnostics facility in Ireland and our nutrition facilities in Ireland, Spain and Singapore. This demonstrates commitment to Abbott’s EHS programs at both the site and 
management level.
A key success factor in the emissions reduction  
initiative has been internal engagement – helping 
employees understand how they can contribute to 
energy saving and water reduction programs.  
Employees at our Netherlands facility have made 
pledges such as “I Drive Continuous Improvement”  
and “I Am Accountable.” This commitment at an 
individual level helped the site reach ISO 50001 
certification without a single non-conformance and has helped to reduce energy consumption by 10 percent since 2010. The site continues to take steps to improve its environmental performance, piloting a new heating 
and cooling system and collaborating with local 
government to find opportunities to save energy by sharing excess hot water.
Our established pharmaceuticals plant in Rio de Janeiro 
has also developed an employee communication 
campaign about environmental footprint reduction called “Menos é Mais” (Less Is More). The team created a competition among site areas, inviting employees to submit ideas that could reduce environmental 
impact. As a result, the team installed more efficient 
restroom and shower fixtures in the plant, consolidated composting and installed a new natural gas boiler. These projects plus the employee engagement reduced 
absolute waste generation by 14 percent and water and 
natural gas consumption by 1 percent, offsetting an increase in production volume of 29 percent in 2015. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
32
Additional examples of energy efficiency programs that 
have reduced carbon emissions in 2015 include: 
• Our nutrition facility in Singapore reduced energy 
consumption by 8 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by 9 percent last year. The UEx program helped the site identify significant energy efficiency improvements though measuring energy-related KPIs 
such as hot water circulation durations and product 
changeovers. These efforts resulted in cost savings of more than $1 million.
• In Germany, our diagnostics facility invested in new 
equipment to improve energy efficiency, including 
a cogeneration facility, an adsorption chiller and solar photovoltaic installation. Collectively, these actions will result in an emissions reduction of 3.2 million pounds of CO
2e, or 14 percent of the site’s total 
emissions.
• At our Sturgis, Michigan, nutrition facility, we 
upgraded processing equipment, HVAC programs and 
controls and increased warehouse efficiency through refrigerator consolidation and fork truck charger upgrades. These initiatives helped the site achieve a 6 percent reduction in energy consumption compared 
to 2014, resulting in a 5,000-metric-ton reduction in 
CO
2e emissions.
• In Jiaxing, China, our nutrition facility reduced natural gas consumption by 620,000 cubic meters 
by installing a boiler economizer and heat recovery, 
among other UEx initiatives. The site has generated  
$1 million in savings and reduced energy consumption by 7 percent compared to 2014.
• The Shanghai Cleaner Production Center (SCPC) 
awarded our Shanghai established pharmaceuticals 
manufacturing facility its Cleaner Production Certification in 2015, recognizing annual electricity, fuel and water savings, among other initiatives. Our 
facility is the only pharmaceuticals site in Shanghai to 
achieve this award. MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF OUR FLEET
In the United States, through changes in our vehicle 
leasing program over the years, we have been able to 
improve the carbon profile of our 2,773-vehicle fleet. Nearly 16.5 percent of our fleet is now made up of hybrid vehicles. In addition, we have converted a small 
percentage of the vehicles used at our headquarters 
campus to run on electricity. We will continue to evaluate the use of charging stations and the feasibility of installing these at other domestic company locations.
We have developed plans that leverage the learnings 
from our U.S. vehicle leasing program to identify emissions reduction projects across our international vehicle fleet and commercial office locations in 2016.
PARTNERING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES  
ON CLIMATE CHANGE
In addition to initiatives at a corporate level, several of our sites work within their communities to address climate change locally. During 2015, our employees held 
13 Earth Day events in four different countries, cleaning 
local parks, planting trees and hosting recycling drives. 
Our engagement with communities and nonprofit 
organizations includes support for a shoreline 
naturalization program along Stillwater Creek in 
Ontario, in partnership with the Rideau Valley Conservation Authority. Our Abbott Point of Care facility in Canada helped plant more than 500 trees and shrubs to help diversify fauna in the area. Similar efforts 
were undertaken in Pakistan, where a team of Abbott 
employees helped with planting in collaboration with the Sindh forestry department.A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY
Clean water is a critical resource, essential for healthy living environments, healthy communities and the ability of people to achieve their potential. Access to 
water is also essential for our manufacturing operations 
and plays a critical role in the use of many of our products. 
Abbott is committed to managing our water use in an 
efficient, sustainable manner and to improving access 
to clean water for communities. We work to make a difference by managing our own water use responsibly, as guided by our recently updated Water Position 
Statement, and then working externally where we have 
opportunities to improve access to clean water.
REDUCING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
We collect key water performance data across all operations, to facilitate performance improvements. We evaluate progress toward our target of reducing 
water intake by 30 percent and report back to our sites 
on a quarterly basis. This process allows us to monitor progress and make any adjustments needed to stay on track for achieving our goal. 
During 2015, we succeeded in reducing our use of water 
by 100 million gallons compared to 2014, meaning that we have now lowered our total worldwide water intake by 5 percent on an absolute basis and 19 percent on a sales-adjusted basis since 2010. By 2020, we seek to 
reduce our company’s total water intake by 30 percent, 
adjusted for sales. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
33
Normalized by salesTOTAL WATER  
INTAKE REDUCED BY  
19% SINCE 2010
We use global water risk mapping tools from the World 
Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), to help 
identify Abbott manufacturing plants that are operating 
in water-stressed regions. This process has identified 25 manufacturing sites that are currently operating in regions with significant baseline water stress; however, water use by these sites represents only 15 percent of 
the total water used by Abbott
.
Mapping our sites in this way helps to inform our 
communication about water challenges with internal and external stakeholders and serves as a mechanism 
for change. It also allows our company to focus on the 
manufacturing sites at greatest risk of water supply interruptions now and in the future.
Sites that are identified as significant water users or that 
operate in water-stressed regions are required to have a 
water management plan and perform detailed local water analyses. They must identify external water-related impacts and business water risks, outline opportunities 
to reduce or eliminate these impacts or risks and develop 
water strategies and performance targets focused on reducing risk.
Abbott also participates in the CDP Water Reporting 
Program, which allows us to share critical data on 
our company’s water performance while also gaining valuable insight into the water performance of other companies in the healthcare sector and beyond. 
In 2015, we participated in CDP’s Water Pilot Scoring 
Project, which evaluated companies on the following 
progressive levels of water stewardship:
Disclosure  – Transparency about water issues
Awareness  – Knowledge of impacts on, and of, water
Management  – Taking coordinated action on  
water issues 
Leadership  – Implementing current best practices
We achieved industry level performance with an overall rating of B-. This performance matches the Health Care average score and the Water Global 500 average score. We are using the CDP scoring feedback to identify areas for improving our water management programs. When 
implemented, our CDP score should improve.
In addition, we also implement water management 
initiatives within each of our businesses. Our nutrition division’s UEx program, which covers manufacturing 
plants representing more than 66 percent of Abbott’s 
total water usage, is working to achieve significant reductions in our water intake. Some of the nutrition sites achieving significant reductions in water use through the program include: 
• Our Columbus, Ohio, plant reduced water usage by 
more than 46 million gallons, 13 percent year-over-year, through cooling tower water reclamation and 
reuse, among other projects.
• Our Singapore plant made cooling tower modifications 
that saved the site 41,900 cubic meters (more than  
11 million gallons) of water per year, for savings of about $57 ,000.
• Our China facility decreased water usage by 12 percent, saving more than $130,000 through projects such as recovering evaporator condensate, which  has a fuel savings as well.
• Our Sturgis, Michigan, plant implemented a new washing and cleaning program that led to savings of 29,000 gallons of water per day. 
• Our Jhagadia, India, plant reuses water from the plant to nourish a forest of eucalyptus and casuarina trees planted on-site. Studies show these efforts are improving the groundwater table and soil fertility. 
• Our Altavista, Virginia, site formed a War on 
Waste team focused specifically on reducing 
biological oxygen demand (BOD) in its wastewater discharges. This resulted in improved water quality and eliminated more than 1.9 million gallons of waste 
byproduct from wastewater effluent. 
WASTE MANAGEMENT
We strive continuously either to eliminate waste or to 
move it to a higher level in the waste hierarchy. This means that if waste cannot be eliminated, we work 
aggressively to divert it from landfill toward reuse, 
composting or recycling, incinerating to recover energy or incinerating for more efficient waste disposal. 
We collect key waste performance data across all 
operations and aim to reduce the total waste that we 
generate by 50 percent by 2020, compared with 2010 and adjusted for our increase in sales. By the end of 2015, we had achieved a 23 percent reduction in our 
absolute volume of waste and a 34 percent reduction 
when adjusted for sales. During 2015, we reduced  
waste by 1,400 tons, or 2 percent on an absolute  
basis, by reducing waste at the source and identifying opportunities for reuse.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
34
ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL
We are particularly focused on reducing the amount 
of waste that we send to landfill. For many years, the 
Global Environmental, Health and Safety (GEHS) organization has partnered with our operating businesses to investigate more environmentally friendly ways to manage our waste. This effort has grown into 
a comprehensive program to certify Abbott sites as 
zero-waste-to-landfill. This program has resulted in a decrease of 47 percent in landfilled waste since 2010, as well as increases in efficiency, costs savings and 
reductions in our carbon footprint.
Implementing zero-waste-to-landfill involves 
eliminating all waste sent to a landfill through source reduction, recycling, energy recovery or diverting waste 
to become a resource for other beneficial use. This 
requires avoiding and eliminating toxicity in waste and materials.
By the end of 2015, 20 of our manufacturing sites and 
four non-manufacturing sites had achieved zero-waste-
to-landfill status. In 2015, three Abbott sites achieved this status for the first time: 
• Our Rio de Janeiro plant become our first zero-waste-
to-landfill certified site in Latin America and now 
diverts 637 tons of waste from landfill annually by composting cafeteria waste and recycling construction debris, among other initiatives. 
• Our Richmond, Indiana, manufacturing site became the first North American site to be certified zero-waste-to-landfill. In addition to achieving certification, the site reached recycling rates greater than 90 percent in 2015.
• In Victoriaville, Quebec, our established pharmaceuticals site became the second North American site and the first site in Canada to achieve zero-waste-to-landfill accreditation in 2015.  
To achieve this goal, the site team found specific partners able to reuse, recycle or incinerate with energy recovery both domestic and industrial waste. 
In addition to eliminating waste, Abbott sites are working to find reuse opportunities and recover waste 
through composting and recycling. Our initiatives 
during 2015 included: 
• In Columbus, Ohio, the cafeteria at Abbott Nutrition’s 
Ross Park site installed a digester to process  
cafeteria food waste into graywater, reducing waste 
sent to landfill by an estimated 40,000 pounds –  
about 15 percent.
• In partnership with one of our waste vendors, our 
medical optics facility in Santa Ana, California, is 
diverting food scraps, otherwise destined for landfill, to a microbial food digester system. The system creates methane gas, which is used to power the local water treatment plant. The site is diverting 12 tons of 
waste every year that would otherwise go to landfill 
and generating more than 89,000 kilowatt-hours of power, enough to power seven homes for a full year.
• Abbott’s established pharmaceuticals business in Pakistan installed the first-ever composting 
equipment in the local pharmaceutical sector. The 
new equipment converts organic waste to compost in just 24 hours, and cut waste generation by 100 tons in 2015, with zero waste going to landfill. ESTABLISHING STANDARDS FOR  
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Our waste management efforts extend beyond our own operations. We have strict requirements for all vendors responsible for managing our waste, and vendors 
who do not meet these standards are not permitted 
to do business with our company. Waste management firms are evaluated through Abbott’s waste-vendor assessment program, which includes periodic on-site evaluations and documentation reviews. These ensure 
that only appropriately qualified and responsible 
vendors are permitted to manage Abbott waste. 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Abbott designs and manufactures products to give all people the opportunity to live full and healthy lives. An important aspect of this involves minimizing the 
environmental impacts of these products, in order 
to maintain a healthy environment and help people to reduce their own environmental impact. We are constantly working to improve packaging and product design so as to reduce the waste, water and energy demands that stem from using our products. 
GREEN PRODUCT INNOVATION
At Abbott, our product stewardship team works closely with our research scientists to incorporate environmental considerations into the research and development process. For example, our product 
stewardship team collaborated with a team of scientists 
to develop a guide to identifying safer alternatives for chemical reagents and calibrants.
Our EHS function keeps our R&D team informed about 
emerging environmental issues related to product design. We have introduced a new process for assessing products and identifying the presence of substances that may impact their design and life cycle. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
35
-50% REDUCING WASTE
Abbott strives to find ethical, economical, efficient ways  
to avoid and eliminate the volume and toxicity of  
waste and materials and to conserve and recover all resources.  
Our goal is to reduce the total waste we generate by  
50 percent from 2010 levels by 2020, adjusted for sales.
$25 MILLION SAVED
Abbott’s diagnostics business 
redesigned and reengineered manufacturing of our Omni-5 glucose 
monitor – achieving a 25 percent 
improvement in raw materials use and saving $25 million.24 SITES
Three additional Abbott sites – in  Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Richmond, Indiana; and Victoriaville, Canada –  
achieved zero-waste-to-landfill  
status in 2015, bringing the total number of Abbott sites to 24.12 TONS
Our medical optics site in Santa Ana, California, is turning food scraps into sludge to power the local water 
treatment plant, generating 89,000 
kWh of power and diverting 12 tons  of waste every year from landfill.100 TONS
Converting organic waste to compost in just 24 hours, Abbott’s established pharmaceuticals plant in Pakistan cut 
waste generation by 100 tons in 2015, 
with zero waste going to landfill.ABBOTT HAS SET AN AMBITIOUS 
GOAL TO REDUCE OUR  
TOTAL WASTE GENERATED BY  
50 PERCENT BY 2020.
CONFLICT MINERALS
Abbott has a defined due diligence structure and process 
that allows us to understand the use and sources of 
tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TGs) in our products and across our global supply chain. Our Product Stewardship team uses the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) standardized Conflict Minerals 
Reporting Template to query suppliers, working closely 
with our business divisions. In 2015, Abbott filed a Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in compliance with the 
Dodd-Frank Act. 
EU ROHS COMPLIANCE
Abbott electronic medical devices in the EU are 
compliant with the EU Directive on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electronic equipment, which involves supplying compliance documentation 
for each component in the products. Our in-vitro 
diagnostic products will also comply with RoHS in the EU in 2016. 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 
To enable our products to help people live healthier lives, we must ensure that they are safe, high quality, genuine and easy to use. Product packaging plays 
an important role in fulfilling those responsibilities. 
However, we are also aware that our product packaging decisions also affect the environment, from the materials and energy required to make them through to how our packaging is disposed of.In balancing the need to protect our products with 
reducing our environmental impact, we are guided by 
the four Rs of sustainable packaging:
• Reduce – Optimize packaging design to reduce the 
amount of materials used.
• Renew  – Source packaging with renewable materials 
when feasible.
• Recycle – Improve the use of recycled content in our 
packaging, and expand the use of packaging that is recyclable.
• Reuse – Design packaging to allow reuse 
opportunities.
Looking at packaging through a sustainability lens enables us to consider the complete life cycle of 
impacts on energy use, emissions and solid waste. 
Abbott is committed to leadership in developing and implementing sustainable packaging innovations, many of which can help people to live healthier lives directly. 
For example, many of our milk-based nutritional 
products come in packages that can be shipped and stored without refrigeration for up to 36 months, reducing energy use by our distributors and overcoming challenges for our customers in countries with limited 
access to refrigeration.
We will continue to work to improve the social, 
environmental and economic benefits of our products by employing sustainable packaging principles.
PACKAGING PERFORMANCE  TARGETS  
AND PROGRESS
We aim to reduce the total weight of our packaging by 10 percent by 2020, compared with 2010. Achieving this goal will represent the elimination of approximately 30 
million pounds of packaging from our supply chain.By the end of 2015, we had reduced our total packaging 
weight by slightly more than 5 percent, the equivalent of approximately 15 million pounds of packaging.
Our achievements in reducing packaging weight during 
2015 included:
• New packaging for our EAS Sports Nutrition protein 
powder supplements with a more efficient rectangular 
shape that reduces the overall energy requirement 
throughout the supply chain. 
• Redesigned packaging for our vascular products that reduces the number of ice packs required per shipment. This improvement reduced our use of ice 
packs in shipments by 66 percent, an annual packaging 
weight reduction of more than 300,000 pounds. 
• Changing the material used on the metal can  
ends of our nutritional powder products from  
steel to aluminum. This redesign resulted in an  
annual material weight reduction in excess of  
1.7 million pounds. 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING COLLABORATIONS
Partnerships have an important role to play in advancing the sustainability of our packaging. We work with industry and independent groups on the certification 
of our suppliers and with major retail customers to 
share information on the packaging reductions we have achieved and to pass that information on to consumers.
Some of our most important partnerships are with 
our suppliers. We carefully screen suppliers, holding 
them to stringent packaging requirements that require them either to have achieved or to be actively pursuing certification with respected sustainability organizations, 
such as the Forest Stewardship Council. We also 
work with our suppliers to help them raise their own sustainable packaging performance.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
37
39  SUPPLY CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE  
  Our suppliers play a critical role in 
fulfilling our commitment to global 
citizenship. We work closely with them to 
ensure quality, compliance and socially and environmentally responsible practices.
44  VALUING OUR PEOPLE  
  The key to Abbott’s success is our people. Their skill and their dedication to 
advancing human health and well-being 
are the heart and soul of our company. IN THIS SECTION
55  PROMOTING ETHICS  
AND INTEGRITY  
  Our people understand the global impact of our work and our products, and we 
strive to do the right thing, in the right 
way, in every aspect of our daily activities.RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS
Every day, through actions big and small, 
we ensure that our business works for the benefit of the many people we serve. This includes managing the direct impacts of our business operations and building strong relations with key stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, healthcare professionals, customers and consumers. 
38 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 38
40  EMBEDDING OUR ONE 
PROCUREMENT STRATEGY  
41  SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN  42  ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY 
CHAIN  
43  SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  SUPPLY CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
IN THIS SECTION
•   We launched our One Procurement 
approach for managing our supply chain, enabling us to think more strategically and build stronger supplier relationships.
•  We developed a more robust and 
comprehensive approach to our Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) audits.
•  Our CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure 
Project) average supplier disclosure score increased from 60 to 65, which puts Abbott’s suppliers five points above the global supplier average.
•  Our spend with small businesses increased 
by 4 percent; small women-owned business spend increased 5 percent. 2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
39
Abbott works with more than 40,000 different suppliers 
in 150 different countries, spending over $8.3 billion with our direct suppliers in 2015. This supply chain 
isn’t just a fundamental part of our business success; it’s 
also integral to our impact on society. The way that we manage our supplier relationships helps to safeguard the quality of our products, and their impact in helping people to live fuller, better lives. 
However, supply chain excellence can also do more. 
Our supplier policies unleash potential by spreading economic opportunity, building shared value and 
promoting sustainable growth in our markets. And 
by managing our relationships responsibly, we can significantly reduce our environmental footprint.
150 COUNTRIES
We work with more than 40,000 
suppliers in 150 countries.
$8.3 BILLION
Abbott spent $8.3 billion with  
direct suppliers in 2015.EMBEDDING OUR ONE 
PROCUREMENT STRATEGY
In 2015, we began the process of embedding a new One 
Procurement approach to supply chain management across Abbott, replacing a previous approach where 
different functions and markets managed their suppliers 
independently. The One Procurement approach brings significant business advantages, including the ability  
to leverage our spend more efficiently and allowing  
us to think more strategically and build stronger 
supplier relationships.
We now have buying and sourcing teams focused on 
each of the specific categories in which we purchase. 
These specialist teams allow us to build closer 
partnerships with suppliers that strengthen the Abbott brand and share best practices across our different operations. Our teams include technology, professional services, marketing, manufacturing and logistics, third-
party manufacturers, packaging and ingredients, hedge 
(the investments we make to help balance the risks of price increases in our supply chain) and dairy. 
Our One Procurement mission is centered on five points 
of purpose. Each one has positive impacts on the people 
and communities with which we work.
• Protect and Elevate the Abbott Brand: Ensuring 
authenticity and quality in our supply chain
• Create Shared Value Relationships: Enabling sustainable supplier development and achieving positive social impact at scale
• Enhance Margin and Elevate Financial 
Performance: Building a more sustainable global 
healthcare business
• Expedite Growth and Innovation: Working with our suppliers collaboratively to explore new innovation opportunities and reaching out to suppliers 
in new markets• Design a Flexible, Dynamic Supply Network:  
Ensuring we can keep our supply chain stable and 
resilient
Our approach is focused on identifying the overall value that suppliers can provide, looking beyond price and 
placing greater emphasis on real-time collaboration 
and the potential of suppliers to contribute to Abbott’s innovation strategy. In keeping with this philosophy, we have removed the requirement to bid for contracts, enabling us to focus on a more complete picture of 
value. Within each of our procurement categories, we 
have a dedicated contracting team that focuses on both value and continuity of supply. 
As part of our selection process, we vet each supplier, 
paying close attention to their business capabilities 
and capacities, financial health and strategic alignment with our vision to help people everywhere live fuller lives. We also monitor their compliance with all Abbott 
and applicable regulatory requirements. Suppliers are 
reevaluated at regular intervals to ensure that they continue to meet our specified quality requirements  
and performance criteria.
We have identified a group representing around 
40 percent of our suppliers that provide goods and services that could most directly impact the quality of our products, and we put increased focus on their performance. These suppliers are selected through a 
risk-classification system that considers such factors 
as the impact of the material or service on the safety of our consumers, the potential for adulteration and supplier certification. We audit these suppliers regularly to ensure they have adequate processes and controls 
in place to deliver quality materials or services, and 
we collaborate closely with them to address any risk of non-compliance. We also identify suppliers in high-risk geographies that are at risk of loss of manufacturing 
capacity due to natural disaster. For more than 100 such 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
40
suppliers where we have documented contingency plans 
for such catastrophic events. 
We work with several supply chain organizations, 
including Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation and the Institute for Supply Management, to embed standards and best practices. We also work with third-party providers to make training available 
to our suppliers, including training on the Registration, 
Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) and the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). This training helps to ensure that our products comply 
with all relevant regulations, as well as with our own 
high quality standards. 
SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN
Through our Master Service Agreement, we require suppliers to adhere to the standards of our Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) Policy, which aligns with 
our global citizenship strategy. We manage compliance 
with these standards through our SSR program, which includes a supplier classification model, a quarterly results tracking scorecard and a semi-automated audit report. Guidance on how to comply is available to all of 
our suppliers. 
Our Supplier Guidelines document our principles, 
guidelines and expectations in areas such as ethical 
behavior, business integrity and fair competition, as 
well as human rights, privacy, labor rights and worker protection, animal welfare, environmental stewardship and health and safety practices. Our guidelines are published in multiple languages and available to all 
our suppliers, who can also find answers to Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) on our externally accessible Web site, Resources for Suppliers .Our Supplier Performance Program, which has been in place since 1991, measures our suppliers’ performance in each of these areas and encourages improvement and innovation. We survey our suppliers and conduct on-site 
audits based on the outcomes of these surveys. We select 
the suppliers to participate in SSR surveys by focusing on our key suppliers that provide goods and services that could most directly impact the quality of our products, and we ensure representation for geographic 
and category risk areas. 
During 2015, we updated our approach to these SSR 
surveys in partnership with our Environment, Health and Safety teams. We increased the number of suppliers 
that we survey from 100 per year to 350 per year, 
included more robust questions, and asked for more detail on manufacturing plants, carbon emissions and other areas of environmental sustainability. The surveys now enable us to check that our suppliers are providing:
• Safe working conditions
• Dignified and respectful treatment of employees
• Responsible manufacturing processes
• Adequate management systems
• Ethical practices
• Environmental management
SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE
 
Our global purchasing compliance team audits  
our suppliers to check that they provide:
 
SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS
 
RESPECTFUL TREATMENT  
OF EMPLOYEES
 
RESPONSIBLE  
MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
 
ADEQUATE  
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
 
ETHICAL PRACTICES
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
41
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN  
THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Environmental risk management is a key priority for 
our Supply Chain Council, which benchmarks the risk management processes for each of Abbott’s divisions. 
The council’s quarterly meetings provide an opportunity 
to share best practices on managing environmental impact in the supply chain.
Our Green Procurement Policy remains a cornerstone of 
our supply chain practices under the One Procurement 
system. It encourages Abbott teams to seek out environmentally preferable and sustainable options in each of our categories. We have embedded the principle 
of Environmentally Preferable Products within our 
Environmental Procurement Guidelines, which instructs our sourcing teams to promote, request and consider environmentally preferable choices, while asking our suppliers to provide them as well.
MEASURING SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS
The carbon emissions resulting from the supply, distribution and use of our products are almost 10 times the size of the emissions resulting from our own direct activities. Understanding and managing these emissions (known as Scope 3 emissions) is therefore a priority for 
Abbott. We explore ways to encourage our suppliers and 
distributors to reduce their emissions.
We assess Scope 3 emissions using the methodology 
outlined in the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have quantified greenhouse gas emissions for the applicable Scope 3 categories and have identified areas where we may 
be able to potentially influence emissions. These 
sources include emissions from purchased goods and services, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, commercial business travel, waste 
management and product use and disposal.
We are committed to working across our global value 
chain to reduce our emissions and encourage our suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders to manage 
and reduce their impacts. To facilitate this process, 
Abbott joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Program in 2013 and has been an active member for the past three years. In 2015, our CDP Supply Chain questionnaire response rate increased by 
8 percent from 2014. Not only did we see an increase 
in the number of responders, we also found a higher percentage of responding suppliers reporting emissions, engaging with their suppliers and integrating climate change into business strategy. Our supplier’s average 
disclosure score increased from 60 to 65, indicating that 
not only are more suppliers responding to our request, but also that responses are more complete. 
Several suppliers responded that Abbott’s participation 
in the CDP Supply Chain program has helped them take action to calculate corporate-level emissions and identify energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction initiatives. For example, we have collaborated with one 
supplier to pilot a modification in tertiary packaging 
so that more products can be placed in a single carton, resulting in lower transportation impacts. 
To help our suppliers identify more actions to reduce 
carbon emissions, Abbott joined the Action Exchange in 
2015. Action Exchange is a CDP initiative that facilitates collaboration with our suppliers on reducing emissions and costs and on driving operational efficiencies. Suppliers that have participated in Action Exchange 
report that they have benefited from: • Learning about peer best practices and emissions reduction projects with the shortest payback
• Connecting with experts in energy efficiency
• Demonstrating leadership in climate change 
mitigation 
REDUCING TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
We work with our global transportation suppliers to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the CDP Supply Chain program. This initiative provides an annual framework for gathering information from 
our suppliers and mapping out the carbon footprint of 
our supplier base. Abbott joined the CDP program in 2013, and we have included our major transportation providers for the past two years. Using the CDP framework increases our ability to measure and report 
on their emissions and to identify opportunities to 
reduce our carbon footprint.
We also implemented a program to shift to ocean 
freight from other modes of shipment when it comes to 
transporting goods around the globe. Ocean freight is a much more carbon-efficient mode of transportation. It produces fewer exhaust gas emissions – including nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, particulates, carbon 
monoxide and sulfur dioxide – than air or road 
transport. In 2016, Abbott expects to increase total global ocean shipments by 12 percent from other modes, specifically air freight and road freight. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
42
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
At Abbott, we believe that our potential is fulfilled 
when we help others to fulfill their potential. Within North America, we operate a supplier diversity policy 
that ensures equitable opportunities are afforded to 
businesses that are either small or are majority owned and operated by a woman, a member of an ethnic minority, a veteran or a person with a disability. This policy aligns with the strong American tradition of 
diversity and inclusion, and it is designed to ensure 
that opportunities are available to groups traditionally under-represented in business.
We believe that diversity in our suppliers is essential 
to our ability to compete. Under our One Procurement approach, it helps to ensure that we collaborate with diverse groups that reflect the communities we serve. Diversity also brings new perspectives to the table as we 
work to develop collaborative, innovative solutions. For 
example, our Global Purchasing team partnered with Meetings & Incentives Worldwide (M&IW) – a certified Women’s Business Enterprise with offices throughout the U.S., U.K., Latin America and Asia – to design new 
workflow processes aimed at driving more efficiency in 
how we book hotels and venues. Drawing on the group’s expertise, we developed a unique Virtual Meetings Desk concept that drives compliance, increases the level of service to meeting owners, provides visibility into spend 
and ultimately reduces costs and mitigates contract risk 
across the organization.Our focus is on engaging diverse businesses, assessing the value they can provide fairly and fully and ensuring that we award the business to the right supplier. We 
have supplier diversity champions for each division and 
major categories. The champion’s role is to oversee, monitor and track our diverse spend. In 2015, this spend was $950 million, representing 8 percent of total spend in our supply chain and 18 percent of our spend within 
North America.
Our Supplier Diversity Governance council takes the 
lead on guiding our organization toward a more diverse and sustainable supply chain. During 2015, we increased 
our engagement with advocacy organizations, and we 
now have a chair on the board of the United States National Minority Supplier Development Council. 
Our work with diverse suppliers is helping both Abbott 
and our partners succeed. For example, Marathon 
Medical, a veteran-owned business that is expanding through its work with Abbott, is now the lead distributor for Abbott Point of Care (APOC) devices 
for clients such as the U.S. Department of Defense and 
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. During 2015, we expanded our partnership with Marathon Medical further through an agreement to supply the U.S. Indian Health Service, a contract with an annual value of $30 
million.
+4%
In 2015 our spend with small businesses increased  
by 4 percent and our spend with small women-owned 
businesses increased by 5 percent.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
43
45  A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE  
WORKPLACE  
46  EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT  
AND TALENT MANAGEMENT  
48  COMPENSATION AND   
BENEFITS  
49  WORK-LIFE HARMONY  50  HEALTHY LIVING  
INITIATIVES  
51  EMPLOYEE HEALTH  
AND SAFETY  
54  HUMAN RIGHTS  
54  LISTENING TO OUR  
EMPLOYEES  IN THIS SECTIONVALUING  
OUR PEOPLE
•  The percentage of minorities in 
management positions at Abbott has increased from 22 percent in 2010 to 29 percent in 2015.
•  Our Professional Development Program 
gives new talent the opportunity to rotate through different positions in different Abbott businesses and locations across the globe.
•  In 2015, we launched a campaign 
designed to help managers increase their leadership skills, learn how to inspire well-being in their teams and get things done while easing stress.  2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
44
Abbott’s ability to adapt to changing healthcare  
needs – quickly and continually – is vital to our ongoing 
success. The key to Abbott’s agility is, of course, our 
people around the globe. We have approximately  
74,000 employees serving people in more than 150 
countries. Their skill and their dedication to advancing human health and well-being are the heart and soul  
of our company. 
EMPLOYEES  
WORLDWIDE
We have approximately 74,000 
employees in more than 150 countries.
That is why we choose our people carefully, selecting 
those with energy, enthusiasm, expertise and commitment to create a positive impact on the health 
of the world. It is also why we provide our employees 
with opportunities to pursue fulfilling careers at Abbott. Our company’s human resources strategies, across the breadth and diversity of our global businesses, reflect the depth of our commitment to employees.
As a global healthcare company, we need a wide array 
of skills to help us effectively deliver on our mission. We recognize that current and prospective employees’ 
skills, interests, values and priorities may differ from 
one country or region to another. Therefore, we make a concerted effort to attract a diverse group of employees wherever we operate. We use internal and external research to develop a competitive, locally relevant 
employee value proposition and total rewards package. 
This approach enables us to address local talent challenges more effectively in areas such as diversity and inclusion and work-life harmony.The core components of Abbott’s award-winning workplace environment include:
• Commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion
• Extensive professional development, mentoring and 
training programs
• Efforts to encourage and support work-life harmony
• Competitive compensation and benefits, tailored to each market
• Protection of human rights
• Wellness campaigns
• Commitment to employee health and safety
We have been recognized with a number of workplace excellence awards globally. For a list of these, please  
see Awards and Recognition in the Reporting section  
of this report.
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
Diversity of perspectives, experiences and skills is critical to our global competitiveness. Abbott is committed to fostering diversity within our company. 
Therefore, our diversity and inclusion programs ensure 
that our workforce reflects the customers and patients we serve. 
Our approach also helps us attract and retain talent, 
while simultaneously driving innovation throughout our 
business. We work to leverage our diversity and learn from our differences to optimize results across all levels of our company around the world. 
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion begins at the 
top of the organization. Abbott’s Executive Inclusion Council, led by our Chairman and CEO, monitors the hiring and advancement of women and minorities in 
U.S. management positions and supports programs 
that promote an inclusive work environment. Women make up 41 percent of our employee base globally. In the U.S., the representation of women and minorities in management has been an area of particular focus for Abbott for more than a decade. As a result, the percentage of women in management positions has increased from 44 percent in 2010 to 46 percent in 2015. 
The percentage of minorities in management positions 
increased from 22 percent in 2010 to 29 percent in 2015. 
Our programs strive to promote diversity and inclusion 
in ways that are both locally and culturally appropriate. 
Our WLA (Women Leaders in Abbott) employee network is designed to help female employees further their careers and empower their leadership at Abbott. WLA chapters are present in the U.S., Canada, Puerto 
Rico, India, China, Brazil, Singapore and all European 
countries. In addition, many Abbott businesses have developed their own function-specific diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
We also encourage inclusion of individuals with 
disabilities across all of our businesses and locations.
• In Brazil, we have made enhancements to our 
recruitment and selection processes to support 
individuals with disabilities and have promoted 
inclusion and awareness to employees through various internal communication channels. 
• In Japan, we have promoted inclusion by evaluating 
positions and expanding employment opportunities 
to individuals with intellectual, mental and physical disabilities. 
• In Ireland, Abbott is a founding member of the Kanchi network, a leadership group of companies working 
to revolutionize the relationship between business 
and disability so that people with disabilities will be recognized and valued as consumers, talent, suppliers and members of the community. Abbott in Ireland is helping to develop a benchmark that will recognize 
excellence in disability equality in all businesses. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
45
• In 2015, Abbott also was included in Careers & the 
disABLED magazine’s Top 50 Employers ranking, 
recognizing Abbott as a company for which its readers would most prefer to work or believe provides 
a positive working environment for people with 
disabilities.
As testament to our efforts in this area, Abbott has appeared on DiversityInc’s list of top companies 
for diversity in the U.S. since 2004. In the United 
States, Abbott has also been included on the National Association for Female Executives’ top companies list since 2009, with a top 10 ranking in 2015; has been in the top 10 of Working Mother’s list of best companies 
since 2013; and was named to Working Mother’s 100 Best 
Companies Hall of Fame in 2015. 
12 CONSECUTIVE YEARS
Abbott was included on DiversityInc’s  
list of top companies for diversity in 
the U.S. for the 12th consecutive year 
in 2015.
RECRUITING AND DEVELOPING DIVERSE TALENT
In 2015, Abbott used an integrated approach to 
attracting, building a pipeline of and delivering diverse 
talent to meet the needs of our businesses. We used targeted engagement through employer branding, social media and other outreach efforts, while leveraging partnerships with key academic institutions and 
associations. We continued to strengthen our early 
intake programs in key markets to create a sustainable pipeline for Abbott. We partnered with local diversity organizations around the world to support STEM 
(science, technology, engineering and math) programs 
for students of varying ages.We work with multiple organizations focused on advancing women and minorities in specific areas of 
study. We have several recruiting partners, including 
U.S. organizations such as the National Society of Black Engineers; the Society of Women Engineers; and the Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and Accounting, among others. We also continue to 
implement new recruiting partnerships with schools 
and student organizations – including Nanyang University in Singapore, Hitotsubashi University  
in Japan, Zhejiang and Shanghai Jiao Tong Universities in China and Manipal and Amity Universities in  
India – while expanding internship and entry-level rotational opportunities.
EMPLOYEE NETWORKS
Complementing our inclusion programs and initiatives, Abbott’s employee networks play a vital role in building an inclusive culture and supporting business operations. 
The networks are sponsored by our corporate officers, 
who help align group objectives with business strategies. By focusing on career development, mentoring, community involvement, informal networking and 
leadership skills development, our networks are 
expanding visibility and opportunity for their more than 3,000 participants. Our networks include:
• Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN)
• Black Business Network (BBN)
• La Voice Network (Hispanic/Latino)
• Flex Network (part-time and flexible schedules)
• PRIDE (LGBT)
• Women Leaders in Abbott (WLA)
• Veterans at Abbott
MENTORING
Mentoring is an integral part of the Abbott culture of 
continuous learning and knowledge sharing. It takes a variety of forms, going far beyond the traditional one-to-one mentor/protégé relationship. For example, our employee networks host a series of global mentoring circles. These circles allow one 
or more subject matter experts to mentor a group 
of protégés sharing similar interests – combining education with networking opportunities. WLA has facilitated circles that involve one or two senior-leader mentors and about 10 protégés from the United States, 
Ireland, Germany and the U.K. These circles typically 
meet once a month for three months to discuss various topics and create opportunities for further engagement through cross-functional, cross-boundary and cross-generational relationships. 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND 
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Global competition for talent is intense. By taking 
a proactive approach to recruitment and offering advancement and leadership development programs at 
all levels, we help our employees realize their potential. 
This also helps us attract and retain the best talent.
All employees worldwide have access to job-specific 
training and development to ensure successful 
performance in their current roles across the full range 
of Abbott jobs – from commercial and operations to research and development, as well as human resources, finance and information technology. We also conduct 
ongoing learning, training and career development 
programs to help employees at all levels realize their potential. We develop
 current and future leaders 
through a robust combination of training, on-the-job experiences and
 formal and informal mentoring. Nearly 
6,200 managers attended learning and development  
classes in 2015.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
To complement our skills training initiatives, we 
offer focused development programs for employees 
transitioning into leadership roles. We are committed 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
46
to helping our new leaders  around the world succeed 
more quickly in their expanded positions, in part 
by better understanding and leveraging the Abbott 
resources available to them. Not only do our programs 
help develop employees and leaders – they also help strengthen our internal networks. Alumni of these programs routinely reach out and connect with former classmates to share ideas, gain insights and explore new 
ideas. These programs include: 
Emerging Leader Program
Our Emerging
 Leader Program (ELP) is valuable in 
developing leaders early in their careers. This program 
accelerates development of high-potential managers at 
the regional level in the Americas, Europe and Asia. 
Integrated into each manager’s personal assessments 
and growth plans, the ELP includes discussions of strategy, leadership and people management. In 2015, 
nearly 250 leaders in 11 cohorts completed the Emerging 
Leader Program. 
Global Leadership Program
The Global Leadership Program (GLP) prepares  
new general managers in our international affiliates  
to lead their business in a changing and dynamic 
business environment. The program design enables 
global
 leaders to benefit from the experience, teachings 
and advice of successful and knowledgeable senior leaders from across Abbott’s lines of businesses  
around the world.
The program consists of two one-week sessions that 
take place approximately six months apart, allowing participants to experience and learn from the kinds 
of challenges general managers face every day in the 
marketplace through in-depth business simulations and scenario planning sessions. In addition to helping to bring new general managers on board faster and more effectively, the GLP has produced 
strong global networks of GLP alumni, who routinely 
connect with one another to share ideas, gain insights and
 explore new ideas. The strong alumni connections 
enable deep trust and develop a shared  organizational 
understanding at some of the highest levels of leadership in our company. The 2015 GLP cohort included 35 
participants from 21 countries across all geographies.
Executive Compass Program
Abbott’s Executive Compass Program provides targeted 
transition support for the most senior-level leaders. In the past nine years, nearly 400 divisional vice presidents and general managers
 of our large business units have 
completed the Executive Compass Program, which is the capstone of our leadership development
 series.
The week-long program is delivered by top leaders in 
our company as well as external faculty that includes 
published thought leaders and top business school professors from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. The program provides new senior leaders with a deep dive
 into Abbott strategy 
and challenges them to think through a broad range of scenarios affecting stakeholders, customers and our 
business. The Executive Compass Program was recently 
revised to ensure the
 program addresses the critical 
leadership capabilities needed for Abbott’s continued success today and in
 the future. In 2015, more than 30 
participants from seven different countries completed the program.
Professional Development Program
Our Professional Development Program (PDP) is  
open to entry-level employees and gives new talent  
the opportunity to rotate through key positions in 
different Abbott businesses and locations around the world. PDP participants work side-by-side with  
Abbott professionals, learning and growing from their mentors and benefiting from hands-on experience  
 in a range of areas over the course of the two-year program. Depending on career track, participants  
might work in engineering, environmental health and safety, finance, IT, manufacturing, regulatory affairs  
or quality assurance. 
Since its inception in 1974, more than 2,100 employees 
have participated in the program. PDPs work in 13 different countries and territories, including Canada, China, Costa Rica, Germany, India, Ireland, 
Mexico, the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Singapore, 
the United Kingdom, the United States and Vietnam. Approximately 40 percent of program participants are outside the U.S.
Leader Coach
In 2015, Abbott launched Leader Coach, an online 
assistant for managers available globally 24/7 . Users 
simply type in a topic, respond to a few prompts, and Leader Coach serves up the most relevant information – one or two of the best resources targeted to their needs, 
instead of a long list of links that may not be useful. 
Leader Coach is focused on providing fast, intelligent, interactive and responsive support to help managers address the various professional and supervisory challenges they face on a day-to-day basis. 
LOCAL TRAINING PROGRAMS
In addition to our global management programs,  
our local affiliates offer additional training and development programs: 
• University Science Park (USP) at the University of 
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) is an Abbott-
run center at UIUC’s Research Park that employs talented UIUC students to accelerate Abbott research and business operations, while providing them with valuable development opportunities. Led by Abbott’s 
nutrition research and development team, the center 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
47
is open to participation from all Abbott divisions. In 
2015, USP’s 21 student employees and Abbott leaders from three divisions collaborated on 54 projects to 
generate nearly 120 tangible deliverables, in addition 
to three scientific manuscripts and one conference abstract in peer-reviewed journals. Three USP  
student employees were hired in 2015 as full-time Abbott employees. 
• In India, capability-building programs have been introduced for our employees, in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), India’s premier business and management institute. These 
programs include campus-based training for our 
marketing managers, designed to help them fulfill their potential and think creatively about branding. Abbott also works with IIM in Calcutta to offer an executive education program that gives employees 
the chance to join professional certification programs 
for career advancement. We currently sponsor 75 employees who are enrolled in these programs.
CROSS-CULTURAL TRAINING
Because the scope of our business is global, many of our employees work or travel outside of their home 
countries – and cross-cultural competency is a key 
business need. Accordingly, Abbott provides all employees with free access to Cultural Navigator™, an Internet-based toolkit containing more than 100 country-specific modules with extensive information 
on local business practices, management tools, social 
etiquette, cultural norms and customs.
The Cultural Navigator tool also encourages employees 
to fill out a self-assessment that yields a personal 
cultural profile. This profile enables users to gauge their 
own business practices, management approach and behavioral styles so that they can compare their personal
 
habits to standard practices in other cultures. Users can also run business simulation exercises to identify potential cross-cultural barriers or obstacles to prepare
 themselves for potential challenges in their future business activities.
ALL EMPLOYEES
All employees have access to Cultural 
Navigator™, an online toolkit with more than 100 country-specific cultural  
learning modules.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Development planning provides every employee 
with the opportunity to improve in their current role, 
anticipate challenges and prepare to compete for future 
roles. Abbott’s robust approach to talent management incorporates skills assessments, performance appraisals, succession and development planning and career pathing. Our global, integrated talent management 
process gives increased visibility to talent within our 
organization, enhances the accuracy of our assessments and drives consistency in skills mapping across our 
organization. 
A key element of this process is talent mapping, which 
consists of employee-developed, manager-approved talent profiles that capture key information. These 
empower managers to partner with employees to 
create accelerated or multi-year development plans to support short- and longer-term career objectives. In addition, all Abbott employees participate in our annual performance management process, known as 
Performance Excellence. 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
Abbott’s compensation philosophy is to pay for 
performance, and it is designed to attract and retain employees whose talents contribute to improving the health of people around the world, while also sustaining 
the profitable growth of the company.
Our compensation is intended to compare favorably 
with the pay programs of other global, consumer-facing and manufacturing-driven organizations with financial, 
operational and employment characteristics similar  
to Abbott.
Our total rewards program combines elements of 
base and variable pay, with a broad array of benefits 
and opportunities for growth. Our compensation and 
benefits programs have contributed to a corporate culture that encourages employees to view Abbott as  
a place to build their careers.
While our total compensation targets reference the 
median of other leading companies, individual pay varies based on employee performance, experience and competencies. Our pay-for-performance philosophy, 
combined with internal and external analysis and 
reviews, helps drive our total compensation strategy.
Our compensation program is designed to provide 
an appropriate mix of elements that motivate our 
executives to achieve business strategies and goals 
in line with stakeholder interests. Our executive compensation program is competitive, performance-based and balanced between short- and long-term objectives.
Abbott has set the following guiding principles for our 
employee total compensation programs:
• Base salaries are competitive in the markets where we 
compete for employees.
• Incentive plans are designed to balance short- and long-term financial and strategic objectives that build shareholder value and reward overall company and 
individual performance.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
48
• Incentive compensation (both annual and long-term) 
is a key component of Abbott’s pay-for-performance philosophy. Our structure ties individual awards to 
both business and/or individual results, to motivate 
our employees to achieve superior performance.
• Compensation elements are designed to encourage behavior that is consistent with the ethical values established in Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct.
• Benefits packages are competitive in and appropriate for the markets where we compete for talent.
SCOPE AND ELIGIBILITY OF  
EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS
Abbott supports employee ownership. Our global corporate long-term incentive program grants restricted stock units to employees at the manager level and above. In the U.S., we allow employees to invest in Abbott through our 401(k) program. Outside the U.S., 
most countries also offer the ability for employees to 
purchase stock at a discount through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP is open to all employees except corporate officers in the countries where it is offered. Nearly 8,000 employees in 67 
countries – or approximately 18 percent of eligible  
staff – currently participate in the plan.
SCOPE AND ELIGIBILITY FOR  
NON-SALARY BENEFITS
Employee eligibility for non-salary benefits follows  
local regulations and practices. In most countries,  
this means we cover all full-time employees and part-
time employees working more than a certain number  
of hours. 
WORK-LIFE HARMONY 
We recognize the importance of creating and maintaining supportive and healthy work environments that enable our employees to achieve balance in their 
work and personal responsibilities and activities. Abbott offices in more than 60 countries offer flexible work schedules, including flex time, summer hours, part-time, 
job sharing, compressed work weeks, phased retirement and telecommuting. We view these initiatives not only as important tools for talent attraction and retention, but also as key components in our approach to diversity 
and inclusion.
CHILD CARE 
Abbott’s commitment to helping employees better 
manage their personal and professional lives is exemplified by our comprehensive childcare programs, including on-site childcare, emergency childcare 
assistance, nationwide childcare discounts, back-up care 
resources and on-site parenting and counseling services. 
Our Early Discoveries on-site childcare center, based 
in our headquarter location, is one of the five largest 
centers in the Bright Horizons network and is ranked 
in the top 8 percent of U.S. childcare centers for quality. The center offers full- and part-time care, back-up care, school holiday childcare programs and full-day four-year-old kindergarten prep programs, among others. 
Early Discoveries’ STEM-based curriculum exposes 
preschool and kindergarten prep children to new experiences and helps them acquire age-appropriate skills, with formal instruction on STEM topics 
including computer coding, programming and robotics, 
engineering and use of the scientific method.
At our headquarter location, Abbott also continues 
to partner with the Lake County YWCA, a childcare-
provider training program aimed at increasing the 
quality and quantity of local childcare resources.
Additionally, Abbott provides myEdGPS, a Web-based 
information and support tool that simplifies education 
planning by helping parents better understand, advocate 
and care for children with exceptional needs, including learning disabilities, ADHD and autism. MyEdGPS offers live webinar topics related to the autism spectrum 
disorder, early intervention, learning issues and more. 
Last year, Abbott began offering U.S. employees 
increased adoption assistance benefits of up to $20,000 per adoption.
EDUCATING MANAGERS TO HELP EMPLOYEES 
ACHIEVE WORK-LIFE HARMONY
We continued our focus on educating Abbott leaders 
in the U.S. about how the Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs) and how work-life programs can help 
employees become more resilient, leading to enhanced 
engagement, retention, and well-being. Although our primary focus is U.S. based, the global responsibilities of many of our managers mean these initiatives touch 
teams around the world. 
In 2015, we launched a campaign designed to help 
managers increase their leadership skills, learn how to inspire well-being in their teams and get things done 
while easing stress. This campaign provided managers 
with free, confidential advice from EAP consultants, access to seminars and in-person discussion groups and online tools and tips on topics including building trust in a team, managing performance, communicating 
effectively and others. More than 1,000 managers 
accessed these tools in 2015. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
49
MORE THAN 1,000
Managers accessed leadership  
training tools in 2015.
PRODUCTIVE TRANSITION TO RETIREMENT 
We are especially mindful of the complex and changing 
definition of retirement today, especially for the first 
wave of baby boomers, who are retiring in record numbers. Abbott’s Freedom to Work program, available to eligible U.S. employees, offers employees considering retirement the option to scale back their hours and/
or change their responsibilities without affecting their 
benefits. Freedom to Work has received 1,308 employee enrollments since the program’s launch in 2008.
Freedom to Work offers employees two different 
options as they approach retirement:
• Our Custom Schedule Program allows employees 
to reduce hours and compensation without losing 
benefits. This option allows employees to work four 
days a week or take up to an additional five weeks of vacation.
• Our Emeritus Program allows employees to change their responsibility (for example, from managing 
staff to becoming an individual contributor) without 
sacrificing pay or grade.
HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES
At Abbott, we inspire and motivate our employees with all types of health and wellness programs designed to help them live healthy lives. 
Our education and wellness programs vary from country 
to country, reflecting local needs, customs and health systems. Most Abbott locations offer on-site influenza immunizations and health screenings, and several sites 
facilitate employee exercise by offering on-site fitness 
centers, health club membership subsidies or discounts and sports and recreation clubs.
Exercise Across Abbott is one of our most popular – 
and global – wellness programs and has been in 
place for more than 15 years. Nearly 15 percent of Abbott employees across 50 countries participate in Exercise Across Abbott annually. Employees team up 
by department or with other colleagues to track their 
minutes of daily exercise. Each team is responsible for reporting their minutes online to compete for prizes in a variety of categories. In 2015, approximately 70 percent of participants increased their minutes each week 
consistently for four weeks. 
50 COUNTRIES
Employees in 50 countries 
participated in our global fitness program, Exercise Across Abbott.
In 2015, we enhanced Exercise Across Abbott with 
a 30-day challenge focused on increasing strength, flexibility, balance and cardio endurance and intensity.  
Participating employees – making up about 13 percent of participants in the main program – received daily email motivations and tips and workout plans to continue to use after the challenge. About 88 percent of participants reported satisfaction with their experience, as well as 
improvement in physical strength and flexibility.
LIVELIFEWELL
In the United States, we offer LiveLifeWell, an 
integrated wellness program; nearly 70 percent of employees and their spouses participate. LiveLifeWell includes:
• Online health assessment and tools
• Personal health coaching and nutrition counseling
• Health awareness campaigns and events
• On-site immunizations and health screenings
LiveLifeWell helps our employees learn about their 
health risks and encourages them to make healthy choices.
 Examples of these activities include healthy-
heart events with free blood pressure screenings and posting nutritional information in
 Abbott cafeterias to 
promote healthy meal choices.
In 2015, the program continued its focus on emotional 
and physical health, as well as managing stress, a leading risk factor in today’s workplace. New offerings included a campaign to help employees strengthen their finances; support for managers to enable them 
to inspire employee well-being, grow their leadership 
skills and get things done while managing personal stress; and our Mindful Living resources for gaining mental clarity through mindfulness activities. We also 
continued the Step It Up! exercise program, focused on 
moving and staying active during employees’ daily tasks. More than 2,900 people enrolled in the program.
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Abbott’s commitment to employee well-being is further demonstrated by our programs addressing emotional 
health needs. In 23 countries worldwide, Abbott 
employees and their families have access to company-funded Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs). These programs help employees address personal problems and concerns in order to improve their overall health 
and help them to be more successful at work and home. 
EAPs provide individual support in identifying and resolving personal concerns regarding health, family, 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
50
stress, finances, alcohol, legal concerns, grief and other 
issues.
Abbott’s EAPs help promote a productive and healthy 
workplace by applying specialized knowledge and expertise about human behavior and mental health, thus extending the program’s beneficial effects further into the community. Beyond individualized assistance, 
our EAPs provide ongoing support for employees and 
their families through seminars and online education on such topics as stress management, child/elder care resources, depression and personal health. Abbott EAPs 
also include crisis intervention services and workplace 
emergency response.
Abbott’s EAPs earn high marks from our employees for 
their effectiveness. In 2015, a survey of users of Abbott’s 
U.S. EAPs found that because of their participation in 
the service:
• 80 percent reported feeling less stress about their 
situation 
• 70 percent reported that they were less likely to lose work time due to personal or family reasons
• 63 percent reported improved productivity on the job
• 56 percent reported the service saved them one to five hours of personal or work time; 22 percent saved six to 
10 hours
These results are indicative of the types of benefits 
employees experience around the world from our EAPs.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
Abbott has clear, consistent global policies and standards regarding how we manage employee health, safety and productivity, while also protecting the 
environment. All Abbott manufacturing plants, R&D centers and 
commercial operations sites adhere to technical requirements, including metrics, auditing and reporting, which serve as a baseline for health and 
safety performance worldwide. Each facility is regularly 
evaluated against the following categories:
• Health and safety policy and program
• Strategic planning
• Self-assessment/risk assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measures
• Assurance reviews
• Health and safety global standards
Our Environment Health and Safety (EHS) strategic 
plan is aimed at fostering continued EHS improvement 
and standardized program development. The strategic 
plan aims to effectively drive Abbott’s EHS activities to ensure a safe and efficient working environment and minimize any adverse environmental impacts. The 
company strives to create and maintain the highest 
standards of EHS practice, in both emerging markets and mature markets, by identifying and implementing best practices. The strategic plan focuses on four key areas:
• Performance improvement  – Driving continued 
reductions in injury and illness rates and 
environmental metrics.
• Compliance assurance and risk reduction  – 
Implementation of standardized risk assessment processes and enhanced EHS audits.
• Sustainability and social responsibility  – 
Integration of product stewardship initiatives into product development.• People and culture  – Recognizing its excellence 
through Plant of the Year Commercial Affiliate of the Year and EHS Awards.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Improving our performance requires clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership and support. 
For example, our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a senior corporate officer, reviews metrics, key programs and progress with the Chairman and CEO and senior 
staff on a regular basis. The following groups are 
charged with implementing our health and safety programs and initiatives:
• Global Operations Council – This body oversees 
the strategy for all Abbott operations (Manufacturing, 
Supply Chain, Engineering and Environment, Health and Safety) and makes resources available to meet local needs based on internal assessment of performance, benchmarking of best practices 
internally and within the industry and risk profiles. 
For more information, please see the Citizenship Management and Governance section of this report. 
• Commercial Environment, Health and Safety Executive Council – This council sets priorities and 
implements EHS goals and objectives for our sales 
operations around the world. This includes driver safety and reducing vehicular accidents among the sales force, as well as global community outreach 
initiatives related to vehicle and pedestrian safety in 
commercial emerging markets. The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Established Pharmaceuticals chairs this group and is joined by senior commercial leaders across all Abbott divisions. The EVP 
sponsoring this council reports to the CEO.
• Environment, Health and Safety Leadership 
Council – This group drives programs and targets with actions that are consistent with the priorities set by the Global Operations Council and the Commercial 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
51
EHS Executive Council. This team meets regularly 
to share best practices and discuss EHS issues with company-wide implications. This group also builds 
awareness of EHS performance, promotes our EHS 
Excellence Awards (Individual/Team EHS Awards, Plant of the Year for manufacturing operations and Affiliate of the Year for commercial organizations), supports EHS training and conferences and 
communicates our performance improvement 
initiatives. The group consists of EHS heads from each of our operating businesses and corporate EHS.
RECOGNIZING PERFORMANCE
Our Commercial, Environmental, Health and Safety programs have achieved a number of successful 
milestones over the years, and each success has been the 
result of significant effort on the part of many people. Our Commercial EHS Program of the Year and Most Improved Commercial EHS Program awards recognize 
these efforts. 
To gain this recognition, sites undergo an in-depth 
analysis of EHS-related performance metrics and a comprehensive review of documentation related to 
the organization’s fleet safety programs and standards. 
In 2015, Pakistan was selected as the Large Affiliate winner and Egypt was recognized as the winner in the Small Affiliate category. The U.S. Program winner was Abbott Vascular, and Malaysia was recognized as Most 
Improved. 
REDUCING INCIDENTS 
We believe that employee health and safety incidents 
are preventable and that safety is the responsibility of every employee. We use an annual review process and routine performance reporting to help us set and 
monitor appropriate health and safety targets and to 
drive continuous improvement of our performance. In addition, our EHS leaders share best-in-class programs across the business and those external to our industry with the aim of implementing these approaches to further reduce risk and employee injuries.
Two of our key health and safety goals are: 1) reducing 
the number of incidents that result in time off work; and 2) reducing the incidence of vehicle accidents among our employees.
We track progress against our first goal using lost-
workday case rate, a standard metric that measures the number of cases where an employee is unable to work because of occupational injury or illness. Our 2020 lost-
workday case rate target is 0.15 cases per 100 employees.
Between 2011 and 2014, our lost-workday case rate 
declined nearly 30 percent. We are proud to report that in 2015 our legacy Abbott locations continued this 
trend and reduced lost-time cases to 0.12 cases per 100 
employees, achieving our 2020 goal at these sites five years ahead of schedule. However, when we include the performance of our recent acquisitions in our lost-time case rate, Abbott’s overall lost-workday rate increased 
to 0.23 cases per 100 employees in 2015. An aggressive 
EHS plan for these sites is under way and is already reaping strong improvements. Lost-workday cases decreased in these operations more than 45 percent from 2014 to 2015. We are confident that between today 
and 2020, our total operations will meet our ambitious 
goal. We will continue to focus on implementing consistent EHS standards and investing in capital improvements that reduce risk for both continuing 
operations and recent acquisitions. 
To successfully deliver on these goals, we focus on 
addressing concerns at specific manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates with the greatest opportunities 
for health and safety performance improvement each 
year. Each business unit is responsible for addressing concerns within its identified facilities, by reviewing specific risks and implementing measures to improve performance.
In addition to site-specific efforts, we implemented 
several global programs this year: 
• Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) Programs.  Our 
BBS program is a global initiative that encourages 
all employees to think and act safely and helps lead 
Abbott toward an injury-free culture. Sites around the world also share best-in-class programs designed to reduce employee injuries. In 2015, we standardized 
the program across the company and collected initial 
data on safety behaviors. Next year, we will launch a new global data collection system and develop key performance indicators for the program.
• Near-Miss Program.   We launched a new initiative to 
standardize near-miss data at all of our manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates globally. We will use this data to develop key performance indicators to inform safety programming, reduce risk and create a safe working environment for our employees.
• Slip, Trip, and Fall Campaign.   We launched 
a comprehensive global slip, trip and fall (STF) awareness campaign at our commercial field and office locations. The initiative was designed to draw attention to numerous workplace STF hazards, 
along with measures to help drive prevention. We 
will continue to expand this program to cover all employees in 2016.
• Standardized Risk Assessment (RA) Process.   In 
2015, we deployed a new Standardized RA process to enable better focus on the identification and elimination of EHS-related risks. The new process provides a globally consistent approach to the classification and quantification of EHS risk across our 
business units. For 2016, we will expand the process 
to include additional EHS-related elements to further refine our EHS priorities.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
52
VEHICLE SAFETY 
We continue to focus on educating employees with the 
tools and knowledge to create a culture of safe driving. 
Our vehicle safety program was designed to help our employees better understand the risks associated with distracted driving. The program encourages field-based employees to use safe driving habits and 
raises awareness about the risks posed by in-vehicle 
distractions such as mobile telephone use. Since the campaign’s launch, 100 percent of our commercial business sector has taken formal steps to prohibit calling 
and texting while driving.
In 2015, our global vehicle accident rate for legacy 
Abbott dropped 9 percent from the 2014 rate, to 3.6 accidents per million miles driven (APMM), again 
meeting our 2020 target of 4.0 APMM five years 
ahead of schedule. However, when we include the performance of our recent acquisitions in our APMM, Abbott’s global APMM increased to 4.2. An aggressive driver safety plan is under way and is expected to drive 
improvements and helps us achieve our 2020 target. 
Supplementing our workplace commercial EHS 
program efforts, designed to protect our own employees, we have continued our partnership with the United 
Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety Initiative, 
designed to reduce global traffic fatalities and injuries by 50 percent between 2011 and 2020. 
We continued to expand our efforts to provide children 
with high-quality helmets and raise awareness about the importance of road safety near local schools in Vietnam and India. In 2015, Abbott issued more than 8,800 high-quality helmets and held 282 helmet 
education classes for teachers, students and parents at 
four primary schools in Vietnam. In India, we partnered with a local school in Mumbai to educate more than more than 2,000 students on pedestrian safety. In 2016, we will continue to expand these successful programs to additional schools and engage our employees in these road safety initiatives. 
In 2015, our sales team in India sought to have an even 
greater impact on road safety locally and launched a 
nationwide road safety awareness campaign known as 
iCare. For one day, 5,500 members of our sales staff used their regular visits to medical clinics as an opportunity to speak with and educate patients in the waiting rooms 
about safe driving practices.. They shared simple steps 
for reducing road accidents and injuries, like wearing a helmet and seatbelt, staying alert, obeying speed limits and avoiding cell phone use while driving. With this initiative and others leveraging the success of our road 
safety program for Abbott sales staff, we are making 
a major impact on safe driving across India. To date, our salespeople and other staff members have reached nearly 500,000 people; of those, 318,445 signed pledge cards promising to take ownership of their own personal 
road safety and to share road safety awareness ideas 
with friends and relatives.  
 
318,445 PLEDGES
Employees in India raised awareness 
about road safety and encouraged more than 300,000 to take ownership of 
personal road safety.
8,800 HELMETS
Abbott issued 8,800 high-quality 
helmets at four primary schools in Vietnam.GLOBAL HEALTH SCORECARD 
In early 2011, we launched our Global Health Scorecard 
to monitor each site’s performance on key occupational 
health measures and to identify areas for improvement. The scorecard measures progress and optimizes employee health offerings at all manufacturing sites and commercial affiliates by setting annual performance 
improvement targets between 2011 and 2015. 
The Abbott Global Health Scorecard ranks sites 
according to how many targets they have reached, based 
on a menu of 15 global health criteria. In 2015, 55 of 
our manufacturing and R&D sites and 31 commercial affiliates met the scorecard targets. 
Given the success of the scorecard, we elected to 
extend the program to 2020 and set new targets. 
A multidisciplinary team at Abbott developed the expanded Global Health Scorecard health offerings and set additional targets for 2020 that became effective in 2016. The expanded scorecard consists of eight 
additional health offerings, such as implementation of a 
road safety awareness program for employees and their families and an active pause (stretch) exercise program. Sites are expected to add at least one additional health offering each year between now and 2020.
We also expanded our Global Health Scorecard toolkit, 
which is used to ensure consistency and standardize measurement across our sites, as well as providing 
suggestions for program enhancements. The expanded 
toolkit offers our sites suggestions to successfully meet each of the additional health offerings. 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
53
HUMAN RIGHTS
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being and 
respects individual rights as set forth  in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. These principles are reflected in our company’s mission and core values. 
While governments have the primary responsibility 
for respecting,
 protecting, promoting and fulfilling the 
human rights of their citizens, Abbott recognizes that companies play a supporting role in promoting human 
rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights 
through compliance with laws and regulations wherever we operate, as well as through our policies 
and programs. Our guidelines
 include:
• Providing a healthy and safe working environment.
• Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting 
any form of forced, bonded or indentured labor or involuntary prison labor.
• Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating against any employee for reasons such as race, 
religion, color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability, marital 
status and sexual orientation in addition to any other status protected by local law.
• Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane 
treatment in the workplace.
• Protecting individual privacy.
• Providing compensation and benefits that are 
competitive and comply with applicable laws for minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated 
benefits.
• Encouraging open communication between 
management and employees.Abbott’s position on human rights is reinforced in our employment, ethics and procurement
 policies, 
which are designed to ensure that neither we, nor our suppliers, engage in human
 rights abuses.
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
Abbott has a strong philosophy about regularly seeking employee feedback, which we demonstrate in many ways – through employee surveys to measure 
engagement in business strategy and brand recognition 
(e.g., Great Places To Work, Division Culture surveys); HR-specific surveys (e.g., Recruiting Effectiveness Survey, Compensation and Talent Acquisition survey); and other, informal forms of communication.
During recent years, Abbott has engaged in more 
interactive communications that help capture employee sentiment and/or reactions to what is happening in the 
company. Some of these include:
• “Ask Miles”  – An open forum for employees to ask 
questions of our Chairman and CEO, Miles D. White; 
employees receive a response to all questions within 
two weeks. In 2015, Miles answered questions from  
24 countries. 
•  “Q&A Live”   – Live video-streamed events that 
allow employees to engage with Abbott leaders from 
anywhere in the world. Company Vice Presidents 
provide an update of their business strategies in global 
forums where employees can interact and bring forward questions or concerns. Employee feedback is collected after the sessions via online surveys.
• Local feedback   – Our local offices organize their 
own initiatives to facilitate dialogue and encourage informal employee feedback. For example, in Ireland we host Lunch and Learn and Nosh and Natter meetings, where employees meet informally with 
senior leaders for discussion, information sharing  
and learning.• Employee networks   – Seven executive-sponsored 
formal networks provide employees with the 
opportunity to promote cultural awareness in order to foster diversity and inclusion and provide a forum where common interests can be identified and addressed. 
• New hires   – We seek feedback from newly hired 
employees in regards to recruitment process quality and their early experience with Abbott. 
Additionally, we have engaged in a comprehensive 
strategic planning process that has included employee 
feedback at various organizational levels, including focus groups, working sessions and localized surveys to better understand what behaviors drive our culture 
and attract and retain employees, and to influence our 
overall employment brand.
In 2015, we conducted a series of global surveys to 
determine employees’ awareness of, understanding 
and engagement with Abbott’s new brand identity. 
We received a 28 percent response rate and are in the process of using this input to shape the creation of programs and communications to continue to engage employees in our brand.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
54
56 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  
56  OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE  
PROGRAM  
59  COMBATING CORRUPTION  
AND BRIBERY  
59  PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  IN THIS SECTIONPROMOTING ETHICS 
AND INTEGRITY
•  We updated the Abbott Code of Business 
Conduct, which sets forth our basic guidelines and requirements for ethical behavior and is available in print and online in 26 languages.
•  More than 90 percent of Abbott 
employees around the world participate in our Legal and Ethics Resource Network (LERN) program.
  Abbott’s promise to help more people experience their best lives  comes with a responsibility to always do so ethically and with integrity. Our business has great impact on the lives of millions of people worldwide, and we continually seek to embed ethics and integrity across all areas of our business so that each Abbott employee continually operates with honesty, fairness and integrity. 2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
55
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Abbott has a long history of enhancing trust and 
safeguarding our company’s reputation. More than 125 years ago, our founder, Dr. Wallace Abbott, was one 
of the creators of what became known as ”the ethical 
pharmaceutical industry,” which first established the high standards of safety and efficacy that are the foundation of the modern healthcare business. Abbott employees understand the global impact of our work 
and our products, and we strive to do the right thing, 
in the right way, in every aspect of our daily activities. We support employees by fostering clear understanding of our company values, the Abbott Code of Business 
Conduct, our policies and procedures and our legal 
obligations related to ethical conduct.
BUSINESS ETHICS AT ABBOTT
At Abbott, we are committed to meeting high ethical standards and to complying with all applicable laws wherever we do business. 
OUR EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE 
PROGRAM
Our globally integrated ethics and compliance program 
goes beyond simple adherence to applicable laws and regulations and reflects our full commitment to 
operating honestly, fairly and with integrity. We have 
organized our program according to the seven elements of effective compliance, as set forth in the voluntary “Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers,” published in April 2003 by the Office 
of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Service (“HHS-OIG Guidance”). 
The seven elements are:
• Leadership
• Written standards• Effective lines of communication
• Training
• Accountability
• Assessment
• Remediation
LEADERSHIP
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) 
is responsible for the management and operation of the Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC), as well as the development and enhancement of our global 
compliance program. The CECO makes regular reports 
regarding compliance matters to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, to senior level leadership and to Abbott’s Board of Directors and its committees.
26 LANGUAGES
The Abbott Code of Business Conduct is published  
in print and online in 26 languages.
The Business Conduct Committee (BCC) assists in the implementation of our compliance program, meeting regularly to discuss matters like the legal and regulatory 
environment, best practices and refinement of our 
compliance initiatives at a global and regional level. The BCC consists of senior-level leadership, is chaired by the CECO, and is directly accountable to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. OEC staff 
members also provide dedicated support to each of 
Abbott’s businesses at their headquarters.
Outside the United States, local Affiliate Compliance 
Committees manage our Affiliate Compliance Program. 
These committees are composed of the Affiliate Management Representative and other top executives representing all of Abbott’s businesses within a country. The Affiliate Compliance Committees are responsible for the day-to-day functioning of the compliance program, including monitoring of compliance, providing 
awareness of and training for the program, revising 
policies and procedures and providing guidance to local employees. The committees also meet on a regular basis to discuss emerging issues and to work with local OEC staff members in rolling out new programs to provide 
oversight and guidance to employees.
WRITTEN STANDARDS
Our work at Abbott is of the utmost importance to the 
people we serve. Our products affect people’s health and lives in the most crucial ways. We earn our reputation by the decisions we make and the actions we take. Our 
Code of Business Conduct embodies our company 
values and expectations, providing a foundation for the responsibilities and behaviors that will help us make the best choices for Abbott and the many stakeholders we serve. We all share in the responsibility to live our values 
every day. That includes keeping a watchful eye on our 
business activities and reporting concerns in good faith without fear of retaliation. 
In 2015, we updated the Abbott Code of Business 
Conduct to make better use of technology to communicate our values to Abbott employees and other stakeholders around the world, and to set out common ethical expectations applicable to our operations 
in different countries. The fundamental message of 
the Code is straightforward: it is up to each Abbott employee to build our company and our brand by holding themselves to the highest ethical standards, by living our values and by continually operating with 
honesty, fairness and integrity. The Code is available in 
print and online, in 26 languages.
Abbott employees are required to read our Code and 
certify their adherence to it every year. Our Code states 
clearly that Abbott does not tolerate illegal or unethical 
behavior in any aspect of our business. It emphasizes 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
56
the importance of ethical and honest conduct; of 
adhering to Abbott’s policies and procedures; of treating confidential information appropriately; of avoiding 
conflicts of interest; and of maintaining Abbott’s books 
and records with accuracy and integrity. Further, it requires our employees to ask questions or report  
any concerns.
Abbott also has a written policy, Employee Problem 
Solving, which promotes the open exchange of information, problem solving and complaint resolution. This policy is applicable worldwide to Abbott 
employees, except where local laws and/or collective 
bargaining agreements dictate otherwise.
We regularly update our ethics and compliance policies 
to incorporate changes to the law and industry codes, 
including rules regarding gifts, meals and education 
we provide to healthcare professionals. We also seek opportunities to enhance and streamline compliance standards to meet modern and diverse business needs. In 2015, we launched a global policy initiative 
to establish consistent definitions across businesses 
and around the world, and provide an augmented foundation for compliance metrics and data analysis. This global standardization of our compliance program will make it more accessible to all of our employees and 
stakeholders, facilitate more efficient decision-making 
and foster further business ownership of compliance.
A number of laws require increased transparency in 
our interactions with individuals and entities involved 
in providing healthcare. These requirements consist of various combinations of certifications, tracking and reporting payments and transfers of value (such as meals) and restrictions on conduct. Transparency laws 
exist at the federal and state levels in the United States, 
and in countries outside the United States such as France. Abbott complies with these requirements  
as applicable.EFFECTIVE LINES OF COMMUNICATION
Creating an environment in which employees can 
raise questions and concerns helps us advance our 
commitment to ethical behavior. As codified in Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct, we are committed to 
handling employee grievances and complaints and 
strictly forbid any retaliation against any person who raises a complaint. We have established systems and processes for employees to ask questions and report suspected or actual violations of our Code or our 
policies and procedures. We offer employees a number 
of resources, including our Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a Web-based hotline with live telephone support and translation services for non-English 
speakers. This is available 24 hours a day, seven  
days a week. Employees may also contact the OEC  
or the CECO directly. We have systems in place for 
responding to questions, or reports of suspected or actual ethical violations, which come through our  
social media channels. 
ABBOTT’S ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
Our helpline is available 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. 
We analyze all allegations that we receive and take 
corrective action where necessary, including terminating employees or third-party relationships. We regularly 
report information about breaches of our Code to  
senior management. 
The OEC also creates opportunities to engage in face-  
to-face interactions with employees by participating  
in global, national and regional sales meetings and 
local site meetings. Issues are highlighted on our OEC intranet site and through targeted internal communications channels.
TRAINING
Ethics and compliance training is a part of Abbott’s 
culture wherever we operate, and our OEC team 
supports our country operations with local level training and education programs. These increase our employees’ awareness of our Code’s precepts and the legal and ethical implications of their actions and behaviors. 
They strengthen Abbott’s reputation as a responsible 
corporate citizen, while enhancing relationships with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
More than 90 percent of Abbott employees around the 
world participate in our Legal and Ethics Resource Network (LERN) program, an online ethics and compliance training program designed to educate Abbott employees on a broad range of ethics and compliance 
topics. LERN courses provide employees with the 
practical knowledge they need to recognize potential legal and ethical issues, how to make sound decisions and when to seek assistance from the OEC and other resources. 
In 2015, we launched the LERN system in nine 
additional countries, bringing the total number of countries training on LERN to 66. Our LERN modules address topics such as conflicts of interest, global 
anti-corruption, scientific research and an overview of 
Abbott’s Ethics and Compliance Program. All employees in countries using LERN are required to complete at least the Code of Business Conduct certification and 
Conflicts of Interest certification courses each year.
One of the LERN courses, Global Promotional Practices, 
describes consumer and customer expectations of promotional activities, outlines the principles behind 
promotional laws and regulations, explains what Abbott 
does to ensure promotional integrity and provides 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
57
practical advice on decision-making. All Abbott 
employees in the United States were assigned this course in 2015.
90%
More than 90% of Abbott employees  
participate in our Legal and Ethics 
Resource Network program. 
ACCOUNTABILITY
Abbott employees are expected to adhere to our  
Code of Business Conduct as a condition of their 
continued employment. All reports of potential violations of our Code or any policy or procedure are 
taken seriously and handled appropriately through 
follow-up steps such as investigation and remediation, and where necessary, corrective action is taken to address issues and avoid recurrence. Any Abbott employee who violates our Code, or any policy or procedure, is subject to appropriate disciplinary action. 
Any Abbott employee who refuses to cooperate in the 
investigation of an alleged violation or reports a concern that is knowingly false or is intended to threaten, intimidate or retaliate against any person may also be subject to disciplinary action.
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone 
who makes a good-faith report regarding a violation or potential violation of our Code, policies or procedures. These guidelines are well publicized and enforced 
throughout the company.
ASSESSMENT
The OEC uses results from internal investigations, 
internal audits and internal monitoring programs to 
assess the effectiveness of our compliance program and relevant business practices. We identify areas of risk and 
develop plans for improvement. In addition, we consider the external environment, including industry codes and 
best practices, government guidance and enforcement 
actions against other companies, in order to identify new opportunities to enhance our compliance program. An example of one of our assessment programs is the Affiliate Compliance Enhancement (ACE) program, 
in which we conduct an in-depth evaluation of the 
commercial practices of a particular country.
REMEDIATION
We communicate the results of investigations, audits, assessments and monitoring to the appropriate OEC staff and business leaders. When an area for 
improvement is identified, the OEC collaborates with 
business leaders to take corrective action.
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
An important part of our commitment to supporting patients, consumers and healthcare professionals is an obligation to communicate responsibly about our 
products and services, and the alternatives that exist.
We respect the expertise of healthcare professionals 
who provide guidance about treatment options and healthy living. Healthcare professionals, such as 
physicians, pharmacists, nurses, researchers and 
laboratory staff, must use their independent judgment to determine the best course of care for their patients based on their training and expertise. We are committed to working with healthcare professionals to provide 
them with timely and accurate information that will 
assist them in making decisions and providing advice to their patients. We can achieve our mission of supporting health through a truly collaborative approach.
In addition to our Code, we adopt policies and 
procedures that guide employees as they conduct their day-to-day activities. These policies and procedures encompass relevant laws and regulations, including food and drug laws and laws relating to government healthcare programs. They also take into account 
industry best practices, including provisions of 
applicable industry codes.
Abbott’s activities conform to the regulatory licenses 
and approvals we obtain from government agencies 
such as ministries of health and food and drug 
authorities to promote, sell and import pharmaceuticals, medical devices and other products. We comply with each country’s laws and regulations that govern how, where and when we are permitted to promote our 
products, such as the United States Federal Food, Drug 
and Cosmetic Act. We maintain and follow internal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with such requirements and with respect to government healthcare programs.
We comply with all relevant laws, regulations and 
promotional standards in the countries where we operate around the world. This includes adhering 
to the principles of the World Health Organization’s 
(WHO) International Code of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes where it has been implemented by local governments. In addition, Abbott is an active member of the International Association of Infant 
Food Manufacturers (IFM) and was instrumental in 
the development and adoption of the IFM Rules of Responsible Conduct (RRC), a voluntary commitment for infant food manufacturers introduced in January 2014. All employees in covered countries are required  
to comply with the RRC. 
Abbott has been a leader in researching and developing 
nutritional solutions for infants for more than 50 years and is committed to helping all babies receive 
the appropriate nutrition to ensure a healthy start in 
life. We agree with medical and health organizations throughout the world that breastfeeding is the best form 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
58
of infant nutrition and should be the first choice for 
babies. It is our policy not to market infant formula in a way that competes with breastfeeding. When an alternative to 
breastfeeding is necessary or chosen, we offer high-
quality infant formulas and nutrition products. We also conduct monitoring of our marketing and sales practices in each market where we sell our products, to ensure compliance with local legislation, our policies and the 
RRC mentioned above.
COMBATING CORRUPTION  
AND BRIBERY
Abbott is committed to preventing corruption in 
connection with our business activities around the world and working with third parties that share  
our commitment. Our anti-corruption commitment is closely linked to many of our business priorities, including:
• Increasing availability of medicine and healthcare 
products in emerging and developing countries
• Engaging in ethical and responsible sales and 
marketing
• Ensuring that quality clinical trials are conducted 
ethically 
• Reducing the risk of counterfeit medicines
• Ensuring product safety and high  
manufacturing quality
Our commitment to compliance with relevant anti-
corruption and anti-bribery laws also extends to the third parties with whom we do business. Carrying  
out due diligence on third parties that will provide certain services enables us to identify and address  
risks proactively.
Abbott’s Third Party Process (3PP) sets forth 
requirements for all Abbott divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates to conduct due diligence prior to engaging third-party service providers. This procedure is a component of Abbott’s global anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and procedures.
The 3PP sets out the main steps of Abbott’s global due 
diligence requirements:
• Initial screening criteria and checklist to identify third 
parties that undergo enhanced due diligence 
• Collecting information through use of questionnaires and independent background checks
• Analyzing red flags analysis and analyzing and remediating any risks identified
• Using a Web-based platform, ComplianceDesktop®, 
to facilitate the process and ensure proper 
documentation
Training materials on Abbott’s 3PP are available 
internally to employees with primary responsibility for 
overseeing a third-party relationship and for those who have responsibility for training others on the process. 
Abbott’s compliance team makes a concerted effort 
to continue to evaluate and enhance local compliance 
programs around the world. With this approach, we are better equipped to help prevent corruption and bribery locally and position Abbott as a trusted partner everywhere we operate. 
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by the following principles:
• Abbott is committed to transparency and is guided 
by our Code of Business Conduct in all public policy engagement.
• All activities shape policies to benefit patients and consumers, with a focus on improving patient access 
to new medical and nutritional advances.• We are committed to participating in public policy discussions with the potential to impact our patients, 
consumers and employees, or our ability to continue to produce new medical and nutritional advances.
We engage with governments, think tanks, trade 
associations, patient groups and other organizations 
around the world to find policy solutions to the  
complex issues that challenge healthcare systems.  
It is our responsibility to help governments and regulatory bodies understand Abbott’s views on major 
healthcare issues while also learning from them about 
the needs of their communities, so that we can work together to help people lead fuller lives. We meet with and brief policymakers, convene forums and discussions and contribute information and expertise to fulfill  
this responsibility.
W e strive to align with organizations whose overall 
advocacy platform demonstrates values that mirror 
our own. For example, we support trade associations 
and other membership organizations that understand how government actions can affect patients’ access to medical advances, and we promote an environment that fosters continued medical progress. Working with 
others increases our ability to advance policies that are 
consistent with our values and benefit society. Even though we cannot control the outcomes of discussions, we work to have a strong voice at the table.
Abbott also participates in the political process by 
contributing to state and local candidates and political organizations. Our Government Affairs team reviews and approves all corporate political contributions to ensure they are consistent with the company’s 
guidelines and are in compliance with applicable laws. 
More information can be found on our Web site in our most recent disclosure report.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
59
61  THE ROLE OF SHARED 
VALUE AT ABBOTT  
  We align the measures that we take to 
grow our business with the needs of the 
places where we operate
61  SHARED VALUE IN ACTION  
  Our dairy farm project in India delivers 
value to both Abbott and society. IN THIS SECTIONSHARED  
VALUE
At Abbott, we believe in the correlation 
between health and prosperity.  Our innovative products help people  to live their best lives through the power  of health. Helping people live more  fully through better health contributes directly to the productivity of the places in which we operate, and means that creating value for our business often leads to positive social impact. We believe we can amplify these positive impacts through a deliberate strategy of identifying opportunities for our business that also create value for communities.
60 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
THE ROLE OF SHARED VALUE  
AT ABBOTT
For us, shared value involves aligning the measures 
that we take to grow our business with the needs of the places in which we operate. 
We work with partners to focus our efforts on 
significant social issues where we can leverage Abbott’s particular knowledge and expertise to create both business value and positive social impact.
SHARED VALUE IN ACTION
Nearly half of rural households in India depend on dairy farming for at least part of their income. However, most rural farmers struggle to grow their income from the 
milk that their livestock produce. Many are unaware 
of farming practices that would improve the quality and quantity of their milk. Others have their income restricted by middlemen, while others lack the facilities to chill milk in order to ensure its quality and enable the 
farmers to distribute it more widely. 
In 2014, Abbott opened a new state-of-the-art facility 
for manufacturing nutrition products in Jhagadia, 
India. This facility helps meet a growing demand for 
high-quality nutrition products in India. By locating our manufacturing operation within the country, we will ensure that more of the value created by our products stays within the local economy. As part of this local 
strategy, we needed a sustainable supply of higher 
quality milk in order to meet our objective to source up to 80 percent of our ingredients locally. We realized that we could multiply the positive impact of local manufacturing by also helping to build a sustainable 
supply of high-quality dairy within the country.We are now working in rural Maharashtra, the region 
adjacent to Jhagadia, to provide up to 1,500 smallholder dairy farmers with the support and infrastructure they need to expand their production of high-quality milk. 
By bringing these farmers into the Indian Government’s 
organized dairy industry, with a reliable and sustainable market for their milk, we are strengthening our supply chain while helping local residents to build better lives 
and stronger communities.
Working in partnership with a local dairy company 
and TechnoServe, a non-profit organization seeking business solutions to poverty, we are providing 
farmers with training on financial and business skills 
as well as veterinary care and techniques to prevent contamination of animal feed. We are also building critical village-based infrastructure, including 10 new bulk milk-chilling facilities, and we are setting 
transparent, consistent prices based on the quality of 
milk that farmers supply.
As with all inclusive business initiatives, benefits accrue 
on all sides of the project: Abbott gets a high-quality, 
cost-efficient local supply chain that helps to reduce our 
environmental footprint and strengthens our nutrition business in India. Farmers have a platform for growing their incomes and improving the quality of life of their 
families and communities, and Indian consumers get 
access to high-quality nutrition, made in India from locally sourced ingredients.
Since the launch of our dairy farm project in India, 
we have started to explore similar initiatives that can 
deliver value to both Abbott and society. For example, in China, we are working with a dairy company on plans to develop a local supply chain for our new nutrition manufacturing plant in Jiaxing. We will continue to 
pursue this strategy and find new ways of building a 
stronger business while generating positive impact in our communities around the world. 
SHARED  
VALUE
CREATE POSITIVE  
SOCIAL IMPACT AT SCALE
 
 
DELIVER TANGIBLE BUSINESS VALUE
  
LEVERAGE ABBOTT’S  
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTISE
  
ADDRESS ISSUES THAT ARE OF SIGNIFICANT 
RELEVANCE TO OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
61
63  INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE 
TO EXPLORE SCIENCE  
  By inspiring the young people of today,  
we can produce innovators for our 
industry tomorrow. 
64  IMPROVING LIVES 
THROUGH BETTER 
NUTRITION  
  We illuminate the power of science-based 
nutrition to help people throughout the 
world live healthier lives. 65  PROVIDING A HEALTHY 
LIVING ENVIRONMENT  
  We are committed to building healthy 
communities wherever we operate, and we 
support innovative programs.
66  CONTRIBUTING THROUGH 
OUR EMPLOYEES  
  Our employees give generously, of their 
time, expertise, money and enthusiasm. IN THIS SECTIONSTRATEGIC 
PHILANTHROPY
62 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015Abbott and our philanthropic foundation 
aim to enable people to live fuller lives, and during 2015, we invested $37 million in community initiatives. We focus our philanthropic investments on areas that align with our business and our core capabilities, on opportunities to leverage our employees’ time and skills in their local communities and on partnerships with stakeholders that enable us ot achieve sustainable change. 
Abbott and our philanthropic foundation aims to 
enable people to live fuller lives, and we take a strategic approach to multiplying the positive impact of our 
efforts. During 2015, Abbott and The Abbott Fund 
invested $37 million in community initiatives, including cash contributions, volunteer time, and in-kind donations valued at wholesale cost. 
We focus our philanthropic investments on areas that 
align with our business and our core capabilities, on opportunities to leverage our employees’ time and skills in their local communities and on partnerships 
with stakeholders that enable us to achieve sustainable 
change. We always start by listening: to the needs that people have, and to the challenges that have prevented workable solutions up to now. We then partner with organizations whose skill and resources complement 
our own, and we measure the impact of our programs 
so that we can drive change sustainably and apply the lessons to helping other communities as well.
In 2015 we unlocked the potential that healthier 
communities provide in many ways, including: 
• Inspiring young people to explore STEM and health 
sciences
• Improving lives through better nutrition
• Providing a healthy living environment
• Contributing through our employees
INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE TO 
EXPLORE SCIENCE
We believe that science and technology will play an 
increasingly important role in the future of our planet, particularly in developing the healthcare and nutrition 
solutions to support better lives in the future. By 
inspiring the young people of today, we can produce innovators for our industry tomorrow.#ILOOKLIKEANENGINEER
When the #ILookLikeAnEngineer movement 
went viral on social media to combat gender stereotypes in the science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields, 
Corlis Murray, Abbott’s Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, knew she had to get involved. After 
playing an instrumental role in Abbott’s various 
mentorship programs and STEM education initiatives, Murray knew the importance of inspiring young women from all backgrounds to fulfill their professional potential in science, 
technology, engineering and math. 
ABBOTT FAMILY SCIENCE
Abbott Fund Family Science is a major global initiative 
to inspire children to pursue scientific careers. The 
program enables children ages seven to 10 to participate in experiments led by Abbott scientists and engineers, learning fundamental team-building and problem-solving skills along with the basics of the scientific 
method. More than 68,000 people and more than 650 
Abbott volunteers took part in the program in 2015, at more than 45 sites across China, Ireland, Singapore and the U.S. The program has also been conducted in 
Germany, Puerto Rico, the U.K. and South Korea.
In China alone, we have conducted Family Science 
programs in more than 60 cities since 2010. Global evaluation feedback indicates that 93 percent of parents 
agreed that the program motivated them to “seek other 
science education opportunities for my family” and 87 percent of children reported they “liked science more than they used to.” Abbott Family Science has won numerous awards over the years. In 2015, the program 
earned the China Excellent Corporate Citizenship Award from the China Federation of Social Work and the Outstanding Contribution Award from the Children 
and Youth Science Center of CAST (CYSC) for its great contribution to science education for youth in China.
OPERATION DISCOVERY
Operation Discovery invites older middle-school students to an Abbott facility, where our scientists 
and engineers guide them through hands-on lab 
experiments using the same tools and procedures that Abbott scientists deploy in their daily work.
Since 2002, more than 1,000 Abbott scientists 
have conducted Operation Discovery programs 
for communities across the U.S., China, Germany, Ireland and Singapore. In 2015, 84 percent of students participating agreed that Operation Discovery made them want to learn more about how science and 
engineering can improve human health.
OUT-OF-SCHOOL INSPIRATION IN STEM
Our global science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) education programs are specifically designed for K-12 out-of-school programs. They provide an understanding of the science and innovation behind 
healthcare, medical devices and nutrition. These 
programs encourage young people to be more proficient in science, technology, engineering and math, thus giving them pathways to a promising future and the potential to make a contribution to better health for all.
“For me it’s a game changer. The Abbott 
Fund has given employees such a gift to 
give to the community. The event could be 
that one day that changes the life of a kid.”
Abbott Family Science volunteer 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
63
IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH  
BETTER NUTRITION
We illuminate the power of science-based nutrition 
to help people throughout the world live healthier lives. Our efforts help them develop new nutritional 
solutions for untapped markets. Through education, 
advocacy, and collaboration, our scientists also gain exposure to new environments as they contribute to our philanthropic work. 
WONDER GRAIN
More than 1 billion people around the world suffer from 
micronutrient malnutrition, in countries where rice is 
a staple food.
6 Abbott has partnered with international 
nonprofit organization PATH to address this health issue in a sustainable way.
More than a dozen Abbott scientists collaborated with 
PATH to improve its Ultra Rice fortification technology, trying more than 100 different variables to develop enhanced formulations. Partnership achievements 
include:
• Improved nutrient content with different 
combinations of iron, vitamin A, zinc and B vitamins, 
which can be customized to meet the needs and 
standards of each country.
• Optimized formulations to enhance flavor, aroma and appearance to make Ultra Rice as close to traditional rice as possible.
• Reduced cost of Ultra Rice by approximately  
10 percent.
In addition, support from the Abbott Fund has helped build local capacity and strengthen local distribution 
in India. Fortified Ultra Rice grains are blended 
with milled rice to create a highly nutritious food that is nearly identical to traditional rice. The new formulations are already having an impact: in the United 
States, the Department of Agriculture approved fortified 
rice for distribution through U.S. food aid programs around the world.
Moving forward, the new formulations will be 
distributed in India, Brazil and Myanmar – working with local producers and rice millers so that the fortified grains are widely available on a sustainable basis. 
NOURIMANBA IN HAITI
Childhood malnutrition and lack of economic 
opportunity have long plagued Haiti, the Western 
Hemisphere’s poorest nation. But since the July 2013 opening of a new state-of-the-art nutrition plant opened in Haiti’s Central Plateau, real progress has been made.
The new production facility, built by Haitians with 
the support of Abbott engineers, scientists and other specialists, is the centerpiece of a broader partnership in Haiti between Partners In Health (PIH), Abbott and the Abbott Fund. Managed and operated locally 
by PIH’s sister organization, Zanmi Lasante, the 
Haitian staff of 30-plus has scaled up production and distribution of Nourimanba, its free-of-charge, ready-to-use therapeutic food product for the treatment of severe childhood malnutrition. The facility allows 
Zanmi Lasante (ZL) to address gaps in the treatment of 
children and prevent relapse. Coupled with the work of ZL’s community health workers , the Nourimanba facility is key to ZL’s strategy of reaching up to 11,000 
children who are at risk of suffering from malnutrition. 
Abbott experts continue to provide training and share 
best practices and guidance both on-site and virtually, volunteering more than 15,000 hours in total since the 
partnership began. Volunteer feedback suggests that 
employees appreciate the opportunity to use their expertise in a new way, which is fulfilling on both a personal and professional level. To date, the partnership has produced more than 
330,000 pounds of Nourimanba, reaching more than 
8,725 children. As part of the long-term plan, the facility is looking to drive sustainability by selling high-quality food products as well.
This strategic partnership is also supporting local 
farmers by expanding demand for locally sourced, high-quality peanuts. In 2013, working together with the international nonprofit TechnoServe, the partnership 
piloted a new business supply chain model to expand 
the supply of quality, cost-competitive peanuts while boosting incomes for approximately 300 local smallholder farmers. Since the program’s inception, these farmers have almost doubled their income.  
Based on the success of the pilot, other partners are now replicating and expanding this model across Haiti.
8,725
children in Haiti are currently receiving Nourimanba  
for the treatment of malnutrition
+15,000
HOURS VOLUNTEERED
Abbott experts have volunteered more than 15,000 hours 
to the partnership in Haiti.
ABBOTT FUND INSTITUTE OF  
NUTRITION SCIENCE
Established in China in 2008 and in 2010 in Vietnam, the Abbott Fund Institute of Nutrition Science (AFINS) partners with leading experts to advance clinical nutrition through training, research and 
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, The State 
of Food Insecurity in the World 2014.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
64
health education. In China, AFINS is a partnership 
between the Abbott Fund, Project HOPE and Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC) and in Vietnam, a 
partnership with Boston University, Bach Mai Hospital, 
the National Institute of Nutrition and Hanoi Medical University. Since the programs began, they have trained more than 6,500 healthcare professionals and reduced the risk of malnutrition among children at SCMC 
in China by 83 percent. In both China and Vietnam, 
AFINS has been embraced by local government and hospital leaders, ensuring that efforts to strengthen hospital nutrition and provide better patient care will 
be sustainable on an ongoing basis. AFINS has received 
wide scale recognition for its contribution to the nutrition community. Since the program began, Abbott and its partners have presented on the work of AFINS  
at 15 forums globally.
100% OF NEW  
PATIENTS
All new patients at Shanghai  
Children’s Medical Center are  
screened for malnutrition.
30% DROP IN  
MALNUTRITION RISK
Since 2010, Bach Mai Hospital 
in Vietnam has seen the risk of malnutrition drop approximately  
30 percent.BACKPACKS FULL OF GOOD NUTRITION
Each Friday, thousands of otherwise hungry American 
children leave school toting backpacks filled with 
nutritious foods and juices for themselves and their families. The backpacks are distributed discreetly before weekends and school vacations. Feeding America, the nation’s largest network of food banks, manages the 
BackPack Program, serving hundreds of thousands of 
children annually. 
The Abbott Fund is a major supporter of this program, 
helping to feed an estimated 30,000 families by 
sponsoring BackPack Programs near Abbott sites in Alameda, Irvine and San Jose, California; Columbus, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; Altavista, Virginia; Kenosha, Wisconsin; North Chicago and Chicago, Illinois; 
and Puerto Rico. The Abbott Fund also sponsors 
similar programs outside the U.S. through the Global FoodBanking Network. In 2010, the first international BackPack Program was launched in Mexico City, Mexico, with the Abbott Fund, and it is currently 
serving 300 children and their families.
MORE THAN  
4.5 MILLION MEALS
More than 4.5 million meals of food were delivered  
to children and their families in 2015 through  
Abbott Fund support and volunteer efforts.
PROVIDING A HEALTHY LIVING 
ENVIRONMENT
A healthy living environment doesn’t just produce 
healthier people; it also creates healthier communities, multiplying the potential for people to live fuller 
lives. At Abbott, we are committed to building healthy 
communities wherever we operate, and we support innovative programs to address unmet needs. When 
natural disasters and emergencies strike communities, 
we work closely with our trusted humanitarian relief partners to restore a healthy living environment.
PROTECTING PRECIOUS WATER RESOURCES
No one can live a full and healthy life without sufficient access to clean water, yet one in eight people on 
earth lacks such access. Project WET, a longtime 
Abbott partner in community health, is dedicated to educating children, parents, teachers and communities about safeguarding and optimizing this precious natural resource. In Casa Grande in Arizona, near 
one of Abbott’s most water-stressed manufacturing 
sites, our partnership is educating students about water stewardship and the complex environmental issues involved. Together, we have created a suite of educational activities, reaching more than 90,000 
students and focused on such vital issues as wise water 
use and conservation. Through this program, more  
than 10.3 million gallons of water has been saved for  
the benefit of the community. 
IMPROVING SANITATION FOR HEALTHIER  
LIVES IN INDIA
More than half of India’s people have no access to a toilet – and being forced to defecate in the open raises huge risks for their health and that of their neighbors 
through poor sanitation. In the villages of Dadheda 
and Talodra in the state of Gujarat, the number of people without a toilet reaches 70 percent. Working with a number of respected NGOs, we are launching a comprehensive awareness, education and infrastructure 
program with the aim of helping these villages to 
improve sanitation. Abbott is investing $500,000 to build toilets in households, schools and health centers. In addition, we are supporting community education 
efforts to raise awareness of the connections between 
sanitation and health.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
65
DISASTER RELIEF
When natural disasters and other emergencies strike, 
Abbott and the Abbott Fund work closely with our 
trusted humanitarian relief partners to address both immediate needs and longer-term reconstruction and 
rehabilitation efforts. We also understand the value of 
preparation. Over the past several years, Abbott has worked with Direct Relief and Feeding America to pre-position critical products in high-risk areas across the U.S., Caribbean, Central America and Asia, ahead of 
hurricane season. This ensures that the right products 
are in the right places before disaster strikes.
In 2015, Abbott and the Abbott Fund provided more 
than $620,000 in product and cash donations in response to severe floods in India, Myanmar and the 
U.S., the earthquake in Nepal and the European  
refugee crisis.CONTRIBUTING THROUGH  
OUR EMPLOYEES
Abbott employees share our commitment to creating 
healthier communities worldwide. They give generously – of their time, expertise, money and 
enthusiasm – contributing to numerous community-
based initiatives. In 2015, the value of our globally volunteer time alone exceeded $1.5 million. To facilitate this important work, we updated our online system connecting our employees to volunteer activities that 
match their needs, interests and professional skills  
and expertise.
Abbott employees increased their participation 
in support of nonprofit and community groups in 
2015, with more than 92 percent of U.S. employees contributing through the company’s annual employee giving campaign. This employee participation is nearly three times the median participation in workplace 
giving campaigns, according to the 2015 Giving in 
Numbers report by the Committee Encouraging 
Corporate Philanthropy (CECP). Matching contributions from the Abbott Fund and employee giving totaled more than $11 million in 2015. 
 
+$11 MILLION
Employees and matching grants contributed more than  
$11 million to community programs in 2015.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
66
STAMPING OUT  
DISEASE WITH IMPROVED  
SANITATION
Poor sanitation – lack of toilets, safe drinking water and dependable sewage 
disposal, for example – is the source of many diseases. Abbott is embarking 
on a comprehensive awareness, education and infrastructure program in two 
villages in Gujarat, India, to improve sanitation and health conditions.
595 MILLION
MORE THAN HALF OF INDIA’S 
PEOPLE – 595 MILLION – DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO TOILETS.
1
70%
Nearly 70 percent of the households in the villages of Dadheda and Talodra in the state of Gujarat lack toilets.450
By building about 450 new toilets and introducing new education programs, we aim to make two villages in the state 
of Gujarat “open-defecation free.”POOR SANITATION  
CAN LEAD TO  
POOR HEALTH
 
Poor sanitation is linked to transmission of  
diseases such as cholera, diarrhea, dysentery,  
hepatitis A, typhoid and polio.2
1.5 MILLION INDIAN CHILDREN 
Open defecation causes chronic diarrhea that can 
lead to stunting, and 1.5 million Indian children 
under age 5 die each year from diarrhea.3
18.8% of schools in rural India  
do not have girls’ toilets.4
A study of pregnant women in India found  
that poor sanitation significantly increased the  
odds of adverse birth outcomes such as preterm 
births and low birth weight.5
1. UNICEF India. 2. World Health Organization, Fact sheet N°392, June 2015 3. Bhan MK. Accelerated progress to reduce under-5 
mortality in India. Lancet Glob Health. 2013;1:e172–3. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4367049/#ref1] 4. Annual Status 
of Education Report (Rural) 2014, by Pratham. 5. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4511257/
69   TRANSPARENCY  
ON POLICIES  
    We strive for transparency by providing 
information on policies and standards 
applicable to each of our priority areas.IN THIS SECTION
Abbott’s policies and standards guide our 
business decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to the environment. We strive for transparency by providing information on policies and standards applicable to each of our citizenship priorities.TRANSPARENCY
68 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 68
TRANSPARENCY ON POLICIES
We strive for transparency by providing information 
on the policies and standards that guide our business decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to the 
environment. Our policies always seek to meet or 
exceed the national and international standards in the countries where we operate.Following is a listing of some of our most critical policies which can be found on our Web site.
• Code of Business Conduct
• Supplier Guidelines
• Position Statement on Conflict Minerals
• Environmental Policy
• Energy Policy
• Water Policy
• Green Procurement Policy
• Global Environment Health and Safety Policy
• Environmental and Safety Assurance Statement
• Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing 
Business with Abbott
• Clinical Trials Registration and Results Disclosures
• Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related 
Organizations
• Stakeholder Engagement Policy
• Position Statement on Tax
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
69
71  SCOPE OF REPORTING  
  Our reporting focuses on our most 
material impacts and speaks to a range of 
stakeholders.
71  FEEDBACK ON OUR 
REPORTING  
  We draw upon many external resources in 
refining our citizenship strategy.
71  EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  
    Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider to conduct assurance of key 2015 
environmental and safety data.72  AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITION  
    Abbott has been recognized around the 
world for our comprehensive approach to 
responsible corporate citizenship.
73  METRICS  
    The charts and tables on these pages 
spotlight our key financial, social  
and environmental metrics for 2015. IN THIS SECTIONREPORTING 
Our Global Citizenship reporting is guided 
by our materiality assessment and focuses on the most significant issues for our business. Our reporting addresses the needs and interests of a range of stakeholders, including consumers, customers, patients, employees, government and regulatory bodies, investors, special interest groups, non-governmental organizations and opinion leaders.
70 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015 70
17 YEARS  
OF REPORTING
Abbott has reported on our citizenship  
activities for 17 years.
NO. 1 IN HEALTHCARE
Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry 
Group Leader on the prestigious Dow 
Jones Sustainability World Index and 
North America Index for the third 
consecutive year in 2015.At Abbott, we have reported on our citizenship 
activities for 17 years, beginning with a focus on our environmental impacts. In 2000, we moved toward 
more comprehensive annual reporting by issuing  
our first citizenship report. Our reporting focuses  
on the most significant impacts of our business and  
aims to address a number of key issues important to 
a range of stakeholders. These stakeholders include 
consumers, customers, patients, employees, government 
and regulatory bodies, investors, special interest  
groups, non-governmental organizations and opinion leaders in the areas of responsible, sustainable and 
inclusive business.
Recently, we have also produced citizenship reports in 
Ireland, India and China. This approach enables us to target our citizenship communications to local markets 
and provide greater coverage on issues relevant to those 
areas. Copies of our local reports are available on our Web site for the following countries:
SCOPE OF REPORTING
• All financial information is stated in U.S. dollars.
• All data in this report reflects Abbott’s activities, with a focus on 2015 results.
• Neither this report nor our Web site contains performance information about our joint ventures unless otherwise noted.
• Select information and data calculations from prior years have been adjusted to reflect the company’s 
separation from AbbVie in January 2013.
• The Abbott Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit 
philanthropic corporation established by Abbott in 1951.
• Our Global Citizenship Report for 2015 will be published in the second quarter of 2016.FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING
We draw upon many external sources of expertise to develop and execute our citizenship strategy. These external experts also guide our engagements with key 
stakeholders, the development of our Web site and 
the production of this report. They include Corporate Citizenship, Business for Social Responsibility, the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School and Conference Board. We gratefully 
acknowledge their input. Our engagement with these 
groups better informs our approach to reporting, while also keeping us abreast of stakeholder expectations and helping us identify areas of opportunity for 
strengthened citizenship engagement.
We also refer to external standards on reporting, such as 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider, Bureau Veritas, to conduct assurance of selected 2015 environmental and safety data. The Policy section of our 
Web site includes a pdf of the Bureau Veritas  
Assurance Statement.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
71
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Abbott has been recognized around the world for its 
comprehensive approach to global citizenship.
• Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry Group 
Leader on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and North America Index for the third consecutive year. This is the 11
th consecutive year 
that Abbott has been included in both the North America Index and the World Index – recognition 
of our continued global leadership in economic, 
environmental and social performance.
• Abbott was ranked the No. 1 company overall and No. 1 for social responsibility in our industry sector (Medical Products and Equipment) on the Fortune  
Most Admired Companies 2015 list.
• In 2015, we improved our carbon disclosure score from 93 to 99, and our suppliers exceeded the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) global 
average.
• Abbott received the 2013 Climate Leadership Award 
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for our programs and results in reducing carbon pollution and addressing climate change.
• In China, Abbott was among the Top 50 Best Corporate Citizens for the fifth time in 2015, recognized by the Corporate Citizenship Committee of CASW . Abbott in China also received the Top Employers 2015 award for the fourth time in 2015, 
from the Top Employers Institute.
• Abbott has been recognized as a Great Place to Work 
by the Great Place to Work Institute in many different countries, including Brazil, Ireland, Japan, Australia, France and the U.K.
• In 2015, Abbott was recognized as No. 11 on the global 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. Abbott has appeared on the list, compiled by Corporate Responsibility magazine, for seven consecutive years, 2009 to 2015. BEST CORPORATE  
CITIZEN
Abbott has been included in the global 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens list compiled by Corporate 
Responsibility magazine for seven consecutive years, 
2009 to 2015. This year, Abbott again was recognized  
as No. 11 on the list.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
72
74  KEY METRICS  
79   DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL  
PERFORMANCE  IN THIS SECTIONMETRICS
The charts and tables on the following  
pages spotlight our key metrics in financial, social and environmental areas for 2015. 2015 Highlights
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
73
KEY METRICS – FINANCIAL
** 2012 data reflects Abbott’s previous business profile before our separation  
from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.* 2012–2014 financial results have been adjusted to reflect Abbott’s developed markets branded generics pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses as discontinued operations; 2012 financial results have also been adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate company on Jan. 1, 2013.SALES WORLDWIDE
2012 2013 2014 2015
2015
2015
2015TOTAL 19,050* 19,657* 20,247* 20,405Doll ars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 3.183** 1.443 0.882 1.342Doll ars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 1.461* 1.371* 1.345 1.405Doll ars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 8.0* 8.5 8.8 8.3Doll ars in BillionsSALES WORLDWIDE
2012 2013 2014 2015
2015
2015
2015TOTAL 19,050* 19,657* 20,247* 20,405Doll ars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 3.183** 1.443 0.882 1.342Doll ars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 1.461* 1.371* 1.345 1.405Doll ars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 8.0* 8.5 8.8 8.3Doll ars in BillionsSALES WORLDWIDE
2012 2013 2014 2015
2015
2015
2015TOTAL 19,050* 19,657* 20,247* 20,405Doll ars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 3.183** 1.443 0.882 1.342Doll ars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 1.461* 1.371* 1.345 1.405Doll ars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 8.0* 8.5 8.8 8.3Doll ars in BillionsSALES WORLDWIDE
2012 2013 2014 2015
2015
2015
2015TOTAL 19,050* 19,657* 20,247* 20,405Doll ars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 3.183** 1.443 0.882 1.342Doll ars in Billions
R&D INVESTMENT
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 1.461* 1.371* 1.345 1.405Doll ars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL 8.0* 8.5 8.8 8.3Doll ars in Billions
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
74
*  Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate 
company Jan. 1, 2013.**  2012 data reflects Abbott’s previous business profile before our separation from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing 
operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing 
operations
Including 
acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) KEY METRICS – SOCIAL
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing 
operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing 
operations
Including 
acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing 
operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing 
operations
Including 
acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201575
***  Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees assuming the average  
employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year. This is equivalent to  200,000 hours worked.
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing 
operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing operations
Including 
acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing operations
Including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2012 2013 2014 2015
TOTAL 0.58 0.45 0.37 0.39Incidents per 100 Employees*** 5.4%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2013 2010 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 6.4 4.4 3.9 4.2 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven 7.7%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%35.3%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2012 2013 2014
TOTAL $7.0 $4.1 $4.1 $4.1Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2012 2013
TOTAL $59.8* $56.62014
$49.5 $37.0Dollars in MillionsEMPLOYEES
2012 2013
TOTAL
45.3%
25.4%45.0%27.0%46.0% 46.0%
27.0% 29.0%91,000** 69,0002013 2014 2015
2015
201573,000 74,000
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% Change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 0.12
3.6
0.29Continuing operations
Including acquisitions
Continuing operations
Including acquisitions* % change from 2014 to 2015, including acquisitions
Note: The increase in rates is attributed to recent acquisitions.**% change from 2010 (goal) 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
76
KEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTALWATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005WATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKE
Water-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
77
WATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKE
Water-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  
CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005WATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKE
Water-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  
CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005WATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005WATER INTAKE
2013 2014
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.56 0.57 0.53 Water-stressed locations (4)Billion Gallons
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline yea r3.54 3.20 3.450.48
3.352015
-2.9%*
TOTA L WA STE
2010†2013 2014 20152010†
49,704 41,374 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
27,541 18,314 Total waste landﬁlled
35,020 27,844 Total waste recycled
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year77,245 59,68744,198
16,672
28,486
60,87044,852
14,611
28,154
59,463-2.3%*
CO2e EMISSIONS (Region-Based Emission Factors)
2010†2013 2014 2015
519 449Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
5 5
524 454
625 534459
6 6
465
553
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions 1,149 988 1,018453
459
524983-3.5%*TOTAL WATER INTAKE
Water-stressed locations
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 202 155 164 164WATER INTAKE
2013 2010†2014 2015 2020
32 28 25 24
142Gallons per $1,000 Sales
Normalized by Sales-0.1%* -30%**
2.90 4.42 2.90 2.91 2.21TOTA L WASTE
2010†2013 2014 2015 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%0.5%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) CO2e emissions
26 26CO2e EMISSION S
2010†2013 2014 2020 2015
22 22
TOTAL  (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) CO2e emissions Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO2e emissions
483630
66 492622
48 39-0.7%* -40%**GOAL-30%
GOAL
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year
*% change from 2014 to 2015
† baseline year**% change from 2010 (goal) WATER INTAKE
TOTAL WASTE (5)
TOTAL WASTE
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%Normalized by Sales
GOALPurchased Energy (Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 546
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO
2e Emissions utilizing 
Scope 2 Market-Based Method NA NA NA 1,005
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201578
DETAILED  
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCECO2e EMISSIONS
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 25 23 20 19
USA 498 496 494 458
Region Total 523 519 514 477
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 11 11 11 12
Brazil 4 2 3 4
Chile 4 4 5 5
Colombia 2 1 1 2
Costa Rica 1 1 1 1
Mexico 15 14 14 14
Peru 1 2 1 1
Puerto Rico 41 27 27 21
Commercial Region Total 14 13 14 13
Region Total 92 76 78 74
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
79
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 26 26 23 25
Ireland 61 53 53 53
Netherlands 60 61 65 67
Russia 17 15 16 20
Spain 12 12 11 10
Sweden 2 1 1 1
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 15 15 16 14
Commercial Region Total 36 36 35 32
Region Total 228 219 221 224
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 17 39 37
India 17 16 32 37
Japan 1 1 1 1
Malaysia 0 0 0 3
Pakistan 19 20 21 19
Singapore 49 45 43 39
Commercial Region Total 84 72 67 70
Region Total 186 173 206 208
Total 1,029 988 1,018 983
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
80
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 14 13 11 11
USA 213 224 224 212
Region Total 227 237 235 223
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 4 4 3 3
Brazil 2 1 2 2
Chile 1 1 1 1
Colombia 0 0 0 0
Costa Rica 0 0 0 0
Mexico 14 13 14 14
Peru 0 0 0 0
Puerto Rico 2 2 1 0
Commercial Region Total 12 11 12 12
Region Total 35 33 34 33
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
81
CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 10 11 9 10
Ireland 33 29 27 30
Netherlands 34 34 33 34
Russia 12 11 10 12
Spain 6 5 4 5
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 5 5 5 4
Commercial Region Total 27 26 25 24
Region Total 125 119 113 118
ASIA PACIFIC
China 1 1 13 13
India 1 0 4 9
Indonesia 0 0 1 1
Japan 0 0 0 0
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 16 18 18 17
Singapore 22 18 18 17
Commercial Region Total 40 27 29 29
Region Total 80 65 84 84
Total 467 454 465 459
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
82
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 11 10 9 8
USA 284 272 271 245
Region Total 295 282 280 254
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 7 8 8 8
Brazil 2 1 1 2
Chile 3 3 4 4
Colombia 1 1 1 2
Costa Rica 1 1 1 1
Mexico 0 1 0 0
Peru 1 1 1 1
Puerto Rico 39 26 26 20
Commercial Region Total 2 2 2 2
Region Total 57 44 44 41
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
83
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 16 16 15 16
Ireland 28 24 26 23
Netherlands 26 27 32 33
Russia 5 5 6 8
Spain 7 8 7 5
Sweden 2 1 1 1
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 10 10 11 10
Commercial Region Total 10 10 11 9
Region Total 103 100 108 106
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 15 26 24
India 16 16 28 28
Indonesia 2 2 2 2
Japan 1 1 1 1
Malaysia 0 0 0 3
Pakistan 3 3 3 3
Singapore 27 27 24 22
Commercial Region Total 45 45 38 41
Region Total 107 108 122 124
Total 562 534 553 524
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
84
WATER INTAKE
WATER INTAKE BY REGION
BILLION GALLONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 0.20 0.17 0.16 0.17
USA 1.66 1.65 1.75 1.66
Region Total 1.87 1.82 1.91 1.83
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.08
Brazil 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01
Chile 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01
Colombia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Costa Rica 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02
Mexico 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03
Peru 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Puerto Rico 0.12 0.09 0.08 0.05
Region Total 0.30 0.26 0.26 0.23
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
85
WATER INTAKE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04
Ireland 0.17 0.16 0.17 0.18
Netherlands 0.33 0.32 0.34 0.35
Russia 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.07
Spain 0.09 0.10 0.09 0.09
Sweden 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.75 0.73 0.73 0.76
ASIA PACIFIC
China 0.04 0.04 0.16 0.14
India 0.05 0.05 0.10 0.12
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01
Pakistan 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09
Singapore 0.20 0.19 0.18 0.17
Region Total 0.38 0.39 0.54 0.54
Total 3.30 3.20 3.45 3.35
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
86
WATER CONSUMED (IN PROCESS)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total Water Consumed 0.67 0.67 0.69 0.73 6.7
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total Water Consumed 34 32 33 36 9.8
 
WATER DISCHARGED (IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.05 1.97 2.11 2.07 -1.6
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Water Discharged (Impaired) 103 96 100 102 1.3
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
87
WATER DISCHARGED (NON-IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.58 0.56 0.66 0.54 -17.3
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 29 27 31 27 -14.9
 
BOD CONCENTRATION IN WASTEWATER
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Concentration in Wastewater Discharged to Environment(6) 29 8 6 9 50.0
 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
88
TOTAL WASTE
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,208 1,039 711 703
USA 22,952 23,009 23,635 24,038
Region Total 24,160 24,048 24,346 24,742
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 1,332 1,402 1,231 1,259
Brazil 1,007 826 566 637
Chile 581 581 581 580
Colombia 500 500 500 907
Costa Rica 605 179 146 89
Mexico 373 537 432 362
Peru 313 313 313 429
Puerto Rico 4,888 3,484 3,475 1,837
Commercial Region Total(7)439 439 439 948
Region Total 10,038 8,260 7,683 7,047
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
89
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 1,957 2,112 2,360 2,310
Ireland 4,765 4,679 4,529 3,972
Netherlands 7,923 8,635 7,734 4,998
Russia 1,206 1,193 979 901
Spain 938 1,009 891 1,529
Sweden 351 417 406 464
Switzerland 133 149 92 36
United Kingdom 1,204 1,133 1,050 1,044
Commercial Region Total(7)1,159 1,159 1,159 1,562
Region Total 19,636 20,487 19,200 16,815
ASIA PACIFIC
China 419 380 2,146 2,145
India 1,353 1,435 3,145 4,147
Indonesia 61 19 29 23
Japan 453 428 383 486
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 1,188 1,214 842 658
Singapore 2,718 2,386 2,068 3,090
Commercial Region Total(7)1,029 1,029 1,029 311
Region Total 7,221 6,892 9,641 10,860
Total 61,055 59,687 60,870 59,463
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
90
HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 10,300 9,906 8,851 5,615 -36.6
Hazardous Waste Landfilled 603 709 697 839 20.4
Hazardous Waste 10,903 10,615 9,548 6,454 -32.4
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Normalized by sales 0.55 0.52 0.45 0.32 -30.5
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
91
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 140 200 151 141
USA 966 1,090 821 723
Region Total 1,106 1,290 972 863
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 615 679 615 661
Brazil 193 172 113 167
Chile 453 453 453 237
Colombia 198 198 198 219
Costa Rica 12 24 25 16
Mexico 75 65 67 66
Peru 79 79 79 150
Puerto Rico 2,316 1,564 1,435 99
Commercial Region Total(7)56 56 56 216
Region Total 3,997 3,290 3,042 1,832
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
92
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 267 340 491 517
Ireland 415 355 405 376
Netherlands 3,595 3,944 3,092 1,446
Russia 294 294 294 225
Spain 23 10 11 14
Sweden 271 333 316 348
Switzerland 3 3 3 0
United Kingdom 343 136 208 189
Commercial Region Total(7)315 315 315 227
Region Total 5,526 5,729 5,135 3,341
ASIA PACIFIC
China 12 12 26 15
India 106 127 183 236
Indonesia 7 5 7 11
Japan 8 5 8 10
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 9 22 27 79
Singapore 33 33 47 51
Commercial Region Total(7)101 101 101 16
Region Total 274 306 399 418
Total 10,903 10,615 9,548 6,454
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
93
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Non-Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 31,431 31,467 35,347 39,237 11.0
Non-Hazardous Waste Landfilled 18,720 17,604 15,975 13,772 -13.8
Non-Hazardous Waste 50,151 49,072 51,322 53,009 3.3
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Non-Hazardous Waste 2.53 2.38 2.45 2.60 6.2
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
94
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,067 840 560 562
USA 21,987 21,919 22,814 23,316
Region Total 23,054 22,758 23,374 23,878
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 718 723 615 597
Brazil 814 654 452 470
Chile 128 128 128 343
Colombia 302 302 302 688
Costa Rica 593 155 121 73
Mexico 298 472 365 296
Peru 234 234 234 279
Puerto Rico 2,572 1,920 2,040 1,737
Commercial Region Total(7)383 383 383 732
Region Total 6,041 4,970 4,641 5,215
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
95
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 1,690 1,772 1,869 1,793
Ireland 4,350 4,324 4,124 3,596
Netherlands 4,328 4,692 4,642 3,551
Russia 912 899 685 676
Spain 915 999 880 1,515
Sweden 80 85 90 116
Switzerland 130 146 89 36
United Kingdom 861 997 842 855
Commercial Region Total(7)844 844 844 1,334
Region Total 14,110 14,758 14,065 13,474
ASIA PACIFIC
China 407 368 2,120 2,130
India 1,247 1,308 2,962 3,911
Indonesia 54 14 21 13
Japan 445 423 375 476
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 1,180 1,192 815 579
Singapore 2,686 2,353 2,020 3,039
Commercial Region Total(7)928 928 928 294
Region Total 6,947 6,586 9,242 10,442
Total 50,151 49,072 51,322 53,009
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
96
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Purchased Fuels (Scope1)(1) 8,094 7,925 8,266 8,128 -1.7
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(2) 4,443 4,183 4,196 4,079 -2.8
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption 12,537 12,108 12,462 12,207 -2.0
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) 409 385 394 398 1.2
Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 224 203 200 200 0.0
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption 633 588 594 598 0.8
ELECTRICITY GENERATED ON-SITE
MILLION KILOWATT HOURS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
From cogeneration 33.6 34.9 37.7 37.9 0.6
From renewables 0.11 0.12 0.33 0.32 -4.5
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
97
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 455 434 367 363
USA 5,795 5,865 5,940 5,704
Region Total 6,250 6,299 6,308 6,067
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 136 137 133 141
Brazil 92 70 64 70
Chile 39 42 41 48
Colombia 34 35 35 40
Costa Rica 57 52 49 41
Mexico 255 242 245 255
Peru 19 19 19 21
Puerto Rico 457 318 315 206
Commercial Region Total 221 209 219 208
Region Total 1,309 1,124 1,121 1,030
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
98
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 289 287 259 268
Ireland 677 620 677 703
Netherlands 821 843 851 871
Russia 251 224 226 280
Spain 197 185 161 159
Sweden 38 34 35 34
Switzerland 6 6 1 2
United Kingdom 166 168 165 153
Commercial Region Total 512 500 496 458
Region Total 2,956 2,867 2,871 2,928
ASIA PACIFIC
China 91 108 377 349
India 118 120 229 286
Indonesia 15 16 21 20
Japan 7 7 7 7
Malaysia 0 0 0 14
Pakistan 296 333 319 305
Singapore 582 512 511 470
Commercial Region Total 912 723 697 731
Region Total 2,022 1,818 2,162 2,182
Total 12,537 12,108 12,462 12,207
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
99
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 243 232 189 189
USA 3,992 4,137 4,217 4,045
Region Total 4,236 4,369 4,406 4,234
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 65 65 59 60
Brazil 23 19 17 17
Chile 13 14 13 15
Colombia 6 7 7 7
Costa Rica 0 1 1 1
Mexico 252 237 243 253
Peru 3 3 3 3
Puerto Rico 20 22 18 2
Commercial Region Total 180 172 186 178
Region Total 563 539 547 535
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
100
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 149 159 141 146
Ireland 458 417 477 510
Netherlands 593 601 588 606
Russia 211 187 177 215
Spain 91 83 67 79
Sweden 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 88 90 85 73
Commercial Region Total 385 373 360 346
Region Total 1,975 1,908 1,895 1,975
ASIA PACIFIC
China 7 17 232 210
India 56 54 120 160
Indonesia 7 7 10 10
Japan 0 0 0 0
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 274 311 298 283
Singapore 386 320 326 294
Commercial Region Total 591 399 432 426
Region Total 1,320 1,108 1,418 1,384
Total 8,094 7,925 8,266 8,128
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
101
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2012 2013 2014 2015
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 212 202 179 174
USA 1,803 1,728 1,723 1,659
Region Total 2,014 1,929 1,902 1,833
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 71 72 73 81
Brazil 68 50 47 53
Chile 26 28 29 33
Colombia 27 29 29 33
Costa Rica 56 51 48 40
Mexico 3 5 2 2
Peru 16 16 16 18
Puerto Rico 437 296 297 204
Commercial Region Total 42 38 33 31
Region Total 746 584 574 495
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
102
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
Germany 140 128 119 122
Ireland 219 203 201 193
Netherlands 228 243 262 264
Russia 40 37 49 65
Spain 106 103 94 80
Sweden 38 34 35 34
Switzerland 6 6 1 2
United Kingdom 78 78 79 80
Commercial Region Total 127 127 136 113
Region Total 982 959 976 953
ASIA PACIFIC
China 84 91 146 139
India 62 65 109 125
Indonesia 9 9 11 10
Japan 7 7 7 7
Malaysia 0 0 0 14
Pakistan 23 23 22 22
Singapore 196 192 185 176
Commercial Region Total 321 324 265 305
Region Total 702 710 744 799
Total 4,443 4,183 4,196 4,079
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
103
ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(UNITS BELOW)
2012 2013 2014 2015 UNITS
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 959 918 931 928 million kwh
Natural Gas 5,711 5,824 6,480 6,422 million cubic feet
Fuel Oils 3 2 0 0 million gallons
Coal 1 5 2 0 thousand tons
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 113 82 78 50 million kwh
Biofuels N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 34 35 38 38 million kwh
Leased Building Electricity 107 107 104 102 million kwh
Leased Building Natural Gas 183 183 177 174 million cubic feet
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 10.0 8.1 8.0 7.7 million gallons
Sales Fleet Diesel 1.9 1.9 1.8 1.8 million gallons
Aviation Fuel 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.8 million gallons
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 million gallons
Mobile Total 12.9 10.8 10.6 10.4 million gallons
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
104
ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE (CONTINUED)
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(1,000 GIGAJOULES)
2012 2013 2014 2015
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 3,452 3,304 3,350 3,340
Natural Gas 5,850 5,965 6,618 6,547
Fuel Oils 403 245 45 33
Coal 30 152 50 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) 65 57 75 104
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 406 294 280 180
Biofuels 41 50 52 34
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 1 1
Leased Building Electricity 386 386 373 368
Leased Building Natural Gas 199 199 192 190
Stationary Total 10,832 10,651 11,036 10,796
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,322 1,074 1,053 1,011
Sales Fleet Diesel 282 283 267 263
Aviation Fuel 72 77 83 110
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 29 24 22 26
Mobile Total 1,705 1,457 1,425 1,410
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
105
ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
(1,000 METRIC TON CO2-EQUIVALENT)
2012 2013 2014 2015
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 477 454 476 454
Natural Gas 309 315 350 347
Fuel Oils 30 18 3 2
Coal 3 14 4 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG, Pet Coke) 4 4 5 8
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 20 15 14 9
Biofuels 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 0 0
Leased Building Electricity 55 56 54 52
Leased Building Natural Gas 10 10 9 9
Stationary Total 907 884 916 881
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 88 72 71 68
Sales Fleet Diesel 20 20 19 18
Aviation Fuel 5 5 6 8
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 2 2 2 2
Mobile Total 115 99 97 96
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
106
ENVIRONMENTAL FINES
US DOLLARS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 2,055 99,810 33,333 3,660 -89.0
 
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOVS)
2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 5 3 3 3 0.0
 
INSPECTIONS BY GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 55 42 32 29 -9.4
 
VOC EMISSIONS
TOTAL
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 1.20 1.31 1.09 1.12 3.1
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 0.061 0.063 0.052 0.055 6.1
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
107
SOX FROM COMBUSTION(9)
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 0.08 0.11 0.03 0.03 -14.3
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 0.004 0.005 0.002 0.001 -11.9
NOX FROM COMBUSTION(9)
1,000 METRIC TONS 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 0.293 0.303 0.308 0.303 -1.7
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2012 2013 2014 2015% CHANGE  
FROM 2014  
TO 2015
Total 0.015 0.015 0.015 0.015 1.1
All environmental data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the WRI/ 
WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We report data from acquisitions as soon as practical, generally after collecting one full year’s financial data; therefore, CFR and Veropharm acquisitions are included in our environmental datasets above.
(1) Reported Purchased Fuel Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet and Abbott-owned aviation(2) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam, as well as emissions from leased locations. 
Unless specified otherwise, emissions are calculated according to the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Location-Based Method.
(3) Per WRI GHG protocol, Scope 1 refrigerant CO
2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(4) Water stressed locations have been determined using World Resource Institute Aqueduct Global Water Risk Mapping Tool and World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool. 
(5) Waste generation data does not include materials that are reused beneficially, which was roughly 52 thousand tons in 2015.(6) BOD data provided is a flow-weighted average of sampled concentrations for water directly discharged to the environment only. Water discharged to 
the environment represents about 12% of total water discharged.
(7) Waste Commercial Region Total data collection and calculation methodology was improved in 2014. As it is the best available information, 2014 data is 
applied to the baseline.
(8) Note: Abbott’s non-energy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted from the table 
above. The total CO
2-equivalent from non-energy sources are 5, 7, 7, 5, 6 and 6 thousand metric tons in 2010-2015, respectively.
(9) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2015
108
WWW.ABBOTT.COM/CITIZENSHIP
 
Please contact us with your questions and comments: 
Abbott Global Citizenship and Policy 
100 Abbott Park Road, Department 0383, Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048 
globalcitizenship@abbott.com
Copyright © 2016 Abbott. All rights reserved.