ABBOTT GLOBAL  
CITIZENSHIP REPORT   
20132Contents
LETTER FROM OUR  
CHAIRMAN AND CEO  3
BUSINESS
Our Business 5
APPROACH
Changing Approach to Citizenship 8
Citizenship Management and Governance 11
PRIORITIES
Delivering Product Excellence 17
Improving Access 22
Safeguarding the Environment 31
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Supply Chain Excellence 45
Valuing Our People 51
Community Engagement  68
Promoting Ethics and Integrity 73TRANSPARENCY
Transparency on Policies 80
REPORTING
Citizenship Reporting 86
GRI Index 91
METRICS
Key Metrics – Financial 97
Key Metrics – Social 98
Key Metrics – Environmental 100
Detailed Environmental Performance 102This interactive PDF is designed to help you easily 
navigate the report and find the information you 
are looking for. For full functionality, open this 
PDF in Adobe Reader or Adobe Acrobat Pro.
Dynamic links within the text are indicated by text in blue. 
Clicking on them will take you to further information.Go to the 
table  
of contentsGo to the 
previous or 
next pageGo to the 
last page 
visitedPrint the 
document
Search within this document Go to the start  
of a sectionHOW TO USE THIS REPORT
BUSINESS
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
3
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013
To Our Stakeholders
There are almost 70,000 Abbott people around the 
world today. And we understand well how fortunate 
we are to be part of such a company. Our work and 
success not only provide for us and our families, they 
also contribute powerfully to improving literally 
millions of lives around the world.
This has been our story for more than 125 years 
now. And it creates a certain culture and worldview. 
I think it is fair to say that our perspective at Abbott 
is highly optimistic – all the more because it’s an 
optimism built on experience and facts. We know 
that it’s possible to face the gravest of challenges – 
heart disease, malnutrition, diabetes, HIV – and to 
succeed, step by step. Our long experience makes it 
clear that effort and commitment can always make 
things better – not perfect, but better; and then you 
take the next stride to make it better still.
We call this way of looking at things the Upside. 
We know there’s always one there – no matter 
how hard it might be to see, or how far out of 
reach it may seem. And it applies not only to our 
science, or the new technologies it produces to 
help people live healthier lives, but to everything 
we do as a company.
Abbott fulfills its potential as a company by helping 
others to fulfill theirs. This applies to all that we do 
as an innovator, as a business, as an employer and 
as a neighbor. We’ve thought intently on the role a 
company like ours should play in society, and have 
defined three core priorities that ensure we’re doing 
the right things and doing them in the right ways.First, we’re committed to delivering product 
excellence. That’s our fundamental purpose 
and our reason for being. Our promise is that 
when you use a product with the name Abbott, 
you can trust that it will have been thoroughly 
tested and manufactured to the highest quality 
standards. Second is continually improving access 
to healthcare. We want the products we create 
to reach the people who need them, around the 
world, and we work with government, NGOs and 
other partners to continually expand availability. 
Finally, and just as importantly, we’re committed 
to safeguarding the environment – the foundation 
of health for all of us. We take continual steps to 
reduce the impact of our operations, decreasing 
emissions and water use to make our environmental 
footprint as light and small as possible.
Again, it all comes down to that fundamental purpose 
that we’ve had since the beginning: improving lives. 
When making people healthier is why you go to 
work every day, it shapes the way you think and 
act. Making things better is deep in our culture at 
Abbott. It’s the way we approach anything that’s in 
our path. And it breeds a deep sense of respect and 
responsibility for our world and the people we serve. 
I think this report vividly illustrates that philosophy 
at work, the great results it can produce and the 
difference it can make in people’s lives. I hope you 
find our report both enlightening and encouraging, 
and I thank you for your interest in our work.MILES D. WHITE
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF  
EXECUTIVE OFFICER“Abbott fulfills 
its potential as a 
company by helping 
others to fulfill 
theirs. This applies 
to all that we do 
as an innovator, as 
a business, as an 
employer and as  
a neighbor.”FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
BUSINESS
IN THIS SECTION
Our Business 5
APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS5
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Our Business
OUR BUSINESS
Abbott is a diverse, global healthcare company 
headquartered in north suburban Chicago in 
the United States, serving customers in more 
than 150 countries with approximately 69,000 
employees. 
Abbott has four core businesses – all focused 
on advancing innovations that provide better 
options and outcomes for people in their 
pursuit of healthy lives.
DIAGNOSTICS
Our innovative instrument systems and tests 
help monitor a range of health conditions 
with speed, accuracy and efficiency. From 
automated immunodiagnostics systems 
and blood analyzers to sophisticated 
molecular diagnostics and point-of-care 
devices, our technologies provide healthcare 
professionals with information they need to 
make the best treatment decisions.
MEDICAL DEVICES
Minimally invasive solutions for vascular 
procedures. Fast, accurate blood glucose 
meters. Proven laser-vision correction 
technologies. Our advanced medical device 
technologies are designed to help people 
return to their everyday lives faster and 
healthier.NUTRITION
We offer science-based nutrition products for 
every stage of life – from infant and pediatric 
to adult healthy living and therapeutic 
nutrition. Our products include leading 
consumer brands such as Similac , Ensure , 
Glucerna , PediaSure , EAS  and ZonePerfect , as 
well as specialty products that help meet the 
nutritional needs of people with a variety of 
health conditions, such as cancer, diabetes, 
kidney disease and osteoporosis.
ESTABLISHED PHARMACEUTICALS
We offer high-quality, affordable and 
trusted branded-generic medicines to help 
treat some of the most pervasive health 
conditions around the world. Through product 
enhancements such as new formulations, new 
indications and new packaging, we tailor our 
offerings to address regional health needs and 
provide access to trusted, proven medicines 
for those who need these products most.
We deliver results for patients and consumers, 
healthcare professionals, employees and 
shareholders, and our company’s financial 
success enables us to continually invest, 
innovate and introduce new products that 
are changing the practice of healthcare. Our 
success also benefits stakeholders around 
the world. In 2013, for example, Abbott spent 
approximately $8.5 billion with suppliers 
and invested $1.45 billion in research and $8.5
BILLION
Spent with suppliers.
$882
MILLION  
Returned in dividends to shareholders.
$1.45
BILLION  
Invested in R&D.
$21.8
BILLION
Net sales worldwide.
APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS6
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013• The chairman of the Nominations and 
Governance Committee acts as lead director 
to facilitate communication with the Board 
and to preside over regularly conducted 
executive sessions of the independent 
directors or sessions where the Chairman of 
the Board is not present. The lead director 
reviews and approves matters such as agenda 
items, schedule sufficiency and, where 
appropriate, information provided to other 
Board members.
• Directors and officers are subject to stock 
ownership guidelines.
• Abbott’s directors are elected annually 
through majority voting. Because of the 
majority vote requirement, shareholders 
exercise considerable influence over Board 
composition.
• Abbott has established independence 
standards, governance guidelines and 
a published procedure that enables 
shareholders and others to communicate 
directly with Board members.
• The Board and each of its committees have 
complete access to management and the 
authority to hire independent advisers as 
they deem appropriate.
• The independent directors review the 
performance of the Chairman and CEO 
annually.development. Additionally, we contributed 
more than $56 million in philanthropic grants, 
product donations and patient assistance from 
Abbott and our philanthropic foundation, the 
Abbott Fund.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT ABBOTT
Abbott has long practiced strong, independent 
corporate governance. This is an essential 
step in building trust among stakeholders, 
particularly investors. Our Board of Directors 
has a longstanding history of a majority 
of independent members, who are elected 
annually through majority voting. This means 
our shareholders exercise considerable 
influence over Board composition. Abbott 
has established independence standards 
and governance guidelines, along with a 
published procedure enabling shareholders 
and others to communicate directly with 
Board members. The independent directors 
review the performance of our Chairman and 
CEO annually. Among the criteria for Board 
members are a global business perspective 
and a commitment to global citizenship. Ten 
of the 11 Abbott directors are independent and 
elected annually.
Abbott has a strong corporate governance 
profile:
• The Audit, Compensation, Nominations and 
Governance and Public Policy Committees 
are composed solely of independent 
directors.2013 REVENUE
Our balanced portfolio, with four leading  
businesses of roughly equal size, helps offset 
volatility in any single business or market.MEDICAL DEVICES
ESTABLISHED 
PHARMACEUTICALS
DIAGNOSTICS
NUTRITIONA GLOBAL  AND  
BALANCED PORTFOLIO
25% 31%
23% 21%
APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESSIN THIS SECTION
Changing Approach to Citizenship 8
Citizenship Management and  
Governance 11APPROACH
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH8
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Changing Approach to Citizenship
At the beginning of 2013, Abbott separated 
into two new global healthcare companies. 
The new Abbott remains a leader in 
diversified medical products, committed to 
advancing human health and well-being. 
The former research-based pharmaceutical 
business is now AbbVie, a global leader in 
biopharmaceuticals. 
This major organizational change has 
provided us with an opportunity to evolve 
our approach to global citizenship. In 
developing our new strategy, we have sought 
to build upon and strengthen our long and 
distinguished record of making responsible 
business a fundamental part of the way we 
operate. We call our new approach “Finding 
the Upside.” 
FINDING THE UPSIDE
At Abbott, we believe that innovative, 
responsible and sustainable business plays 
an important role in building a healthy, 
thriving society. We strive to foster economic, 
environmental and social well-being through 
our operations and in our work with others.
It starts with responsible and sustainable 
business . Every day, people around the world 
depend on our products to live healthier lives. 
That’s why we run our business the right way, 
for the long term – for the benefit of the many 
people we serve. But that’s just the beginning. We see potential 
everywhere. 
By building a more inclusive business,  we aim 
to reach more people, in more places, than 
ever before. From strengthening the capacity 
of suppliers, to creating products that address 
local-country health needs, we are always 
finding new opportunities to expand the 
positive impact of our people, products and 
business in communities around the world.
We can’t tackle every challenge. But what 
we can do is address the critical issues that 
best match our scientific expertise, business 
acumen and unique resources, applying 
innovation and ingenuity to find the answers. 
Knowledge and optimism are resources that 
grow in value the more they are shared. 
Healthy economies contribute to healthy 
communities. Opportunity is contagious. 
It’s a way of doing business. It’s a way of 
solving problems.
It’s a way of realizing our potential by helping 
others realize theirs.
That’s the Upside.GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP APPROACH
To be a responsible, sustainable  
and inclusive business.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
WE WILL ACHIEVE POSITIVE RESULTS IN THESE  
THREE PRIORITY AREAS BY DELIVERING
RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS
PRACTICESSHARED  
VALUE  
INITIATIVESCOMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTSAFEGUARDING  
THE ENVIRONMENTIMPROVING  
ACCESSDELIVERING  
PRODUCT  
EXCELLENCE
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH9
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013OUR PRIORITY AREAS
• Delivering Product Excellence  – 
 Everywhere we operate, and in everything 
we do, we are committed to constant 
innovation under the highest standards 
of quality and safety, to ensure we deliver 
sustainable solutions that help improve 
people’s health. 
• Improving Access  –  Our products and 
services play a vital role in improving 
healthcare around the world. We work with 
a range of partners, including healthcare 
professionals, patients, consumers and 
governments, to leverage our expertise and 
increase access to healthcare through a 
combination of educational programs and 
infrastructure development. Our continuing 
success depends on our consumers and 
patients being empowered to make well-
informed choices about their health.
• Safeguarding the Environment  –  We work  
to reduce our global environmental impacts 
through environmental stewardship 
initiatives that help protect the planet while 
improving efficiency, reducing costs and 
preserving our ability to do business in the 
future.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
The foundation of Abbott’s approach to 
citizenship rests on being a responsible 
business. There are a number of principles 
that guide our business decisions and ensure 
we remain able to successfully meet the needs 
of society in a sustainable, successful manner OUR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP
In pursuit of the Upside, our Global 
Citizenship strategy addresses three priority 
areas that are most important for our 
stakeholders and our growth – Delivering 
Product Excellence, Improving Access and 
Safeguarding the Environment. These are the 
material areas where our core business can 
have a significant impact on society and the 
environment. 
By using a materiality analysis to identify 
and prioritize interests, we are able to focus 
on the specific issues and questions that 
are most likely to impact the decisions or 
behaviors of our stakeholders. Although 
various stakeholder groups express different 
levels of concern regarding a specific issue, 
we have crafted our priority issues based on 
multiple engagements with our most critical 
stakeholders, as well as key issues that are 
widely viewed as material to our industry 
sector. When we evaluate competing interests, 
we consider them in the context of overall 
business objectives and strategy, risks and 
company policies. To determine materiality, 
we also have factored in the amount of control 
we have over a specific topic area. 
Our approach to Global Citizenship enables 
us to deliver positive results in each of these 
priority areas by identifying opportunities to 
create shared value, and engage and invest in 
communities, all while ensuring we operate as 
a responsible and sustainable business. 
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH10
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013related to reaching the growing consumer 
base in the markets of the future. We believe 
in shared value, which creates business value 
while solving social problems. This approach 
will most effectively allow our company to 
address some of the toughest social issues that 
are barriers to business success. 
As we explore shared value at Abbott, we will 
seek to establish proactive partnerships that 
enable us to:
• Create positive social impact at scale
• Deliver tangible business value
• Leverage Abbott’s knowledge and expertise
• Address issues that are of significant 
relevance to our key stakeholders
In doing this, we apply our scientific expertise, 
commercial acumen, resources and employee 
talents to make a positive impact on the world 
around us as we grow our business.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
Abbott will always seek to engage with the 
communities we serve, delivering programs 
that provide social and environmental benefits 
around the world and shaping our activities to 
reflect local concerns and priorities. In doing 
this, we seek out opportunities for catalytic 
community investment, building partnerships 
with stakeholders and investing in strategic 
activities that align with our business. while conserving resources and advancing 
social, environmental and economic best 
practices. 
• Supply Chain Excellence  –  Supplier 
relationships are integral to our success, 
and we work closely with our suppliers to 
ensure high levels of performance in all 
aspects of quality, environmental excellence, 
compliance and social responsibility.
• Valuing Our People  –  We are committed to 
helping our employees fulfill their potential 
and build rewarding careers, exhibited 
through our award-winning workplace and 
employee programs. 
• Ethics and Integrity –  Abbott maintains 
the highest standards of ethics and integrity 
in everything we do, ensuring we are 
consistently able to operate in a responsible 
manner. 
• Stakeholder Engagement  –  Abbott is 
committed to actively engaging with 
stakeholders, gathering insights and 
feedback in a variety of ways. We recognize 
that listening to and responding thoughtfully 
to our stakeholders’ concerns is critical to 
our business success. 
CREATING SHARED VALUE
As part of our evolution in global citizenship, 
we see great opportunity to rethink our 
company’s social investment, particularly CREATE POSITIVE SOCIAL  
IMPACT AT SCALE 
DELIVER TANGIBLE  
BUSINESS VALUE
LEVERAGE ABBOTT’S  
KNOWLEDGE AND  
EXPERTISE
ADDRESS ISSUES THAT ARE  
OF SIGNIFICANT RELEVANCE TO 
OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
SHARED  
VALUE
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH11
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013GLOBAL  
CITIZENSHIP  
WORKING  
GROUPCitizenship Management and Governance
Our commitment to good citizenship begins 
at the top. Global citizenship is valued and 
championed by our Board of Directors and led 
by our company’s senior management.
At Abbott, we constantly work to embed and 
integrate our citizenship strategy with our 
core business strategy. For several years, 
our cross-functional Global Citizenship 
Working Group has led integration efforts 
at the company, while driving transparency 
in the reporting of our financial, social and 
environmental performance. The team 
includes representatives from Corporate 
Purchasing; Global Environment, Health 
and Safety; the Office of Ethics and 
Compliance, Quality and Regulatory Affairs; 
Human Resources; Supply Chain; R&D; 
Investor Relations; Government Affairs; 
and Commercial Operations. The team also 
includes representation from key functions 
and country operations based outside our 
headquarters office.
Several of our country operations, including 
Brazil, China, India, Ireland, Italy, Russia 
and Vietnam, have formed their own local, 
cross-functional Citizenship Working Groups. 
Typically, these groups are comprised of 
senior leaders from each of the business 
units represented in the country, along with 
representatives of core functions including 
Citizenship, Legal, Marketing, Public Affairs 
and Government Affairs. The Citizenship Working Group leads the integration of 
responsible business practices across the 
organization, while driving specific initiatives 
for stakeholder engagement appropriate to 
local needs. 
The following committees and working groups 
play an important role in our citizenship 
governance process.
• Global Operations Council  – This group sets 
the priorities for all Abbott manufacturing 
operations around the world, and it drives 
key initiatives and actions to meet corporate 
objectives, such as environmental, health 
and safety performance goals. The council 
reports to the Chairman and CEO and 
is chaired by the Senior Vice President 
for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and 
Engineering Services, who is both a senior 
corporate officer and the senior executive 
charged with Global EHS responsibility. 
The group is comprised of our company’s 
heads of Operations, Quality, Engineering, 
Purchasing and Information Technology.
• Public Policy Committee of the Board 
of Directors   – Comprised solely of 
independent directors, this committee’s 
charter includes the review and evaluation of 
Abbott’s policies and practices with respect 
to social responsibility.
• Business Conduct Committee of the Board 
of Directors   – Comprised of business heads, 
Investor  
Relations
Corporate  
 Purchasing
 Global  
 Environment
Health  
and Safety
Ethics and  
Compliance
Quality and  
Regulatory  
Affairs
Human  
Resources
Government  
Affairs
Supply  
Chain
R&D
Commercial  
Operations
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH12
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013through one-on-one engagement or through 
wider forums, help us to develop new products 
to address unmet health needs; educate 
patients, healthcare professionals and others 
about emerging diseases and treatment 
options; and understand how and where our 
company can make a difference.
To promote and ensure local implementation 
of our group-wide approach to stakeholder 
engagement, we have a defined method of 
stakeholder engagement, designed to be 
used on a cross-functional basis within each 
business and affiliate where we operate. 
At the local level, we have developed a 
stakeholder engagement plan that guides 
Abbott leaders in setting local engagement 
strategies. Responsibility for implementation 
is often led by the Global Citizenship or Public 
Affairs teams locally. 
ADDRESSING LOCAL CONCERNS
Through our engagement mechanisms, we 
aim to ensure that we stay abreast of the major 
issues of concern to our local stakeholders in 
each of the countries in which we operate. 
Food Safety in China
In China, a major concern for many of our 
stakeholders is food safety standards. In 
order to understand views on this topic and 
work collaboratively to find solutions, we 
partnered with the government to share 
core competencies and help improve the 
quality and safety of food and nutritional 
products in the country. Abbott scientists and this committee oversees implementation of 
our ethics and compliance programs.
• Executive Inclusion Council  – Led by our 
Chairman and CEO, this council oversees 
our diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Responsibility for implementing our global 
citizenship strategy is the responsibility of 
the Global Citizenship and Policy (GCP) 
team. This department works with our four 
businesses, key functional areas and affiliates 
across the world to ensure that we consistently 
deliver on our citizenship ambitions. The GCP 
team reports to our Senior Vice President, 
Chief Marketing Officer, a corporate officer 
who reports to the Chairman and CEO. 
In addition to these internal governance 
structures, we work externally with the Global 
Citizenship Advisory Council (GCAC) to 
identify opportunities and manage risks that 
impact our company across the value chain. 
During 2014, we will reorganize the GCAC 
to better reflect the operating environment 
of the new Abbott, and to engage with a core 
group of key stakeholders to help further 
develop our global citizenship strategy and 
operations. 
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Abbott is an active participant in the global 
dialogue on health. We recognize that 
listening to our stakeholders and responding 
thoughtfully to their concerns and ideas are 
vital to our success as a business enterprise, 
and to our progress as a global citizen. In 
addition, stakeholder insights, gathered 
Shareholders
Patients,  
 Consumers and  
Customers
Governments 
and Regulators
NGOs
Local 
Communities
Employees
Healthcare 
Professionals
SuppliersOUR STAKEHOLDERS
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH13
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013development of the award-winning Similac  
SimplySmart  baby bottle, launched in 2011, 
Abbott Nutrition gathered feedback from 
more than 2,500 mothers. 
We also run a closed-loop model, where 
our team follows up with 100 percent of 
“detractors” – those who give our performance 
a score lower than six in surveys. An example: 
one call revealed that a customer had cut 
himself with a knife while trying to open one 
of our packages. Follow-up to this call showed 
that our product was difficult to open, and a 
deeper analysis revealed that other customers 
were also dissatisfied with the packaging. 
A re-design was implemented, resulting in 
packaging that was not only much easier to 
open, but that also required fewer materials. 
The final result was a win-win: in working to 
resolve a customer’s concerns, we were able 
to create a package that costs less to produce 
and has a lower environmental impact – and 
that is also improving our profitability while 
helping our customers.
HOW WE ENGAGE
In today’s complex and competitive 
marketplace, we must be able to respond to 
the needs and concerns of a wide range of 
stakeholders. The table below details our 
progress among our priority stakeholder 
groups.quality experts worked with counterparts in 
Chinese government organizations, sharing 
expertise on vitamin and mineral analysis, 
quality system control, lab management and 
the detection of impurities. This included 
having delegations of Chinese scientists visit 
Abbott Nutrition’s R&D headquarters, and 
sending Abbott experts to China for “train the 
trainer” sessions on best practices in nutrition 
analysis. To date, more than 150 participants 
from the Chinese government have attended 
these exchanges, which have resulted in the 
establishment of a common pathway for best 
practices in food safety.
INTEGRATING CUSTOMER FEEDBACK
We are committed to ensuring that customer 
feedback is integrated into our activities, and 
we use a range of approaches to achieve this. 
These include providing round-the-clock 
feedback opportunities via the Internet, 
phone or mail. For example, in our nutrition 
business, we accept emails and responses to 
our social media Web sites 24/7, while we 
also provide a toll-free hotline seven days a 
week for questions relating to our Similac  and 
Pediasure  products . 
The Abbott Nutrition Consumer Relations 
team, which includes highly trained licensed 
dietitians and nurses, provides product and 
program information, gathers feedback 
and suggestions and registers complaints. 
The quality of this service and its accuracy 
rates are reviewed daily to help our team 
improve its performance. For example, in the MOTHERS
Feedback from more than 2,500 
mothers helped create the 
Similac SimplySmart  baby bottle.150+  
PARTICIPANTS
Abbott scientific exchanges 
on food safety drew more than 
150 participants from the 
Chinese government.
2,500  
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH14
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013STAKEHOLDER  
GROUPKEY STAKEHOLDER  
INTERESTSABBOTT’S  
POSITION EXAMPLES OF  
ENGAGEMENTRESULTS OF  
ENGAGEMENT
PATIENTS, CONSUMERS AND 
CUSTOMERS• Availability of products that are 
safe and effective.
• Reliable information to allow well-
informed health decisions. 
• Advocacy for patient/health needs. • Abbott is committed to developing 
safe and effective products that 
enhance lives.• We engage in discussions with 
patient groups and associations, 
and we administer customer care 
lines, surveys and market research. 
Our diagnostics division measures 
customer loyalty with a Net 
Promoter Score (NPS), measured 
across all customers.• Abbott gains important insights 
as to how we can improve our 
products and develop new ones.
• Our NPS has seen a rise from  
29.9 in 2009 to 45.2 in 2013.
HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS • R&D developments .
• Quality, safety and efficacy of 
products and proper product use.
• Responsible, ethical behavior and 
ethical marketing practices.
• Information and education about 
the latest tools and technologies.• We seek new insights into patient 
and consumer needs and are 
committed to leveraging these 
insights into meaningful products.
• Healthcare professionals play 
a key role in proper diagnosis, 
treatment and rehabilitation, and 
we work closely to create greater 
understanding of diseases and 
treatment options.
• We seek to maintain high standards 
of integrity in all of our dealings 
with healthcare professionals.• Abbott  offers educational 
programs for healthcare 
professionals.
• We facilitate technical exchanges 
to bolster knowledge of healthcare 
professionals.
• We partner with healthcare 
professionals to conduct  
vital research.• We foster improved understanding 
of emerging health challenges.
• We receive feedback on the 
quality, safety and efficacy of 
existing products. 
• We help build a healthcare 
professional population with 
appropriate training in the latest 
science and technology.
GOVERNMENT AND 
REGULATORS• Abbott policies that foster access 
to medicines, technologies and 
services. 
• Ethical business practices. 
• Partnerships to help address 
healthcare needs. • We aim to make our products 
available at fair and affordable 
prices.
• We want to foster well-informed 
healthcare professionals, enhanced 
infrastructure and progressive 
policies, which are keys to 
healthcare access. 
• Abbott holds all its employees to 
the highest ethical standards.• Abbott works with governments to 
improve the provision of healthcare 
infrastructure. 
• We participate in healthcare policy 
meetings.
• We participate in numerous U.S. 
and international trade groups, 
consistent with the guidelines 
in Abbott’s Code of Business 
Conduct . • The medical community gains 
shared learning on the health needs 
of various communities.
• Governments and regulators share 
updates on major healthcare policy 
developments. 
• We d isclosure our political 
contributions.  
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH15
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013STAKEHOLDER  
GROUPKEY STAKEHOLDER  
INTERESTSABBOTT’S  
POSITION EXAMPLES OF  
ENGAGEMENTRESULTS OF  
ENGAGEMENT
OUR EMPLOYEES • Resources to improve our 
employees’ own health and  
well-being.
• Access to training and 
development.
• Offer opportunities to get involved 
in their communities.• Our employees  are critical to 
Abbott’s success, and we aim to 
support them in improving their 
own health and further developing 
their skills.
• Employees have skills and 
expertise that are of value to 
the communities where Abbott 
operates. • Abbott has several formal 
mechanisms that encourage and 
collect employee feedback. 
• We conduct employee 
engagement surveys.• Employee views are incorporated 
into the full range of company 
policies and practices.
• Employees feel engaged in their 
community and at their jobs.
NON-GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANIZATIONS (NGOS)• Develop products and programs to 
enhance access globally. • We offer a variety of products 
around the world at fair and 
affordable prices, with an increased 
presence in emerging markets.• We maintain an ongoing dialogue 
with NGOs.
• Abbott’s Global Citizenship 
Advisory Council informs our 
strategic planning.
• We work to develop public-private 
partnerships.• The medical community gains a 
broader understanding of emerging 
healthcare issues.
• New ways of combating diseases 
are identified.
• We build partnerships with other 
organizations whose skills and 
contributions complement our 
strengths and expertise.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Responsible and safe operations 
wherever Abbott operates. 
• Community engagement .• Abbott engages in the 
communities where we operate, 
and we treat our local communities 
with respect.• We employ local people and pay 
taxes to local governments.
• We support educational efforts, 
civic and cultural programs 
and community healthcare 
organizations.
• All affiliates are encouraged 
to develop local engagement 
programs.• We maintain strong relationships 
with the communities where we 
operate.
OUR SUPPLIERS • Ethics, labor laws and health  
and safety.
• Support for small and diverse 
suppliers.• Our suppliers  are critical to 
providing high-quality, safe 
ingredients.• Abbott maintains a strong Supplier 
Social Responsibility program, 
a formal Supplier Performance 
Program and a Supplier Diversity 
Program.• Feedback improves both supplier 
processes and our own.
• In 2013, we spent $1.1 billion with 
small and diverse suppliers. 
BUSINESS PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 APPROACH16
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013
PRIORITIES
IN THIS SECTION
Delivering Product Excellence 17
Improving Access 22
Safeguarding the Environment 31
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES17
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Delivering Product Excellence
Abbott has a longstanding commitment to 
focused R&D and innovative products, and to 
providing solutions to healthcare challenges 
around the world. Our continued success 
depends on our ability to deliver exceptional 
performance and operational excellence 
without compromising our manufacturing and 
distribution standards. 
Abbott has comprehensive processes in place 
to ensure that we meet the highest safety and 
quality standards in the design, development, 
manufacturing, delivery and labeling of our 
products. These robust systems extend across 
all facets of our business, from securing our 
supply chains and ensuring the development 
of high-quality products, to protecting 
stakeholders and our business by embedding 
ongoing risk management throughout 
everything we do. 
BALANCED AND EFFICIENT R&D
Central to our work is a culture of innovation 
and discovery. We take a balanced approach 
to R&D, focusing our resources in the areas 
where they will have the greatest impact for 
patients and consumers. 
Highlights of our R&D approach and activities 
in 2013 include: 
Established Pharmaceuticals –  We use 
our Science and Engineering Collaboration Platform as a mechanism to drive 
collaboration throughout our business, 
encouraging innovation and the development 
of new ideas among employees. A team of 
cross-functional experts help employees to 
develop and implement their ideas. 
Molecular –  The establishment of the Abbott 
Partnership in Oncology Leading Access to 
Research, Innovation and Science (POLARIS) 
Academy in 2013, between Abbott Molecular 
and oncology experts, will stimulate dialogue 
and collaboration among pathologists, 
oncologists and biologists, extending their 
knowledge of, and training in, molecular 
diagnostic testing. Michael Palm, Ph.D., 
Marketing Director for Europe of Abbott’s 
molecular business, noted that the “POLARIS 
Academy offers a unique interactive 
community that will allow experts in 
molecular diagnostics to share best practices 
and educate other members through practical 
workshops and digital learning.” 
Diagnostics –  To more efficiently evaluate 
and prioritize the steady stream of ideas for 
potential products and programs, Abbott’s 
diagnostics business established a Novel 
Biomarker Committee. Biomarkers are 
anything that can be measured and used as 
an indicator of a disease, giving healthcare 
professionals insight into its presence and 
severity. The goal of this committee is to 
identify and prioritize potential biomarkers Invested in R&D in 2013.$1.45
BILLION
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES18
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013that can help doctors make decisions at an 
earlier point in the progression of disease than 
existing tests allow. Abbott conducts ongoing 
research to map the progression of various 
diseases – and to identify decision points 
where doctors could benefit from additional 
factual data to support potential changes in 
treatment. 
Vascular –  Our vascular business runs a 
steering committee that solicits R&D ideas 
and input, then creates target topics in clearly 
prioritized scope areas. The committee 
holds quarterly meetings and hosts technical 
exchanges for scientists, technologists and 
marketers to highlight ongoing innovation. 
Nutrition –  We recognize that a collaborative 
approach can enhance patient outcomes. For 
this reason, we consult with experts from 
around the world to generate new nutrition 
ideas. The Abbott Nutrition Health Institute  
is a global knowledge center that shares 
information about the value of science-based 
nutrition with healthcare professionals 
through a combination of education, advocacy 
and collaboration. 
DEVELOPING NEW AND PROMISING 
PRODUCTS
Across our broad-based businesses, Abbott is a 
leader in researching, developing and bringing 
to market new products to address emerging 
patient and consumer needs. Highlights from 
across our pipeline in 2013 included:• Our established pharmaceuticals business 
received approval for its Cholib  medication 
from the European Medicines Agency. This 
pill, which can be used to treat abnormal 
levels of cholesterol and triglycerides, 
is the first of its kind to be approved in 
Europe. It offers improved treatment for 
patients, providing the lipid-lowering 
effects of both fenofibrate and simvastatin 
in a single, fixed-dose combination tablet. 
Fixed-dose therapies such as this offer 
increased convenience and make medication 
compliance easier for patients.
• From Abbott’s vascular devices business, 
MitraClip  is a minimally invasive device 
for the treatment of certain patients with 
mitral regurgitation (MR) that was approved 
for launch in the United States in 2013. 
MR is the most common type of heart 
valve insufficiency and affects more than 
8 million people in the United States and 
Europe. Clinical data show that treatment 
with MitraClip  results in clinically important 
reductions in MR, meaningful improvements 
in quality of life and a reduction in the rate 
of rehospitalization for heart failure. Abbott 
also announced the initiation of clinical 
trials in the United States in 2013 for our 
Absorb ™ Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold  (BVS), 
which was launched internationally in 2011. 
This device works by opening a blocked 
blood vessel, thereby restoring blood flow 
to the heart. This is similar to a metallic 
stent, but Absorb  then dissolves over time. 
Absorb  is an investigational device in the 
U.S. and not currently available for sale. It 
is commercially available in more than 40 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES19
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013LEADERSHIP
DIAGNOSTICS
PIONEERING  
MEDICAL 
DIAGNOSTICS• #1 in immunoassay
• #1 in blood screening
• Best-in-class infectious 
disease molecular tests
• Leading point-of-care 
platform
MEDICAL DEVICES
BETTER OPTIONS  
AND IMPROVED 
OUTCOMES• #1 in drug-eluting stents
• World’s leading drug-
eluting bioresorbable 
vascular scaffold
• #1 in laser corrective  
eye surgery
• #2 in cataract surgery
NUTRITION
WORLDWIDE  
LEADER  
IN NUTRITION• #1 adult nutrition brand
• Leading pediatric 
nutrition brand
• Market leader in 25 
countries
ESTABLISHED 
PHARMACEUTICALS
LOCALIZED 
INNOVATION• A product portfolio 
including some of the 
world’s most trusted 
brands
• #1 in India
• #2 in Pakistancountries in Europe, India, the Middle East 
and parts of Asia Pacific and Latin America. 
• Abbott Diabetes Care received European 
regulatory approval (Conformité Européene, 
or CE marking) for its new, streamlined 
device, FreeStyle Optium Neo . This icon-
driven system provides visual glucose trend 
indicators and insulin logging, all delivered 
in a single device. The compact, easy-to-use 
system is designed to help patients improve 
their daily diabetes management and is yet 
another example of Abbott’s commitment to 
meeting the needs of its patients. In addition, 
Abbott Diabetes Care´s FreeStyle InsuLinx  
device was selected as a finalist for the 
annual Medical Design Excellence Awards 
(MDEA) in the Over-the-Counter and Self-
Care Products category. The MDEA is one of 
the medtech industry’s premier competitions 
for medical device design and innovation. 
• Time is a critical factor in the diagnosis 
and treatment of potential heart 
attacks. To aid physicians in the rapid 
detection and treatment of these 
attacks, Abbott Diagnostics launched 
the ARCHITECT STAT  High Sensitive 
Troponin-I Assay. This test, which received 
regulatory approval (Conformité Européene, 
or CE marking) in January 2013, can 
measure very low levels of the protein 
troponin, which is the preferred biomarker 
used to identify suspected heart attacks. In 
addition, the test can also help physicians to 
determine the risk of future attacks, which 
is particularly valuable given that heart 
attacks and strokes account for the majority 
of the more than 17 million worldwide deaths annually that result from cardiovascular 
disease. Abbott also received CE marking 
for the ARCHITECT  Galectin-3 test in 
2013. This test, developed in partnership 
with BG Medicine, Inc., runs on Abbott’s 
ARCHITECT  immunochemistry platform 
and will aid physicians with identifying those 
patients with congestive heart failure who 
are at highest risk for poor outcomes. 
• Abbott Medical Optics introduced the iDesign 
DX system to U.S. ophthalmologists in 
2013. This highly advanced diagnostic tool 
measures the surface of the eye, allowing 
doctors to fully evaluate imperfections 
that result in poor vision. Using these 
measurements, ophthalmologists can screen 
patients more efficiently to determine if they 
are eligible for LASIK  or other refractive 
surgery. Abbott developed the iDesign DX 
system using wavefront sensor technology 
created for NASA’s space telescope program 
and adapted it for the clinical requirements 
of ophthalmologists, who require 
comprehensive data about the entire eye. 
• Abbott’s Nutrition business released a 
number of new products, including Glucerna 
Advance , EAS Energy Drink , EAS Complete 
Protein Powder  and Kidz ZonePerfect Bars  in 
the United States.
• In the Asia Pacific region, the United Nations 
estimates that the number of people age 65 
and older will increase threefold, from 420 
million in 2010 to almost 1.3 billion by 2050. 
To meet the needs of this growing group, we 
introduced ENSURE ® Acti M2 in Singapore 
and Vietnam. Scientifically designed to 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES20
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013provide complete and balanced nutrition 
with important nutrients that support our 
cognitive health as we age, ENSURE ® Acti M2 
combines the trusted nutrition of ENSURE ® 
with ingredients such as Acti-SPS (soy 
phosphatidlyserine, or soy-PS) and choline. 
• Consumption of bone-building nutrients can 
also help reduce the risk of osteoporosis, 
another concern within aging populations. 
Abbott Nutrition’s new locally developed 
supplement, BoneSure ®/CalciSure ™, is 
formulated with a comprehensive blend of 
nutrients such as calcium, magnesium and 
vitamins K and D3 to help maintain strong 
bones and calcium absorption.
ADDRESSING LOCAL NEEDS
Around the world, Abbott is using innovative 
approaches to solve a range of healthcare 
challenges for patients, consumers and 
caregivers in the communities we serve: 
Pakistan
Malaria, transmitted by mosquitoes, affects 
more than 200 million people worldwide. 
According to the United Nations World 
Health Organization, there is a moderate 
prevalence of malaria in Pakistan, with the 
disease estimated to cause at least 50,000 
deaths out of an estimated 500,000 cases 
every year. Only one in four malaria sufferers 
in Pakistan receives treatment for the disease. 
Mospel , Abbott’s market-leading mosquito 
repellent, provides protection against malaria 
and dengue fever (a hemorrhagic disease also 
carried by mosquitoes). Mospel , launched more than two decades 
ago, is the only insect repellent available in 
Pakistan that is based on the World Health 
Organization’s approved DEET formulation. 
In 2013, we introduced a new, improved 
cream formulation that is gentle on skin and 
easy to apply, with a pleasant scent. This new 
formulation combines simple application and 
protection against devastating mosquito-borne 
diseases, providing people with an effective, 
easy-to-use product that can help them live 
healthier lives. 
Australia
Diabetes is Australia’s fastest-growing chronic 
disease, with diabetic retinopathy a common 
complication in Type II diabetic patients 
as the disease progresses. It is one of the 
leading causes of vision impairment. As 
diabetic retinopathy progresses, it can affect 
a person’s ability to carry out everyday tasks 
and can eventually result in severe vision loss. 
In late 2013, Abbott received approval for 
a new indication of its trusted brand Lipidil  
(fenofibrate) to treat diabetic retinopathy in 
Type II diabetes patients. This new indication 
for fenofibrate can slow the progression 
of diabetic retinopathy, and it is the first 
tablet that can help manage this debilitating 
condition. Previously, treatment options have 
been limited, with procedures such as laser 
eye surgery and injections into the eyeball 
typically considered in severe cases. 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES21
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013the recycled packaging, healthcare providers 
also receive materials to help educate patients 
about the responsible use of antibiotics to 
prevent resistance to these medications.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY 
We are committed to ensuring the quality 
and safety of the products that we develop 
and have a range of processes in place to 
ensure this throughout the R&D process. As 
one example of our process, at our nutrition 
manufacturing plant in Singapore, the quality 
and integrity of our products are tested at 
every stage in the production process. Before 
they are released for sale, each product 
has undergone rigorous quality checks. 
We keep a record of every test conducted 
on our products, with our state-of-the-
art microbiology, analytical and sampling 
laboratories facilitating this process. Japan
In Japan, many patients are interested in 
tinted intraocular lenses, both for cosmetic 
purposes and to help block harmful UV 
and violet rays from entering their eyes 
while allowing healthy blue light to enter, 
which is useful in low-light conditions and 
normal circadian rhythms. To meet this 
demand, Abbott Medical Optics developed 
and launched a tinted version of its proven 
TECNIS  platform of intraocular lenses 
specifically for the Japanese market in early 
2013. The TECNIS 1-Piece OptiBlue  IOL can 
be used to replace patients’ natural lenses that 
have become clouded by cataracts, while also 
protecting their eyes from harmful UV and 
violet rays. 
PACKAGING INNOVATIONS
Available for nearly 25 years in nearly 100 
countries, Abbott’s Klacid  (clarithromycin) 
is one of the most widely used macrolide 
antibiotics in the world. Responding to 
customer preferences for more ecologically 
friendly products, Abbott is now expanding 
the availability of Klacid  in a package that uses 
recycled materials. Klacid  was chosen as the 
first established pharmaceutical product to 
convert to this new recycled packaging due to 
the potential positive impact of the changes 
– the product is prescribed and dispensed 
thousands of times each year around the 
world. The new packaging is already available 
in a dozen countries, with more to come in 
the near future. Along with information about RIGOROUS  
QUALITY CHECKS  
Before our products are released 
for sale, each batch has undergone 
hundreds of quality checks.
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES22
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Improving Access
Developments in healthcare science, and 
the creation of innovative and effective new 
products, will enable us to address many 
present and emerging healthcare issues. 
These include the most pressing challenges 
put forth in the United Nations’ Millennium 
Development Goals . However, unless 
healthcare practitioners and consumers are 
informed of and have access to these advances, 
the healthcare needs of the world’s growing 
population will remain unmet. 
Abbott was founded with the purpose of 
improving health outcomes around the world. 
This commitment forms a critical component 
of our citizenship approach and is integral to 
our core business strategy. In achieving this 
goal, we are conscious of the need to engage 
with our stakeholders, providing them with 
the knowledge and support needed to address 
the healthcare challenges they face. 
Through a combination of targeted programs, 
shared value initiatives and responsible 
business practices, we work to ensure 
everyone can access and use our products and 
services, improving health outcomes. We do 
this by addressing disparities in healthcare 
infrastructure, providing support to healthcare 
providers and ensuring even those in the most 
hard-to-reach communities are able to access 
our products and services.Our work includes:
• Increasing access to healthcare by providing 
practitioners with the latest information 
about effective patient care, while also 
supporting the establishment of healthcare 
infrastructure and the dissemination of new 
tools and technology.
• Empowering communities and consumers 
through the provision of educational 
programs on the prevention, diagnosis and 
treatment of many diseases and health 
conditions.
• Building and strengthening partnerships 
to gain deeper insight into the needs and 
challenges of patients and improve the 
standard of care they receive, while also 
raising public awareness and educating 
governments and policymakers about 
healthcare challenges and the need for 
expanding access to treatment. 
INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE 
Much of the world lacks basic healthcare 
infrastructure, with critical shortages of 
professionals trained in modern diagnosis and 
treatment protocols, as well as insufficient 
size and scope of facilities for patient care. 
In addition, healthcare practitioners in 
developing nations often lack access to the 
latest information about chronic diseases 
such as diabetes, cancer and heart disease, 
all of which are increasingly prevalent in the Abbott collaborates with 
healthcare professionals around 
the globe to develop customized 
patient education materials.
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES23
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013developing world. In China, for example, more 
than 40 million people have diabetes, and an 
additional 20 million suffer impaired glucose 
tolerance. 
The incidence of such diseases is bound to 
intensify as more people in developing nations 
adopt Western-style diets and sedentary 
habits. To compound these issues, the social 
stigma that may accompany certain diseases 
often interfere with proper diagnosis and 
treatment.
Despite such challenges, Abbott is successfully 
boosting access to a wide range of healthcare 
services and products, working in partnership 
with numerous government agencies, 
healthcare professional societies, non-
governmental organizations and other key 
stakeholders. 
In India, our business units host a variety of 
health camps, screening events and patient 
awareness programs, often targeting remote 
and underserved populations. Continuing 
medical education programs also provide 
healthcare providers with updates on the 
latest diagnostic techniques and treatment 
practices for such conditions as cardiovascular 
disease, diabetes, acute care and other aspects 
of prevention, treatment and care. In 2013, 
nearly 400,000 patients have been screened at 
more than 17,600 camps and events, and more 
than 7,100 medical professionals participated 
in educational programs. EDUCATING AND SUPPORTING 
HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONERS
In countries around the world, some of the 
most important work we do to enhance 
access involves training and educating local 
healthcare providers to address gaps in the 
quality and quantity of healthcare services. 
There are a number of ways in which 
Abbott works to achieve this – from working 
with government to improve healthcare 
access and services, to making health 
outcome data readily available, to running 
nutrition education programs for healthcare 
professionals.
To help advance understanding of emerging 
products and treatments, we follow local 
regulations to sponsor and collect patient 
outcome data related to the usage of our 
products and make this data easily accessible 
to healthcare professionals, payers, regulators 
and the public. Around the world, we offer a 
wide range of training, meetings, conferences 
and educational activities targeting multiple 
stakeholders. 
ABBOTT’S CROSSROADS TRAINING CENTERS
To advance understanding of the latest tools 
and techniques in cardiac care, we created the 
Abbott Crossroads training centers to educate 
healthcare providers in coronary, endovascular 
and structural heart interventions. The newest 
Crossroads center is located in Shanghai, 
China; other facilities are located in Brussels, 
Belgium; Tokyo, Japan; and Johannesburg, 
South Africa.400,000
17,600
7,10014,000
 EMPLOYEES
PEOPLE SCREENED FOR CHRONIC 
CONDITIONS AND ACUTE CARE 
HEALTH CAMPS AND EVENTS
MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS 
PARTICIPATED IN EDUCATIONAL 
PROGRAMSABBOTT IN INDIA
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES24
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013PARTICIPATING IN RUSSIA’S HEALTHCARE 
MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
Abbott partners with the Russian Federal 
Research Institute for Health Organization 
and Informatics of the Russian Ministry of 
Health and Social Development to deliver 
an educational initiative for healthcare 
management professionals on the 
modernization and reform of the Russian 
healthcare system. In 2013, around 600 
regional healthcare professionals participated 
in six two-day conferences, held from 
October to December. The second annual 
seminar included discussion of the federal 
contract system, as well as regional specifics 
of the healthcare modernization system and 
increases in quality of patient care. 
Leonid Parshenkov, General Manager of 
Abbott Russia, noted that “by supporting these 
dedicated education initiatives across Russia, 
Abbott strives to make our contribution to the 
system of continuing professional education 
in Russia and to support the modernization of 
the country’s healthcare system.” 
 DIABETES CARE IN SAUDI ARABIA
Abbott is committed to tackling the emergence 
of diabetes around the world, and we work 
to help governments develop programs to 
address this growing problem. One example of 
this is our partnership with the Saudi Ministry 
of Health’s innovative new “Sahsehlo” (“Watch 
Out”) Saudi National Diabetes Awareness 
Program (SNDAP). Saudi Arabia has one of the highest diabetes 
prevalence rates in the world, coupled with 
a low incidence of glucose testing. According 
to the Ministry of Health, 14 percent of Saudi 
citizens across all ages, and 28 percent of those 
over 30, have the disease.
The SNDAP provides critical diabetes 
education, support and supplies to Saudi 
citizens. Abbott Diabetes Care’s (ADC) local 
distributor, MediServ, is providing all blood 
glucose meters and test strips for SNDAP, as 
well as a comprehensive diabetes awareness 
program. In addition, ADC is providing trained 
staff to help educate and treat people in 20 
diabetes centers across the country. 
Through this innovative public-private 
partnership, we hope to reach more than 
800,000 Saudi citizens over the next three 
years, helping to both slow incidence rates 
of diabetes and provide better care to those 
people who have already been diagnosed. 
IMPROVING CHILD HEALTH IN PAKISTAN
Abbott plays an important role in addressing 
the effective management of health issues in 
children in Pakistan through our All 4 Kidz 
program. All 4 Kidz offers learning sessions 
and workshops that examine issues such as 
early childhood mortality, pain management 
and the recognition and management 
of epilepsy in children, as well as child 
development issues such as the identification 
of markers that signal early developmental 
issues in children and how to educate parents 
regarding domestic injuries and poisonings. More than 1,200 healthcare professionals have 
participated in the program, which have taken 
place in Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. 
At the All 4 Kidz events, Dr. Sohail Salaat, 
Consultant and Head of Neonatology at the 
Aga Khan University Hospital, has noted 
that Pakistan was third among five countries 
that account for almost half of all deaths in 
children under five worldwide. “Personal 
hygiene, public health measures including 
access to clean drinking water and proper 
sanitation, good nutrition, frequent health 
checkups and immunization are preventive 
strategies for minimizing child mortality,” said 
Dr. Salaat. 
Abbott also organized an international speaker 
series in the country that gathered authorities 
in the fields of pediatrics and nutrition to learn 
the latest clinical knowledge and evidence-
based practical recommendations for immune 
system development among children. 
Dr. Sanja Kolacek, a global expert on 
child nutrition and Secretary General 
of the European Society of Pediatric 
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition 
(ESPGHAN), highlighted the role of nutrition 
in the immune system development of 
children during sessions hosted in Karachi, 
Lahore, Islamabad and Gujranwala. 
In addition, partnering with leading physicians 
in pediatric sciences, Abbott recently launched 
the Pediatric Advisory Board in Pakistan, 
designed to foster continuous learning in 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES25
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Government of Tanzania to strengthen the 
country’s healthcare system for more than 11 
years. To date, Abbott and the Abbott Fund 
have invested more than $100 million in this 
comprehensive program. 
Our activities include working to modernize 
Muhimbili National Hospital with a new 
emergency department and outpatient 
treatment center, a state-of-the-art laboratory 
building and a hospital-wide information 
technology system that tracks inventory, 
prescriptions and patient health history. We 
completed a project to modernize laboratories 
to improve diagnostic and monitoring 
capabilities at 23 regional hospitals. 
Additionally, we have supported more than 
20,000 healthcare worker trainings in patient 
testing, treatment and care, laboratory 
equipment operation, hospital information 
technology and hospital management.
In 2013, Abbott and the Abbott Fund 
celebrated several significant program 
milestones. Tanzania’s first class of eight 
residents graduated from the Abbott Fund-
supported Emergency Medicine Residency 
Program, the first in East Africa. Forty nurses 
also completed the first training program  
in emergency medicine. Together, these 
experts are providing critically needed care  
for 40,000 people each year, while also 
serving as mentors for the next generation of 
healthcare providers. primary care physicians, to activate patient 
support and education programs and to enable 
Abbott’s national programs to better serve the 
needs of Pakistani people. 
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY
As in developed nations, modern information 
technology and digital recordkeeping can 
revolutionize the delivery of healthcare 
services in developing regions. Abbott is 
partnering with a wide range of nonprofit 
organizations, government agencies, 
healthcare professionals and other 
stakeholders to help improve healthcare 
system capacity and infrastructure through 
digital innovation.
Abbott has developed a mobile application 
that serves as a reference or enhancement  
tool for hospitals and healthcare professionals.  
The Patient Education Vascular Videos app 
is a free iPad/iPhone app available for public 
download in the United States. A great  
resource, the app helps healthcare 
professionals educate patients about 
cardiovascular disease and therapies via 
multimedia engagement. The program 
is available in English and Spanish. 
SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
TECHNOLOGY IN TANZANIA
Abbott and the Abbott Fund also have a 
long tradition of supporting healthcare 
infrastructure and technology development 
in Tanzania – where we have engaged 
in a public-private partnership with the 2340,0001,000
47,000Regional laboratories 
modernized and connected  
via Tanzania’s first national  
IT network.People receive critically 
needed care at the 
emergency room each year.People cared for each day at 
the new outpatient center.
Hours of support from 
Abbott volunteers.ABBOTT IN TANZANIA
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES26
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013The year 2013 also brought the country’s first 
nationwide lab IT network. The network links 
all 23 regional labs and is creating capacity 
for sharing test results, disease surveillance 
and management practices across the country. 
Expert Abbott lab technicians are providing 
on-the-ground training and mentoring for 
local teams, ensuring maintenance and 
sustainable operations. 
EMPOWERING OUR CONSUMERS AND 
COMMUNITIES
Abbott works with a wide range of partners to 
help educate families about the importance 
of advancing maternal and child health, 
including the role of proper nutrition in 
childhood development. Cambodia, for 
example, has significantly high rates of 
childhood malnutrition and maternal 
mortality, the result of years of war and civil 
unrest. At Angkor Hospital for Children, 
Abbott and the Abbott Fund are working with 
Direct Relief in a unique nutrition education 
program. The program teaches thousands of 
families how to grow and prepare nutritious 
foods, while also training nurses and other 
healthcare workers in nutrition and healthcare 
issues.
STRONGMOMS ESPAÑOL
Hispanic babies now account for more than 
25 percent of births in the United States, 
according to the recent census, meaning that 
there is an increasing need for Hispanic moms 
to have access to Spanish-language resources. 
StrongMoms Español – a program launched through our infant formula brand Similac  – fills 
this niche, providing moms with free, relevant 
Spanish-language resources that enable 
them to make informed decisions about the 
nutrition of their babies and families, whether 
that be breastfeeding, formula feeding or a 
combination of both. 
Mothers who enroll in the program will receive 
weekly emails about their baby’s development, 
prenatal nutrition and infant nutrition – 
including breastfeeding, supplementing and 
formula feeding – as well as membership 
rewards, partner offers and coupons. Mothers 
can also access additional resources on the 
newly redesigned Spanish-language Web site 
from Similac  at es.similac.com . To increase 
the reach and impact of this program, Similac  
partnered with the National Association 
of Hispanic Nurses (NAHN), which has 
advocated for more educational resources on 
infant nutrition for Hispanic women. NAHN 
and Similac  hosted joint educational events 
with expert speakers and NAHN nurses, 
giving mothers the chance to receive relevant 
information and meet with nurses one-on-one. 
WOMEN´S HEART HEALTH INITIATIVE
In 2007, one woman died approximately 
every minute in the United States as a result 
of cardiovascular disease, with the disease 
claiming more lives than cancer, chronic lower 
respiratory disease, Alzheimer’s disease and 
accidents combined. In addition, despite being 
commonly perceived as a “man’s disease,” 
cardiovascular disease has claimed the lives  
of more women than men each year since Hispanic babies now account for 
more than 25 percent of births in 
the United States.
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES27
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20131984. Compounding the risks associated with  
a lack of awareness of the disease among 
women is the fact that risk factors, symptoms 
and response to treatments differ between  
the sexes. 
To raise awareness of these risks, Abbott 
launched the Women’s Heart Health 
Initiative (WHHI) in 2009. Through the use 
of a comprehensive educational program, 
the WHHI aims to improve awareness and 
prevention of cardiovascular disease in 
women.
To convince women of the need for concern 
about heart health, and to provide effective 
preventive care, awareness needs to be 
raised long before a woman’s first visit to a 
cardiologist, which often occurs later in life. 
Recognizing this, Abbott collaborated with 
the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography 
and Interventions (SCAI) to identify the 
best avenues for engagement. Given that 
many women interact frequently with their 
obstetrician-gynecologist (OB-GYN), we 
developed a tailored heart disease screening 
survey that could be delivered by OB-GYNs to 
their patients. 
Nearly 3,000 women at sites across the United 
States completed this survey, providing 
important insight into the prevalence of 
cardiovascular risk factors in this population. 
Results revealed that three out of four of the 
women surveyed were at risk of cardiovascular 
disease. An important indicator of elevated risk is a 
history of pregnancy complications, such 
as gestational diabetes or preeclampsia. For 
example, the latter can almost double the risk 
of women experiencing heart disease over the 
following five to 15 years. Women who were 
identified as high risk through the survey were 
referred for additional medical consultation 
with a cardiac specialist or internist. 
The value of this novel screening 
approach was affirmed in 2011, when the 
American Heart Association added new 
recommendations to its guidelines that 
recognized the importance of screening 
women for a history of pregnancy 
complications when assessing the potential 
for developing cardiovascular disease. 
Novel approaches to screening, such as 
those championed by Abbott through the 
WHHI, may help to identify women with 
risks of cardiovascular disease earlier, before 
symptoms arise. In turn, this may help to both 
prevent disease and reduce healthcare costs. 
Because of the impact of this innovative 
program, WomenHeart, The National 
Coalition for Women with Heart Disease, 
honored Abbott with the prestigious Wenger 
Award in 2013, in recognition of the company’s 
efforts in developing this unique survey, 
implementing the program and raising 
awareness among women about the risk 
of heart disease. The WHHI program has 
also led to the development of new tools for 
practitioners, such as our Women’s Vascular 
Health iPad application. A history of preeclampsia means 
double the risk of stroke, heart 
disease and dangerous clotting  
5 to 15 years after pregnancy. 
Source:  American Heart AssociationAfrican-American women  
are 35 percent more likely to die of 
 heart disease than white women. 
Source:  WomenHeart, The National Coalition 
 for Women with Heart Disease
2X35%
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES28
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013MATERNITY AND CHILDCARE IN AFGHANISTAN
In Afghanistan, only 14 percent of women 
have access to skilled medical childbirth care 
– partly because Afghanistan’s male healthcare 
providers are not allowed to treat women. As 
a result, Afghanistan has one of the highest 
maternal mortality rates in the world, with 70 
pregnant women dying every day, many during 
childbirth. Meanwhile, one in five children will 
not live to see their fifth birthday. 
Abbott and the Abbott Fund are working 
to address these challenges through a 
partnership with Direct Relief International 
and the Afghan Institute of Learning (AIL). 
Founded by Nobel Prize nominee Sakena 
Yacoobi, a longtime advocate for women’s 
rights in Afghanistan, AIL has five clinics 
serving rural areas, each providing health 
services and education and staffed and 
operated by Afghan women. To help expand 
AIL’s health education efforts, the partnership 
focuses on supporting women’s health 
workshops, expectant mothers’ workshops and 
nutrition education programs. AIL also works 
to empower women by training midwives, as 
well as skilled healthcare providers for infants 
and children. We have supported AIL with 
more than $4.5 million in product donations 
and $1.2 million in grants. THE POWER OF PARTNERSHIPS 
On our own, our ability to improve healthcare 
around the world can be limited. However, 
through the establishment of innovative, 
influential partnerships, we are able to 
leverage our skills and services, exponentially 
increasing our impact on the challenges faced 
by our stakeholders. 
ABBOTT AND MUSIC SAVES LIVES ENCOURAGE 
YOUTH TO BECOME LIFELONG BLOOD DONORS
Blood transfusions help save millions of lives 
every year – approximately every two seconds, 
someone in the United States requires a 
blood transfusion. However, although nearly 
40 percent of the U.S. population is eligible 
to donate blood, less than 10 percent of 
these potential donors give annually. Often 
this means that hospitals and clinics face a 
shortage of blood for patients. 
Founded in 2005, Music Saves Lives ® is a 
not-for-profit organization that works to 
empower young people and connect them 
with important community actions, catalyzing 
activities such as donating blood or registering 
for the bone marrow program. To spread its 
message, Music Saves Lives partners with 
well-known entertainers and musicians to 
reach millions of fans and young people with 
this important message. 14%
OF WOMEN
HAVE ACCESS TO SKILLED MEDICAL 
CHILDBIRTH CARE IN AFGHANISTAN
70
PREGNANT WOMEN DIE EVERY 
DAY IN AFGHANISTAN
$4.5
MILLION
IN PRODUCT DONATIONS AND 
$1.2 MILLION IN GRANTS TO 
THE AFGHAN INSTITUTE OF 
LEARNING FROM ABBOTTMATERNITY AND CHILDBIRTH 
IN AFGHANISTAN
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES29
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013“Abbott has joined forces 
with Music Saves Lives 
to encourage young 
people to become 
donors, to help make 
sure that we have an 
ample blood supply for 
many years to come.”
BRIAN BLASER 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,  
DIAGNOSTICS PRODUCTSAbbott’s longstanding commitment to helping 
ensure the safety of the world’s blood supply, 
and our continuous improvements in blood 
screening technologies, makes Music Saves 
Lives an ideal partnership to encourage young 
adults to consider becoming lifelong blood 
donors. 
“The demand for blood persists even as 
the repeat donor population continues to 
decrease,” said Brian Blaser, Abbott’s Executive 
Vice President of Diagnostics Products. 
“Abbott has joined forces with Music Saves 
Lives to encourage young people to become 
donors, to help make sure that we have an 
ample blood supply for many years to come.”
One of the first initiatives of this new 
partnership was the launch of the Very 
Important Donor Club , which urges donors 
to pledge to give blood at least once a year. 
This club uses music as a means to motivate 
involvement in the blood donation process. 
Through social media platforms, including 
Instagram, Facebook and Twitter, members 
can learn more about the musicians who 
support the effort and how donations impact 
people’s lives. 
One such musician is legendary DJ and 
producer Tiësto, who teamed up with Abbott 
and Music Saves Lives by offering donors the 
chance to attend a concert in Washington, 
D.C., in November 2013. Tiësto noted, “Blood is 
a vital resource that cannot be manufactured, and it’s only available through the generosity 
of donors. I’m getting involved to help spread 
the message – so that my great fans will take 
notice and step up to donate blood to help 
those in need.”
In its first year, this innovative collaboration 
inspired thousands of young people to donate 
blood for the first time, and several hundred 
pledged to donate blood at least once a year. 
SHARING INSIGHTS IN NUTRITION
We recognize that a collaborative approach 
can enhance patient outcomes. For this 
reason, we consult with experts from around 
the world to share epidemiological data, 
insights from patients and advancements in 
science. The Abbott Nutrition Health Institute 
and the Alliance to Advance Patient Nutrition 
illustrate our commitment to this approach 
and enable us to interact with and support 
healthcare practitioners, while also generating 
new nutrition innovations. 
ABBOTT NUTRITION HEALTH INSTITUTE
A global knowledge center, the Abbott 
Nutrition Health Institute strives to illuminate 
the power of science-based nutrition 
for healthcare professionals through a 
combination of education, advocacy and 
collaboration. EVERY
2 SECONDS
Someone in the U.S. 
needs blood.
ONLY
10%
Of the U.S. population 
eligible to donate blood 
actually does so each year.
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES30
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Our Web site, anhi.org , provides access to 
nutrition resources 24/7 free of charge, 
along with dozens of conference videos. This 
includes coverage of our 14th Abbott Nutrition 
Research Conference, which took place over 
two days in April 2013, with experts covering 
a range of topics in the areas of cognition and 
nutrition. 
In addition to providing educational resources 
through the institute, Abbott Nutrition 
partners with the University of Illinois at 
Champaign-Urbana to fund nutrition and 
cognition studies through the Center for 
Nutrition, Learning and Memory. The center, 
governed by representatives from both the 
university and Abbott, aims to drive the field 
of nutrition science research forward with 
the use of cutting-edge brain imaging and 
supercomputing technologies. 
THE ALLIANCE TO ADVANCE PATIENT NUTRITION
In the United States, one in five Medicare 
patients is readmitted to the hospital – at an 
estimated cost of $17.5 billion annually. To 
reduce this impact, the Affordable Care Act 
has introduced hospital penalties based on 
readmission conditions that commonly affect 
patients aged 65 and older, including acute 
myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure 
and pneumonia. In 2013, a groundbreaking study assessing 
the impact of nutritional supplements 
on readmission and costs was published. 
Conducted by leading researchers at the 
University of Southern California, Stanford 
University, the Harris School at the University 
of Chicago and Precision Health Economics, 
and supported by Abbott, the study found 
that the use of oral nutritional supplements 
decreased the probability of 30-day hospital 
readmission, length of stay and costs among 
hospitalized Medicare patients aged 65 and 
over. 
Study co-author Tomas Philipson, Ph.D., 
the Daniel Levin Chair of Public Policy 
at the University of Chicago, noted, “This 
analysis suggests that use of oral nutritional 
supplements is a simple and cost-effective 
solution that hospitals can implement 
immediately.” To further this work, Abbott 
was a co-founder of the Alliance to Advance 
Patient Nutrition, launched in 2013. This 
interdisciplinary consortium is dedicated 
to championing effective patient nutrition 
practices and is composed of leaders from 
the Academy of Medical-Surgical Nurses, 
the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the 
Society of Hospital Medicine and Abbott 
Nutrition. The alliance represents more than 
100,000 dietitians, nurses, hospitalists and 
other physicians. 1/3
OF PATIENTS
Are malnourished when 
admitted to a hospital.
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES31
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Safeguarding the Environment
At Abbott, we are committed to reducing 
our global environmental impacts across our 
business – from the sourcing of raw materials 
and the manufacturing and distribution 
of our products, to the use and disposal of 
our products by patients, consumers and 
healthcare providers. Our environmental 
stewardship initiatives help protect the planet 
while improving efficiency, reducing costs and 
preserving our ability to do business in the 
future. We are guided by our own tradition of 
environmental stewardship, as well as national 
and international legislation and feedback 
from our stakeholders.
We have three environmental priorities:
• Climate change
• Water usage
• Product stewardship
Environmental issues are inextricably 
interconnected and, as a result, so are the 
solutions. Recognizing this, we have developed 
comprehensive management and governance 
systems that reflect our three priorities 
and enable us to ensure that they are fully 
integrated into our day-to-day planning and 
business processes.2020 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE DATA
To ensure that we achieve our overall aim of 
reducing our global environmental impact, we 
have set ambitious goals for 2020:
• A 40 percent reduction in carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO2e) emissions from direct 
emissions or from sources we own or control 
and from the electricity we purchase, 
compared with 2010 levels (adjusted for 
sales)
• A 30 percent reduction in total water intake 
(adjusted for sales)
• A 50 percent reduction in total waste 
(adjusted for sales)
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
OVERSIGHT
Improving our performance requires clear 
lines of accountability and senior-level 
leadership and support. We have multiple 
levels of environmental management 
oversight within businesses and across 
the company. The Senior Vice President 
for Quality Assurance, Regulatory and 
Engineering Services, a corporate officer, who 
reports to the Chairman and CEO, reviews 
metrics, key programs and progress on a 
regular basis. The following groups implement 
our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
programs and initiatives:40%
REDUCTION IN CARBON 
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
30%
REDUCTION IN TOTAL  
WATER INTAKE
50%
REDUCTION IN TOTAL  
WASTE GENERATEDOUR 2020 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
GOALS
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES32
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013wide implications. This group also builds 
awareness of EHS performance, promotes 
our EHS Excellence Awards, supports EHS 
training and conferences and communicates 
our performance improvement initiatives.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
Examples of the predicted consequences of 
climate change are already visible worldwide, 
from Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines to 
Superstorm Sandy in the United States. The 
impact of these events could increase in the 
coming decades, with the United Nations 
noting in its 2013 Emissions Gap report that 
we are increasingly unlikely to meet global 
2020 emissions reduction targets. 
Clearly, climate change poses serious 
challenges for humanity and our planet, 
and has the potential to affect Abbott in a 
multitude of ways. For example, extreme 
weather patterns and water scarcity pose 
challenges for sourcing, operations and 
distribution, while a more carbon-constrained 
world could add to energy costs. Additionally, 
climate change could lead to significant 
changes in the global disease burden. 
It is clear that action is required, not only to 
mitigate these risks, but also to help society 
adapt to the climate changes already under 
way. As a global healthcare company, we are 
committed to doing our part to address this 
issue – by reducing our direct impacts from 
manufacturing and by making a positive 
difference from indirect impacts across our 
value chain.• Global Operations Council   – This body 
sets priorities for all Abbott manufacturing 
plants and makes resources available 
to meet local needs based on internal 
assessment of performance, benchmarking 
of best practices in the industry and risk 
profiles. The council reports to the Chair 
and CEO, and is chaired by the Senior Vice 
President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory 
and Engineering Services (who is both a 
corporate officer and the senior executive 
charged with global EHS responsibility). It 
consists of our heads of operations, research 
and development, quality, purchasing and 
information technology. As part of the 
internal assessment process, the Senior Vice 
President for Quality Assurance, Regulatory 
and Engineering Services periodically 
reviews key performance indicators and 
status of preventive actions with the Global 
Operations Council.
• Commercial EHS Executive Council   – This 
council sets priorities and implements EHS 
goals and objectives for our sales operations 
around the world. This includes driver safety 
and reducing vehicular accidents among the 
sales force, as well as reducing greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions from fleet vehicles. 
The Executive Vice President of Established 
Pharmaceuticals chairs this group.
• EHS Executive Council  – This group 
develops and implements programs and 
actions that are consistent with the priorities 
set by the Global Operations Council and the 
Commercial EHS Executive Council. This 
team meets regularly to share best practices 
and discuss EHS issues with company-
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES33
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Outside our areas of direct responsibility, we 
work across our global value chain to reduce 
our emissions and encourage our suppliers, 
distributors and other stakeholders to manage 
and reduce their impacts. To facilitate this 
process, Abbott joined the CDP Supply Chain 
initiative in 2013. This annual process allows 
us to map out the carbon footprint of our 
supply base by gathering information from 
our suppliers on their climate and water-
related strategies and activities. Although we 
participated in the survey for the first time 
in 2013, we managed to engage 230 of our 
most critical suppliers in the process. We are 
now analyzing their responses to the survey 
to determine where we can improve Abbott’s 
supplier sustainability and gain further 
operating efficiencies. 
REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT: ABBOTT’S CLIMATE 
RESPONSIBLE ENERGY POLICY
Our Climate Responsible Energy Policy  
provides guidance and goals to help our 
employees around the world manage energy 
use and related emissions. Our policy focuses 
on increasing energy efficiency in our 
manufacturing operations; investing in low-
carbon energy; improving efficiency within 
our transportation fleet; encouraging a lower 
carbon footprint within our supply chain; and 
publicly reporting our performance.
Our Global Energy Council includes utilities 
professionals from our most energy-intensive 
businesses. The council works to monitor, 
evaluate and reduce total energy consumption 
globally while negotiating best-in-class price 
and delivery contracts and promoting the ABBOTT’S CARBON FOOTPRINT
The nature of our business encompasses a 
wide range of potential sources of carbon 
emissions. These include our manufacturing, 
warehousing and office activities, as well as 
our vehicle fleets. Through our global value 
chain, we also indirectly contribute to carbon 
emissions. These arise from our sourcing and 
distribution of products, as well as the ways 
that consumers and health professionals use 
and dispose of our products. Our 2020 carbon 
emission reduction target to reduce our 
emissions by 40 percent (against 2010 levels) 
is evidence of our commitment to address  
this and reduce emissions in every aspect of 
our business. 
We have been measuring and managing 
our direct emissions since 2000. One 
important way in which we do this is through 
participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) . This international initiative provides 
an important framework for us to measure 
and manage our key environmental impacts. 
Through this program, we share critical 
data on energy consumption and emissions. 
This work has enabled us to identify our 
three greatest sources of impact – our 
manufacturing fuel combustion, our electricity 
use and our global fleet – and develop a 
comprehensive management program to 
address them. This program, which includes 
features such as increasing energy efficiency 
across our operations and integrating green 
engineering technologies and concepts into 
our projects, has resulted in an 8 percent 
reduction in our absolute energy consumed 
since 2010.REDUCING OUR  
 CARBON FOOTPRINT
We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions, 
and we encourage our suppliers, distributors and other 
stakeholders to reduce their own impacts.
n Scope 1 direct 
emissions
n Scope 2 direct 
emissions
n Scope 3 indirect 
emissionsThird-Party  
Manufacturing Waste  
Management
Leased Office  
Buildings and  
Warehouses
Employee  
Business Travel
Consumer
Use and 
DisposalProduct
DistributionPurchased
Electricity
Company 
Operations
Purchased Steam
Cooling and 
Heating2.3% REDUCTION IN 
CO2e EMISSIONS
IN 2013
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES34
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013For this reason, Abbott Nutrition launched 
the Utility Excellence (UEx) program in 
February 2013. The objective of UEx is to 
cultivate a culture of sustainable utility 
management through employee awareness 
and accountability. The goal is to achieve 
reductions in utility usage of 50 percent by 
2017. To date, the UEx program has resulted 
in efficiency savings exceeding $8 million, 
and significant reductions in greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
Since the program launch, UEx teams have 
been established at 16 Abbott sites, embarking 
on a journey to transform site culture through 
employee awareness and engagement 
initiatives. For example, the Cootehill UEx 
team in Ireland created a utility value-stream 
map to identify opportunities for savings in 
terms of reducing utility usage. 
In the Cootehill plant, the wet process area 
– where liquid milk is mixed with powdered 
ingredients – was identified as holding 
significant opportunities for savings. Through 
assessment, the team determined that the 
manufacturing of some products could be 
done at a temperature 25 degrees lower, with 
no product or process impact. Changes were 
implemented, which resulted in annualized 
savings of $69,000. The Cootehill project will 
serve as a critical element for replication and 
standardization across other sites. 
This new initiative was one of many at Abbott 
in 2013 that enabled us to achieve an 8 percent 
absolute reduction in total energy consumed. installation of financially beneficial energy 
conservation and alternative energy projects.
Through our numerous energy management 
initiatives, we:
• Perform energy audits to identify energy 
conservation opportunities
• Share best-in-class energy practices
• Evaluate and test new energy conservation 
technologies
• Prioritize and allocate funding for projects 
that reduce carbon and energy
• Source low-carbon fuels
• Negotiate competitive energy contracts and 
implement financial hedges to reduce price 
volatility
Our ambitious carbon emissions reduction 
target of 40 percent by 2020, compared with 
2010 levels, has acted as a catalyst for our 
efforts to improve our energy efficiency across 
the organization. This has included switching 
to “clean” energy in many of our operations 
– including the use of low-carbon fuels, 
cogeneration and renewable energy, which 
will help us to reduce our overall carbon 
footprint. 
CARBON REDUCTIONS IN MANUFACTURING
Abbott Nutrition’s manufacturing work is 
particularly energy- and water-intensive, 
accounting for around 45 percent of 
Abbott’s greenhouse gas emissions. With 
the likelihood of future volatility in fuel and 
water availability, this was clearly an area that 
needed to be addressed. REDUCTION IN 
UTILITY USE
With its UEx program, 
Abbott Nutrition is working 
to reduce utility use by  
50 percent by 2017. 50%
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES35
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013successful at one plant, may improve our 
global environmental performance at other 
locations.
In 2010, we implemented a front-end planning 
process and assessment tool for evaluating the 
energy and environmental impacts of capital 
projects costing $2.5 million or more. When 
those impacts are deemed significant, planners 
are required to evaluate design alternatives 
that might prove more environmentally 
friendly.
Our front-end planning tool gives project 
designers three-dimensional models for 
analyzing and comparing various alternatives 
that might improve energy efficiency, optimize 
natural light and ventilation and incorporate 
various other green components. The tool 
also estimates energy usage and costs over 
a building’s useful life. In addition, our 
assessment tool provides carbon footprint 
reporting and optimization alternatives that 
can improve a building’s carbon-neutral 
potential.
We are committed to using green building 
guidelines when planning or evaluating each 
construction project, whether it involves a 
new building or renovations to an existing 
building. In the United States, we follow the 
U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
rating systems. Wherever practical, Abbott 
project teams attempt to execute construction 
and renovation projects in alignment with Other examples of energy efficiency programs 
that help reduce carbon emissions at our 
plants include:
• Our pharmaceutical plant in Goa, India, 
installed a biomass fuel boiler in November 
2012, replacing a boiler fired by furnace oil. 
This single change – switching to a leading-
edge, clean energy source – could potentially 
reduce CO2 emissions by 1.4 million pounds 
per year. That is an 18 percent reduction 
from 2012 levels. The installation of the 
biomass boiler will also reduce steam 
generation costs for the Goa plant, from 18 
percent to six percent of the plant’s overall 
utility costs. 
• Our nutrition manufacturing plant in 
Singapore is realizing an annual reduction 
in energy use of 36 million kWh per 
year through a number of energy-saving 
initiatives. These include elimination of 
excess utility systems, heat recovery from air 
compressors; reducing heating, ventilation 
and air conditioning usage in some areas; 
and the installation of variable frequency 
drives on water pumps. 
CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCTIONS THROUGH 
GREEN BUILDING
Abbott is increasing efforts to integrate green 
engineering technologies and concepts into 
our regularly scheduled projects, such as re-
roofing and other renovations, as well as new 
building design. Some of these projects involve 
new and emerging technologies that, if proven LEED FACILITY  
 CERTIFICATIONS
4
LEED GOLD
2
LEED SILVER
4
GREEN BUILDING  
CERTIFICATIONS
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES36
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013emission sources outside our direct control. 
These sources include emissions from 
transportation suppliers, commercial business 
travel, waste management and product 
distribution. We continue to evaluate and 
report our Scope 3 emissions as we are able to 
collect and improve these estimates.
We also continue to partner with our global 
transportation suppliers to estimate the 
greenhouse-gas emissions associated with 
Abbott’s activities. Our analysis indicates that 
upstream and downstream transportation 
and distribution accounts for about 4 million 
metric tons of emissions each year. These 
emissions equate to about four times our 
total Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) 
emissions. In 2014, we included our major 
transportation suppliers in our CDP Supply 
Chain initiative to refine our analysis. 
Additionally, we are continuing to work on 
assessing other sources of indirect emissions 
that lie outside our boundaries and on which 
we have less influence, such as employee 
commuting, third-party manufacturing and 
consumer use and disposal of our products. 
We will continue to better quantify and 
report on these Scope 3 emissions and the 
actions we are taking to minimize them. 
Our participation in the CDP Supply Chain 
initiative also presents an opportunity to 
engage critical suppliers on projects of mutual 
risk and performance improvement benefits.the green building guidelines and with the 
ultimate goal of achieving LEED certification. 
At present, Abbott has four facilities that have 
achieved LEED Gold certification, two LEED 
Silver buildings and four additional facilities 
with green building certification. 
REDUCING OUR INDIRECT IMPACTS THROUGH 
GREEN PURCHASING AND SUPPLIER SELECTION 
As previously noted, the sourcing, distribution 
and use of our products is linked to the 
production of carbon emissions, with this 
group being referred to as Scope 3. We 
are committed to addressing this area by 
encouraging our suppliers and distributors to 
reduce the carbon emissions for which they 
are directly responsible, and also by educating 
end users about the carbon emissions related 
to the use of our products.
In evaluating our Scope 3 carbon footprint, we 
are first focusing on indirect emissions in the 
supply chain and distribution. We believe that 
by understanding the carbon impact of our 
supply chain, we can encourage optimization 
where we have some level of influence, and 
this will ultimately lead to carbon-footprint 
reductions across the supply chain.
We continue to work on assessing our Scope 
3 emissions using the methodology outlined 
in the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development/World Resources Institute 
Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
We have identified areas where we may 
have the ability to quantify and potentially 
influence emissions, as well as several key 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES37
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013EMISSIONS FROM WASTE
The breakdown of landfill waste results in the 
release of methane, a potent greenhouse gas. 
Consequently, sending waste to landfill can 
significantly increase an organization’s carbon 
footprint. For this reason, Abbott evaluates the 
greenhouse gas impact of the waste it sends to 
landfill. In 2013, we sent 14,000 metric tons of 
waste to landfill, resulting in 5,000 metric tons 
of GHG emissions, or 1 percent of our total 
global direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) 
emissions. 
Abbott is taking aggressive steps to reduce the 
amount of waste it sends to landfill. We have 
put in place a waste management strategy that 
covers both our own manufacturing operations 
and, ultimately, those of our suppliers. Part of 
this strategy is our commitment to achieving 
12 zero-waste-to-landfill manufacturing 
facilities by 2015. At the end of 2013, we had 
already converted 13 manufacturing facilities 
and one non-manufacturing site to zero-  
waste-to-landfill, surpassing the 2015 goal.  
By the end of 2014, we predict that we will 
have converted an additional six sites to 
zero-waste-to-landfill. The achievements 
of this program are detailed in the Waste 
Management section below. 
As a result of our waste reduction initiatives, 
including our zero-waste-to-landfill program, 
we diverted more than 9,000 tons of additional 
waste from landfill since 2010, reducing our 
landfill greenhouse-gas impact by 16 percent.MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF OUR FLEET
The separation of Abbott and AbbVie at the 
start of 2013 resulted in a significant reduction 
in the carbon impact of our fleet operations, 
with our global fleet being reduced to 27,000 
vehicles from 35,000. Nearly 90 percent of 
these vehicles are now operated outside of the 
United States, and, due to the types of vehicles 
commonly used, they have an average fuel 
efficiency of 50 miles per gallon, as well as 
lower-carbon and flex fuels availability. 
While beneficial from an environmental 
perspective, these vehicles have presented 
a greater-than-average risk of injury from 
an occupational safety perspective. We are 
addressing these issues through a range of 
health and safety initiatives under our HERO 
(Helping Employees Reduce risk across the 
Organization) program, such as providing 
safety training to our employees in high-risk 
roles in India and Vietnam. Further detail is 
available in the Valuing Our People section of 
this report. 
In the United States, our 2,700-vehicle fleet 
has steadily improved its carbon profile over 
the last several years as a result of vehicle 
leasing program improvements and driver 
incentives. This fleet is now composed of 
nearly 11 percent hybrid vehicles. In addition, 
a small percentage of the company-owned 
service vehicles at our headquarters campus 
in Illinois have been converted to plug-in 
electric models; Abbott will evaluate the use 
of charging stations and the feasibility of 
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES38
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013water tools helps facilitate communication 
with internal and external stakeholders on 
water challenges and serves as a mechanism to 
facilitate change. It also allows our company 
to focus on manufacturing sites that are at 
greatest risk for water supply interruptions 
now and in the future.
Abbott’s Water Policy  requires manufacturing 
sites identified as a significant water user or 
operating in water-stressed regions to perform 
a more detailed local water analysis. In the 
local analysis, sites identify external water 
related impacts and business water risks; 
outline opportunities to reduce or eliminate 
these impacts or risks; and develop a water 
strategy complete with performance targets 
that drive reduction in risk based on the 
opportunities identified. This information is 
collected and maintained in the site’s Water 
Management Plan. Progress toward achieving 
the 30 percent reduction of water intake is 
evaluated on a quarterly basis along with other 
key water data. 
Our water management program is 
continuously evolving as we gain additional 
knowledge and insight into this important 
resource. 
Our manufacturing plants continue to 
implement water reduction projects based 
on these and previous analyses. For example, 
as previously noted, our nutrition business 
accounts for a substantial percentage of installing these at other domestic company 
locations.
A COMPREHENSIVE WATER STRATEGY
Clean water is a critical resource, essential to 
sustaining human health, economic growth 
and the environment. Access to water is 
essential to our manufacturing operations 
and to all those who use our products. Abbott 
is committed to managing our water use 
in an efficient, sustainable manner and to 
improving people’s access to clean water in the 
communities where we work and live.
REDUCING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
Since 2010, we have lowered our total 
worldwide water intake by 10 percent on an 
absolute basis and 18 percent when adjusted 
for sales. By 2020, we seek to reduce our 
company’s total water intake by 30 percent, 
adjusted for sales. 
Abbott uses the World Resource Institute 
(WRI) Aqueduct global water risk mapping 
tool in combination with World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) Global Water Tool to help identify 
Abbott manufacturing plants that are 
operating in water-stressed regions. Results of 
our global water assessment have identified 
16 manufacturing sites that are currently 
operating in regions with significant baseline 
water stress. Having our sites mapped relative 
to varying degrees of water stress by the global TOTAL WATER INTAKE 
REDUCED BY 3.1% IN 2013
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES39
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013regions where Abbott has manufacturing 
operations.
Abbott and the Abbott Fund have expanded 
their long-term partnership with Project 
WET in Brazil, where we are working with 
local communities and nonprofit partners to 
educate children and their families about the 
importance of clean water, water conservation, 
sanitation and hand washing in preventing 
the spread of infectious diseases, creating 
change that will lead to improved health 
outcomes in the favelas in Rio de Janeiro. 
Abbott employees in Brazil volunteered their 
time and expertise, assisting the organization 
in the development of local water conservation 
educational materials.
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
With all of our healthcare products, Abbott’s 
primary concern is to ensure quality, safety, 
integrity and ease of use. Product packaging 
plays an essential role in fulfilling those 
responsibilities. At the same time, we are 
well aware of the ways in which our product 
packaging affects the environment – from 
the materials and energy required for its 
manufacture through its ultimate end of life. 
In balancing the need to reduce the 
environmental impacts of our packaging with 
the necessity of ensuring the protection of our 
products, we are guided by what we call the 
four R’s of sustainable packaging:
• Reduce  – optimize packaging design to 
reduce the amount of materials usedAbbott’s total water usage. The UEx program, 
implemented in 2013, is working to achieve 
significant reductions in water management, 
realizing environmental and economic 
benefits for the business. 
In another water conservation effort, at our 
manufacturing plant in Rio de Janeiro, we 
implemented a tertiary wastewater treatment 
system that uses existing systems to recycle 
wastewater for use in the HVAC cooling 
tower, fire water tanks and gardening. This 
resulted in a reduction in water use of around 
9,000 cubic meters per year. In addition, by 
reusing rather than immediately discharging 
the water, we have also achieved a 23 percent 
reduction in the amount of treated wastewater 
being released into a public river. 
Supported by the success of these and other 
initiatives, Abbott aims to be an industry 
leader in water stewardship. 
EDUCATING COMMUNITIES ON WATER 
CONSERVATION
Along with reducing our own water 
footprint, we are committed to helping 
the communities where we work and live 
with water conservation. Abbott experts 
frequently engage with community partners 
and nonprofit organizations to conduct 
water audits and help develop timelines for 
water use reduction goals. We are committed 
to continuing to collaborate with key 
stakeholders to identify water conservation 
opportunities, especially in water-stressed By conserving and filtering the water we use  
at our plant in Cootehill, Ireland, we return 
five liters of water for every four we take in – 
and it actually comes out cleaner than before.4 IN
5 OUT
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES40
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013PACKAGING PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND 
PROGRESS
To proactively address the sustainability of 
our packaging, Abbott is aggressively working 
to reduce the amount of packaging we use and 
distribute to our customers. Our target goal 
is to reduce 10 percent of packaging weight 
by 2020 from a 2010 baseline. Achieving 
this goal will represent the elimination of 
approximately 30 million pounds of packaging 
from our supply chain. 
We continue to make progress toward our 
2020 goal. By the end of 2013, the cumulative 
reduction was slightly more than 3 percent, 
the equivalent of 8.9 million pounds of 
packaging. 
Achievements in 2013 included:
• We completed our conversion of 4-ounce 
glass bottles to 2-ounce plastic bottles 
for our nutritional products, eliminating 
approximately 1.5 million pounds of 
packaging on an annual basis. 
• A new product, Ensure Compact , is a low-
volume energy- and nutrient-dense oral 
nutrition supplement sold in 125-milliliter 
containers. It provides all the benefits of 
a standard-size serving of Ensure Plus – in 
approximately half the volume. Packaging 
is reduced 25 percent from the comparative 
standard 200-milliliter packaging. 
• In packaging for the Ensure  and Pediasure  
8-ounce bottles, we consolidated down to 
one common unprinted closure design. 
• We implemented the use of recycled 
paperboard for cartons at our Chatillon, • Renew  – source packaging with renewable 
materials when feasible
• Recycle  – improve the use of recycled 
content in our packaging, and expand the 
use of packaging that is recyclable
• Reuse  – design packaging to allow reuse 
opportunities
Sustainable packaging is a necessary 
design feature of packaging materials and 
systems. For example, many of our milk-
based nutritional products are contained 
in packages that can be shipped and stored 
without refrigeration for up to 36 months. 
This packaging reduces the energy used 
by distributors and contributors and is an 
especially important benefit for people in 
developing nations, where refrigeration 
facilities can be less readily available and 
reliable.
Looking at packaging through a sustainability 
lens enables us to consider the complete life 
cycle of impacts on energy use, emissions and 
solid waste. Abbott is committed to leadership 
in developing and implementing sustainable 
packaging innovations. We will continue to 
work collaboratively to improve the social, 
environmental and economic benefits of our 
brands by employing sustainable packaging 
principles.WE FOLLOW THE 4 R’S  
OF SUSTAINABLE  
PACKAGING
REDUCE  
RENEW  
RECYCLE  
REUSE
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES41
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013packaging requirements. Additionally, we 
work with major retail customers to share 
information on packaging reductions we have 
achieved in our consumer products.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Abbott’s next goal is to reduce the total waste 
we generate by 50 percent from 2010 levels 
by 2020, adjusted for sales. By the end of 
2013, through focused resource management 
and collaborative partnerships with waste 
management vendors, we achieved a 19 
percent reduction in generated waste volume 
from 2010 on an absolute basis, and a 27 
percent reduction when adjusted for sales. 
All vendors responsible for the management 
of Abbott-generated waste are expected to 
meet minimum requirements in areas such 
as compliance, financial assurance, inventory 
control/record keeping, facility design/
operating conditions and approvals, among 
others. Vendors who do not meet these 
standards are not permitted to do business 
with our company. These firms are identified 
through the implementation of Abbott’s 
waste-vendor assessment program, which 
includes periodic on-site evaluations and 
documentation reviews to help ensure that 
only appropriately qualified and responsible 
vendors are permitted to manage Abbott 
waste. 
Our approach helps us to quickly identify 
emerging issues and resolve problems in a 
timely fashion. France, manufacturing plant. Approximately 
85 percent of the paperboard material used 
at the plant now comes from recycled paper. 
• By consolidating the number of package 
sizes from four to two, we reduced blister 
packaging material for our products 
manufactured at our Tlalpan, Mexico, plant 
by 45 percent. In addition to the material 
reduction, production line efficiency was 
improved as a result of this change. 
• We developed and introduced an amber-
colored polypropylene bottle with the clarity 
of PET for our Established Pharmaceuticals 
products in India. The bottle weight was 
reduced approximately 80 percent with this 
development.
• Packaging for Duphalac ® (lactulose) products 
was redesigned for more efficient use of 
materials, providing greater convenience for 
consumers. The new stick-pack pouch design 
has eliminated in excess of 975,000 pounds 
of packaging annually. 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING PARTNERSHIPS
Abbott works with a number of industry and 
independent groups, including the Sustainable 
Packaging Coalition , to advance sustainable 
packaging systems. We also work with 
suppliers who have achieved or are pursuing 
certification with respected sustainability 
organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship 
Council.
We also pursue green purchasing goals with 
suppliers around the world, working with 
them in many cases to help raise their own 
sustainability performance. We carefully 
screen suppliers, holding them to stringent TOTAL WASTE GENERATED  
REDUCED BY 1.3% IN 2013
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES42
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Nutrition sites:
• Cootehill, Ireland
• Ballytivnan, Ireland
• Zwolle, Netherlands
Vascular sites:
• Clonmel, Ireland
• Heerlen, the Netherlands
Pharmaceutical sites:
• Chatillon, France
• Goa, India
• Olst, the Netherlands
• Weesp, the Netherlands
The reductions achieved by these sites are 
truly impressive. For example, our nutritional 
facility in Cootehill, Ireland, worked with its 
local waste vendor to provide an alternative 
to landfill for disposing of materials such 
as polystyrene packaging, contaminated 
recyclables and general waste. With support 
from all of their employees, 98 percent of 
their waste is reused or recycled, and the 
rest is diverted from landfill. Our newest 
ZWL site, an Abbott Diagnostics facility in 
Donegal, Ireland, has achieved an equally 
impressive recycling rate of 97 percent, with 
the remaining non-recyclable waste being sent 
for solid fuel source, where it is used in the 
production of cement.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, 
POLICIES AND STANDARDS
Clear policies, standards and management 
systems ensure we operate in a manner 
that protects both human health and the Abbott is also committed to reducing the 
amount of waste that we send to landfill. 
Historically, landfills have been an easy 
and economical solution for waste disposal. 
However, permitted landfill space has 
become increasingly scarce over the past 
several years. For many years, the Global 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Energy 
(GEHS&E) organization has partnered with 
our operating businesses to investigate more 
environmentally friendly ways to manage 
our waste. This effort has grown into a 
comprehensive program to certify Abbott sites 
as zero waste to landfill. This program has 
resulted in increases in efficiency, costs savings 
and reductions in our carbon footprint. 
ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL
Zero waste to landfill is defined as the process 
whereby a site finds ethical, economical, 
efficient means to manage processes to avoid 
and eliminate the volume and toxicity of waste 
and materials, and to conserve and recover all 
resources. Implementing ZWL eliminates all 
waste sent to a landfill and diverts it to become 
a resource for other beneficial use. 
By the end of 2013, 13 manufacturing sites, 
and one non-manufacturing site, had achieved 
zero-waste-to-landfill status:
Diagnostics facilities:
• Wiesbaden, Germany
• Dartford, England
• Donegal, Ireland
• Sligo, Ireland
• Longford, Ireland14
ZERO-WASTE-TO-  
LANDFILL SITES
98%
REUSED OR RECYCLED
At Abbott’s Cootehill, Ireland, 
facility, 98 percent of waste is 
reused or recycled.WASTE
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIES43
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Our management standards set minimum 
requirements in the following areas:
• Environmental policy and programs
• Strategic planning
• Self-assessment/risk assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measures
• Assurance reviews
• Environmental global standards
These standards allow Abbott to have 
consistent technical expectations in all our 
manufacturing operations around the world.
We also have published a green procurement 
policy  to formalize our approach and to 
provide guidance on incorporating sustainable 
sourcing principles into the purchasing 
process.
GLOBAL EHS AUDITS
Abbott’s Global EHS audit function 
systematically evaluates our EHS-related 
performance and compliance status. 
These periodic assessments serve several 
purposes, including identifying potential 
risks to employees, the environment and the 
company; fostering continuous improvement; 
developing staff expertise; and promoting 
knowledge transfer. Abbott facilities are 
typically audited once every 36 months to 
help ensure compliance with regulatory and 
internal requirements.environment. Our environmental management 
metrics, auditing and reporting mechanisms 
are evaluated regularly, and we hold our 
managers responsible for improving their 
performance against these targets as part of 
our annual performance appraisal process.
Our environmental policy  aims for, and 
achieves, the following objectives:
• Improving the efficiency and sustainability 
of our business activities and products, 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, water 
use and waste
• Requiring contractors working on behalf 
of Abbott to conform to regulatory 
requirements and meet applicable internal 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
standards
• Establishing goals and strategies for the 
enterprise and reporting publicly on our 
progress
• Integrating sound EHS practices consistent 
with our management system into all aspects 
of the business
ENERGY AND WATER POLICIES
In Abbott’s energy  and water policies , we 
outline our aggressive goals to further reduce 
our environmental footprint, including 
our commitments to dramatically reduce 
CO2e emissions. Our policies also detail our 
commitment to improving access to clean 
water in communities around the world, and 
to reducing and efficiently managing our 
company’s own use of water.Abbott EHS professionals also partner 
with commercial management to complete 
formal on-site EHS gap assessments. During 
these assessments our affiliates are provided 
with compliance tools and implementation 
resources designed to ensure sustainable 
compliance and program improvement.
ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING AND ASSURANCE
Abbott had selected 2013 environmental 
and safety data externally verified by the 
independent company ERM Certification and 
Verification Services (ERM CVS) . A copy of 
their statement is provided on our Web site .
BUSINESS APPROACHRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
IN THIS SECTION
Supply Chain Excellence 45
Valuing Our People 51
Community Engagement 68
Promoting Ethics and Integrity 73
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS45
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Supply Chain Excellence 
As a global healthcare company, Abbott 
recognizes that managing our relationships 
with suppliers is an integral part of our 
success. Our suppliers play a critical role 
in fulfilling our commitment to global 
citizenship and ensuring we can continue to 
deliver quality products to people around the 
world. We work closely with our suppliers 
to maintain high levels of performance 
in all aspects of our business – ensuring 
quality, compliance and socially responsible 
practices. We work closely with our suppliers, 
monitoring and helping them to enhance 
their performance according to robust, clear 
metrics.
In 2013, a key element of our efforts to manage 
the impacts of our global supply chain was 
joining the CDP Supply Chain program . This 
program focuses on assisting organizations to 
implement successful supplier engagement 
strategies, reduce their supply chain 
emissions, control water impact and manage 
risk in a changing climate. We assessed 130 
companies considered critical to our business 
in the first stage of this collaborative process. 
We will be continuing our work with this 
group, and we look forward to reporting on 
our progress toward mapping the carbon 
footprint of our supply base.
Our Green Procurement Policy , discussed 
in the Transparency section of this report, 
forms a cornerstone of our supply chain practices by encouraging the procurement 
of environmentally preferable products and 
services.
MANAGING SUPPLIER QUALITY AND 
DEPENDABILITY
Our supply chain encompasses more than 
150 countries, includes more than 20,000 
suppliers and represents an estimated spend 
of $8.5 billion in 2013. By using a risk-based 
approach, we are able to manage this complex 
system, applying appropriate levels of focus 
and rigor throughout the process and carrying 
out routine audits, both remotely and on-site. 
We apply additional focus to the subset of 
suppliers responsible for the raw materials 
that have the potential to most directly 
impact the quality of our products. This group 
accounts for around 40 percent of our total 
supply chain. Abbott completed more than 
380 on-site supplier quality audits in this 
group in 2013.
MANAGING SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Our Master Service Agreement with all 
suppliers contains a clause that requires 
them to adhere to social responsibility 
standards that align with both our supply 
chain management strategy and our global 
citizenship strategy. These standards are 
set out in our Supplier Social Responsibility 
guidelines and managed through our Supplier $8.5
BILLION 
Purchased in goods and services.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS46
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013on-site audits. In addition to the third-party 
audits, we also send Abbott employees to 
check suppliers from an Abbott perspective. 
This adds another layer of robustness to 
our monitoring and management practices, 
and assists us in developing our supplier 
relationships.
Abbott is committed to engaging our 
suppliers in this structured process, enabling 
continual learning and development. As a 
result of this process, both our suppliers’ 
and our own systems are improved. We 
also partner with suppliers to help them 
advance their social responsibility programs, 
improving their outcomes and impacts. 
SUPPLIER GUIDELINES
All Abbott suppliers are required to follow 
our Supplier Guidelines , which are published 
in multiple languages. These guidelines 
document our principles, guidelines and 
expectations in areas including ethical 
behavior, business integrity and fair 
competition, human rights, privacy, labor 
rights and worker protection, animal welfare, 
environmental stewardship and health and 
safety practices. We host an external Web 
site, Resources for Suppliers , that includes 
answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) 
related to social responsibility and also 
provides insights into Abbott’s expectations 
for suppliers. In addition, our Isotrain 
program trains all Abbott procurement 
staff on our policies on supplier social Social Responsibility program, established 
in 2011. This program includes a supplier 
classification model, a quarterly results 
tracking scorecard and a semi-automated audit 
report.
Abbott is also a member of the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)  – a consortium 
of major pharmaceutical companies that 
share a vision of better social, economic and 
environmental outcomes for all those involved 
in the pharmaceutical supply chain. We survey 
our suppliers using the principles established 
by the group. 
Our global purchasing compliance team, 
responsible for conducting these assessments, 
proactively identifies suppliers for screening, 
with a focus on those in business-critical 
industries, geographies and spend categories, 
as well as those in emerging markets. Based on 
the outcomes of these surveys, we may subject 
suppliers to an additional layer of scrutiny by 
conducting on-site audits. These enable us to 
check that suppliers are providing:
• Safe working conditions
• Dignified and respectful treatment of 
employees
• Responsible manufacturing processes
• Adequate management systems
• Ethical practices
In 2013, more than 300 suppliers completed 
self-audits, which were then reviewed by third 
parties. These checks formed the basis for SUPPLY CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
 Our global purchasing compliance team audits  
our suppliers to check that they provide:
SAFE WORKING  
CONDITIONS
DIGNIFIED AND  
RESPECTFUL  
TREATMENT  
OF EMPLOYEES
RESPONSIBLE 
MANUFACTURING 
PROCESSES
ADEQUATE  
MANAGEMENT  
SYSTEMS
ETHICAL  
PRACTICES
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS47
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013with diverse suppliers in our diabetes care 
business increased 20 percent in 2013. In 
2013, Abbott purchased $1.1 billion in goods 
and services from more than 10,000 small 
and diverse suppliers across the world. To 
promote diverse businesses, we work with a 
range of advocacy organizations, including 
the National Minority Development Council, 
Elite Service Disabled Veterans and Veterans 
Council, and we actively participate in 
local, regional and national outreach events 
bringing together diverse suppliers and 
corporations. 
GLOBAL PRODUCT PROTECTION 
(COUNTERFEIT AND DIVERSION)
Counterfeiting, illegal diversion and theft 
of Abbott products globally pose threats to 
Abbott’s patients, consumers and the general 
public. The safety and integrity of Abbott 
products for the patients we serve is our 
highest priority. We regularly take action to 
keep counterfeit, illegally diverted and stolen 
Abbott products out of the marketplace. We 
have four key strategies to achieve this.
• Secure the Supply Chain  – By analyzing 
the global supply chain for weak points, 
evaluating track and trace technologies 
and expanding the use of Distributor 
Agreements with contracted wholesalers 
and distributors, Abbott reduces the risk of 
counterfeit, diverted and stolen product in 
the marketplace.
• Ensure Ability to Authenticate  – By 
implementing overt and covert security responsibility. Completion of this training is 
a core requirement for all employees with 
buying responsibility and is considered on 
annual performance assessments. 
Our Supplier Performance Program, 
established in 1991, is designed to both 
measure the performance of suppliers and 
to encourage improvement among those 
suppliers negotiating challenges. 
We recognize exceptional performance and 
sustained improvements through our Supplier 
Excellence Award, presented to seven supplier 
companies in 2013. The program identifies 
Abbott’s highest-performing suppliers by 
assessing performance in the categories of 
consistent high quality, delivery performance, 
service, cost-effectiveness, process 
improvement and innovation. 
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
As with our own workforce, Abbott believes 
diversity in our suppliers is essential to our 
ability to compete globally. We are committed 
to purchasing from a diverse base of suppliers, 
including small businesses and those owned 
by minorities, women, veterans, service-
disabled veterans and Native American tribes, 
as well as nonprofits and businesses located 
in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. 
We encourage all suppliers that produce the 
products and services we need to contact us, 
regardless of size or ownership.
Abbott’s diverse supplier spending continued 
to increase in 2013. For example, spending $1.1
BILLION 
In goods and services from 
more than 10,000 small and 
diverse suppliers.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS48
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013protections help prevent the introduction 
of improperly sourced product into the 
legitimate supply chain by requiring our 
distributors and/or wholesalers to purchase 
Abbott product uniquely from Abbott. 
SAFETY IN MANUFACTURING
Our global engineering standards specify 
the design, construction and equipment 
requirements for our manufacturing facilities 
and workplaces, including standards for 
noise control, lighting, ergonomics, indoor 
air quality, temperature and humidity. These 
include 30 EHS technical standards  that 
specify operational requirements to prevent 
and minimize work-related injury and illness. 
To monitor each work site’s performance 
on key health measures, we launched a new 
Global Health Scorecard in 2011. In 2013, 
100 percent of our manufacturing and R&D 
sites met or exceeded targets set under this 
framework. We also administer Environmental 
Health Awareness and Office Safety training 
for our employees. Further information on 
this work is detailed in the section Valuing 
Our People . 
In addition to manufacturing capacity 
expansion efforts, Abbott has initiated 
global programs that invest in more efficient 
manufacturing process technologies 
as measured by energy and material 
consumption. As part of a broad improvement 
portfolio that includes lean operational 
excellence, these changes will contribute to 
reducing our production costs.features on the packaging, Abbott hinders 
counterfeiters and makes authentication of 
its products easier, encouraging customer 
confidence.
• Disrupt Criminal Organizations  – By 
building relationships with local law 
enforcement and regulatory organizations, 
Abbott works to identify and dismantle 
criminal enterprises involved in 
counterfeiting, diversion and theft.
• Build Global Momentum  – By working 
with government, industry and not-for-
profit organizations, Abbott pursues stricter 
penalties for individuals and organizations 
involved in counterfeiting, diversion or theft.
Using preventive measures, the Global 
Product Protection team recently worked to 
develop and deliver new security features for 
Duphaston  blister packages in specific regions. 
While this overt security feature is easily 
recognizable, it is very difficult to duplicate – 
improving the security of the product. 
DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENTS
It is often through the secondary market 
that counterfeit, adulterated or improperly 
stored and handled products make their way 
into the supply chain. When product comes 
from the secondary market, it is difficult to 
assure patients and healthcare professionals 
of the security or integrity of the supply 
chain. Among other protections, Abbott 
works to include exclusive sourcing clauses in 
distributor agreements. Where allowed, these 1. SECURE THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN
2. ENSURE ABILITY  
TO AUTHENTICATE
3. DISRUPT CRIMINAL  
ORGANIZATIONS
4. BUILD GLOBAL  
MOMENTUM4 KEY STRATEGIES
To keep counterfeit, illegally diverted 
and stolen Abbott products out of the 
marketplace:
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS49
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013RISK AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT
According to the Centre for Research on 
the Epidemiology of Disasters, the rate 
of natural disasters around the world is 
growing, from 50 in 1950 to 400 in 2011. 
Natural disasters resulted in economic losses 
of $196 billion globally in 2013, reports Aon 
Benfield. Such events result in an increased 
demand for critical food and medicines, while 
simultaneously complicating the delivery 
of these life-saving products. To ensure the 
continued ability to fulfill vital healthcare 
needs in communities around the globe, and 
to support our stakeholders and mitigate 
risks to our supply chain, Abbott created the 
Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT). 
The ECMT is tasked with:
• Managing the safety and security of Abbott 
employees
• Managing the risks to business continuity
• Being prepared to serve others during 
catastrophic events 
Abbott also has a network of trained local 
emergency response teams that are well 
prepared to manage many crises on their 
own. However, when global coordination and 
assistance is required for major events such as 
earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, the ECMT 
leads Abbott’s response. 
Led by our Senior Vice President of Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering 
Services, the ECMT is composed of two 
teams, with cross-divisional, multifunctional 
representation that includes senior leaders from across the organization. The skills 
captured within the teams reflect our past 
experience and enable us to address the wide 
range of potential crises that Abbott, as a 
global company, might face. The existence of 
two teams also enables us to provide full-shift 
coverage to manage a crisis response around 
the clock if necessary. Once the team has 
gathered enough information on an event, and 
an action plan has been devised, the ECMT 
transitions into business continuity/recovery 
mode. 
While we take satisfaction in the external 
recognition of our strong risk management 
capabilities, the most important measure of 
our success is our ability to keep supply lines 
intact and to give our patients, customers and 
employees the support they need to overcome 
unexpected challenges. To that end, our 
Crisis Management and Business Continuity 
Planning Specialists around the world spend 
a significant amount of time running crisis 
scenarios with both the ECMT and 29 
country-specific crisis response teams. These 
specialists also travel the world, working 
with Abbott affiliates and business leaders to 
help them devise, revise and test their crisis 
management and business continuity plans. 
This robust, evolving approach enables us 
to ensure the safety of our employees, our 
customers and the public, and to protect our 
reputation, brand and financial performance. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS50
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013TYPHOON HAIYAN
In early November 2013, the Philippines 
and large areas of Southeast Asia were hit by 
Typhoon Haiyan (also known as Typhoon 
Yolanda), a devastating tropical cyclone. 
Haiyan was the deadliest Philippine typhoon 
on record, killing at least 5,924 people in 
that country alone. In the region, the United 
Nations estimates that 11 million people were 
affected, with many made homeless. 
Abbott and the Abbott Fund committed to 
providing $450,000 in grants and healthcare 
products to deliver immediate relief to the 
Philippines. The Abbott Fund provided 
$350,000 in grants to CARE, Direct Relief 
and the Philippine Red Cross through the 
American Red Cross. Abbott also donated 
approximately $100,000 of critically 
needed products, including antibiotics, oral 
rehydration solutions and nutritionals, to 
long-standing partners Direct Relief and 
AmeriCares. These donations helped to 
advance immediate relief efforts and address 
the growing health crisis among those 
impacted by the storm. 
Abbott sees the provision of humanitarian 
relief as an integral part of its commitment 
to being a responsible global citizen. In the 
past, we have also provided significant support 
to relief efforts in Japan, Vietnam and the 
United States. For example, we provided 
approximately $1 million in funding following 
Hurricane Sandy. ANTICIPATING AND RESPONDING TO NATURAL 
DISASTERS
When natural disasters and other emergencies 
strike, Abbott and the Abbott Fund respond 
quickly with grants and product donations 
to trusted humanitarian relief partners – not 
only to meet people’s immediate needs, but 
also to assist with longer-term reconstruction 
and rehabilitation efforts. We also work to 
anticipate disasters. For the past seven years, 
for instance, Abbott has worked with Direct 
Relief and Feeding America to pre-position 
medical and nutritional products in targeted 
high-risk locations in advance of hurricane 
season. By pre-positioning products that 
will be urgently needed in food banks and 
clinics along the East and Gulf Coasts, in the 
Caribbean and Central America, we ensure 
that the right products are in the right places 
before a disaster occurs.
Prior to the 2013 hurricane season, Abbott, 
the Abbott Fund and our partners had pre-
positioned more than $800,000 worth of 
donated products, which could then be 
delivered within two or three days of a 
disaster, compared with the seven to 10 days 
typical of most relief programs. Each clinic 
and food bank participating in our program 
receives disaster relief modules or packs 
containing the most essential supplies. These 
packs can treat more than 100,000 people, 
helping to mitigate mass referrals to local 
hospitals.$800,000
Prior to the 2013 hurricane season, Abbott, the 
Abbott Fund and our partners had pre-positioned 
more than $800,000 worth of donated products.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS51
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Valuing Our People
As a company, Abbott adapts quickly and 
continually to changing healthcare needs, 
harnessing our talent for innovation to create 
products that improve health and quality 
of life around the world. The creativity and 
agility of our organization is critical to our 
continued success, and is a reflection of our 
employees’ skill and dedication to advancing 
healthcare science and technology. Valuing 
and recognizing our employees’ contributions 
is a core part of Abbott’s culture, as is our 
commitment to helping them fulfill their 
potential and build rewarding careers. 
We choose our people carefully, selecting 
those with energy, enthusiasm and a 
commitment to embodying Abbott’s 
Promise for Life . We provide unparalleled 
opportunities through meaningful career 
paths and ensure that our human resources 
strategy reflects these opportunities via the 
breadth and diversity of our global business. 
As a global healthcare company, we need 
a wide array of skills to help us effectively 
deliver on our mission. We recognize that 
current and prospective employees’ skills, 
interests, values and priorities may differ 
from one country or region to another. As a 
result, we make a dedicated effort wherever 
we operate to attract a diverse group of 
employees. We use internal and external 
research to develop a competitive, locally 
relevant employee value proposition and total rewards package. This enables us to address 
local challenges and priorities more effectively 
in areas such as diversity, inclusion and work-
life harmony.
The core components of Abbott’s award-
winning workplace environment include:
• A commitment to promoting diversity and 
inclusion
• Extensive professional development, 
mentoring and training programs
• Efforts to encourage work-life harmony
• Formal and informal channels for employees 
to share their opinions with managers and 
the company
• Competitive compensation and benefits, 
tailored appropriately for each market
• Protection and promotion of human rights
• Encouragement of wellness campaigns
• Commitment to employee health and safety
We have been recognized with a number of 
workplace excellence awards globally. For a list 
of these, please see External Recognition .
A DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
Diversity of perspectives, experiences and 
skills is critical to our global competitiveness. 
Abbott is committed to fostering diversity 
within our company; our diversity and 
inclusion programs are designed to ensure 
that our workforce reflects the customers 
Abbott’s leadership in the workplace has been 
recognized around the world.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS52
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Additionally, many of our businesses have 
developed their own function-specific and 
country-specific diversity and inclusion 
initiatives. For example, in 2013, Abbott 
Nutrition placed an emphasis on local hiring 
for managers and line operators for its new 
plant in India; as a result of this initiative, 100 
percent of the workers for the plant come 
from within the country. Our established 
pharmaceutical business also pushes for 
inclusion across the organization. Beginning 
in 2012, we hosted several training programs 
to encourage inclusion – with a special focus 
on women’s advancement. 
In Italy, we developed an online training 
program to address diversity and work-life 
harmony issues for women, with particular 
focus on supporting employees preparing 
for the birth of a child. The program – which 
was honored by the Italian government as 
best in class and adopted for widespread use 
throughout Italy – helps new mothers and 
fathers enjoy the full benefits of maternity 
or paternity leave without compromising the 
efficiency of fellow staff members.
We also work hard to encourage inclusion of 
individuals with disabilities across all of our 
businesses and locations. Abbott is one of the 
founding members of the Kanchi network, 
a leadership group of companies in Ireland 
working to revolutionize the relationship 
between business and disability so that people 
with disabilities will be recognized and valued 
as consumers, talent, suppliers and members 
of the community. Abbott Ireland is providing and patients we serve. Our approach also 
guarantees that we remain able to attract and 
retain talent, while simultaneously driving 
innovation throughout our business. We 
work to leverage our diversity and learn from 
our differences to deliver greater business 
impact across all levels of our company. In a 
testament to our efforts in this area, Abbott 
has appeared on DiversityInc ’s list of the top 
companies for diversity for the past 10 years. 
We have a range of mechanisms for promoting 
diversity and inclusion across our business. 
Abbott’s Executive Inclusion Council, led by 
our Chairman and CEO, monitors the hiring 
and advancement of women and minorities 
in U.S. management positions and supports 
programs that promote an inclusive work 
environment. In the United States, the 
representation of women and minorities in 
management has been an area of particular 
focus for Abbott for more than a decade. As a 
result, we’ve seen the percentage of women 
in management positions increase from 44 
percent in 2010 to 45 percent in 2013. The 
percentage of minorities in management 
positions has also increased, from 22 percent 
in 2010 to 27 percent in 2013. 
We strive to promote diversity and inclusion 
in locally and culturally appropriate ways in 
our operations around the world. Among other 
initiatives, this includes a mentoring program 
in Europe, where we encourage employees to 
form mentoring partnerships with employees 
from backgrounds other than their own. U.S. EMPLOYEES IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
27% MINORITIES45% WOMEN
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS53
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013headquarters. Similarly, the La Voice Network, 
representing Hispanic and Latino employees, 
provides translation support when needed 
for Spanish-speaking customers calling our 
telephone hotlines.
During the past year, membership and 
engagement in our employee networks has 
continued to grow. For example, the WLA 
recently formed a chapter in Ireland, our first 
outside of the United States. The Irish WLA 
chapter boasts 87 members and combines 
leadership development and skill-building 
activities with community outreach. With 
both a new toolkit to guide the chapter 
development process and a dedicated 
committee to support it, several other 
countries are in the early stages of forming 
their own local WLA chapters.
MENTORING
An integral part of the Abbott culture of 
continuous learning and knowledge sharing, 
is mentoring, which is prevalent across the 
organization. Use of our formal U.S. mentoring 
program, administered through a Web-based 
partnership-matching tool, has resulted 
in the creation of hundreds of mentoring 
partnerships, with continuing growth in 2013. 
With WLA’s Global Mentoring Program, 
WLA members were able to use their 
personal networks to match mentees with an 
international network of mentors.
Mentoring takes a variety of forms at Abbott, 
going beyond the traditional one-to-one 
relationship. For example, the members significant input into the development of a 
benchmark that will recognize excellence in 
disability equality in all businesses.
EMPLOYEE NETWORKS
Complementing our inclusion programs and 
initiatives, Abbott’s employee networks play 
a vital role in building an inclusive culture 
and supporting business operations. These 
networks are sponsored by corporate officers, 
who help align group objectives with business 
strategies. By focusing on career development, 
mentoring, community involvement, informal 
networking and leadership skills development, 
our networks continue to expand visibility 
and create opportunities for participants. 
Nearly 4,000 employees participate in our six 
networks:
• Asian Leadership and Cultural Network 
(ALCN)
• Black Business Network
• La Voice Network (Hispanic/Latino)
• Flex Network (part-time and flexible 
schedules)
• PRIDE (LGBT)
• Women Leaders in Action (WLA)
These groups not only provide networking 
and coaching opportunities, but also enable 
employees to leverage their unique skills to 
help support business operations. For example, 
our ALCN provides translation services 
to high-level delegations of government 
officials and key opinion leaders visiting our 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS54
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013who were offered full-time positions accepted 
them beginning in 2014.
In addition to the U.S. interns, 651 interns were 
hosted in affiliates around the world in 2013.
UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
To further build our talent pipeline, we work 
with a wide range of universities to recruit 
entry-level talent through both campus 
career planning initiatives and student 
organizations. We partner with universities 
to identify potential talent in fields ranging 
from engineering, manufacturing and quality, 
to finance, human resources, information 
technology, business administration and 
marketing, as well as physician and pharmacy 
training programs.
We also partner with multiple organizations 
focused on advancing women and minorities 
in specific areas of study. Our U.S. recruiting 
partners include the National Society of 
Black Engineers, the Society of Hispanic 
Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, 
the Association of Latino Professionals in 
Finance and Accounting and the National 
Association of Black Accountants, among 
others. Outside the United States, we continue 
to implement new recruiting partnerships 
with local schools and student organizations 
while expanding internship and entry-level 
rotational opportunities.of our employee networks participate in 
mentoring circles, which combine education 
with networking opportunities and enable one 
or more subject-matter experts to mentor a 
group of protégés sharing similar interests. For 
example, a finance circle might invite Abbott 
guest speakers to give presentations on topics 
such as long-range planning, health economics 
research, cost accounting, commercial sales 
forecasting and so forth. In some cases, senior 
executives, such as the corporate controller, 
might join the circle to participate in an 
informal question-and-answer session on 
leadership topics and career paths. In 2013, 
ALCN, PRIDE and WLA launched a new series 
of mentoring circles.
HIRING AND ADVANCEMENT
Global competition for talent is intense. By 
taking a proactive approach to recruitment 
and offering advancement and leadership 
development programs at all levels, we help 
our employees realize their potential. This 
ensures that we attract and retain the best 
talent to develop and deliver new healthcare 
solutions and fuel our growth.
ENTRY LEVEL
Abbott offers a number of hiring and 
development programs to help employees 
begin or enhance their careers, starting with 
the Abbott Internship Program. In 2013, we 
hosted 167 interns at 19 facilities in the United 
States. Half of our interns were women, and 
47 percent were minorities. Additionally, from 
the 2013 internship class, 84 percent of interns Interns were hosted by Abbott 
worldwide in 2013.
84% OF U.S. INTERNS 
Offered full-time positions accepted 
the opportunity.818
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS55
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013outstanding contributions to Abbott’s 
intellectual property portfolio.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Abbott has established a robust approach 
to talent management, which incorporates 
skills assessments, performance appraisals, 
succession and development planning and 
career pathing. With the launch of our 
new talent management system in 2012, 
we increased visibility of talent within our 
organization, while also enhancing the 
accuracy of our assessments and driving 
consistency in our skills mapping across 
our organization. A key element of this 
process is talent mapping – which consists of 
employee-developed and manager-approved 
talent profiles that capture key information. 
These empower managers to partner with 
employees to create accelerated or multi-
year development plans to support near- and 
longer-term career objectives. Development 
planning provides every employee with the 
opportunity to improve in their current role, 
prepare for anticipated challenges and prepare 
to compete for future roles.
All of our employees participate in our annual 
performance management process, known as 
Performance Excellence. This process helps 
employees integrate their work priorities with 
the broader objectives of our organization, 
understand management expectations and 
demonstrate behaviors that are consistent with 
our values. We also provide a wide variety of 
performance management tools and resources 
to help managers and employees set goals and We also partner with a wide range of 
organizations to help recruit diverse 
candidates at more advanced stages of their 
careers, including the National Black MBA 
Association, the National Society of Hispanic 
MBAs, the National Sales Network and the 
Consortium.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Our two- and three-year Professional 
Development Programs provide the future 
leaders of Abbott with opportunities to gain 
diverse experiences by rotating through three 
to four assignments within the company, 
including international assignments. These 
programs have proven to be a leadership 
pipeline, with 27 percent of alumni moving 
into senior leadership positions at Abbott. The 
programs also demonstrate our commitment 
to diversity. Of the 85 people hired through 
these programs in 2013, 54 percent were 
minorities and 54 percent were women.
VOLWILER SOCIETY
Abbott has a number of professional groups 
across the organization. The Volwiler Society 
was created in 1985 as a way to recognize 
the fundamental importance a productive 
scientific community holds for Abbott. This 
year, the society inducted nine new members 
and promoted two researchers within the 
group, all of whom have demonstrated 
excellence, leadership and innovation 
in developing world-class science and 
engineering at Abbott. The society’s Scientific 
Governing Board also annually recognizes 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS56
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013For Abbott’s business leaders, our 
compensation program is designed to provide 
an appropriate mix of elements to incent our 
executives to achieve our business strategies 
and goals, in line with shareholder interests. 
Our executive compensation program is 
competitive, performance based and balanced 
between short-term and long-term objectives. 
For all staff, Abbott has set the following 
guiding principles for our compensation 
programs:
• Base salaries are competitive in the markets 
in which we compete for employees.
• Incentive plans are designed to balance 
short- and long-term financial and strategic 
objectives that build shareholder value and 
reward overall company and individual 
performance.
• Incentive compensation (both annual 
and long-term) is a key component of 
Abbott’s pay-for-performance philosophy. 
Our structure ties individual awards to 
both business and individual results, to 
motivate our employees to achieve superior 
performance.
Compensation elements are designed to 
encourage behavior that is consistent with the 
ethical values established in Abbott’s Code of 
Business Conduct .drive performance. These include e-learning 
tools, as well as multiple support documents 
available via the Abbott intranet. 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
Abbott’s compensation philosophy is to pay 
for performance and is designed to attract and 
retain employees whose talents contribute to 
improving the health of people around the 
world, while also sustaining the profitable 
growth of the company. 
Our compensation is intended to compare 
favorably with the pay programs of other 
global, consumer-facing and manufacturing-
driven organizations with similar financial, 
operational and employment characteristics as 
Abbott.
Our total rewards program combines elements 
of base and variable pay, with a broad array 
of benefits and opportunities for growth and 
development. Our compensation structure 
has contributed to a corporate culture that 
encourages employees to regard Abbott as a 
place to build their career.
While our total compensation targets 
reference the median of other leading 
companies, average individual pay varies 
based on employee competence, experience 
and performance. This pay-for-performance 
philosophy, combined with internal and 
external analysis and reviews, helps drive our 
total compensation strategy.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS57
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013their personal habits to standard practices in 
other cultures. Additionally, Cultural Navigator 
users can run business simulation exercises 
to identify potential cross-cultural stumbling 
blocks and prepare themselves for potential 
challenges in their future business activities. 
Nearly 2,000 employees actively used this tool 
in 2013.
LEADERSHIP TRAINING
To complement our skills training initiatives, 
we also offer focused training programs for 
employees transitioning into management 
roles. We are committed to helping our new 
leaders around the world succeed more 
quickly in their expanded positions.
For example, the Abbott Management 
Fundamentals program offers an extensive 
curriculum to help managers lead their 
teams more effectively, create a strong work 
environment and empower their teams to 
deliver results. 
Additionally, the Director Foundation Program 
provides management training for newly 
hired or promoted director-level employees. 
Launched approximately six years ago, the 
Director Foundation Program helps build 
capabilities in strategic thinking, influencing, 
coaching and feedback, and it combines this 
training with high-level discussions on Abbott 
strategy. The program also stresses the key 
role that directors should play in sustaining 
our success by cultivating a talent pipeline.EMPLOYEE LEARNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT
Approximately 60,000 employees worldwide 
have access to job-specific training and 
development to ensure successful performance 
in their current roles across the full range of 
Abbott jobs – from commercial and operations 
to research and development, as well as human 
resources, finance and information technology. 
We also conduct ongoing learning, training 
and career development programs to help 
employees at all levels realize their potential. 
We develop current and future leaders 
through a robust combination of training, on-
the-job experiences and formal and informal 
mentoring. Nearly 12,000 employees attended 
learning and development classes in 2013. 
CROSS-CULTURAL TRAINING
Because the scope of our business is global, 
many of our employees work or travel 
outside of their home countries – and cross-
cultural competency is a key business need. 
Accordingly, Abbott provides all employees 
with free access to Cultural Navigator™, an 
Internet-based toolkit containing more than 
100 country-specific modules with extensive 
information on local business practices, 
management tools, social etiquette and 
customs.
The Cultural Navigator tool also encourages 
employees to fill out a self-assessment that 
yields a personal cultural profile. This profile 
enables users to gauge their own business 
practices, management approach and 
behavioral styles so that they can compare 100% OF EMPLOYEES
Have access to Cultural Navigator™, an 
online toolkit with more than 100 country-
specific modules.60,000 EMPLOYEES 
WORLDWIDE
Have access to job-specific training 
and development.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS58
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013The 2013 GLP class included 47 participants 
from 27 different countries across all regions 
of the globe. 
Emerging Leader Program
We recognize the importance of developing 
leaders early in their careers, and our 
Emerging Leader Program is a valuable tool 
for doing this. This program accelerates 
development of high-potential managers at 
the regional level in Latin America, Europe 
and Asia Pacific. Integrated into each 
manager’s personal assessments and growth 
plans, the Emerging Leader Program 
includes discussions of strategy, leadership 
and people management. In 2013, 155 
leaders in six cohorts completed the 
Emerging Leader Program. Europe hosted 
two cohorts, Asia supported one cohort and 
the Americas ran three cohorts.
Executive Compass Program
For the most senior-level employees, Abbott’s 
Executive Compass program provides ongoing 
training. In the past eight years, more than 
500 divisional vice presidents and general 
managers of our Large Business Units have 
graduated from the Executive Compass 
program (and its precursor, Leadership 
Forum), which we view as the capstone of our 
leadership development series. 
Historically, the program consisted of a 
week-long extensive training delivered by 
some of the top leaders of our company. 
The program provided new senior leaders 
with a deep dive into Abbott strategy and Global Leadership Program
The Global Leadership Program (GLP) 
helps new and potential general managers 
in our international affiliates become more 
effective by better understanding and 
leveraging the Abbott resources available 
to them. The program is designed to enable 
emerging global leaders to benefit from the 
teachings and advice of Abbott’s successful, 
experienced senior leaders from across our 
different regions and divisions.
The program consists of two one-week 
sessions that take place approximately 
six months apart. The first week includes 
presentations on corporate strategy from 
Abbott senior executives, along with case 
studies on general-manager-level decision 
making. The second week focuses on people 
leadership – helping new general managers 
explore what it takes to grow a business 
within Abbott, while also developing the 
talent of the people on their teams. 
The GLP not only has helped us to bring 
new general managers on board faster 
and more effectively, it has also produced 
strong global networks of GLP alumni. GLP 
graduates routinely reach out and connect 
with their former classmates to share 
ideas, gain insights and explore new ideas. 
Additionally, the strong alumni connections 
enable deep trust and shared organizational 
understanding at some of the highest levels 
of management in our company. p500
DIVISIONAL VICE 
PRESIDENTS AND 
GENERAL MANAGERS
Have graduated from our 
Executive Compass leadership 
development program.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS59
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Abbott understands that the overall 
employment experience is critical to attracting 
talent and retaining organizational knowledge. 
To that end, we continue to develop 
programs to support employees across their 
employment life cycles. We recognize that 
work-life priorities and challenges vary around 
the world, and we design our programs to be 
culturally sensitive and locally appropriate.
Some highlights of Abbott’s award-winning 
work-life initiatives include:
• Recognizing the challenge of caring 
for children during summer vacations 
from school, in 2012 Abbott Italy hired 
a contractor to create a summer camp 
program for the children of Abbott 
employees. Abbott pays approximately half 
the child care costs at the camps, which 
run from June through July. Feedback from 
employees indicates very high levels of 
satisfaction with the quality of the camps. 
Indeed, some employees say the camps are 
one of the most valued benefits of their work 
at Abbott.
• In the United States, employees who care 
for an elderly family member or friend have 
access to personalized assistance through 
Abbott’s Employee Assistance Program, 
including help in finding housing options 
and community resources and paying for 
care. In 2012, we offered a four-part elder 
care education and discussion series to help 
support caregivers in the workplace. challenged them to think through a broad 
range of scenarios affecting stakeholders and 
customers. Participants engaged in a series 
of intense case studies that helped hone their 
decision-making skills and prepare them for 
the day-to-day challenges of working in senior 
management. 
The Executive Compass program has recently 
gone through revisions to ensure that the 
program builds the critical leadership skills 
needed for continued success today and in  
the future.
WORK-LIFE HARMONY
At Abbott, we recognize the importance of 
creating and maintaining supportive and 
healthy work environments that enable 
our employees to have a balance between 
their work and personal responsibilities and 
activities. Consequently, ensuring work-life 
harmony is an integral part of the Abbott 
culture. Reflecting this, Abbott offices in 
more than 60 countries offer flexible work 
schedules, including flex time, summer hours, 
part-time, job sharing, compressed work 
weeks, phased retirement and telecommuting. 
We view these initiatives not only as 
important tools for talent attraction and 
retention, but also as key components of our 
approach to diversity and inclusion as we 
work to support employees in harmonizing 
work and family commitments. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS60
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013• Our Family Child Care Provider Training 
Program has trained more than 3,500 
providers in our communities since 2001.
• Our child care discounts are offered at more 
than 2,800 centers across the United States.
PRODUCTIVE TRANSITION TO RETIREMENT
We are especially mindful of the complex 
and changing definition of retirement today, 
especially for the first wave of baby boomers, 
who are retiring in record numbers. Abbott’s 
Freedom to Work program, available to 
eligible U.S. employees, offers employees 
who are considering retirement the option 
to scale back their hours and/or change 
their responsibilities without affecting their 
benefits, thus allowing for knowledge transfer. 
Since Freedom to Work was launched in 2008, 
more than 500 U.S. employees have enrolled 
in the program. 
Freedom to Work offers employees two 
different options as they approach retirement:
• The Custom Schedule Program allows 
employees to reduce hours and pay/bonus 
without impacting benefits. This option 
allows employees to work four days a week 
all year or take up to an additional five weeks 
of vacation.
• The Emeritus Program allows employees 
to change their responsibility (for example, 
from managing staff to becoming an 
individual contributor) without reducing 
their pay or grade.
Abbott has been recognized over the years for 
this innovative program, including mentions CHILD CARE
Abbott’s commitment to helping our 
employees better manage their personal 
and professional lives is exemplified in our 
comprehensive child care allowances. Our 
U.S. child care programs provide a variety of 
alternatives, including an on-site child care 
center at some locations, emergency child care 
assistance, on-site parenting and counseling 
services, full-day kindergarten programs and 
school holiday child care programs. 
In 2013, the value of these initiatives was 
recognized, with Abbott being named among 
the Top 10 companies on Working Mother  
magazine’s 100 Best Companies list . This is 
the thirteenth consecutive year that Abbott 
has been included in the prestigious ranking, 
which recognizes companies for providing 
a family-friendly workplace. Abbott was also 
named among the Top 50 Companies for 
Executive Women in 2013 by the National 
Association for Female Executives. 
Highlights of our programs include:
• Our Early Discoveries on-site child care 
center – based in our headquarters location 
in Lake County, Illinois – is one of the 
five largest centers in the Bright Horizons 
network and ranked in the top 8 percent of 
U.S. child care centers for quality in 2013. 
Early Discoveries is shared with AbbVie 
and serves more than 800 children in total, 
with full-time, part-time, infant transition 
and backup care and holiday and summer 
programs, as well as a full-day kindergarten. Abbott is included on Working 
Mother  magazine’s 100 Best 
Companies list for the 13th 
consecutive year. 
3,500
CHILD CARE 
PROVIDERS 
Have been trained by Abbott’s 
Family Child Care Provider 
Training Program since 2001.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS61
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013number) had consistently increased their 
minutes weekly.
Many of our locations around the world offer 
a broad range of on-site health services in 
addition to educational programs and wellness 
events. For example, our affiliate in India 
offers health and wellness resources, including 
health checkups, health risk assessments 
and access to a health coach or medical 
professional. The program also offers monthly 
newsletters, workshops and health challenges. 
Similarly, our Brazil operation enhanced its 
wellness activities in response to employee 
feedback, providing more information and tips 
on stress management, healthy diet, exercise 
and weight loss. Abbott in Brazil created a 
local wellness committee, with representatives 
from various business units working together 
to support wellness initiatives, including a 
team run. Abbott in Ireland and in the United 
Kingdom offer wellness programs with health 
awareness campaigns and challenges.
LIVELIFEWELL
In the United States, we offer an integrated 
wellness program, LiveLifeWell, which 
encompasses:
• Online health assessment and tools
• Personal health coaching and nutrition 
counseling
• Awareness-raising campaigns and events
• Walking program with a free pedometer to 
track daily progress
• On-site immunizations and health screeningsin the Wall Street Journal , the Economist , 
BusinessWeek , Fast Company , Fortune , CNN 
Money  and Money  magazine.
HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES
As a global healthcare company, we are 
committed to helping our employees and their 
families lead healthy, productive lives – and 
we strive to set an example to encourage other 
employers to embrace a culture of health. 
Our wellness programs provide resources, 
information, motivation and support to help 
our people make healthy lifestyle choices, 
minimize health risks, manage chronic health 
conditions and get access to comprehensive, 
high-quality healthcare, medicines and related 
supplies.
The healthy living and wellness programs we 
offer vary around the world, reflecting the 
needs of employees and the characteristics 
of national healthcare delivery systems. 
Most of our locations offer on-site influenza 
immunizations and health screenings, and 
most also facilitate employee exercise by 
offering on-site fitness centers, health club 
membership subsidies or discounts, and sports 
and recreation clubs.
In 2013, teams of Abbott employees in 66 
countries participated in our global, four-
week, team-based fitness program, Exercise 
Across Abbott. This program rewards 
participants for increasing their physical 
activity each week. At the end of the four 
weeks, 448 teams (58 percent of the total 66 COUNTRIES
Employees in 66 countries participated in our global 
fitness program, Exercise Across Abbott.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS62
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Approximately 70 percent of U.S. employees 
and 63 percent of their spouses participate in 
LiveLifeWell. 
Through awareness-raising events, we 
help employees learn about their health 
risks and encourage them to make healthy 
choices. Examples of these activities 
include healthy-heart events with free blood 
pressure screenings, and posting nutritional 
information in Abbott cafeterias to promote 
healthy meal choices.
In 2013, LiveLifeWell spearheaded new efforts 
to focus on one of the leading risk factors 
faced in a workplace today – stress. A six-week 
campaign was offered to Abbott employees 
and their covered spouses to educate, 
motivate and build skills in the area of stress 
management. Participants tracked their level 
of stress, coping skills used and physical 
activity. In addition, participants received 
encouraging emails with links to resources 
and opportunities to participate in various 
in-person and online seminars. Seminar topics 
included learning relaxation techniques, 
building personal resiliency, learning stress 
management practices and joining 15-minute 
well-being breaks on visualization, desk 
stretches and breathing techniques.
INTEGRATED CARE MANAGEMENT – PUTTING THE 
PATIENT FIRST
In the U.S., Abbott’s unique approach to 
integrated care management identifies gaps in 
standard programs and provides a customized, 
patient-centered model that delivers targeted support for our population. The company 
has partnered with multiple organizations to 
provide integrated, comprehensive services 
and health plan benefits that help employees 
and families maintain and improve emotional, 
physical and financial well-being.
Integral parts of Abbott’s healthcare strategy 
include:
• Eliminating cost barriers for preventive care 
services
• Supporting people across the healthcare 
continuum
• Proactively identifying early opportunities
• Ensuring each individual is appropriately/
seamlessly transitioned to the best service 
that meets their needs at any point in time
• Co-managing and integrating with vendor 
partners to enhance member experience
• Creating impact with each member 
interaction to drive optimal outcomes
• Incenting individuals for active engagement 
in completing health goals
Abbott’s integrated care management 
programs have produced multi-year cost 
avoidance for both Abbott and its employees, 
and helped deliver care that is more effective 
for individuals with serious health conditions. 
Abbott continues to evaluate the effectiveness 
of both the wellness and care management 
programs, and we have found the greatest 
ROI when individuals participate in all of the 
programs, so that they leverage the entire 
range of learning and behavior modification 
tools and resources.COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH – HEALTH IS MORE 
THAN PHYSICAL
Abbott’s commitment to our employees’ well-
being is further demonstrated in our programs 
to address emotional health needs. Abbott 
employees and their families in more than 
20 countries around the world have access 
to company-funded Employee Assistance 
Programs (EAPs). EAPs are employee benefit 
programs that help employees address 
personal problems and concerns so they can 
face fewer distractions, make fewer mistakes 
and be more successful at work. These may 
include providing individuals with support 
to identify and resolve personal concerns 
regarding health, family, stress, finances, 
alcohol, legal concerns, grief and other issues 
that could impact job performance. 
Abbott’s EAPs help us to promote a productive 
and healthy workplace by applying specialized 
knowledge and expertise about human 
behavior and mental health, thus extending 
the beneficial impact of the program further 
into the community. 
Beyond individualized assistance, our EAPs 
provide ongoing support to employees by 
offering topical seminars and online education 
covering topics such as stress management, 
child-care resources, grief, depression and 
taking care of personal health. Abbott’s EAPs 
include crisis intervention services, and they 
respond to emergencies in the workplace. EAP 
resources are also available to employee family 
members. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS63
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013• Health and safety policy and program
• Strategic planning
• Self-assessment/risk assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measures
• Assurance reviews
• Health and safety global standards
These technical standards enable Abbott to 
have consistent technical expectations at all 
our sites around the world.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Improving our performance requires clear 
lines of accountability and senior-level 
leadership and support. For example, the 
Senior Vice President of Quality, Regulatory 
and Global Engineering Services, who is also a 
senior corporate officer, reviews metrics, key 
programs and progress with the Chairman and 
CEO on a regular basis.
The following groups implement our health 
and safety programs and initiatives:
• Environment, Health and Safety Executive 
Council  – This body sets priorities for all 
Abbott work sites and assures that resources 
are made available to meet local needs. 
Sponsored by a corporate officer, the council 
consists of EHS heads in each operating 
business.EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
Abbott has clear, consistent global policies 
and standards requiring that we operate in a 
manner that promotes employee health, safety 
and productivity while also protecting the 
environment. Among other tenets, our Global 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  
aims to:
• Foster a work environment that is ultimately 
free of injuries
• Improve the efficiency and sustainability of 
all our business activities
• Require contractors working on behalf 
of Abbott to conform to regulatory 
requirements and meet applicable internal 
EHS standards
• Integrate sound health and safety practices 
consistent with our management system into 
all aspects of the business
• Establish goals and strategies for the 
enterprise, and report publicly on our 
progress
Our global standards and technical program 
requirements include metrics, audit and 
reporting mechanisms that serve as a baseline 
expectation for health and safety performance 
worldwide. All Abbott manufacturing plants, 
R&D centers and commercial operations 
implement a plan based on these standards, 
and each is evaluated regularly.
Our management standards set minimum 
requirements in the following areas:
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS64
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013The second area of focus is behavior-based 
safety. Senior leaders in each Abbott business 
have embraced our safety culture strategy, 
Moving to Zero (moving to zero workplace 
accidents). Sites around the world also share 
best-in-class programs designed to reduce 
employee injuries. This global initiative 
encourages all employees to think and act 
safely, and helps lead Abbott toward an injury-
free culture.
VEHICLE SAFETY
Vehicle safety is a key priority for Abbott. 
At the end of 2012, we set a vehicle accident 
target for 2020 of 4.0 accidents per million 
miles driven – a 60 percent reduction from  
our 2010 baseline year. In 2013, our global 
vehicle accident rate improved by 6 percent 
from the 2012 rate, to 4.8 accidents per million 
miles driven.
In early 2013, we launched a new, 
comprehensive global education campaign to 
our international affiliates, designed to help 
our employees better understand the risks 
associated with distracted driving. Formally 
known as Helping Employees Reduce 
Risk across the Organization (HERO), the 
campaign focuses on our commercial field 
sales force. HERO is designed to encourage 
field-based employees to use safe driving 
habits and to raise awareness about the risks 
posed by in-vehicle distractions such as mobile 
telephone use. Since the campaign’s launch, 
more than 90 percent of our commercial 
business sector has taken formal steps to 
prohibit calling and texting while driving, with • Commercial Environment, Health and 
Safety Executive Council  – This council sets 
and implements EHS goals and objectives 
for our sales operations around the world. 
An executive vice president chairs this 
group.
REDUCING ACCIDENTS
We believe that all employee health and 
safety incidents are preventable, and that 
safety is the responsibility of every manager. 
As in other areas of citizenship reporting, 
we use an annual review process and routine 
performance reporting to help us set and 
monitor appropriate health and safety targets 
and to drive continuous improvement in our 
performance. Two of our key health and safety 
goals are reducing the number of incidents 
that result in time off work and reducing the 
incidence of vehicle accidents among our 
employees.
In 2013, our rate of 0.24 cases per 100 
employees was an improvement of 25.6 
percent on our performance in 2012. To 
achieve our 2020 lost workday case rate 
target of 0.15 cases per 100 employees, we 
will continue to focus on two key areas. First, 
a risk-based system focuses on the specific 
facilities with the greatest opportunity for 
health and safety performance improvement 
each year. Each business unit is responsible 
for addressing the concerns in its identified 
facilities by reviewing specific risks and 
implementing measures to improve 
performance.DAYS LOST
In 2013, we reduced our rate of 
lost workdays to just 0.24 cases 
per 100 employees.-25.6%-6%
ACCIDENTS
In 2013, vehicle accidents were 
reduced to 4.8 per million miles 
driven.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS65
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013the balance of affiliates scheduled to complete 
the process in the first half of 2014. 
To further advance vehicle safety, we focus 
on specific countries with the highest risk 
profile. For example, the acquisition of 
3A Nutrition in Vietnam in 2012 involved 
welcoming 2,100 new employees into 
Abbott, including many field-based sales 
representatives operating motorcycles every 
day. Recognizing that our employees are our 
greatest asset, Abbott Nutrition leadership 
quickly established a course to ensure that 
all Vietnam field representatives complete 
formal, hands-on motorcycle safety training. 
This comprehensive, full-day training 
program, called Behind-the-Bar, is now firmly 
established. By the end of 2013, more than 
three quarters of all field employees across the 
Vietnam affiliate had completed the course 
and received complementary general EHS 
awareness training. Most importantly, field 
employees also were issued helmets to ensure 
the best possible protection during field travel. 
COMMERCIAL COMMUNITY OUTREACH –  
DECADE OF ACTION
Driving a vehicle – whether it is a car or a 
two-wheel motorcycle – is the highest-risk 
activity commercial employees perform every 
day. Globally, 13 million people die every year 
due to road crashes, with road crashes now 
the ninth leading cause of death and injuries 
around the world. To address this critical 
humanitarian issue, the United Nations 
recently launched a global initiative called 
Decade of Action for Road Safety: 2010–2020. The goal is to reduce global fatalities and 
injuries by 50 percent during the decade. 
In 2013, Abbott began establishing 
partnerships with the United Nations as a 
way to formally support critical road safety 
initiatives across both Vietnam and India. 
Vehicle safety is a particular concern in these 
countries due to both the quality of the roads 
and the mode of transportation used, with 
transportation such as motorcycles being 
inherently more dangerous. In 2014, Abbott 
will take the in-house expertise, knowledge 
and road safety training provided to its own 
employees in Vietnam and India and reach 
out to local schools with information and 
training related to safe road transportation. By 
facilitating similar programs in surrounding 
communities, we will support the United 
Nations’ valuable global initiative.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Our occupational health team plays an 
important role in promoting the health 
and productivity of all Abbott employees. 
Occupational health staff serve as integral 
members of the Executive Crisis Management 
team on all issues related to employee health. 
Among other responsibilities, the team 
monitors the spread of infectious diseases 
such as avian influenza and develops proactive 
preventive health strategies for Abbott work 
sites. 
In 2013, we updated Abbott’s global pandemic 
plan, which more broadly addresses infectious 
diseases that may spread across multiple continents or even worldwide, such as the new 
coronavirus Middle East respiratory syndrome 
(MERS-CoV). The team also plays a critical 
role in assessing potential health impacts, 
such as air quality issues in China, and the 
preventive measures to minimize the health 
impact of these challenges. 
Historically, the field of occupational health 
has focused largely on preventing workplace 
injuries, along with conducting preventive 
medical surveillance to ensure the safety 
of workers whose jobs entailed exposure to 
health risks such as loud noise or potentially 
hazardous chemicals. These basic occupational 
health activities are still performed at Abbott, 
but increasingly, the definition of occupational 
health has expanded to include a wide range 
of innovative programs that emphasize 
preventive care and take a holistic perspective 
on workforce health.
To ensure that our employees receive the best 
possible occupational healthcare, our Global 
Occupational Health Services organization 
also offers a scholarship program to fund 
advanced training for occupational health 
physicians and nurses at our facilities. 
GLOBAL HEALTH SCORECARD
In early 2011, we launched a new Global 
Health Scorecard to monitor each 
site’s performance on key occupational 
health measures and to identify areas for 
improvement. In 2013, we expanded the 
scorecard to include commercial affiliates as 
well as manufacturing and R&D sites. This 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS66
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013meant rolling out the scorecard to affiliates in 
24 countries in 2013, far exceeding our initial 
plans to roll out in 15 countries. 
The scorecard ranks sites according to how 
many targets they have reached from a menu 
of 15 global health offerings. In 2013, we 
were pleased to note that 100 percent of our 
manufacturing and R&D sites met the target 
for the year, with 71 percent of these sites 
already at the 2015 target. In order to maintain 
or reach the top level in 2014 and subsequent 
years, sites will need to improve their 
performance in additional health indicators 
such as achieving a nonsmoking campus, 
making healthy food options available in the 
cafeteria on a daily basis, offering seasonal 
influenza vaccinations on-site, holding a 
health fair and providing employees with 
access to physical activity at a fitness center 
and/or walking trail. For example, in 2013 
we offered our seasonal influenza vaccine, 
Influvac , at our manufacturing and research 
and development sites in the northern 
hemisphere at a reduced rate. 2013 was the 
first year that we offered the program and, 
as a result of its success (1,356 employees 
vaccinated at 13 sites), we will be expanding 
the program to include our larger commercial 
affiliates in the northern hemisphere. Employees around the world have benefited 
from a wide variety of health promotion 
activities in 2013. These included: 
• Travel health services  – 1,166 employees 
prepared for travel
• Blood drive  – 1,649 participants
• First-aid training  – 1,284 participants
• Automated external defibrillator (AED) 
training  – 1,143 participants
• CPR training  – 1,152 participants
Data demonstrates that these training 
initiatives not only ensure appropriate 
training, but also save lives. Since 2002, our 
global AED and CPR programs are believed 
to have saved at least nine lives at Abbott 
facilities worldwide. In all, more than 54,000 
employees benefited from health promotion 
and health screening activities in 2013. 
In 2013, Abbott became a member of Harvard 
University’s new Sustainability and Health 
Initiative for NetPositive Enterprise (SHINE) , 
which helps corporations measure and 
accelerate the ways in which they help the 
world become a healthier, more sustainable 
place. LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
Employee feedback provides us with valuable 
insight as we continue to shape our culture to 
achieve our business strategy.
In 2013, we began the process of building 
the new Abbott, after the January separation 
of the company into Abbott and AbbVie. 
We were conscious of the necessity of, 
and the value gained from, engaging our 
employees in the process of building the 
new Abbott. For this reason, we carried out 
a range of employee engagement activities, 
such as targeted focus groups, which gave 
employees from across our business a chance 
to provide feedback on the new company and 
strategy, while also offering insights on staff 
satisfaction levels. These efforts have resulted 
in a more robust strategy for the company 
and have set the tone for a new culture that 
reflects the priorities and concerns of both 
the business and our employees. 
In addition to involving Abbott employees and 
stakeholders in the development of our new 
identity, we have continued to seek feedback 
from newly hired employees to gain insight 
into the quality of our recruitment process 
and each individual’s early experiences with 
Abbott. In 2012, the employee satisfaction rate 
for those newly hired was 98 percent.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS67
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013HUMAN RIGHTS
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human 
being and respects individual rights as set 
forth in the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights. These principles are reflected in our 
company’s mission and core values. While 
governments have the primary responsibility 
to respect, protect, promote and fulfill 
the human rights of their citizens, Abbott 
recognizes that companies play a supporting 
role in promoting human rights within their 
spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human 
rights through compliance with laws and 
regulations wherever we have operations, as 
well as through our policies and programs. 
Our guidelines include:
• Encouraging open communication between 
management and employees.
• Complying with child labor laws and laws 
prohibiting any form of forced, bonded or 
indentured labor or involuntary prison labor.
• Providing compensation and benefits that 
are competitive and comply with applicable 
laws for minimum wages, overtime hours 
and mandated benefits.
• Providing a healthy and safe working 
environment.
• Promoting workforce diversity and not 
discriminating against any employee for 
reasons such as race, religion, color, age, 
gender, ethnicity, disability, marital status, 
sexual orientation or any other status 
protected by law.• Not tolerating harassment or harsh or 
inhumane treatment in the workplace.
• Protecting individual privacy.
Abbott’s position on human rights is 
reinforced through employment, ethics and 
procurement policies, which are designed 
to ensure that neither we, nor our suppliers, 
engage in human rights abuses.
ABBOTT RECOGNIZED FOR CHILD-FRIENDLY 
PRACTICES
In January 2012, Fundação Abrinq/Save 
the Children ( www.fundabrinq.org.br ) 
recognized Abbott as an Empresa Amiga da 
Criança (Child-Friendly Company) for its 
commitment to the welfare of children and 
adolescents in Brazil. Abbott was recognized 
for its public commitment to refrain from 
the direct or indirect use of child labor and 
to work only with suppliers who also commit 
not to use child labor. Going further, the 
award recognized Abbott’s commitments to 
creating health and education programs for its 
employees’ children and to promoting public 
health and education programs for Brazilian 
children and adolescents. The recognition 
enables Abbott to join a select group of 
Brazilian and multinational companies that 
are permitted to use Fundação Abrinq’s 
seal on their products. The Abrinq seal is 
widely recognized and valued by Brazilian 
consumers. Abbott was recognized  
 by Fundação Abrinq/Save the Children  
as a child-friendly company in Brazil.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS68
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Community Engagement
Making a positive and lasting difference 
in people’s lives, and strengthening 
communities wherever we live, work and do 
business – these ideas are central to what 
we do. We achieve these goals by creating 
and distributing life-enhancing products; 
by providing our expertise to build healthy 
communities; and by providing financial 
support to the Abbott Fund , a nonprofit 
501(c) (3) foundation established by Abbott 
in 1951. The Abbott Fund works to realize 
a vision of creating healthier communities 
worldwide by investing in and supporting 
ideas that promote science, expand access to 
healthcare and empower communities. To 
that end, in 2013 Abbott and the Abbott Fund 
contributed more than $56 million in grants, 
product donations, community partnerships 
and efforts to strengthen healthcare systems 
around the world. We are committed to 
responsibly donate excess product in line 
with WHO guidelines that would normally be 
destroyed at cost to our business as well as to 
the environment. 
To ensure that our philanthropic activities 
are strategic and impactful, Abbott begins 
by exploring the needs of those we seek to 
assist, listening and asking questions until we 
understand their challenges and can propose 
workable solutions. We identify partner 
organizations with skills and contributions 
that complement Abbott strengths and expertise, and then we carefully measure the 
impact of our programs and share what we 
learn with others.
Abbott’s approach to community involvement 
includes:
• Science Education  – Abbott works to 
engage students in scientific exploration 
and to inspire their families and teachers 
to foster the next generation of innovators. 
We sponsor and participate in programs 
that encourage young people to become 
proficient in science and to pursue careers in 
science and engineering. An example of this 
is our Family Science program, described on 
the following page. 
• Community Vitality  – Healthy communities 
possess vibrant and diverse institutions that 
serve the public good. These institutions 
range from health and human welfare 
agencies, such as food banks, homeless 
shelters and health clinics, to museums 
and universities. The Abbott Fund supports 
creative programs that address unmet needs 
of local communities. When natural disasters 
and emergencies strike communities, Abbott 
and the Abbott Fund respond with grants 
to trusted humanitarian relief partners. 
Grants are directed to both immediate 
needs and longer-term reconstruction and 
rehabilitation efforts.$56+
MILLION
Total social giving by Abbott and  
Abbott Fund in 2013.
30,000+ CHILDREN  
AND PARENTS
Have enjoyed Family Science events  
in seven countries around the world.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS69
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Singapore and South Korea in 2011 and Highly 
Commended at the inaugural CSR Europe 
awards in 2013. 
CONTRIBUTING EXPERTISE IN 
NUTRITION SCIENCE
Malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies 
afflict millions of people globally, especially 
children. Vitamin A deficiency, for example, 
compromises the immune systems of 
almost 40 percent of children under age 
five, causing nearly a million deaths in the 
developing world, according to UNICEF and 
the Micronutrient Initiative. Similarly, folic 
acid deficiency causes some 200,000 severe 
birth defects in 80 developing countries, 
while mild-to-moderate zinc deficiency affects 
more than a third of the world’s population, 
compromising children’s growth and immune 
function.
Abbott and the Abbott Fund are partnering 
with leading researchers and nonprofit 
organizations to develop new ways of tackling 
the challenge of malnutrition, while creating 
jobs and supporting local economies. Abbott 
contributes scientific knowledge about the 
role of multiple plant sources and other raw 
materials in producing specific vitamins and 
minerals, as well as expertise in formulation, 
large-scale production, quality assurance and 
related areas to help make the development 
and manufacturing of fortified foods more 
effective and efficient.ENGAGING AND INSPIRING YOUTH IN 
SCIENTIFIC EXPLORATION
Abbott’s science and engineering education 
platform focuses on K-12 out-of-school 
programs providing an understanding of 
the science and innovation behind health 
care, medical devices and nutrition. These 
programs encourage young people to be more 
proficient in science, technology, engineering 
and math, providing a pathway to a promising 
future. 
One of our major programs to interest 
children in science and inspire them to pursue 
scientific careers is Abbott Family Science. 
This program has been run in seven countries 
and brings together children aged six to ten, 
along with their parents and teachers, to learn 
about science and innovation through exciting 
experiments and activities led by Abbott 
scientists and engineers. To date, the program 
has involved more than 30,000 participants 
and more than 3,500 Abbott volunteers. 
In China we have run this program in more 
than 30 cities, teaching children fundamental 
skills such as problem-solving and teamwork, 
while also demonstrating the basics of the 
scientific method. Ninety-five percent of 
families who have participated in the program 
said they would recommend it – a fantastic 
indicator of the value of the program. In 
addition, the program has won a number of 
awards, including the Asia Corporate Social 
Responsibility Award for programs in China, ULTRA RICE
200+
MILLION
OF INDIA’S POPULATION 
 SUFFERS FROM  MALNUTRITION 
AND HUNGER
$1.5
MILLION
HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY THE  ABBOTT 
FUND TO REFINE  AND SCALE UP 
PRODUCTION  OF FORTIFIED RICE 
USING  ULTRA RICE TECHNOLOGYABBOTT NUTRITION SCIENTISTS 
ARE WORKING WITH PATH 
TO IMPROVE ITS ULTRA RICE 
FORTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY65%
OF INDIA’S POPULATION  DEPENDS 
ON RICE  AS A STAPLE FOOD
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS70
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013will effectively deliver nutrients, helping to 
address malnutrition in India and, looking 
ahead, in several other countries.
PATH and Abbott’s foundation, the Abbott 
Fund, are also working to build local production 
capacity, expand distribution of fortified 
rice in India’s public and private sectors, and 
develop low-cost quality assurance tools to 
ensure production of high-quality fortified rice. 
Through the public sector programs alone, the 
Indian government provides approximately 30 
million metric tons of rice to an estimated 450 
million consumers – which gives an indication 
of the potential impact of Ultra Rice in India. 
NOURIMANBA IN HAITI
Childhood malnutrition and lack of economic 
opportunity have long plagued Haiti. However, 
with the opening of a new, state-of-the-art 
nutrition production facility – the centerpiece 
of a broader partnership between Partners In 
Health (PIH), Abbott and the Abbott Fund –  
real progress is being made to boost the 
economic and social health of the country. 
Even prior to the January 2010 earthquake, 
one in three Haitian children under the 
age of five suffered from malnutrition. 
Nourimanba, a ready-to-use therapeutic food 
product designed to treat severe childhood 
malnutrition, is a high-calorie, high-protein, 
fortified paste that is provided free to patients 
seen at PIH clinics throughout the country.
With the opening of a new nutrition 
production facility in the Central Plateau of ULTRA RICE IN INDIA
India is one of the fastest-growing countries 
in the world, both in terms of its economy 
and its population. However, more than 200 
million people in that population suffer from 
malnutrition and hunger – more than any 
other country. In fact, UNICEF estimates that 
one in every three malnourished children in 
the world lives in India. 
Since rice is a staple for most people in 
India, it may also help to find new solutions 
to the nation’s malnutrition challenge. In 
2011, Abbott and the Abbott Fund began 
a partnership with PATH, a Seattle-
based nonprofit focused on international 
development, to refine and scale up the 
production and distribution of fortified 
rice using PATH’s Ultra Rice fortification 
technology. This technology is a micronutrient 
delivery system that packs vitamins and 
minerals into rice-shaped “grains” made from 
rice flour and manufactured using pasta-
extrusion equipment. When these grains are 
blended with milled rice, the result is more 
nutritious than traditional rice, yet almost 
identical in smell, taste and texture. 
Abbott nutrition scientists are working 
with PATH to improve its Ultra Rice 
fortification technology in ways that reduce 
costs while improving nutritional value, 
ease of manufacturing, stability and taste. 
By combining the nutrition expertise of 
Abbott and PATH, the partnership aims to 
introduce new formulations of Ultra Rice that HOURS 
VOLUNTEERED
For Haiti by Abbott experts.300% GOAL
Our agricultural program is 
working to raise incomes for 
Haitian farmers by 300 percent.
14
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS71
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ABBOTT FUND INSTITUTE OF NUTRITION SCIENCE
Working with leading experts in China 
and Vietnam, the Abbott Fund Institute of 
Nutrition Science (AFINS) is designed to 
advance clinical nutrition within hospitals 
by supporting training and health education, 
clinical research and high-quality nutritional 
patient care. In China, AFINS began as a 
partnership between the Abbott Fund, the 
Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC) 
and the nonprofit organization Project HOPE, 
bringing together evidence-based nutritional 
research, the advanced resources of SCMC 
and nutrition science expertise from Abbott. 
AFINS China was established in 2007, in 
partnership with Project HOPE and the 
SCMC, to address gaps in pediatric clinical 
nutrition. Three years later, in 2010, we 
launched AFINS Vietnam, in partnership 
with Boston University, Bach Mai Hospital, 
the National Institute of Nutrition and Hanoi 
Medical University. 
To date, 5,400 healthcare professionals have 
been trained through the AFINS program. In 
Vietnam, the program has launched a clinical 
nutrition specialty program for nurses and 
supported the development of a new, four-
year bachelor-level dietitian degree at Hanoi 
Medical University, as well as conducting 
five research studies. In China, the program 
has helped reduce the malnutrition risk 
among children admitted to the SCMC by 
78 percent since 2010, and in 2010, SCMC 
became the first and only children’s hospital 
in mainland China to be accredited by the “When Abbott started working with Partners 
In Health a few years ago, we were both 
looking for ways to do things differently, so we 
can have a greater impact in helping to bring 
about transformational change in Haiti,” said 
Katherine Pickus, Divisional Vice President, 
Global Citizenship and Policy, Abbott, 
and Vice President, the Abbott Fund. “By 
combining the unique expertise and resources 
of a nonprofit organization and a leading 
nutrition and healthcare business, and by 
listening and working closely together every 
step of the way, we have been able to open a 
new facility that both produces a life-saving 
treatment for children and provides economic 
opportunity for local communities.”
Since the program began in 2009, our staff has 
provided more than 14,000 hours of expert 
technical support, with Abbott and the Abbott 
Fund contributing $6.5 million in funding. 
Looking ahead, the partnership is exploring 
a variety of ways to use excess production 
capacity to produce a fortified peanut butter. 
Revenue from peanut butter sales would be 
reinvested in the facility to cover the costs 
of Nourimanba production, with the goal 
of creating a social enterprise that will help 
sustain facility operations over the long term.Haiti in 2013, the facility is producing and 
distributing Nourimanba to PIH clinics in 
the region. The facility, built by Haitians 
supported by Abbott engineers, scientists and 
other specialists, is operated and managed 
by Haitians, led by Zanmi Lasante (PIH’s 
sister organization). Abbott and PIH experts 
provided extensive training for the local 
team in order to upgrade manufacturing, 
production and maintenance skills, and share 
best practices in quality and food safety. 
Abbott and PIH will continue to offer ongoing 
mentoring and support to ensure long-term 
sustainable operations.
Expanding economic opportunity is a key 
focus of the partnership. There is tremendous 
opportunity to expand local cultivation of 
peanuts, the main ingredient in Nourimanba. 
Working with two of PIH’s local sister 
organizations, Zanmi Lasante and Zanmi 
Agrikol, as well as the nonprofit TechnoServe, 
the partnership is supporting an agricultural 
program to help local farmers supply the 
facility with high-quality peanuts, while 
raising their incomes. In addition, 35 local 
residents have been recruited and trained to 
provide services, including tillage and harvest 
collection. The effort is already improving crop 
quality, with the longer-term goal of increasing 
farmers’ incomes by as much as 300 percent.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS72
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Joint Commission International, which 
singled out the hospital’s nutrition screening 
practices for special praise. In both China 
and Vietnam, AFINS has been embraced 
by local government and hospital leaders, 
ensuring the long-term sustainability of 
efforts to strengthen hospital nutrition and 
provide better patient care. AFINS is just one 
part of Abbott’s broader outreach efforts to 
strengthen nutritional science, testing and 
practices in developing nations.
EMPLOYEE GIVING AND INVOLVEMENT
Our employees reflect our commitment to 
creating healthier communities, with Abbott 
employees around the world generously 
contributing their time, expertise, money 
and enthusiasm to numerous community-
based initiatives. To facilitate this work, we 
have developed an online system enabling 
employees in Canada, Ireland, Puerto Rico, 
the United Kingdom and the United States 
to access volunteer activities that match 
both their needs and interests, and their 
professional skills and expertise. 
Abbott employees also continued to expand 
their financial giving to nonprofit and 
community groups in 2013, with more than 
87 percent of U.S. employees contributing 
through the company’s annual employee 
giving campaign and matching-grant program. 
Contributions from the Abbott Fund and 
employees totaled $12 million. Abbott’s 
employee participation is more than twice 
the rate typically seen in employee giving 
campaigns, according to JK Group, which administers corporate philanthropy programs 
at Abbott and elsewhere.
MEASURING RESULTS
Since 2009, Abbott has been a member of 
the global LBG group , formerly the London 
Benchmarking Group. Abbott is among the 
more than 300 companies worldwide using 
the LBG model to measure, manage and 
report the value and achievements of the 
philanthropic contributions they make.
Using this model, we were able to assign a 
monetary value to the time and services of our 
employees involved in community activity, as 
well as our cash and product donations. Our 
total community contributions using LBG 
methodology came to more than $40.9 million 
in 2013.78%
DROP IN 
MALNUTRITION
RISK
Since 2010, Shanghai 
Children’s Medical Center has 
seen the risk of malnutrition 
in children admitted drop  
78 percent.100%
OF NEW PATIENTS 
At Shanghai Children’s  
Medical Center are screened  
for malnutrition.5,400 HEALTHCARE  
PROFESSIONALS
AFINS has trained more than 
5,400 healthcare professionals 
in China and Vietnam.
$12 
MILLION
In community giving by 
employees and matching 
grants in 2013.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS73
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Promoting Ethics and Integrity
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Abbott is committed to doing business in a 
responsible manner and we seek to maintain 
the highest standards of ethical conduct in 
everything we do. Our employees understand 
the impact that their work and our products 
can have on people around the world. As a 
result, they strive every day to ensure they 
are doing the right thing, in the right way. To 
help them in this work, we make it a priority 
to earn their support, ensuring that our 
employees understand our company’s values, 
Code of Conduct, policies and procedures, as 
well as our wider legal obligations. Our ethics 
and compliance program and strategies work 
to the benefit of Abbott and our shareholders 
by safeguarding our company’s reputation and 
enhancing trust.
BUSINESS ETHICS AT ABBOTT
At Abbott, we are committed to meeting high 
ethical standards and to complying with all 
applicable local, national and international 
laws wherever we do business. Such ethical 
conduct honors Abbott’s 125-year legacy of 
making a positive difference in the health of 
people around the world. EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
Reflecting our commitment to operating 
honestly, fairly and with integrity, our ethics 
and compliance program surpasses just 
adhering to applicable laws and regulations. 
Our program is arranged around the seven 
elements of an effective compliance program, 
as set forth in the voluntary “Compliance 
Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers,” published in April 2003 by the 
Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Service (“HHS-OIG 
Guidance”). These elements are: 
• Leadership
• Written standards
• Effective lines of communication
• Training
• Accountability
• Assessment
• Remediation
Our integrated, company-wide program is 
organized around these elements and also 
requires compliance with a suite of voluntary 
industry guidelines. These are listed below. 
We address each of the seven key elements of 
effective compliance as follows:• Leadership
• Written standards
• Effective lines of 
communication
• Training
• Accountability
• Assessment
• RemediationSEVEN ELEMENTS
OF AN EFFECTIVE  
COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS74
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013the compliance program, including monitoring 
of compliance, providing awareness of and 
training for the program, revising policies 
and procedures and providing guidance 
to local employees. The committees also 
meet on a regular basis to discuss emerging 
issues and work with the International 
Ethics and Compliance organization as new 
programs initiated by the OEC are rolled out. 
Compliance professionals located throughout 
the world provide oversight and guidance to 
the Affiliate Compliance Committees.
WRITTEN STANDARDS
The Abbott Code of Business Conduct , 
published in print and online in 35 
languages, sets forth our basic guidelines and 
requirements for ethical behavior. Abbott 
employees are required to read and certify 
adherence to our Code annually. Our Code 
states clearly that Abbott does not tolerate 
illegal or unethical behavior in any aspect of 
our business. It emphasizes the importance 
of ethical and honest conduct; adhering to 
Abbott’s policies and procedures; treating 
confidential information appropriately; 
avoiding conflicts of interest; and maintaining 
Abbott’s books and records with accuracy and 
integrity. Further, it requires our employees to 
ask questions or report any concerns.
In addition to our Code, we adopt policies 
and procedures that guide employees as they 
conduct their day-to-day activities. These LEADERSHIP
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
(CECO) is responsible for the management 
and operation of the Office of Ethics and 
Compliance (OEC) and the development and 
enhancement of the compliance program. 
The CECO makes regular reports regarding 
compliance matters to the Chairman of 
the Board and to Chief Executive Officer, 
senior level leadership and Abbott’s Board of 
Directors and committees. 
The Business Conduct Committee (BCC) 
consists of senior-level leadership and is 
chaired by the CECO. Established to assist 
in the implementation of the compliance 
program, the BCC is accountable directly 
to the Chairman of the Board and the Chief 
Executive Officer. The committee holds 
periodic meetings to discuss matters including 
the legal and regulatory environment, 
risk areas and best practices, as well as 
modifications to the compliance program 
on the basis of such evaluation. OEC staff 
provides dedicated support to each of Abbott’s 
businesses.
Outside the United States, our Affiliate 
Compliance Program is managed by local 
Affiliate Compliance Committees, composed 
of the Affiliate Management Representative 
and other top executives representing all 
of Abbott’s businesses within a country. 
The Affiliate Compliance Committees are 
responsible for the day-to-day functioning of 35
LANGUAGES
The Abbott Code of Business 
Conduct is published in print  
and online in 35 languages  
to support colleagues around  
the world. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS75
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013EFFECTIVE LINES OF COMMUNICATION
Creating an environment where employees 
can raise questions and concerns helps us 
advance our commitment to ethical behavior. 
We have established systems and processes 
for employees to ask questions and report 
suspected or actual violations of our Code 
or our policies and procedures. We offer 
employees a number of resources, including 
our Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a 
telephone and Web-based hotline available 24 
hours a day, seven days a week. Employees also 
may contact the OEC or the CECO directly.
In 2013, we received approximately 580 
inquiries and allegations. All allegations are 
analyzed and corrective actions are taken 
where necessary, including terminating 
employees or supplier relationships. When 
appropriate, we report information about 
breaches of our Code to senior management. 
The OEC also creates opportunities to engage 
in face-to-face interactions with employees 
by participating in national and regional sales 
meetings and local site meetings. Issues also 
are highlighted on our OEC intranet site 
and through other targeted communications 
vehicles.
TRAINING
Ethics and compliance training is a part 
of Abbott’s culture wherever we operate. 
Training and education programs for 
employees increase their awareness of our 
Code’s precepts and the legal and ethical policies and procedures encompass relevant 
laws and regulations, including food and 
drug laws and laws relating to government 
healthcare programs. They also take into 
account industry best practices, including 
provisions of the International Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations 
(IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing 
Practices and the updated Advanced Medical 
Technology Association (AdvaMed) Code 
of Ethics on Interactions with Healthcare 
Professionals, as well as other applicable 
industry codes. 
We regularly update our policies to 
incorporate changes to the law and industry 
codes, including rules regarding gifts, meals 
and education we provide to healthcare 
professionals.
A number of laws in the United States require 
greater transparency in the relationships 
between our industry and individuals and 
entities involved in providing healthcare. 
These laws impose various combinations of 
code of conduct restrictions and tracking 
and reporting of payments and transfers of 
value (such as meals) provided to healthcare 
professionals and healthcare organizations. 
Abbott complies with the applicable state 
laws – California, the District of Columbia, 
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada and 
Vermont – as well as the federal Sunshine Act. ABBOTT’S ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
Is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS76
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013rules” through training sessions that utilize 
innovative puzzles and games. These sessions 
give teams a valuable opportunity to swap 
ideas and to review and re-energize their 
individual affiliate compliance programs. 
Our approach has resulted in the delivery of 
some ground-breaking compliance initiatives. 
We recognize and celebrate these outstanding 
programs by awarding the annual CEP 
“Oscars.” In 2013, the three winning initiatives 
were:
• From Egypt, a video demonstrating the 
appropriate ethical response to business 
situations.
• From Turkey, an audiobook of Abbott’s 
policies that sales representatives can listen 
to while on business trips.
• From Bulgaria, a revision of existing 
procedures to prevent future mistakes.
“POSITIVE ‘NO’ ” PROGRAM
Clarifying the expectations of customers 
and our business is central to our work, and 
knowing when and how to say “no” is a critical 
skill for our employees. Launched in 2009, 
our innovative “Positive ‘No’ ” program helps 
employees learn and practice the assertive 
communication skills that enable them to both 
avoid ethical conflicts, while strengthening 
customer and partner relationships by 
enhancing our reputation. To date, the 
program has been run in Mexico, Venezuela, 
Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Uruguay and Brazil, 
where more than 90 percent of our employees 
have taken part. The program received an implications of their actions and behaviors. 
Abbott ethics and compliance officers work 
with our local commercial teams throughout 
the world, to support them in conducting 
trainings and education programs that help 
ensure compliance and to strengthen Abbott’s 
reputation as a responsible corporate citizen 
while enhancing relationships with customers 
and other stakeholders.
For example, employees in the United States, 
Puerto Rico, Latin America and various 
countries in Europe and Asia participate 
in our Legal and Ethics Resource Network 
(LERN) program, a Web-based training system 
designed to increase awareness of the legal 
and ethical implications of business decisions. 
In 2013, we launched the LERN system in 12 
additional countries, bringing it to 33 countries 
in total. Another successful approach has been 
the use of interactive ethics challenge games, 
in which local employees meet face-to-face 
with OEC representatives to ask questions and 
discuss company policies. 
The Abbott Communication, Education 
and Prevention (CEP) program is another 
good example of our efforts to support staff 
around the world on ethics and compliance 
issues. This cross-divisional, business-owned 
program focuses on enhancing and improving 
local affiliate compliance programs, and 
has been implemented in Latin America, 
Russia, the Middle East, Europe, India and 
China. Employee engagement is critical to 
the success of this program, so we encourage 
our commercial teams to “challenge the 90%
OF OUR EMPLOYEES 
In Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, 
Peru, Ecuador, Uruguay and 
Brazil have learned assertive 
communication skills through the 
“Positive ‘No’ ” program.“NO”
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS77
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Abbott Chairman’s Award, Abbott’s highest 
honor for employees, recognizing its value 
in building the confidence and skills of our 
employees. 
ACCOUNTABILITY
Abbott employees are expected to adhere to 
our Code of Business Conduct as a condition 
of their continued employment. Any Abbott 
employee who violates our Code, or any 
policy or procedure, is subject to appropriate 
disciplinary action. Any Abbott employee 
who fails to report a violation of Abbott policy 
or procedure that he or she is, or should 
have been, aware of may also be subject to 
disciplinary action. 
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against 
anyone who makes a good-faith report 
regarding a violation or potential violation 
of our Code, policies or procedures. These 
guidelines are well publicized and enforced 
throughout the company.
ASSESSMENT
The OEC uses results from internal 
investigations, internal audits and internal 
monitoring programs to assess the 
effectiveness of the compliance program and 
relevant business practices, and to identify 
areas for improvement. In addition, we 
consider the external environment, including 
government investigations, settlements, 
industry codes and government guidance 
in order to identify new opportunities to 
enhance the compliance program.REMEDIATION
Results of investigations, audits and 
monitoring are communicated to the 
appropriate OEC staff and business leaders. 
When an area for improvement is identified, 
the OEC partners with business leaders to 
implement corrective actions.
RESPONSIBLE SALES AND MARKETING 
PRACTICES
An important part of our commitment to 
supporting patients and consumers is an 
obligation to communicate responsibly with 
them and their healthcare professionals about 
our products and services, and the alternatives 
that exist. 
We comply with all relevant laws, regulations 
and promotional standards around the 
world. This includes adhering to principles 
of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) 
International Code of Marketing of 
Breast Milk Substitutes where it has been 
implemented by governments. Abbott has 
been a leader in researching and developing 
nutritional solutions for infants for 50 years 
and is committed to helping all babies receive 
the right nutrition to help them achieve a 
great start on a healthy life. Abbott agrees with 
medical and health organizations throughout 
the world that breastfeeding is the best form 
of infant nutrition and should be the first 
choice for babies. When an alternative to 
breastfeeding is necessary or chosen, we offer 
high-quality infant formulas and nutrition 
products. We also conduct audits of our 
marketing and sales practices in each market 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS78
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013We strive to align with organizations whose 
overall advocacy platform demonstrates 
values that mirror our own. For example, 
we support trade associations and other 
membership organizations that understand 
how government actions can affect patients’ 
access to medical advances and that will 
work to promote an environment that fosters 
continued medical progress. When we work 
with other constituencies, we are better able 
to advance policies that are both consistent 
with Abbott’s values and good for society. Even 
though we cannot control the outcomes of 
discussions, we work to have a strong voice at 
the table. 
Abbott also participates in the political 
process by contributing to state and local 
candidates and political organizations. 
Our Government Affairs team reviews and 
approves all corporate political contributions 
to ensure they are consistent with the 
company’s guidelines and are in compliance 
with applicable laws. More information can be 
found in our most recent disclosure report .
The Public Policy Committee of Abbott’s 
Board of Directors is responsible for the 
review and evaluation of Abbott’s policies and 
practices with respect to social responsibility.where our infant formula is sold to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of the WHO 
International Code mentioned above. 
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by 
the following principles:
• Abbott is committed to transparency and is 
guided by our Code of Business Conduct  in 
all public policy engagement.
• All activities shape policies to benefit 
patients, with a focus on improving patient 
access to new medical advances.
We are committed to participating in public 
policy discussions that have the potential to 
impact our patients, our employees and our 
ability to continue to produce new medical 
advances. We engage with governments, 
think tanks, trade associations, patient 
groups and other organizations around the 
world to find policy solutions to the complex 
issues that challenge healthcare systems. It 
is our responsibility to help governments 
and regulatory bodies understand Abbott’s 
viewpoints on major healthcare issues and 
to learn from them about the needs of their 
communities, so that we can work together to 
better the lives of patients. We believe our role 
in accomplishing this includes meeting with 
and briefing policymakers, convening forums 
and discussions and contributing information 
and expertise.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIES REPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSIN THIS SECTION
Transparency on Policies 80TRANSPARENCY
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY80
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Transparency on Policies
The following information represents Abbott’s 
policies and standards that guide our business 
decisions, ethical conduct and commitment to 
the environment. We strive for transparency 
by providing information on policies and 
standards applicable to each priority area. 
Copies of all documents listed below are 
available on our Web site. 
PROMISE FOR LIFE
Abbott’s Promise for Life  is a statement 
that describes – for our customers, our 
communities, our shareholders and all of our 
stakeholders – what we believe in, what we 
value, and what we strive to deliver in our day-
to-day work.
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
Abbott’s basic guidelines and requirements 
for ethical behavior are set forth in the Abbott 
Code of Business Conduct .
SUPPLIER GUIDELINES
Abbott suppliers are required to read and 
agree to our Supplier Guidelines , which set 
forth our expectations in a wide variety of 
areas.ANIMAL WELFARE POLICY
Abbott animal research efforts are guided by 
our Global Animal Welfare Policy. Animals 
shall be treated humanely, minimizing pain 
and distress. Before beginning work with 
Abbott, contract and collaborating laboratories 
must be accredited by the Association of 
Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory 
Animal Care (AAALAC), and/or their 
laboratory animal care and use programs 
must be assessed by Abbott veterinary staff or 
animal welfare officers and approved by the 
Corporate Animal Welfare Committee. After 
the work begins, Abbott monitors suppliers for 
compliance with our Global Animal Welfare 
Policy on a periodic basis. 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
Abbott’s environmental policy  sets and 
achieves targeted objectives, including 
requiring contractors working on behalf of 
Abbott to conform to regulatory requirements 
and meet applicable internal Environment, 
Health and Safety standards.
ENERGY POLICY
Abbott’s energy policy  sets aggressive goals to 
further reduce our environmental footprint, 
including our commitments to dramatically 
reducing CO2 emissions.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY81
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER POLICY
Abbott’s water policy details  our commitments 
to improving access to clean water in 
communities around the world and to 
reducing and efficiently managing our 
company’s own use of water.
GREEN PROCUREMENT POLICY
Abbott’s green procurement policy  formalizes 
our approach and provides guidance on 
incorporating sustainable sourcing principles 
into the purchasing process.
EHS TECHNICAL STANDARDS
Abbott’s EHS technical standards  allow Abbott 
to have consistent technical expectations at all 
of its sites around the world.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND 
SAFETY POLICY
Abbott’s EHS policy requires that we operate 
in a manner that promotes employee health 
while also protecting the environment.ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Abbott engaged an independent assurance 
provider, ERM Certification and Verification 
Services (ERM CVS)  to conduct assurance  
of selected 2013 environmental and safety 
data, including greenhouse gas emissions, 
waste generated, waste to landfill, water intake 
and wastewater discharge. A copy of ERM 
CVS’ Assurance Statement is available on our 
Web site . 
ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING GUIDE 
FOR COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS WITH 
ABBOTT 
Abbott is committed to conducting business  
in an ethical and legally compliant manner and 
adheres to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other 
applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery 
laws. Abbott requires that all companies 
with which it does business or which may 
act on Abbott’s behalf (“third parties”) act in 
accordance with these laws.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION AND 
RESULTS DISCLOSURES
Abbott understands that a critical 
component of medical product development 
is the conduct of clinical trials (also referred 
to as clinical studies) in humans to evaluate 
the safety and effectiveness of medical 
products for the diagnosis, treatment and 
prevention of disease.We are committed to being transparent  about 
the clinical trials we sponsor, as we recognize 
that there are important public health 
benefits to making clinical trial information 
available to healthcare providers, patients 
and the public. To facilitate this, Abbott has 
adopted the following principles regarding 
the disclosure of information relating to the 
clinical studies we sponsor.
• Our registrations and results disclosures  
will adhere to Public Law 110-85, Section 
801, Clinical Trial Databases, of the Food 
and Drug Administration Amendments Act 
of 2007 (FDAAA), and any other applicable 
national law
• Abbott respects the influence of the 
following organizations regarding 
registrations and results disclosures: 
 −WHO Technical Consultation
 −Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical 
Trial Information via Clinical Trial 
Registries and Databases 
 −International Council of Medical Journal 
Editors (ICMJE), Uniform Requirements 
for Manuscripts
However, where policies of these organizations 
conflict with the above laws, Abbott will defer 
to the laws.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY82
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013GLOBAL INITIATIVES
In an evolving international regulatory 
environment around clinical trial disclosure, 
Abbott engages with our stakeholders to stay 
abreast of new requirements for registrations 
and results disclosures, and we also engage in 
continuing efforts to ensure compliance with 
global initiatives for clinical trial transparency. 
We continue to work with industry partners, 
trade associations, regulators, international 
health organizations, academics and patient 
groups to develop a global framework for 
registrations and results disclosures. Abbott 
also actively participates in trade association 
activities aimed at increasing clinical trial 
transparency.
As a member of the International Federation 
of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations (IFPMA) , Abbott supports the 
IFPMA Clinical Trials Portal. This portal 
helps users access information about ongoing 
pharmaceutical clinical trials and the 
outcomes of completed trials through custom 
searches. The portal is provided by IFPMA 
on behalf of its member companies and 
associations. The portal offers a single entry 
point for the public to access comprehensive 
information regarding pharmaceutical clinical 
trials and results of completed trials.
In addition to our industry-leading global 
policies and procedures, in the United States 
our Operating Procedures for Program 
Funding Policy incorporates the AdvaMed 
code of conduct, which represents industry 
standards for the medical device industry. More information on the Code is available at 
www.advamed.com . 
FINANCIAL REPORTS FOR HEALTHCARE-
RELATED ORGANIZATIONS
GRANTS AND DONATIONS – U.S.
Abbott has a long-standing commitment to 
supporting programs aimed at increasing 
the understanding of scientific, clinical 
and healthcare issues that improve patient 
care. We partner with a broad range of 
organizations to help address today’s 
healthcare challenges. We want to do our part 
to ensure that patients, and the healthcare 
providers who treat them, receive the 
information and support they need.
In the interest of transparency, we began 
voluntarily disclosing grants and donations to 
U.S. medical organizations beginning with the 
third quarter of 2008. Abbott will continue to 
report these payments on a quarterly basis.
This report discloses charitable donations, 
patient support, educational grants and 
fellowships and scholarships. Recipients 
include medical and other healthcare 
professional organizations, patient 
organizations, academic institutions, hospitals, 
medical education companies and other 
scientific associations.In addition, support from the nonprofit, 
philanthropic Abbott Fund is aggregated and  
reported in an annual Internal Revenue Service 
990-PF filing. This information is available 
on the Web site www.foundationcenter.org . 
Abbott continues to evaluate other ways to 
enhance transparency. Reports detailing direct 
payments of more than $200 from Abbott’s 
U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses are available 
on our Web site. 
SUPPORT FOR EUROPEAN PATIENT 
ORGANIZATIONS
Abbott has a proud history of working with 
patient organizations around the world.
Patient organizations provide valuable 
information and support to patients and to the 
people who care for them, such as family and 
friends. We believe that we can support these 
organizations in their efforts to help patients 
understand and manage their disease.
Abbott’s relationships with patient 
organizations are based on trust, respect and 
mutual benefit. We aim for transparency 
and high ethical standards in all of our 
relationships.
We learn about issues of concern to patients 
and seek to address them in the best possible 
ways. By building sustainable relationships, we 
also work toward advancing dialogue around 
healthcare issues so that, together, we can 
work to ensure optimal delivery of healthcare.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY83
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Our support to patient organizations takes 
the forms of event support, organizational 
support, patient education and caregiver 
education. A list of the patient organizations 
that Abbott has supported in Europe from 
January 1 to December 31, 2013, is provided  
on our Web site .
SPONSORSHIP OF PROFESSIONAL  
CONFERENCES
Abbott has a long-standing commitment to 
supporting programs aimed at increasing 
the understanding of scientific, clinical 
and healthcare issues that improve patient 
care. In the interest of transparency, we are 
disclosing a list of professional conferences  
sponsored by Abbott in 2013, which is 
available on our Web site. 
OTHER DISCLOSURES
CALIFORNIA COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
A growing number of laws in the United 
States require greater transparency in the 
relationships between our industry and 
individuals and entities involved in providing 
healthcare. These laws impose various 
combinations of code of conduct restrictions 
on activities involving healthcare professionals 
and healthcare organizations and tracking and 
reporting of payments and transfers of value 
provided. Abbott complies with all such laws, 
which currently exist in California, the District 
of Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, 
Nevada, Vermont and West Virginia. 
Information on our Ethics and Compliance 
Program is available on our Web site . ABBOTT AND THE U.S.-EU AND U.S.-SWISS SAFE 
HARBOR PRIVACY STATEMENT
Abbott Laboratories complies with the 
U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework and the 
U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework, as set 
forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce 
regarding the collection, use and retention 
of personal information of employees of 
Abbott and its affiliates and subsidiaries in 
European Economic Area/ European Union 
member countries and Switzerland. Abbott 
has certified that it adheres to the Safe Harbor 
Privacy Principles of notice, choice, onward 
transfer, security, data integrity, access and 
enforcement with respect to this information.
CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY  
CHAINS ACT
Abbott believes in being a socially responsible 
company and doing what is right, not just 
by our customers, but by the world in which 
we live. Abbott is committed to safe and fair 
working conditions, beyond our employees 
and the stores in which our products are 
sold, but also extending to the partners in 
our supply chain. Abbott always has had, and 
will continue to have, a zero-tolerance policy 
regarding human trafficking and slavery. 
Abbott has a global policy against trafficking 
and slavery in supply chains. Abbott engages 
in verification of product supply chains 
to evaluate and address risks of human 
trafficking and slavery. Specifically, Abbott 
utilizes a supplier classification model to 
determine appropriate activity level to assess 
risk. A supplier may receive a letter, a survey 
or an on-site audit (usually announced ahead of time) based on this model. Information 
received from the supplier is then assessed 
to determine whether to take further steps. 
Currently, this verification is conducted by 
Abbott employees in its Global Purchasing 
Services Compliance department.
Abbott’s Supplier Guidelines state our 
expectations to suppliers conducting business 
with Abbott – that they are prohibited from 
engaging in illegal behavior, including human 
trafficking and slavery. Abbott’s internal 
Code of Business Conduct also incorporates 
standards prohibiting slavery/trafficking or 
engaging in illegal behavior. Abbott requires 
direct suppliers to certify that materials 
incorporated into Abbott’s products comply 
with local and national laws of the country or 
countries in which they are doing business. 
Certifications are also obtained from 
suppliers that they comply with standards, as 
outlined in our Supplier Guidelines. Abbott 
maintains internal accountability standards 
and procedures for both employees and 
contractors failing to meet company standards 
regarding slavery and trafficking. In particular, 
Abbott employees worldwide train annually on 
Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct. Likewise, 
all contractors assigned to Abbott are required 
to review and abide by Abbott’s Code of 
Business Conduct.
Employees and contractors assigned to Abbott 
who fail to abide by Abbott’s Code of Business 
Conduct may be subject to reprimand or other 
adverse consequences, up to and including 
termination of employment or assignment. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY84
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Abbott provides training to its employees and 
management who have direct responsibility 
for supply chain management regarding 
human trafficking and slavery, particularly 
with respect to mitigating risks within the 
supply chains of products.
U.S. POST-MARKETING COMMITMENTS
Following approval of a pharmaceutical, 
nutritional product or medical device, the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
may request and/or require the sponsoring 
company to conduct further studies that are 
designed to gather additional information 
about a product’s safety, effectiveness and/
or optimal use. These post-marketing 
commitment (PMC) studies build upon the 
data that was submitted for approval.
Our PMC Summary Table (available on our 
Web site ) includes all active post-marketing 
commitments and provides the following 
information, organized alphabetically by 
product name:
• Name of product
• NDA/BLA number
• Description of commitment
• Date commitment given
• FDA projected completion date
• Commitment statusPlease note that the status and/or number 
of Abbott’s post-marketing commitments 
shown on the FDA Web site  may differ from 
the information displayed on this site, based 
on the timing of content review and Web 
site updates. The status categories used in 
the PMC Summary Table are consistent with 
categories used by the FDA.
Information about Abbott’s PMCs will 
be updated twice a year, to reflect new 
commitments as well as the progress we have 
made in fulfilling our existing post-marketing 
commitments. Once the FDA determines that 
a PMC is fulfilled, or they release Abbott from 
a commitment, or if Abbott terminates a study 
before completion date, those PMCs will be 
removed from our PMC Summary Table.
The PMCs listed in the PMC Summary Table 
include pre-clinical (nonhuman), clinical 
(medical) and epidemiological studies that 
Abbott has agreed to conduct to gather 
additional information about the safe and 
effective use of our approved products. The 
summary table does not contain technical 
chemistry, manufacturing and controls 
(CMC) PMCs, or PMCs issued by the FDA for 
products where Abbott does not hold the U.S. 
regulatory approval.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCYREPORTING
IN THIS SECTION
Citizenship Reporting 86
GRI Index 91
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING86
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Citizenship Reporting
At Abbott, we have reported on our citizenship 
activities for nearly 16 years and have 
produced annual Global Citizenship Reports 
since 2000. Our reporting focuses on our most 
material impacts and speaks to a range of 
stakeholders, including customers, patients, 
employees, government and regulatory 
bodies, investors, special interest groups, 
non-governmental organizations and opinion 
leaders in the areas of responsible, sustainable 
and inclusive business. 
In 2013, our affiliates in Russia and Vietnam 
also produced citizenship reports. This 
approach enables us to target our citizenship 
communications to local markets and provide 
greater coverage on issues relevant to those 
areas. Copies of our local reports are available 
on our Web site for the following countries:
• Brazil
• China
• India
• Ireland
• Italy 
• Russia
• VietnamSCOPE OF REPORTING
Neither this report nor our Web site contains 
performance information about our joint 
ventures unless otherwise noted. The Abbott 
Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit philanthropic 
corporation established by Abbott in 1951. 
All financial information is stated in U.S. 
dollars. All data in this report reflects Abbott’s 
activities, with a focus on activities and 
results for 2013. Select information and data 
calculations from prior years have been 
adjusted to reflect the company’s separation 
from AbbVie in January 2013. Our Global 
Citizenship Report for 2014 will be published 
in the second quarter of 2015.
FEEDBACK ON OUR REPORTING
We draw upon many external resources in 
refining our citizenship strategy, facilitating 
our engagements with key stakeholders, 
developing this Web site and producing 
our annual report. These resources include 
Corporate Citizenship, Business for Social 
Responsibility, the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard 
Kennedy School, the Conference Board, 
Agenda and the Clinton Global Initiative. 
We gratefully acknowledge their input. Our 
engagement with these groups better informs 
our approach to reporting while also keeping 
us abreast of stakeholder expectations and 16 YEARS OF REPORTING
Abbott has reported on our citizenship 
activities for 16 years.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING87
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013IN HEALTHCARE
Abbott was ranked as the Global  
Industry Group Leader on the  
prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index and North America  
Index for the first time in 2013. Equipment) on the Fortune  Most Admired 
Companies 2014 list.
• Abbott was selected by leading investment 
and analysis firm MSCI for inclusion on 
three of its sustainability indices in 2012: the 
MSCI World ESG Index, the MSCI World 
Socially Responsible Index and the MSCI 
KLD 400 Social Index.
• Abbott was named as one of the world’s most 
innovative companies, securing a spot on 
the Thomson Reuters 2013 Top 100 Global 
Innovators list. 
• Abbott has been included in the global 100 
Best Corporate Citizens list compiled by 
Corporate Responsibility  magazine for five 
consecutive years, 2009 to 2013.
• Abbott has been included on the Ethical 
Excellence Investment Register since 2005 
in recognition of the company’s economic, 
social and environmental performance.
• Abbott received the Asian CSR Award 
for Educational Improvement in 2011 for 
advancing science education in the region.
• Abbott was named a top 20 employer by 
Science  magazine in 2013, marking the tenth 
time Abbott has appeared on the list. Abbott 
received particularly high marks for social 
responsibility and employee loyalty.
• Abbott was named one of the 100 Best 
Adoption Friendly Workplaces for seven 
straight years (2007 to 2013) by the Dave 
Thomas Foundation.
• Abbott was listed, for the fourth year in a 
row, by the National Association for Female 
Executives as one of the Top Companies for 
Executive Women. helping us identify areas of opportunity for 
strengthened citizenship activities.
We also refer to external standards on 
reporting such as the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines. We produce an index against the 
GRI reporting requirements.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
Abbott engaged an independent assurance 
provider, ERM Certification and Verification 
Services (ERM CVS)  to conduct assurance  
of selected 2013 environmental and safety 
data. A copy of ERM CVS’ Assurance 
Statement is available on our Web site . 
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Abbott has been recognized around the world  
for its comprehensive approach to responsible 
corporate citizenship .
GLOBAL HONORS
• Abbott was ranked as the Global Industry 
Group Leader on the prestigious Dow 
Jones Sustainability World Index and North 
America Index for the first time in 2013. This 
is the ninth consecutive year that Abbott has 
been included in both the North America 
Index and the World Index – recognition of 
our continued global leadership in economic, 
environmental and social performance. 
• Abbott was ranked the No. 1 company 
overall and No. 1 for Social Responsibility in 
our industry sector (Medical Products and MOST COMMUNITY 
MINDED
Abbott was named one of America’s 
most community-minded companies in 
the 2013 Civic 50 survey.
BEST CORPORATE CITIZEN
Abbott has been included in the global 100 
Best Corporate Citizens list compiled by 
Corporate Responsibility  magazine for five 
consecutive years, 2009 to 2013.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING88
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013• Abbott was honored as one of the top global 
companies for social responsibility in China 
for three consecutive years (2009 to 2011) by 
Southern China Weekly , in partnership with 
Beijing and Nankai Universities.
• Abbott received a Top 10 CSR Case Award in 
2011 from the School of Social Development 
and Public Policy at Beijing Normal 
University.
DENMARK
• Abbott received the STAR Award for 
top patient education program in 2011, 
sponsored by the international patient 
organizations PTO, IFPA, EPCCA, ASIF  
and HIV.
INDIA
• Abbott received the 2013 Golden Peacock 
Global Business Excellence Award in 
recognition of the company’s stakeholder 
engagement, commitment to transparency, 
leading workplace programs, high standards 
of ethics and compliance and the quality of 
its involvement with communities.
• Abbott’s patient care initiatives were 
named Best Corporate Social Responsibility 
Initiative 2013 by the Rural Marketing 
Association of India. 
• Abbott was recognized as the Best Company 
for Academic Engagement 2013 by the 
Indian Psychiatric Society for its knowledge-
based programs for healthcare providers.• Abbott has been named as one of 
DiversityInc ’s Top 50 companies for diversity 
for 10 straight years (2004 to 2013), while 
Working Mother  magazine has selected 
Abbott as one of the Top Family-Friendly 
Workplaces in the U.S. for 13 consecutive 
years. 
BRAZIL
• Abbott was named one of the Best 
Companies for Corporate Citizenship in 
Brazil for three straight years by Gestão & 
RH Editora  magazine (2008 to 2010).
• Abbott was named one of the top 
three companies for Ethics and 
Stakeholder Engagement by Gestão & RH 
Editora  magazine in 2010.
CHINA
• Abbott received the prestigious China Best 
Corporate Citizenship Award in 2011 and 
2012 for its overall responsible approach 
from the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
of the China Association of Social Works 
(CASW).
• Abbott was named one of the Top 100 Good 
Enterprises Fulfilling CSR 2012 by CAEFI 
and CFCP in recognition of its commitment 
to corporate responsibility.
• Abbott was honored with the Chinese 
Teenage ScienceEd Contribution Award 
2012 by the Chinese Youth Science 
Center of China Association for Science 
and Technology (CAST) for its extensive 
programs to advance science education.CLIMATE LEADERSHIP 
AWARD
Abbott received the 2013 Climate 
Leadership Award from the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for 
its programs and results in reducing carbon 
pollution and addressing climate change.
OUTSTANDING 
SUSTAINABILITY
Abbott was selected by leading investment 
and analysis firm MSCI for inclusion on 
three of its sustainability indices in 2012: 
the MSCI World ESG Index, the MSCI 
World Socially Responsible Index and the 
MSCI KLD 400 Social Index. 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING89
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013responsibility from UNIDO (United Nations 
Industrial Development Organization), the 
Italian Ministry of the Environment and the 
Italian Ministry of Economic Development.
• Abbott’s facility in Campoverde obtained 
the European Commission’s ECO-
Management Audit Scheme (EMAS) 
registration for continuous improvement 
in environmental performance, compliance 
with environmental legislation, public 
information and employee involvement 
(2009 to 2011).
KOREA
• Abbott received the Best Company Giving 
and Volunteerism Award 2010, organized 
by the National Council of Non-Profit 
Organizations and Hankookilbo and 
sponsored by the Ministry of Health and 
Welfare.
• Abbott received the Asian CSR Award for 
Educational Improvement, for advancing 
science education in Korea and other 
countries, at the tenth Asian Forum on 
Corporate Responsibility in 2011.
MEXICO
• Abbott received one of the most prestigious 
awards in Mexico for corporate citizenship, 
the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Distinction 2014 award from the Mexican 
Center for Philanthropy (Centro Mexicano 
para la Filantropía), in recognition of 
the company’s economic, social and 
environmental performance.INDONESIA
• Abbott received a Green ranking from 
Indonesia’s Ministry of the Environment 
for its environmentally responsible business 
practices at the company’s manufacturing 
facility in Cimanggis.
IRELAND
• Abbott received a European Employee 
Volunteering Award, supported by the 
European Commission, to mark the 
European Year of Volunteering (2011).
• Abbott was named the Overall Winner 
and Best Newcomer at the Irish Employee 
Volunteering Awards 2011, sponsored by 
Business in the Community Ireland.
• Abbott received the Good Neighbour Award 
at the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Awards 2010 by Chambers Ireland.
• Abbott was named the Marketplace 
Category Winner at the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Awards 2011 by Chambers 
Ireland.
• Abbott was honored for the Best 
International CSR Program at the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Awards 2011 by 
Chambers Ireland.
• Abbott received the Irish Business and 
Employers Confederation’s Environmental 
Management Award 2010.
ITALY
• Abbott received the Premio Impresa 
Ambiente 2011, or Business Award for the 
Environment, a prestigious recognition 
for organizations engaged in sustainable 
environmental management and social 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING90
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013UNITED STATES
• Abbott was named one of America’s 
most community-minded companies in 
the 2013 Civic 50 survey, for the second 
consecutive year. This initiative identifies 
and recognizes companies for their 
commitment to improving the quality of 
life in the communities where they do 
business. The survey was conducted by 
the National Conference on Citizenship 
(NCoC) and Points of Light, and published 
by Bloomberg News.
• Abbott received the 2013 Climate Leadership 
Award from the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) for its programs 
and results in reducing carbon pollution and 
addressing climate change.PAKISTAN
• Abbott was recognized with a CSR 
Excellence Award 2013 by the National 
Forum for Environment for its commitment 
to corporate responsibility.
RUSSIA
• Abbott received the 2013 Platinum Ounce – 
Project of the Year Award for its Starbrush 
cystic fibrosis educational program.
SINGAPORE
• Abbott received the Asian CSR Award for 
Educational Improvement, for advancing 
science education in Singapore and other 
countries, at the tenth Asian Forum on 
Corporate Responsibility in 2011.
TAIWAN
• Abbott was ranked number four on the list 
of Best Foreign Companies, part of the 2010 
Taiwan Top 50 CSR Awards, by Common 
Wealth  magazine.
TANZANIA
• Abbott and the Abbott Fund were honored 
with the 2011 Scrip Award for Corporate 
Social Responsibility in recognition of the 
significant results seen through a decade-
long, $90 million partnership with the 
Government of Tanzania to strengthen the 
country’s healthcare system and train health 
workers.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING91
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013GRI Index
THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE’S 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
GUIDELINES
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a 
large, multi-stakeholder network of experts 
in dozens of countries. GRI publishes the G3 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which 
are now the global standard for non-financial 
reporting. Abbott uses the G3 Guidelines 
to inform its reporting and align itself with 
best practices. Since GRI does not currently 
provide guidance on sector-specific reporting 
in the healthcare field, we have tried to 
identify and report upon those issues that 
have the greatest relevance to our business 
and to our stakeholders.
ABBOTT’S GRI G3 INDEX
The GRI G3 Index provides an overview 
of our reporting, compared to the GRI G3 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. It helps 
users locate relevant information and view our 
company’s performance within the context of 
the topics and requirements covered by the 
Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines. CITIZENSHIP REPORTING DISCLOSURES 
ABOUT THE COMPANY PROFILE
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Statement from the most senior 
decision maker of the organization 
about the relevance of sustainability to 
the organization and its strategy  
Letter from our Chairman and CEO
1.2 Description of key risks and 
opportunities  
Business , Approach , Priorities
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 Name of the organization  
Business
2.2 Primary brands products and/or 
services  
Business , Priorities , Our Products  
2.3 Operational structure of the 
organization  
Business , Approach , Transparency  
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters  
Business
2.5 Number and name of countries where 
the organization operates  
Business , Abbott Global
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  
SEC Filing
2.7 Markets served  
Business , Note 14 in Consolidated 
Financial Statements  
2.8 Scale of reporting organization  
Business2.9 Significant changes during the 
reporting period regarding size, 
structure or ownership  
Note 2 – Separation of AbbVie, Note 3 – 
Supplemental Financial Information
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  
Reporting
REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1 Reporting period for information 
provided  
2013
3.2 Date of most recent report  
Global Citizenship Report 2012
3.3 Reporting cycle  
Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding 
the report or its contents  
globalcitizenship@abbott.com
3.5 Process for defining report content  
Citizenship Reporting
3.6 Boundary of the report  
Citizenship Reporting
3.7 State any specific limitations on the 
scope of the report  
Citizenship Reporting
3.8 Basis for reporting  
Citizenship Reporting
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING92
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20133.9 Data measurement techniques and 
the bases of calculations, including 
assumptions and techniques underlying 
estimations applied to the compilation 
of the indicators and other information 
in the report. Explain any decisions 
not to apply, or to substantially diverge 
from, the GRI Indicator Protocols  
Citizenship Reporting , Metrics
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-
statements of information provided in 
earlier reports, and the reasons for such 
re-statement  
Metrics
3.11 Significant changes from previous 
reporting periods in the scope, 
boundary or measurement methods 
applied in the report  
Citizenship Reporting , Business , 
Metrics
3.12 Table identifying the location of the 
Standard Disclosures in the report 
This index provides the location of the 
Standard Disclosures of the report
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard 
to seeking external assurance  
Safeguarding the Environment , 
Transparency , ERM Assurance 
Statement GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND 
ENGAGEMENT
4.1 Governance structure of the 
organization, including committees 
under the highest governance body 
responsible for specific tasks, such as 
setting strategy or oversight for the 
organization  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance , Transparency
4.2 Indicate if the Chair of the highest 
governance body is also an executive 
officer (and, if so, their function within 
the organization’s management and the 
reasons for this arrangement)  
Chair of highest governance body is an 
executive officer. 
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary 
board structure state the number of 
members of the highest governance 
body that are independent and/or non-
executive directors.  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 
employees to provide recommendations 
or direction to the highest governance 
body.  
2014 Proxy Statement
4.5 Linkage between compensation for 
members of the highest governance 
body, senior managers and executives 
(including departure arrangements) 
and the organization’s performance 
(including social and environmental 
performance)  
2014 Proxy Statement,  Valuing Our 
People4.6 Processes of the highest governance 
body to ensure conflicts of interest are 
avoided  
2014 Proxy Statement , Transparency , 
Citizenship Management and 
Governance  
4.7 Process for determining the 
qualifications and expertise of the 
members of the highest governance 
body for guiding the organization’s 
strategy on economic, environmental 
and social topics  
2014 Proxy Statement
4.8 Internally developed mission and 
values statements, codes of conduct, 
and principles relevant to economic, 
environmental and social performance 
and the status of their implementation  
Approach , Transparency , Responsible 
Business
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance 
body for overseeing the organization’s 
identification and management 
of economic, environmental and 
social performance, including the 
identification and management of 
relevant risks and opportunities, 
and adherence or compliance with 
internationally agreed standards, codes 
of conduct and principles  
Business , Approach , Responsible 
Business , Transparency  
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING93
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20134.10 Processes for evaluating the 
performance of the highest governance 
body, particularly with respect to 
economic, environmental and social 
performance  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance , Transparency , Governance  
4.12 Externally developed economic, 
environmental and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which 
the organization subscribes or endorses  
Approach , Priorities , Responsible 
Business  
4.13 Membership in associations (such as 
industry associations) and/or national/
international advocacy organizations 
in which the organization: *Has 
positions in governance bodies; 
*Participates in projects or committees; 
*Provides substantive funding beyond 
routine membership dues; or *Views 
membership as strategic  
Approach , Transparency
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 
organizations  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 
stakeholders to engage  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 
including frequency of engagement by 
type and by stakeholder group  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance , Community Engagement4.17 Key topics and concerns that have 
been raised through stakeholder 
engagement, and how the organization 
has responded to those key issues 
and concerns, including through its 
reporting  
Approach , Priorities , Community 
Engagement  
DISCLOSURES ON ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
 Management approach disclosures  
Business , Approach , Delivering Product 
Excellence , Transparency
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
EC1 Direct economic value generated (core)  
Business
EC2 Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities for the organization’s 
activities due to climate change (core)  
Climate Responsible Energy Policy  
EC3 Coverage of organization’s defined 
benefit plan obligations (core)  
Note 12 Post-Employment Benefits
MARKET PRESENCE
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of 
spending on locally based suppliers at 
significant locations of operation (core)  
Supply Chain Excellence
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
EC8 Development and impact of 
infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit 
through commercial, in-kind, or pro-
bono engagement (core)  
Priorities , Community EngagementDISCLOSURES ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
PERFORMANCE
 Management approach disclosures  
Citizenship Management and 
Governance , Safeguarding the 
Environment
MATERIALS
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  
Safeguarding the Environment, Key 
Metrics – Environment
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 
not recycled input materials  
Safeguarding the Environment , Key 
Metrics – Environment
ENERGY
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 
energy source (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by 
primary source (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 
efficiency improvements (additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment , Key 
Metrics – Environment
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient 
or renewable energy based products 
and services, and reductions in energy 
requirements as a result of these 
initiatives  
Safeguarding the Environment , Key 
Metrics – Environment
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 
consumption and reductions achieved 
(additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment , Key 
Metrics – Environment
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING94
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER
EN8 Total water withdrawn by source (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of water  
Key Metrics – Environment , 
Safeguarding the Environment
EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions by weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions by weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and reductions achieved 
(additional)  
Safeguarding the Environment
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances by weight  
Key Metrics – Environment  
EN20 NO, SO and other significant air 
emissions by type and weight (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 
destination (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN22 Total amount of waste by type and 
disposal method (core)  
Key Metrics – Environment
EN23 Total number and volume of significant 
spills (core)  
Note 11 – Litigation and Environmental 
Matters  EN24 Weight of transported, imported, 
exported or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel 
Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, 
and percentage of transported waste 
shipped internationally  
Key Metrics – Environment
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 
impacts of products and services and 
extent of impact mitigation (core)  
Safeguarding the Environment
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their 
packaging materials that are reclaimed 
by category  
Safeguarding the Environment
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines 
and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations 
(additional)  
Note 11 – Litigation and Environmental 
Matters  
TRANSPORT
EN29 Significant environmental impacts 
of transporting goods and materials 
used for organization’s operations, and 
transporting members of the workforce 
(additional)  
Key Metrics – Environment  
DISCLOSURES ON LABOR PRACTICES AND  
DECENT WORK
 Management approach disclosures  
Valuing Our PeopleEMPLOYMENT
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 
employment contract and region (core)  
Business , Valuing Our People
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees, by 
major operations  
Valuing Our People
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days and absenteeism and number 
of work related fatalities by region 
(core)  
Key Metrics – Social
LA8 Education, training, counseling, 
prevention and risk-control programs 
in place to assist workforce members, 
their families or community members 
regarding serious diseases (core)  
Valuing Our People
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
LA11 Programs for skills management and 
lifelong learning that support the 
continued employability of employees 
and assist them in managing career 
endings (additional)  
Valuing Our People
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development review (additional)  
Valuing Our People
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTING95
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per category 
according to gender, age group, 
minority group membership and other 
indicators of diversity (core)  
Valuing Our People , Key Metrics – 
Social  
DISCLOSURES ON HUMAN RIGHTS
 Management approach disclosures  
Valuing Our People , Transparency  
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
HR1 Percentage and total number of 
significant investment agreements 
that include human rights clauses or 
that have undergone human rights 
screening  
Valuing Our People , Promoting Ethics 
and Integrity
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers 
and contractors that have undergone 
screening on human rights and action 
taken (core)  
Supply Chain Excellence
HR3 Total hours of employee training 
policies and procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are 
relevant to operations, including the 
percentage of employees trained 
(additional)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity  
DISCLOSURES ON SOCIETY IMPACTS
 Management approach disclosures  
Transparency , Promoting Ethics and 
Integrity , Abbott FundCORRUPTION
S02 Percentage and total number of 
business units analyzed for risks related 
to corruption (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity
S03 Percentage of employees trained in 
organization’s anti-corruption policies 
and procedures (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity
S04 Actions taken in response to incidents 
of corruption (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity
PUBLIC POLICY
S05 Public policy positions and 
participation in public policy 
development and lobbying (core)  
Public Policy Engagement
S06 Total value of financial and in-kind 
contributions to political parties, 
politicians and related institutions by 
country (additional)  
Abbott 2013 Corporate Political 
Contributions
S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-trust and 
monopoly practices and their outcomes 
(additional)  
Note 11 Litigation and Environmental 
Matters
COMPLIANCE
S08 Monetary value of significant fines 
and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with laws 
and regulations (core)  
Note 11 Litigation and Environmental 
MattersDISCLOSURES ON PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
 Management approach disclosures  
Delivering Product Excellence , Supply 
Chain Excellence
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
PR1 Life cycle stages in which the health 
and safety impacts of products and 
services are assessed for improvement 
(core)  
Delivering Product Excellence , Supply 
Chain Excellence  
PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
PR3 Type of product and service 
information required by procedures, 
and percentage of significant products 
and services subject to such information 
requirements (core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity , 
Transparency
MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 
standards and voluntary codes related 
to marketing communications including 
advertising, promotion and sponsorship 
(core)  
Promoting Ethics and Integrity , 
Transparency
COMPLIANCE
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines 
for non-compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision 
and use of products and services  
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSMETRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 REPORTINGSECTION NAME
METRICS
IN THIS SECTION
Key Metrics – Financial 97
Key Metrics – Social 98
Key Metrics – Environmental 100
Detailed Environmental Performance 102
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING
 TRANSPARENCY
 METRICS97
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013SALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 21,407* 21,494* 21,848Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.189 0.882**Dollars in Billions
INCOME TAXES PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1,782 1,367 1,039*Dollars in Millions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.512* 1.544* 1.452Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.5Dollars in BillionsSALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 21,407* 21,494* 21,848Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.189 0.882**Dollars in Billions
INCOME TAXES PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1,782 1,367 1,039*Dollars in Millions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.512* 1.544* 1.452Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.5Dollars in BillionsSALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 21,407* 21,494* 21,848Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.189 0.882**Dollars in Billions
INCOME TAXES PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1,782 1,367 1,039*Dollars in Millions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.512* 1.544* 1.452Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.5Dollars in BillionsKey Metrics – FinancialSALES WORLDWIDE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 21,407* 21,494* 21,848Dollars in Millions
DIVIDENDS PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 2.938 3.189 0.882**Dollars in Billions
INCOME TAXES PAID
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1,782 1,367 1,039*Dollars in Millions
R&D INVESTMENT
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 1.512* 1.544* 1.452Dollars in Billions
SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 16.0 8.0* 8.5Dollars in Billions
* Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate  
company Jan. 1, 2013.
* * 2013 data reflect Abbott’s new business profile following our separation  
from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY98
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Key Metrics – Social
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management 
(U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal)  * Adjusted to remove data specific to AbbVie, which became a separate  
company Jan. 1, 2013.
** 2013 data reflect Abbott’s new business profile following our separation  
from AbbVie, which became an independent company Jan. 1, 2013.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY99
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
RECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL 0.67 0.57 0.44Incidents per 100 Employees*** -24.6%*GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE
2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 6.4 5.1 4.8 4.0    Accidents per Million Miles Driven -5.9%* -60%**LOST TIME CASE RATE
GOAL2011 2012 2013 2020
TOTAL 0.36 0.31 0.24 0.15Cases per 1 00 E mployees***
-55%
GOAL-60%-25.8%* -55%**U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL $7.1 $7.0 $4.1**Dollars in MillionsSOCIAL INVESTING
2011 2012
TOTAL $730 $59.8*2013
$56.6Dollars in MillionsEMPL OYEES
2011 2012
TOTAL
45%
24%45.3%25.4%45%27%91,000 91,0002012
91,0002013
69,000**
% of women in management 
(U.S.)
% of minorities in management (U.S.)
*% change fr om 2012 to 2013*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*** Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees assuming the average 
employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year. This is equivalent 
to 200,000 hours worked.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY100
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013Key Metrics – EnvironmentalWATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) CO
2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  
CO2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471
520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) CO
2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY101
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  
CO2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471
520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) CO
2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471
520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471
520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) 
CO2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013
TOTAL WATER INTAKE0.46 0.48 0.48 Water-stressed locationsBillion Gallons
*% change from 2012 to 20133.32 3.15 3.06-3.0%*
TOTA L WA STE
2011 2012 2013
48,697 49,950 Total waste not landﬁlledTons
21,960 16,535 Total waste landﬁlled
26,065 27,103
TOTAL WASTETotal waste recycled
*% change from 2012 to 201370,656 66,48550,815
14,761
27,887
65,576-1.4%*
CO2e EMISSIONS
2011 2012 2013
479 466Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions(1)
Refrigerant (Scope 1) CO
2e emissions(3)
Total direct (Scope 1)  CO
2e emissions
Purchased energy (Scope 2)  CO
2e emissions(2)1,000 Metric Tons
8 7
487 473
570 543466
5
471
520
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND 
SCOPE 2) CO2e emissions
*% change from 2012 to 20131,056 1,015 991-2.4%*TOTAL WATER INTAKEWater-stressed locations
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 152 144 140 120WATER IN TAKE
2011 2012 2013 2020
21 22 22Gallons per $1,000 Sales -3.1%* -30%**
Normalized by Sales
TOTAL WASTE 3.24 3.04 3.00 2.05TOTA L WASTE
2011 2012 2013 2020
Tons per $ Million Sales
-50%-1.3%* -50%**
Normalized by Sales
Direct (Scope 1) 
CO2e emissions
26 25CO2e EMISSION S
2011 2012 2013 2020
22 22
TOTAL (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) CO
2e emissionsPurchased energy (Scope 2) CO
2e emissions
48 462422
45 34Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
-40%-2.3%* -40%**
Normalized by SalesGOAL-30%
GOAL
GOAL*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
*% change from 2012 to 2013 **% change from 2010 (goal) 
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY102
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013CO2e EMISSIONS
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 23 26 24
USA 546 497 495
Region Total 570 523 519
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 4 5 5
Brazil 3 4 2
Costa Rica 0 1 1
Mexico 14 14 14
Puerto Rico 46 41 26
Regional – not available by country 12 14 16
Region Total 79 78 64
EUROPE
France 4 4 3
Germany 28 25 25
Ireland 60 60 51
Netherlands 65 60 61
Spain 15 13 13
Sweden 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0
United Kingdom 14 14 14
Regional – not available by country 46 47 55
Region Total 233 226 225Detailed Environmental Performance
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY103
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 15 15 17
India 18 16 15
Indonesia 2 2 2
Japan 6 6 6
Pakistan 18 17 18
Singapore 45 46 42
Regional – not available by country 70 87 81
Region Total 174 190 182
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY104
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 14 16 15
USA 239 214 225
Region Total 253 230 240
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 2 2 2
Brazil 2 2 1
Costa Rica 0 0 0
Mexico 14 13 13
Puerto Rico 2 2 0
Regional – not available by country 11 13 15
Region Total 31 32 33
EUROPE
France 3 3 3
Germany 10 9 10
Ireland 32 32 27
Netherlands 37 34 34
Spain 5 5 4
Sweden 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0
United Kingdom 4 4 4
Regional – not available by country 38 39 46
Region Total 130 127 129
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY105
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013CO2e EMISSIONS – DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 1 1 1
India 2 1 0
Indonesia 0 0 0
Japan 1 1 1
Pakistan 15 14 16
Singapore 19 19 16
Regional – not available by country 36 47 36
Region Total 74 84 70
 
CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 10 10 9
USA 308 283 270
Region Total 317 293 280
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 2 3 3
Brazil 1 2 1
Costa Rica 0 1 1
Mexico 0 0 1
Puerto Rico 44 39 26
Regional – not available by country 1 1 1
Region Total 49 46 32
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY106
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013CO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1 1 1
Germany 18 16 16
Ireland 28 28 24
Netherlands 28 26 27
Spain 10 8 8
Sweden 2 2 2
Switzerland 0 0 0
United Kingdom 10 10 10
Regional – not available by country 8 8 9
Region Total 104 99 96
ASIA PACIFIC
China 14 14 16
India 16 15 15
Indonesia 2 2 2
Japan 5 5 5
Pakistan 2 3 3
Singapore 26 27 27
Regional – not available by country 35 40 45
Region Total 100 105 112
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY107
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER INTAKE
WATER INTAKE BY REGION
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 0.18 0.20 0.17
USA 1.80 1.65 1.64
Region Total 1.98 1.85 1.81
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 0.02 0.03 0.03
Brazil 0.02 0.02 0.01
Costa Rica 0.00 0.01 0.01
Mexico 0.04 0.03 0.03
Puerto Rico 0.12 0.12 0.09
Region Total 0.21 0.21 0.17
EUROPE
France 0.02 0.01 0.01
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04
Ireland 0.17 0.17 0.16
Netherlands 0.37 0.33 0.32
Spain 0.09 0.09 0.10
Sweden 0.03 0.03 0.03
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.73 0.68 0.67
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY108
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER INTAKE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 0.04 0.04 0.04
India 0.06 0.05 0.05
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.03 0.03 0.02
Pakistan 0.09 0.08 0.09
Singapore 0.17 0.20 0.19
Region Total 0.40 0.41 0.41
 
WATER CONSUMED (IN PROCESS)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water consumed 0.68 0.65 0.65 0.3
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water consumed 31 30 30 0.2
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY109
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013WATER DISCHARGED (IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water discharged (impaired) 2.02 1.90 1.84 -3.4
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water discharged (impaired) 92 87 84 -3.6
 
WATER DISCHARGED (NON-IMPAIRED)
TOTAL
BILLION GALLONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water discharged (non-impaired) 0.63 0.60 0.57 -5.2
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total water discharged (non-impaired) 29 27 26 -5.3
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY110
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013BOD CONCENTRATION IN WASTEWATER
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Impaired water discharges subject to further treatment(5) 500 460 420 -8.7
Non-impaired water discharges direct to environment(6)NA NA 8 NA
 
TOTAL WASTE
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,186 1,257 1,089
USA 28,183 23,530 22,684
Region Total 29,369 24,787 23,773
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 273 289 472
Brazil 1,138 1,007 826
Costa Rica 261 605 179
Mexico 205 373 537
Puerto Rico 4,874 4,888 3,484
Regional – not available by country 671 671 671
Region Total 7,421 7,832 6,168
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY111
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013TOTAL WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1,224 1,178 2,039
Germany 2,032 1,963 2,118
Ireland 4,427 4,751 4,707
Netherlands 7,544 7,923 8,635
Spain 969 1,420 1,285
Sweden 456 351 417
Switzerland 100 115 146
United Kingdom 1,223 1,204 1,133
Regional – not available by country 1,992 1,992 1,992
Region Total 19,966 20,897 22,472
ASIA PACIFIC
China 438 419 380
India 1,772 1,348 1,430
Indonesia 172 61 19
Japan 583 702 1,223
Pakistan 1,017 1,188 1,204
Singapore 3,385 2,718 2,374
Regional – not available by country 6,533 6,533 6,533
Region Total 13,900 12,969 13,163
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY112
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Hazardous waste not landfilled 7,657 9,289 9,955 7.2
Hazardous waste landfilled 1,303 233 336 44.2
Hazardous waste 8,961 9,522 10,292 8.1
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Hazardous waste 0.41 0.44 0.47 8.1
HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 116 140 200
USA 963 967 1,096
Region Total 1,080 1,107 1,296
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 50 67 131
Brazil 171 193 172
Costa Rica 2 12 24
Mexico 56 75 65
Puerto Rico 2,295 2,316 1,564
Regional – not available by country 0 0 0
Region Total 2,573 2,663 1,956
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY113
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 50 625 1,557
Germany 258 267 316
Ireland 462 412 361
Netherlands 3,508 3,595 3,944
Spain 24 23 10
Sweden 352 271 333
Switzerland 2 3 3
United Kingdom 276 343 262
Regional – not available by country 0 0 0
Region Total 4,931 5,539 6,785
ASIA PACIFIC
China 16 12 12
India 105 101 123
Indonesia 6 7 5
Japan 37 52 65
Pakistan 179 9 22
Singapore 34 33 27
Regional – not available by country 0 0 0
Region Total 377 213 255
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY114
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
TOTAL
TONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Non-hazardous waste not landfilled 41,039 40,661 40,860 0.5
Non-hazardous waste landfilled 20,657 16,302 14,425 -11.5
Non-hazardous waste 61,696 56,963 55,285 -2.9
NORMALIZED BY SALES
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Non-hazardous waste 2.83 2.61 2.53 -2.9
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
TONS 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,070 1,117 889
USA 27,220 22,563 21,588
Region Total 28,290 23,680 22,477
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 223 222 341
Brazil 968 814 654
Costa Rica 259 593 155
Mexico 149 298 472
Puerto Rico 2,578 2,572 1,920
Regional – not available by country 671 671 671
Region Total 4,848 5,170 4,213
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY115
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 1,174 553 482
Germany 1,774 1,696 1,802
Ireland 3,965 4,339 4,346
Netherlands 4,036 4,328 4,692
Spain 945 1,397 1,275
Sweden 104 80 85
Switzerland 98 112 143
United Kingdom 947 861 871
Regional – not available by country 1,992 1,992 1,992
Region Total 15,035 15,358 15,687
 
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION
ASIA PACIFIC
TONS 2011 2012 2013
China 423 407 368
India 1,667 1,246 1,307
Indonesia 166 54 14
Japan 546 650 1,158
Pakistan 837 1,180 1,182
Singapore 3,351 2,686 2,347
Regional – not available by country 6,533 6,533 6,533
Region Total 13,523 12,756 12,908
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY116
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY CONSUMPTION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Purchased fuels (Scope 1)(1) 8,279 8,153 8,175 0.3
Purchased energy (Scope 2)(2) 4,254 4,153 3,918 -5.7
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) energy consumption 12,533 12,306 12,092 -1.7
NORMALIZED BY SALES
GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Purchased fuels (Scope 1) 379 373 374 0.3
Purchased energy (Scope 2) 195 190 179 -5.6
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) energy consumption 574 563 553 -1.7
ELECTRICITY GENERATED ONSITE
MILLION KILOWATT HOURS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
From cogeneration 36.3 33.5 34.7 3.5
From renewables 0.050 0.108 0.109 0.8
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY117
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 427 460 440
USA 6,174 5,784 5,859
Region Total 6,602 6,244 6,299
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 53 62 62
Brazil 91 92 70
Costa Rica 4 57 52
Mexico 243 238 242
Puerto Rico 535 457 302
Regional – not available by country 190 211 246
Region Total 1,115 1,116 973
EUROPE
France 98 104 94
Germany 305 278 273
Ireland 668 667 594
Netherlands 892 821 843
Spain 188 189 177
Sweden 35 38 34
Switzerland 5 6 6
United Kingdom 157 155 156
Regional – not available by country 644 665 782
Region Total 2,992 2,923 2,960
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY118
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 87 91 108
India 130 115 116
Indonesia 16 15 16
Japan 57 57 54
Pakistan 275 262 295
Singapore 525 534 471
Regional – not available by country 736 948 800
Region Total 1,825 2,022 1,860
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 243 269 258
USA 4,302 4,008 4,159
Region Total 4,545 4,278 4,417
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 30 37 37
Brazil 27 23 19
Costa Rica 0 0 1
Mexico 241 235 237
Puerto Rico 19 20 6
Regional – not available by country 172 190 228
Region Total 488 505 527
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY119
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
EUROPE
France 45 51 45
Germany 147 138 146
Ireland 447 448 394
Netherlands 655 593 601
Spain 74 84 75
Sweden 0 0 0
Switzerland 0 0 0
United Kingdom 78 77 79
Regional – not available by country 559 583 687
Region Total 2,004 1,973 2,026
ASIA PACIFIC
China 7 7 17
India 67 56 54
Indonesia 6 7 7
Japan 17 18 15
Pakistan 257 240 272
Singapore 333 338 280
Regional – not available by country 553 732 559
Region Total 1,241 1,398 1,205
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY120
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION
1,000 GIGAJOULES 2011 2012 2013
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 184 191 183
USA 1,872 1,776 1,700
Region Total 2,056 1,967 1,882
CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 23 25 26
Brazil 64 68 50
Costa Rica 4 56 51
Mexico 2 3 5
Puerto Rico 516 437 296
Regional – not available by country 18 21 19
Region Total 627 611 446
EUROPE
France 53 54 49
Germany 158 140 128
Ireland 221 219 200
Netherlands 237 228 243
Spain 114 106 103
Sweden 35 38 34
Switzerland 5 6 6
United Kingdom 80 78 78
Regional – not available by country 85 82 94
Region Total 987 951 934
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY121
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION (CONTINUED)
ASIA PACIFIC
China 80 84 91
India 62 59 62
Indonesia 10 9 9
Japan 40 39 39
Pakistan 18 23 23
Singapore 191 196 192
Regional – not available by country 183 216 241
Region Total 583 625 655
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY122
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE 
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(UNIT BELOW)
2011 2012 2013 UNITS
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 952 936 893 million kwh
Natural Gas 5,409 5,347 5,485 million cubic feet
Fuel Oils 4 3 2 million gallons
Coal 10 1 5 thousand tons
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) N/A N/A N/A n/a
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 134 113 82 million kwh
Biofuels N/A N/A N/A n/a
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 36 34 35 million kwh
Leased Building Electricty 96 105 114 million kwh
Leased Building Natural Gas 164 178 194 million cubic feet
Stationary Total N/A N/A N/A
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 9.1 10.5 9.2 million gallons
Sales Fleet Diesel 2.7 2.9 3.5 million gallons
Sales Fleet E85 0.0 0.0 0.0 million gallons
Aviation Fuel 0.7 0.7 0.4 million gallons
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 0.2 0.2 0.2 million gallons
Mobile Total N/A N/A N/A
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY123
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE (CONTINUED)
ENERGY CONSUMED  
(1,000 GIGAJOULES)
2011 2012 2013
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 3,425 3,371 3,213
Natural Gas 5,569 5,504 5,643
Fuel Oils 501 419 240
Coal 275 30 152
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) 22 63 55
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 482 406 294
Biofuels 52 41 50
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 0
Leased Building Electricty 346 376 410
Leased Building Natural Gas 178 194 211
Stationary Total 10,852 10,404 10,268
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,190 1,373 1,205
Sales Fleet Diesel 396 428 519
Sales Fleet E85 0 0 0
Aviation Fuel 66 72 77
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 29 29 24
Mobile Total 1,681 1,902 1,824
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY124
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENERGY AND CO2-EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE (CONTINUED)
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS(7) 
(1,000 METRIC TON CO2-EQUIVALENT)
2011 2012 2013
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 493 465 442
Natural Gas 292 289 296
Fuel Oils 37 31 18
Coal 25 3 14
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) 1 4 3
Purchased Steam, Hot Water, and Chilled Water 25 22 17
Biofuels 0.1 0.1 0.1
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration & Renewables) 0 0 0
Leased Building Electricty 51 55 61
Leased Building Natural Gas 9 10 10
Stationary Total 934 879 862
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 80 93 81
Sales Fleet Diesel 27 30 36
Sales Fleet E85 0 0 0
Aviation Fuel 4 5 5
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 2 2 2
Mobile Total 114 129 124
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY125
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013ENVIRONMENTAL FINES
U.S. DOLLARS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 4,400 2,055 96,060 4,574
 
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOVS) 
2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 8 5 2 -60
 
INSPECTIONS BY GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 50 55 41 -25.5
 
VOC EMISSIONS
TOTAL
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 1.02 1.03 1.14 10.5
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 0.047 0.047 0.052 10.6
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY126
ABBOTT GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013SOX FROM COMBUSTION(4) 
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 0.22 0.08 0.11 41.8
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 0.010 0.004 0.005 41.9
 
NOX FROM COMBUSTION(4) 
1,000 METRIC TONS 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 0.316 0.277 0.287 3.5
NORMALIZED BY SALES
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 2011 2012 2013% CHANGE  
FROM 2012  
TO 2013
Total 0.014 0.013 0.013 3.6
 
All energy and greenhouse gas data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the 
methodology prescribed in the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
(1) Reported Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet, Abbott-owned aviation and  
non-manufacturing locations.
(2) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam.
(3) Per WRI GHG protocol, Scope 1 refrigerant CO2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(4) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
(5) 2010-2012 data reflects BOD emissions from over 93 percent of Nutrition Business Unit (by discharged water volume).  
The Nutrition Business Unit is considered to be Abbott’s major contributor to BOD emissions. 2013 BOD data reflects  
90 percent of Abbott total impaired water discharges that are subject to further treatment off-site.
(6) Non-impaired water discharge BOD data reflects 47 percent of total non-impaired water discharge.
(7) Abbott’s non-energy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions,  
are omitted from the Energy and CO2e by Energy Source table. The total CO2-equivalent from non-energy sources are  
8, 7 and 5 thousand metric tons in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
Totals may not add up to 100 percent due to rounding.
Environmental data reflects Abbott-only activities.
BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY
 BUSINESS APPROACH PRIORITIESRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESSREPORTING METRICS
 TRANSPARENCY