Abcam plc  Our impact 20201
Creating 
sustainable  
valueOur Impact 
2020Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 01
About Abcam
Our mission is to provide life science researchers with  
highly validated products and services to advance 
biological research and achieve their goals faster. 
We constantly build on technical and scientific 
advancements to help accelerate the global 
understanding of biology and causes of disease,  
enabling tomorrow’s breakthroughs and a positive  
impact in society. 
With our proprietary technologies and world-leading 
expertise, we partner across the industry to co-create  
novel solutions, including high-quality antibodies, to 
support a range of applications.
Our product offering includes an extensive portfolio  
of antibodies and related protein research tools that  
are fundamental to our customers’ research and 
experimental workflow. 
Our customers are primarily scientists and researchers  
in academic institutions, research institutes and 
pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostics 
companies.
Headquartered in Cambridge, United Kingdom,  
we operate from fifteen locations across the globe.  
Our world-class team of over 1,500 employees,  
including over 200 with PhDs, serves customers  
in over 130 countries. We identify, develop and provide high-quality biological reagents  
and tools that are essential to drug discovery and development,  
diagnostics and basic research. 
About this report
Our Impact 2020 is the first time we are reporting on  
our sustainability and is published in conjunction with 
our Annual Report and Accounts 2020. We believe that 
this report provides valuable insight into what we do  
and how we do it, for our stakeholders – from our 
employees and their families, to our customers,  
business partners and shareholders.
Through this report we will consider environmental, social 
and governance issues that are priorities for our company 
and for our stakeholders, the way in which we address 
these priorities, and our performance against the key 
indicators we have identified. Case studies illustrating our 
impact and observations by some of our employees 
throughout the report provide further insight.
In developing this report, we have considered the  
guidance of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the 
leading and common standard for sustainability reporting. 
Using these guidelines has helped shape our approach,  
the structure of this report, and the reporting of key 
performance indicators. We intend to further embed the  
GRI guidelines into our reporting processes in the coming 
year, with the aim of adopting the GRI Standards when  
we feel we are ready for this. 
Making and demonstrating a positive contribution to the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a key part  
of our Sustainability Framework, and our linkages to specific 
SDGs are illustrated throughout the report. 
We have also applied to become signatories to the  
UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate 
sustainability initiative that aligns business strategies  
and operations with universal principles on human rights, 
labour, environment and anti-corruption practices, and 
takes actions that advance the societal goals that make 
up the SDGs. We have begun integrating the principles  
of the UNGC into our business, in anticipation of our 
membership being approved and the envisaged  
reporting obligations that will begin in 2021.
We focus on impact in all aspects of what we do.
Our products and commitment to continued innovation 
help accelerate the global understanding of biology, 
enabling tomorrow’s breakthroughs and generating 
a positive impact on society. We concentrate our 
sustainability efforts in the most important areas – 
providing a rewarding workplace for our teams, building 
long-term partnerships based on trust, engaging 
in the communities we work in and minimising our 
environmental footprint.
Vision
Mission
BehavioursTo be the most influential life sciences  
company for researchers worldwide. 
To serve life sciences to achieve  
their mission, faster. 
Agile. Audacious. Dedicated.Abcam plc  Our impact 202002
ContentsAbcam plc  Our impact 2020 02
03 Introduction from Alan Hirzel, Abcam CEO    
05 How we create value  
06 Focusing on what matters most
09  Contributing to the sustainable  
development goals
11 Developing our sustainability framework
13 Our sustainability framework   
15 Reviewing our performance
 Products
 People
 Partnerships
 Planet
34  Governance 
37  What next?
For information on the financial and strategic 
performance of the company, take a look at our 
Annual Report and Accounts.  Refer to our website   
for supporting policies, data points and our GRI 
content index. Unless otherwise stated, data is  
as of 30 June 2020.Abcam plc  Our impact 202003
Introduction from Alan Hirzel, Abcam CEO
Welcome to Abcam’s first sustainable business publication Our Impact 2020.  
Here we present our vision and progress in growing a sustainable and responsible  
business that creates value for all stakeholders.  
Abcam has always sought to operate in the manner of a 
socially responsible corporate citizen. Formalising how we 
tell our sustainability story with the assistance of a report – 
and assessing our progress against relevant areas within 
it – allows stakeholders to assess the extent to which we 
meet our aspirations. Our aim is to be transparent about our 
achievements and equally clear where we can do more.  
Our purpose and vision are central to our sustainability  
goals. As a global life science company, we are focused  
on enabling customers at the forefront of life science 
research, the very nature of our purpose in society is  
to have a positive impact. 
Our impact in the life sciences community is growing, and 
we are becoming ever more influential by fuelling faster 
breakthroughs in biological research and human health.
The behaviours we champion – being dedicated, agile  
and audacious – support our ambition to grow an influential 
business that achieves even greater value for science  
and society.  
Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated the 
very best of Abcam. It highlighted a resilient can-do attitude, 
with many of our team seamlessly switching to home working 
while safely keeping our labs open and maintaining a 
relentless focus on serving our customers. We have been  
able to rapidly provide products needed for diagnostic, 
treatment and vaccine development and we continue 
to play an active part in on-going programmes across 
the globe. The pandemic also showcased our sense of 
community, looking out for the safety and wellbeing of 
each other. Whilst it has been a challenging time, I believe 
we are a stronger company for having gone through this 
experience, together. 
When considering how we create sustainable value,  
we identified issues that matter to our business and to our 
stakeholders. We mapped these against our sustainability 
goals to develop a suite of critical measures and targets  
to further our positive impact. The more successful 
Abcam can be, the 
greater the value we 
bring to science and 
society.
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer50%+
No.1
2,000 +
450+
20+Over half of all life science 
papers published in 2019 cited 
an Abcam product (CiteAb)
#1 cited company for  
research antibodies globally  
(CiteAb, 2019)
Over 2,000 custom projects 
delivered for partners
Over 450 antibodies validated  
for use on third-party platforms  
or for diagnostic use
We have more than 20 products 
FDA approved or in trials for a 
clinical or diagnostic application 
through our partnersAbcam plc  Our impact 202004
Introduction from Alan Hirzel, Abcam CEO
Continued
Our response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic 
demonstrated the 
very best of Abcam.
In this report we assess Abcam’s contribution to the 17  
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – recognised 
broadly as the overarching framework for sustainability –  
to which we make positive contributions to seven.  
In October 2020, we applied to become a signatory of 
the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate 
sustainability initiative. As such, we will report annually our 
adherence to the UNGC’s Ten Principles in the areas of 
human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. 
There are of course areas where we want to do more,  
and this report explores these topics and how we plan to 
address them.
I am immensely proud of the work we do, the discoveries  
we enable through our customers, the contribution we make 
to science, and to the lives and communities we support.  
As we continue to grow and innovate so too will our impact  
in the world. 
We will continue to develop and harness the brilliance of 
our people, sustain the innovation that makes us unique, 
encourage a diverse new generation of scientists, and 
attract, train and retain the very best talent. Achieving these 
outcomes means that we can do more for our customers, 
develop our partnerships to accelerate research, and work 
towards our ambition to be the most influential life sciences 
company in the world.  
Our business objectives and our sustainability objectives  
are one and the same. The more successful Abcam can be, 
the greater the value we bring to science and society.  
We hope that you will find this report informative and helpful 
and invite your feedback to enable us to improve next year 
and into the future.
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive OfficerAbcam plc  Our impact 202005
How we create value
Our shareholdersOur products
278% $8bn+  ~2/3rds
Growing influence in the  
scientific community
£260m50%+ 300+
addressable  
markets servedof global life science  
researchers use Abcam  
products
Ambition to reach sales  
of £450-500m by FY24Total revenue FY20of all life science publications 
globally cite at least one  
Abcam product  
(CiteAb, 2019)More than 300 of our  
products have in vitro  
diagnostic (IVD) potential 
total return to shareholders  
(FY14-20)
50%+ 13% 18%+
FY14-20 average revenue  
growth per annumAverage Return on  
Capital Employed (FY14-20)proportion of sales  
from in-house products  
and servicesIn the six years since FY14, the number of 
times our antibodies were cited by researchers 
worldwide grew from ~14,000 to ~40,000 annually.Our customers
750,000 20+ 2,000 +
We serve approximately
750,000 customers (global 
research scientists) in every 
sector, from early discovery 
through to clinical applications:
 Academic institutions 
 Research institutes 
 Pharma/Biotech/Diagnostic
 OtherMore than 20 of our products 
have been FDA approved, or 
are in trials for a clinical and/or 
diagnostic application through 
our partnersWe have delivered over
2,000 custom projects for 
partners
With an estimated $17 billion lost in avoidable experiment 
expenditure annually and against a backdrop of increased 
outsourcing of research and development in order to optimise 
efficiency and reduce lead times, the ability for researchers to source 
high quality and validated reagents is increasingly important. 
Our global team and reach
15 1,500 55%
employees worldwide women
200+ 130
PhDs bringing expertise from 
across the life science industrycountries delivered toglobal locations
 Burlingame, California
 Pleasanton, California 
 Eugene, Oregon
 Cambridge, Massachusetts 
 Branford, Connecticut 
 Cambridge and Over, UK 
 Amsterdam, Netherlands 
 Shanghai, China 
 Hangzhou, China 
 Tokyo, Japan 
 Hong Kong 
 Adelaide, Australia 
We do not sell or operate in countries 
that are under sanctions.Abcam plc  Our impact 202006
 Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 06
We conducted a materiality 
assessment to better understand our 
sustainability context, and to identify 
and assess the environmental, social 
and governance issues that may 
affect the sustainability of our  
business and those that are of 
importance to our stakeholders.
This assessment was undertaken as part of our 
Sustainability Review, in Spring 2020. We recognised 
a need to better understand our strengths and 
weaknesses on our ESG performance. With a third  
party, we took multiple stakeholder perspectives  
to understand how Abcam’s story is told to different 
audiences, including investors and ratings agencies, 
employees and customers. We conducted more than  
30 interviews, including every member of our Board,  
to define our sustainability approach. There were  
three main inputs into this process:
  We engaged the services of an independent advisor 
to identify and evaluate the principal material issues 
within the business. In undertaking this they in turn 
were informed by reporting standards and norms,  
and reporting by our peers.
  The views from the Board and many senior leaders 
including all of our Executive Leadership Team.
  The views from external stakeholders including  
our shareholders and our customers. 
Through this process we identified four meta-trends  
and 17 issues of material importance grouped broadly 
into seven categories. These are presented below.
These material issues have informed our sustainability 
framework, our sustainability strategy and the metrics  
we have identified for measurement. We want to focus  
on measuring what matters.
From 2021, we will further integrate ESG risks into our 
overall risk management framework.Focusing on what matters mostAbcam plc  Our impact 202007
Focusing on what matters most
Meta-trends are macro forces that shape our world today and in the future. 
Identifying these meta-trends is an important part of our business planning, not 
only so that we can identify emerging risks to the sustainability of our business, 
but also so that we can identify opportunities to create value  
and make a positive impact.Meta-trends
Focus on  
research reproducibility 
The pharmaceutical industry is facing 
an increasing number of productivity 
challenges. From 2010–18, the cost of 
bringing a new drug to market almost 
doubled, to $2.2bn, whilst the average 
project length increased from 9.7 years 
in the 1990s to 10–15 years in the 2010s. 
Avoidable Experiment Expenditure (AEE) is 
a significant source of unnecessary spend 
and effort, significantly contributing to the 
increase in project costs and length. Over 
40% of spending on drug development 
goes toward preclinical R&D; however, 
irreproducibility rates in preclinical 
experiments exceed 50%, costing the 
industry nearly $48 billion annually. Over 
a third of this, or more than $17 billion, 
can be attributed to the ineffectiveness of 
biological reagents or reference materials. 
Addressing reagent-related AEE through 
the provision of high-quality reagents will 
allow life science organisations to recoup 
unnecessary spend whilst improving R&D 
efficiency, helping bring drugs to clinical 
trial faster, and generally accelerating 
pipeline progress.Changing  
medical needs
According to the UN, the global 
population is getting older. By 2030, it is 
predicted that there will be more people 
over 60 than there will be children under 
10 and by 2050 there will be 2 billion older 
people on the planet. Meanwhile, non-
communicable diseases are increasing 
in-line with ageing populations and, 
at the same time, higher global 
temperatures are changing patterns of 
transmissible disease, presenting new 
challenges to human healthcare. These 
meta-trends will have a significant impact 
on research needs and priorities. 
The challenge for us is to pre-empt 
demand and develop an innovation 
pipeline to meet the evolving 
requirements of life scientists. 1 2 3 4 
New 
technologies
New technologies can significantly 
disrupt the life sciences sector we serve. 
The speed, power and potential of new 
and developing technologies are likely 
to change research requirements and 
processes, with advanced modelling 
potentially replacing traditional 
methodologies. This could greatly 
accelerate discovery for new medicines 
and treatments. It will also have a 
profound impact on how we work  
and serve our customers.
The ability to work together digitally 
and securely across multiple locations, 
simultaneously, has the potential to 
unlock new efficiencies in emissions,  
cost and time. Climate  
change
We recognise our responsibility to  
protect the environment. While we are a 
low emission and low resource-intensive 
business, climate change is likely to 
impact Abcam and our stakeholders 
in several ways. Changing disease 
patterns and extreme weather events 
are just two examples of heightened 
risks to our people and supply chain. The 
potential economic and geopolitical 
consequences of climate change may 
alter our commercial environment. 
By undertaking and demonstrating 
action to address climate change we 
will make a positive contribution to our 
people, customers and society.
Abcam plc  Our impact 202008
We identified and assessed the issues that are important to our business 
and to our stakeholders, then grouped them into seven broad areas.Focusing on what matters most
Material issues
Ethics  
Abcam product use
Ensuring that Abcam products are 
appropriately and ethically used for the 
purposes they are intended, with controls 
around partners implemented should  
concerns be identified.
Bribery and corruption
Ensuring a zero tolerance of bribery and 
corruption anywhere in our value chain. 
Supply chain integrity and validation 
Ensuring that Abcam’s global supply chain  
is ethically responsible, adheres to the same 
high standards of conduct and is validated.
Animal usage
Abcam must ensure suppliers adhere  
to rigorous standards of animal welfare  
and actively promote the adoption of  
the NC3R’s directive. 
Governance  
Organisational agility
Maintaining the organisational agility to work 
in innovative and flexible ways to continue 
to service customers in a range of different 
scenarios.Product 
Product consistency and quality
The consistency and quality of our products 
are central to our purpose and mission and 
fundamental to our customers. It is a key 
differentiator for Abcam and any failure to 
maintain this quality and consistency is a key 
reputation and compliance risk.
Innovation
The requirement to continue to pre-empt 
and meet future research needs, build an 
effective R&D model and continue Abcam’s 
differentiation in product and service.
Economical/geopolitical  
Availability of research funding
Risk of a substantial reduction in funding for life 
sciences in one or more of Abcam’s significant 
territories.
Geopolitical conflict
Risk of significant deterioration of US/China 
relations in medium-term.Cyber  
Data and IP protection
Loss of control of key data or IP.
Cyber security
Operational/sales risk of the outage of our 
principal online sales channel.
Planet
Emissions
Abcam’s ongoing efforts to monitor and 
reduce emissions and contribute to global 
climate change targets.
Packaging and waste
Continued efforts to reduce waste throughout 
the value chain.People  
Employee retention and development
Ability to attract, retain and develop talent  
is fundamental to our vision, mission and  
future growth. 
Supporting STEM education and careers
Supporting the next generation of scientists  
by encouraging a diverse pipeline of talent  
to enter into science. 
Developing human capital
Ensuring Abcam is an attractive place to  
work for all employees, with a vested interest  
in our success and in providing a healthy,  
safe, enriching environment. 
Diversity and inclusion  
Importance of growing a diverse team  
and inclusive culture.1 
5 2 
6 3 
74 Abcam plc  Our impact 202009
Decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) 
Abcam provides rewarding work that has a positive 
impact. This is demonstrated nicely in AbShare. The 
scheme allows employees to contribute a percentage 
of their pay to own a part of the company, with more 
than 90% of colleagues now participating globally.  
 
Industry, innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9) 
Through the constant pursuit of innovation, we have 
been able to support key breakthroughs in life sciences. 
This year, the launch of our new range of Knock 
Out engineered cell lines offers the global scientific 
community ready access to engineered cell lines in 
commonly used immortalised cancer cell lines such  
as Hela and HEK293T.    
Responsible consumption and production  
(SDG 12)
Abcam’s approach to managing raw materials, 
supplier relations and logistics, is outlined in our 
supplier code. We are undertaking a systemic risk 
assessment of materials used, products and processes 
to apply precautionary approach throughout our 
supply chain. 
Climate action (SDG 13) 
We have mapped our environmental footprint and are 
in the process of assessing and reducing downstream 
emissions and waste, while taking steps to increase 
recyclable packaging and simplify logistics. We are 
optimising our energy usage and measuring and 
reporting our carbon emissions.Good health and wellbeing (SDG 3) 
Our core proposition is geared towards the goal of 
global good health. Abcam’s mission and purpose 
help advance the global understanding of biology 
and causes of disease. Our products and partnerships 
enable scientific breakthroughs that lead to the 
development of the medicines and treatments of 
tomorrow.
Quality education (SDG 4) 
Our products and purpose both advance education 
and scientific understanding. We support young 
people to study STEM subjects and enter scientific 
careers through our relationships with charities and our 
programme of continuous learning and development.  
Gender equality (SDG 5) 
Flexible working policies for all, a continuous focus on 
gender pay parity, and our Employee Resource Groups 
all help make Abcam an attractive place for women in 
science and business. It is our goal to make Abcam a 
more diverse and inclusive place for everyone.  Realising the opportunity
The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
adopted by the member states in 2015, represent a call to 
action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that 
all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. Achieving 
them is fundamental to future global economic and 
business growth – the Business & Sustainable Development 
Commission concluded that achieving the goals will  
create market opportunities of at least $12 trillion a year. 
The 17 SDGs are integrated, recognising that progress in one 
area will affect outcomes in others, and that development 
must balance social, economic and environmental 
sustainability.
We fully subscribe to the objectives of the 17 goals and  
have identified where we have the most impact. While  
SDG 3 – “Good health and wellbeing” – is core to a  
business, we contribute to six others.  
More details and examples or our approach can be  
found on our website .Contributing to the sustainable development goals
The United Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), adopted by the member 
states in 2015, represent a call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure 
that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. Abcam plc  Our impact 202010
To inform where we can best maximise positive impact and minimise 
negative impact for sustainability, we mapped the seven SDGs across 
our value chain. 
Increasing internal 
processes for managing 
raw materials, supplier 
relations and logisticsFlexible working 
policies, Women in 
Leadership networks 
and continued focus  
on gender pay parityRewarding 
work that has 
a positive 
impactProducts and 
purpose both 
advance education 
and scientific 
understandingCentral to  
Abcam’s purpose  
is its ability to 
innovateAbcam products 
help life scientist 
achieve results faster, 
leading to health 
breakthroughs
Increasing focus on 
simplifying distribution, 
so products aren’t 
handled multiple timesRaw materials SuppliersInbound 
logisticsCompany 
operationsDistributionProduct
useIncreasing 
positive 
impactMinimsing 
negative 
impact
Contributing to the sustainable development goals
ContinuedAbcam plc  Our impact 202011
Developing our sustainability framework 
I’m excited by having 
this channel to tell 
our sustainability and 
impact story to all our 
stakeholders. I am a passionate advocate of Abcam being the very 
best place to work that it can be and helping create an 
environment where our people thrive – not just in their roles 
but in doing things that they love. From supporting their 
communities and taking part in charitable activities, to 
inspiring the next generation of scientists and encouraging 
diversity. Being energised by a shared cause underpins our 
business performance, personal wellbeing, engagement, 
and ultimately the impact that we have in society and  
on the planet.
To achieve our growth plans we need to attract the very 
best talent to Abcam so that we are able to continue to 
help our customers discover more, faster. More and more, 
a clear stance on sustainability, transparent data and well 
articulated stories that demonstrate positive impact in the 
world are a ‘must have’. People want to love what they 
do, feel proud of their work for and be part of something 
bigger than themselves. At Abcam, our culture is what sets 
us apart and I’m excited by having this channel to tell our 
sustainability and impact story to all our stakeholders.We envision a world in which all life scientists have access to the precise tools and 
solutions they need to accurately advance their research, resulting in faster breakthroughs 
in scientific understanding, and an accelerated transition of those breakthroughs into 
clinical applications. This, we believe, will ultimately lead to improved diagnoses, 
treatments and human health and wellbeing.
Nick Skinner
SVP HR and Global Sponsor for Corporate  
& Social Responsibility
Abcam plc  Our impact 202012
Following the assessment of what matters most to our 
business, we have made commitments across four priority 
areas that will ensure we grow our impact and most 
meaningfully contribute towards the SDGs:   
  Offer products  that serve unmet research needs, 
provide broader access to those products across  
life science research and ensure those products  
are manufactured using materials sourced from  
an ethically-sound supply chain  
  Empower our people  and provide an exceptional and 
inclusive workplace which allows them to innovate and 
serve our customers
  Encourage collaboration with partners  to extend our 
reach and influence in responsible, mutually beneficial 
ways 
  Work in a way that minimises our impact on the planet 
Commitments and KPIs
Ten long-term commitments and targets form the basis  
of our sustainability framework. We have identified a  
set of key performance indicators (KPIs) to embed this 
framework into the business and measure progress. We  
will be introducing further targets over the next 12 months.
Details of the activities and initiatives driving performance 
are provided in the relevant sections of this report, 
including a range of case studies. There will be further 
updates provided on our website  throughout the year.Growing our influence and positive social impact 
Superior reagents, capable of accelerating and de-risking research, used by  
more scientists across a wider section of the scientific community ultimately  
results in more people with better health and wellbeing. ContinuedDeveloping our sustainability framework 
Our purpose is to 
serve life scientists 
to achieve their 
mission, faster Growing our 
influence in life 
sciencesMore people 
with better 
health and 
wellbeing50%+ 2,000 +
450+of life science publications  
in which an Abcam product  
is cited (2019)custom projects undertaken  
with partners since 2013
Abcam antibodies validated  
for use on third-party platforms  
or for diagnostic use
Abcam plc  Our impact 202013
Our sustainability framework weaves together our purpose, culture and strategy,  
and sets out our priority areas – Products, People, Partners and Planet – along with ten  
long-term sustainability commitments. It aligns to (but is not limited to) the UN SDGs  
and it will measure the things that matter most, based on our materiality assessment. 
Our 10 long-term  
sustainability commitments
Products
1  Improve product quality to reduce wasted R&D  
resources and accelerate the transition of early  
stage research to impact on society
2  Ensure ethical production across our supply chain  
and reduce animal use
3  Provide exceptional product support
People
4   Attract, retain and develop our teams to support  
our future growth
5  Promote diversity and inclusion, including  
gender equality
6 Protect data and privacy
7  Inspire the next generation of scientists and  
promote access to STEM careers
Partners
8    Increase our impact through long-term, mutually 
beneficial relationships based on trust
9 Uphold our ethical standards across our value chain
Planet
10 Reduce our environmental impactOur strategic model for sustainable
social and financial value creation*
PerformancePartners PeopleProducts Planet
ExpandLeadScale
Our Purpose:
To serve life
scientists to
acheive their
mission fasterOur sustainability framework 
* Further information on our strategic model can be found in our  
2020 Annual Report and on our website at www.abcamplc.comAbcam plc  Our impact 202014
ContinuedOur sustainability framework 
Our impact
ObjectivesProducts
Our primary goal is to contribute 
to society through the innovation 
and development of products that 
advance research 
  Customers
   Society  
1.   Increase product quality to 
reduce wasted R&D resources and 
accelerate the transition of early 
stage research to impact society
2.   Ensure ethical production across our 
supply chain and reduce animal use
3.  Provide exceptional product support  
   Customer tNPS
    In-house product revenue as  
% of total catalogue revenue
    Product satisfaction rate  
(12-month rolling), %
   We achieved a 12-month tNPS score 
of 56 in the year, within our target 
range of 54–60 (2018/19: 59)
   The proportion of in-house product 
revenue rose to over 47% of total 
catalogue sales, a new record 
(2018/19: 42.2%)
   Our product satisfaction rate 
increased to 98.68%, a new  
record high (2018/19: 98.41%) 
 
 
 
  Retain #1 share in global antibody 
citationsPeople
Our goal is to create an 
exceptional workplace for our 
people  
 
  Employees
  Communities  
4.   Attract, retain and develop our  
talent to support our future growth
5.   Promote diversity and inclusion, 
including gender equality
6. Protect data and privacy
7.  Inspire the next generation of 
scientists and promote access  
to STEM careers  
   Days lost due to H&S
   Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS)
 
  The number of days lost to health  
and safety incidents remained low,  
at two (2018/19: 5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Retain our Glass Door, Work180 and 
MyGWork status
  80% of all roles at Abcam have 
career pathsPartners
We aim to encourage partnership 
and collaboration to extend our 
reach and influence 
 
  Customers
   Partners
  Society
8.   Increase our impact through 
long-term, mutually beneficial 
relationships based on trust
9.  Uphold our ethical standards  
across our value chain 
 
 
 
   Number of products validated  
for 3rd party/IVD use
   OEM suppliers signed up ot  
our Code of Conduct
 
  We grew the number of clones used 
by our partners significantly in the 
year to 459 (2018/19: 137)
  We made significant progress toward 
our goal of 100% compliance (of 
OEM Suppliers signed up to our Code  
of Conduct)  
 
 
  OEM suppliers signed up to Code of 
Conduct: 100%Planet
We aim to minimise our impact  
on the planet 
 
 
 Communities
  Society  
10. Reduce our environmental impact  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Carbon emissions, tCO2
   Waste to landfill, tonnes  
 
 
 
  Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon 
emissions, covering global vehicle 
use and purchased electricity of 
4,752 tCO2e. This was the first year 
reporting and forms the baseline  
from which we will compare our 
activity going forward
  77.5 tonnes waste sent to landfill 
across our global operations in the 
year. This was the first year reporting 
and forms the baseline from which 
we will compare our activity going 
forward  
    Report Scope 3 carbon emissionsStakeholder alignment
Commitments
KPIs
2020 performance
2021 Targets
UN SDGs alignmentAbcam plc  Our impact 202015
Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 2020 15
We believe it’s important to  
be bold in our responsibility  
to the scientific community. 
One of the initiatives that  
I am most proud of is the 
implementation of a large-scale 
antibody validation inititative 
using Knock-Out engineered  
cell lines. 
This work has allowed us to not  
only to confirm the specificity  
of many antibodies, but also led  
to the removal of antibodies that 
did not meet our strict standards.  
We were the first company to  
do this at scale. 
Alejandra Solache
Vice President of New Product DevelopmentAbcam plc  Our impact 202016
The research community we serve depends on accurate and reproducible 
research to make scientific progress. 
Innovation through investment and development
During the last financial year, we developed and published 
more than two thousand new high-quality antibody products 
to the catalogue, including recombinant antibodies, 
antibody pairs, SimpleStep ELISA® kits and new formulations 
that enable faster labelling and assay development. We also 
launched a new range of premium, bioactive proteins and a 
range of engineered cell lines and lysates.
Our industry-leading Knock Out validation programme grew 
by approximately 20% on the previous year, and we validated 
hundreds of antibodies in new applications to extend their 
utility for customers. During the course of this validation 
process, we actively managed our catalogue by assessing 
the performance of thousands of antibodies, removing those 
that failed to meet our quality standards.
The launch and validation of high-quality product ranges are 
essential and help researchers address issues surrounding 
wasted time and resources in the life science industry. 
As a result of this work over the last 12 months, customer 
satisfaction rates for our products rose to an all-time high. 
In the 2019 Biocompare Antibody Market Awards, Abcam 
was rated by scientists as their preferred supplier in 10 out 
of 11 categories, including best antibody specificity, most 
preferred antibody supplier and best website antibody 
experience.  
Customer satisfaction rates are also driven by the work of  
our global scientific and customer support team, who dealt 
with almost 500,000 enquiries last year. The vast majority of 
the enquiries were responded to within 24 hours. Continued
50%+
of scientific literature in 2019 
used or cited Abcam productsPrimary stakeholders
Society and Communities
Our multi-year sustainability commitments
  Increase product quality to reduce wasted R&D resources  
and accelerate the transition of early stage research to  
impact on society
  Ensure ethical production across our supply chain  
and reduce animal use
 Provide exceptional product support
KPIs
  Transactional (often referred to as ‘touchpoint’) Net Promoter 
Score (tNPS) is an industry standard benchmark used to  
gauge the loyalty of our customer relationships based on  
their interactions with us.
   In-house product revenue as % of total catalogue revenue
  Product satisfaction rate (12 month rolling) (%)
Performance in 2020
   We achieved a 12-month tNPS score of 56 in the year, within  
our target range of 54–60 (2018/19: 59)
   The proportion of in-house product revenue rose to over 47%  
of total catalogue sales, a new record (2018/19: 42.2%)
   Our product satisfaction rate increased to 98.68%, a new  
record high (2018/19: 98.41%)
Alignment to SDGsThe importance of reproducibility and innovation
The scientific community we serve depends on accurate  
and reproducible research to make scientific progress that 
will lead to the development of medicines and treatments  
of tomorrow. That’s why we focus relentlessly on innovation 
and enabling reproducible science.
Antibodies play a vital role in biomedical research, and 
scientific journals are calling for greater reproducibility of 
data in primary publications. Providing the highest quality 
products in terms of specificity, sensitivity and consistency, 
together with extensive product validation data, is key to 
enabling customers to deliver impact with their research.Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 2020
17
Beyond ethical compliance
Striving for excellence goes beyond the products themselves. 
It is ingrained in our commitment to ethical business 
practices and standards of integrity across the supply chain. 
We follow these in all sourcing activities and decisions. 
Our suppliers must adhere to rigorous standards of animal 
welfare. We actively promote the adoption of the NC3R’s 
directive, which aims to reduce the numbers of animals used 
and ultimately to replace animals entirely with alternative 
means. With the use of recombinant production processes  
it is possible to actively reduce their use during development 
and manufacturing. We are committed to continuing to 
growing our recombinant antibody range and to adopt  
in vitro processes wherever possible.
We also ensure that our suppliers of human tissue comply 
with applicable laws and regulations regarding the 
procurement, use and storage of such tissues. All human 
tissue that we use must be sourced with full prior informed 
consent and without financial reward.
To monitor compliance with our ethical policies, in 2020/21 
we plan to roll out the use of our internal ethics hotline across 
our supply chain so people can anonymously report any 
violations of our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Quality assurance
Abcam’s quality management systems are driven by the 
principles of a strong customer focus, evidence-based 
decision making, and continuous improvement. 
We have robust audit processes in place; all internal  
product development, manufacturing and delivery 
processes have been audited to the ISO 9001:2015 
quality management systems standard across our core 
manufacturing facilities. Also, all our sites are audited 
annually as part of our 3-year ISO certificate and we  
conduct our internal audits once a year.
Our sites in Cambridge and Hangzhou are ISO9001:2015 
certified and our facility in Burlingame has ISO13485 
certification for IVD component manufacture. 0.5m
Our support teams handled 
almost half a million enquiries 
in FY20 and responded to the 
vast majority within 24 hours.CASE STUDY
We are currently leading 
several discovery workstreams 
for a major therapeutic 
initiative in the UK.
Continued
Supporting the global pandemic 
response
Since the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic, we 
have been able to rapidly introduce new and enhanced 
products to our catalogue that are needed for diagnostic, 
treatment and vaccine development by the global life 
science community. We have been actively involved 
in numerous discussions on how our expertise can be 
employed to support clinical diagnostic or therapeutic 
collaborations and partnership opportunities to combat 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
A number of the resulting collaborations are assessing 
components that we have developed this year in novel 
COVID-19 diagnostic tests. In addition, we are contributing 
our antibody discovery expertise to a number of 
programmes seeking to identify potential antibody-based 
therapeutics to address the effects of COVID-19 in the UK, 
US and China. 
We continue to play an active part in on-going 
programmes across the globe as the work continues at 
pace to find the right combination of therapeutics and 
vaccines to address the pandemic.Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202018
Ensuring antibody qualityCASE STUDY CASE STUDY
3500 +
800
90%Antibodies have gone through 
Knock Out validation since 2015
Antibodies have been delisted 
during this time
Of our in-house antibodies are 
manufactured recombinantlyValidation of antibody specificity using Knock Out 
engineered cell lines is recognised as the gold standard 
approach. Our in-house initative to knock out validate our 
recombinant antibody portfolio has now tested more than 
3,500 antibodies, far surpassing the scale of industry peers 
and positioning us as a true market leader. Committed 
to our drive for excellence, we have delisted over 800 
antibodies as a direct result. 
We use best-in-class antibody discovery platforms to 
develop the high performance antibodies that are specific 
to the target molecules of interest. In addition, these are 
validated across multiple species and applications to help 
guide usage. 
The third critical attribute of a best-in-class antibody is 
reproducibility – more than 90% of our in-house antibodies 
are manufactured recombinantly. When compared to 
other common antibody formats such as polyclonal and 
traditional hybridoma produced antibodies, recombinant 
antibodies have multiple advantages, including greater 
consistency. These antibodies can be manufactured 
repeatedly  over time without loss of specificity, making 
them the preferred choice of antibody format for long  
term consistency.   Setting standards to address the 
reproducibility crisis in scientific 
research 
Since novel research builds on knowledge from 
previous research studies, problems with false results, 
and being unable to repeat experiments successfully, 
are undermining scientific advancements and clinical 
breakthroughs. Poor quality reagents result in thousands 
of hours of wasted time and money, which is having a 
major impact on the productivity of the life science sector 
globally. This Avoidable Experiment Expenditure (AEE) is 
a significant issue that is contributing to increased R&D 
costs and extended project timelines. It is estimated that 
over $17 billion of global R&D spend can be attributed 
to the ineffectiveness of biological reagents or reference 
materials. 
That’s wastage that is directly impacting on the available 
time and resources that could be applied to developing 
new treatments, more quickly. This is a critical issue for 
the scientific community that Abcam is committed to 
addressing.
Abcam products are being used by an increasing number 
of researchers at  institutions around the globe and their 
results are being cited in a growing proportion of scientific 
journals. Being able to provide this research community 
with a consistent supply of validated reagents is helping to 
ensure reproducible experimental data and the generation 
of reliable insights to accelerate scientific breakthroughs.   Continued
50%+
of scientific literature in 2019 
used or cited Abcam productsReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202019
The progressive culture,  
cultivated by the leadership of 
Abcam, has allowed me to build 
my career while simultaneously 
building my family. I am fortunate 
to work for an organisation with  
a flexible working philosophy 
embedded into their culture.  
Time and again, the company  
has shown its commitment to its 
employees; from the revamped 
parental leave policy, to the 
women in leadership programs, 
and the emphasis on diversity  
and inclusion. It is so motivating  
to work for a company that truly 
cares about its people. 
Kristine Friscino
Director of Sales & Marketing, AmericaAbcam plc  Our impact 2020 19
Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202020
Continued
Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent is crucial for delivering 
our strategy and sustainability.
The importance of attracting, developing and retaining  
the best talent
Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent is  
crucial for delivering our strategy and sustainability. Essential 
to our success is listening to our employees, recognising 
their achievements and providing a safe, empowering and 
diverse environment where they can collaborate, innovate 
and be their best. 
Worldwide, we employ approximately 1,500 people, 
including over 300 who are focused on research and 
development. We are passionate about creating a positive, 
healthy and dynamic work environment where people  
feel valued, respected and encouraged to voice their  
ideas and opinions. 
Being a conversational organisation, we believe that 
everyone has a story to tell. Our intranet, Discover, is founded 
on employee stories from across the business, connecting  
our people across the globe. 
We measure employee engagement monthly – another 
channel for listening and insights. In a recent global 
employee survey, conducted in July 2020, we were delighted 
to see a rise in ratings for the sixth year in a row to a record 
level (both engagement score, and participation) and we 
are especially proud considering the challenges of enforced 
home-working due to the global pandemic. Growing with Abcam
Our goal is that 80% of the roles at Abcam have a clear 
career path and we are already approaching this target, 
being at just over 70%. The positive response to this focus  
is reflected in our employee insights survey – 72% said they  
felt positive about having a clear career development path.  
This places us in the top 10% of over 1,000 global companies 
that use the same tool.  
In recognition of a need to develop more talent from  
within Abcam, and following a series of engagement  
focus groups from across the company, we completely 
redesigned our approach to performance management 
and implemented Performance with Purpose, where ‘in the 
moment’ conversations replace the yearly review process.  
All employees took part in learning modules, with additional 
coaching, mentoring, and leading modules, rolled out  
to more than 500 colleagues. It is encouraging that many  
of our mentoring and coaching relationships are not  
only established through Performance with Purpose,  
but organically and continue beyond moving to new  
roles in different teams.
This is a company that truly lives its values, you can 
feel the positive company culture whether you are 
working in the office or connecting with colleagues 
remotely. Management truly want to see you succeed 
and develop and encourage responsibility early on  
in your career.
Anonymous, Glassdoor review2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020TrendImproving global employee engagement (eNPS)
+52
since 2014Primary stakeholders
Employees and Communities
Our multi-year sustainability commitments
  Attract, retain and develop our talent to support our  
future growth
  Promote diversity, inclusion and gender equality
  Protect data and privacy
  Inspire the next generation of scientists and promote  
access to STEM careers
KPIs
  Lost days due to H&S
 Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS)
Performance in 2020
  The number of days lost to health and safety incidents 
remained low, at two (2018/19: 5)
Alignment to SDGsReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202021
CASE STUDYContinuedReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
Recognising that using past performance to predict future 
success is an outdated model, we use The JDI Model of 
Potential based around Judgment, Drive and Influence 
(JDI). It’s a research-based, validated model, to underpin 
Performance with Purpose. The JDI model allows us to predict 
talent of the future and invest in leadership development 
programmes including our Accelerated Growth programme 
to develop the next generation of leaders.
The importance of early careers is reflected in the UK 
Government’s pledge to have three million apprenticeships 
start between 2015 and 2020 and we’re proud of our 
contribution. In 2020, we had 29 Apprentices, nine of 
whom were doing degree-level apprenticeships (Level 
6&7) and seven doing the Senior Leader Master’s Degree 
Apprenticeships (SLMDA). So far, six people have completed 
the programme, two with distinctions and 10 more are set to 
complete in the upcoming year, with delayed assessments 
due to the pandemic. In 2018 Jade Smith won East Region 
Apprentice of the Year – she is now a research associate.
Our multi-faceted approach ensures there is investment at all 
levels within Abcam. The next big investment in this coming 
year will be the implementation of a curated learning system. 
Inspiring the next generation of scientists
Just as important as internally developing people is  
ensuring a pipeline of young talent into the sector. At  
Abcam, we are passionate about inspiring the next 
generation of scientists and actively support STEM causes. 
In2Science is an award-winning charity founded by research 
scientists with the mission to help young people from  
under-represented backgrounds progress to science 
degrees and into professions. Our involvement with 
In2Science began in 2016 and continues to have a positive 
impact on the  
young people it supports and the sector as a whole.
Other partnerships that help us build our impact in the 
communities where we do business include Cambridge 
Launchpad, Form the Future, Uptree and Founders for 
Schools. We are aiming to further expand our impact  
in this area. Rewarding employees
We aim to inspire and reward our employees through  
a valued and engaging proposition, enabling people  
to share in our collective success. We take a holistic view,  
of which base salary is just one component. 
Reward data is reviewed regularly, and all roles are 
benchmarked. As part of the recent pay review, we 
increased funding to support a salary raise for our  
lowest-paid workers, ensuring that we continue to be 
competitive in each of our markets. For transparency,  
this year we reported our CEO and UK employee pay  
ratio for the first time in our Annual Report. 
We are particularly proud of ‘AbShare’ – our innovative 
share plan available to all permanent employees globally. 
Launched in 2018, this represented a significant investment 
in our people, allowing them to contribute a percentage of 
their pay to buy a stake in the company. Take up of the plan 
at launch was 88% across our global employee base, with 
more than 90% of our colleagues now partaking worldwide.
There is also a range of incentives and management 
bonuses tied to Group and individual performance, with 
alignment between an individual’s contribution and the 
delivery of our strategic goals. Next year, we’re going further, 
and senior leaders will have an inclusivity goal with their 
personal objectives.  
Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, we have maintained 
investment in our growth strategy and have continued 
to commit to looking after our people and retaining key 
talent. We have supported our people with full employment 
throughout the pandemic and we have not applied for,  
 nor received, any government support made available  
in response to the global pandemic.Fostering an ownership mentality through AbShare  
– our award-winning employee share plan
Our success as a company relies on us attracting and 
retaining great talent. AbShare allows us to do this by 
offering a generous employee shareholder plan. The 
better our performance, the better the benefits for 
everyone, including our customers.
Under the plan (which runs from 2018-2021), colleagues 
invest 1.67% of their base (gross) salary a year, for three 
years, to buy Abcam shares. This is a total of 5% of their 
base salary over three years. In return, they receive a 
x10 match from the company, subject to performance 
conditions being met.
In December 2019, Abcam won two awards at the  
annual Proshare Awards, the UK Awards for employee 
share plans. We were recognised for Best New Share Plan  
and Best Overall Performance fostering share ownership.
On commenting, the judges said that they “were 
impressed by the Company’s creativity and willingness  
to look beyond the strictures of UK tax-advantaged 
models to deliver a consistent and inclusive plan that  
met their specific corporate objectives and reflected  
their values of being dedicated, audacious and agile.”
We were also recognised by GEOshare for the design  
of the plan as the winner of the ‘2019 Most Innovative  
and Creative Plan Design Award.’
72% 90%+
Feel positive about having 
clear career pathsUptake  
in AbShareAbcam plc  Our impact 202022
Our response to COVID-19
COVID-19 began impacting our business in January  
and we responded quickly. 
Protecting our people
The health and wellbeing of our people is our primary focus. 
Our approach was to establish a global steering committee 
and a set of global principles around which local leaders 
could create a bespoke plan for each region and office, 
independently. Each office had oversight of its own policy 
response to ensure it could do what was right and safe for 
our people as well as aligned with local government policy. 
Keeping our global teams connected
Our management team acted swiftly to provide consistent 
and locally relevant communication to our teams around 
the world, via a COVID-19 resource hub, daily emails for 
three full months, and regular video conferences, ensuring 
open lines of communication to leaders. With a focus on 
removing anxiety, providing clarity on global and local 
legislation, and supporting physical and mental wellbeing, 
our teams made sure that every person was kept updated 
with relevant information and had regular contact with their 
managers and teams.
Swift hub for core information was very helpful. An 
update every day for three months is pretty unheard of. 
Intelligently written, caring and on point. A trustworthy 
summary of news and I’m glad to not have to watch  
the news every day and definitely glad to not read about 
death rate.
Anonymous feedback through pulse survey, June 2020
Wellbeing
Leaning into our flexible working policy and technology 
infrastructure, we adopted a person-led plan for those  
who needed additional support. Daily wellbeing stories  
and learning ‘hugs’, online yoga classes and workshops,  
as well as the explicit embracing with humour and kindness 
the challenges that befall home schooling whilst working 
from home, all contributed to helping our teams feel valued Continued
and respected. Our engagement score increased during 
lockdown.
Abcam have been outstanding in the way the business is 
moving through the different pandemic stages i.e. daily 
updates, team check-ins, wellbeing classes, training 
sessions, even keeping the pay review when many are 
losing pay or even jobs.
Anonymous feedback through pulse survey, October 2020
This person-centric approach extended to our phased return 
planning, for those who could, to Abcam sites. Always in line 
with local government advice and augmented with our own 
health and safety policies and procedures, we made sure we 
had COVID-secure working environments in place.
I think Abcam have gone above what many other 
companies have done. The building is one of the safest 
places I go. Couldn’t be better! Abcam have created an 
extremely safe environment – the EHS team have done an 
amazing job of looking after everyone.
Anonymous feedback through pulse survey, October 2020  
All our colleagues have been supported with full 
employment during the COVID-19 outbreak, with no 
employees furloughed. We made changes to our 
employment policies, notably our leave policy, to ensure 
that people didn’t lose holiday and that our business could 
manage the resourcing demands placed upon it. 
I really loved that Alan was willing to Teams all of us from 
his living room. It was a massive boost to hear from him 
and finance that we are going to be ok, that we aren’t 
losing our jobs, and that we are doing all we can as 
scientists to help out.
Anonymous feedback through pulse survey, October 2020Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 22
Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
Before the coronavirus outbreak 
started, I was just a normal 
working mother. 
In February, we started to work 
from home in Shanghai, and  
while there have been frustrating 
moments for me and my teenage 
daughter, the most important and 
valuable thing from this special 
period is that it has brought us 
closer together. 
With every challenging situation, 
there can be a bright side, and  
I’m grateful that Abcam made  
it as easy as possible for me to  
both be a supportive mother and  
a contributing colleague during 
this strange time.         
Jue (Jade) Zhang
General Manager of Abcam in ShangaiAbcam plc  Our impact 202023
ContinuedReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
Diversity and inclusion
We continue to increase efforts to promote diversity and 
inclusion. Currently, there are no women represented on 
our Executive Leadership Team while the number of women 
on our Global Leadership Team is 34%. During the year, 47% 
of promotions to senior leadership positions were women; 
however, we still have too few women in our most senior 
positions. As such, we have increased our effort to recruit 
and develop women through the organisation. This includes 
the introduction of Diversity and Inclusion targets that are 
linked to senior leadership remuneration. We have also 
increased our recruitment target to at least two women on 
every shortlist for senior vacancies. This is in addition to the 
diversity and inclusion targets being included in leaders’ 
personal objectives.
In the past year, we have had a global focus on diversity 
and reported quarterly to the Executive Leadership Team. 
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) continue to gain 
momentum and have dedicated hubs on our global Diversity 
and Inclusion intranet site. Building on the success of our 
Women in Leadership and LGBT+ ERGs, as well as Family 
Networks, we are about to launch Mental Health, Social 
Mobility and People of Colour groups.  
Abcam’s latest UK Gender Pay Gap report, published in 
October 2020, reported a mean pay gap of 28% and a 
median pay gap of 26.9%; as well as a mean bonus gap of 
68.3% with a median bonus gap of 36.2%. Compared to last 
year, this represents an increase in our pay gap and bonus 
gap figures. The year-on-year increases are primarily driven 
by a higher proportion of external new hires at our more 
senior job levels being men. The movement in bonus pay 
is also skewed by sign-on arrangements and by exercised 
awards under our share plans during the years to April 2020.
The starting point for building change and reducing our 
pay gap is an honest assessment of where we are today. To 
reduce our gender pay gap we are accelerating our efforts 
to recruit and bring women through our organisation into 
senior roles. 
We are a WORK180 Endorsed 
Employer for Women  in the US 
and the UK. And in September 
2020, we announced a new 
partnership with MyGwork ,  
the LGBT+ business community.
Abcam plc  Our impact 202024
On Glassdoor, we were 
listed as the 6th top 
company to work for  
in the UK. Our CEO  
was ranked 2nd in  
the UK for leadership  
during the COVID-19 
pandemic.ContinuedReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
CASE STUDY
Henrietta Lacks Foundation
Over the last year, we have been working on a 
STEM grant for the Henrietta Lacks Foundation. The 
Foundation provides financial assistance to individuals 
and families – particularly within minority communities 
– who were involved in historic research cases without 
their knowledge, consent, or benefit. According to the 
Henrietta Lacks Foundation, Abcam is the first life science 
company to do this, and we hope that more companies 
will follow suit. The Wall Street Journal reported on it at the 
time, and we were delighted to learn that this publicity 
allowed the foundation to reach many more potential 
supporters.  
“When I read the story of Henrietta Lacks in 2016, I was 
moved by how her personal tragedy created a lasting 
positive impact on science and society,” says Alan 
Hirzel, CEO. “Abcam is making this grant to help honour 
Henrietta’s legacy and to support her descendants to 
study STEM subjects. We hope this act changes lives and 
opens opportunities that may have otherwise remained 
inaccessible to her descendants. We are grateful to have 
this opportunity to offer support and hope others are 
inspired to join the cause.” We are working to exclude unconscious bias from 
recruitment and hiring processes and decisions, and 
actively engaging with leadership teams to promote 
awareness and ownership. We intend to appoint an Inclusion 
Manager to provide focus to programme management and 
implementation.
Our Women in Leadership Group has informed policies that 
make Abcam a more attractive place to work, including 
our new Global Family Leave Policy which offers enhanced 
maternity and paternity packages. Introduced in October 
2019, the policy ensures that all our people are entitled to 
the same amount of leave no matter where they are in the 
world through an increase in fully paid maternity leave to 18 
weeks and paternity to 6 weeks. This is inclusive of adoption 
and same-sex parents. Our ambition is to eventually have 
a genderless family leave policy as our research has shown 
that this has an impact on gender pay gap. 
Community support
Abcam has a long history of involvement with local 
communities by supporting and partnering with charities  
and organisations local to where we do business. 
This year we rolled out our Global Communities and Charity 
Policy, which describes our “80/20 Giving” approach; 80% 
of charity funds will go towards healthcare causes, charities 
and registered bodies who align with our life science 
research areas, while 20% is reserved for charities supporting 
our local communities. This maximises our impact on life 
sciences, while still encouraging colleagues to support 
causes that are close to their hearts.
Globally, we host several fundraising events and sponsor 
employees in their challenges for charity. We celebrate these 
local stories regionally and across our organisation through 
a variety of employee communication channels. We also 
make donations to local, national and international charities. 
During the pandemic, we were able to respond to an 
increased request for donations from charities experiencing  
a shortfall in funding. When I read the story of Henrietta 
Lacks in 2016, I was moved by  
how her personal tragedy created  
a lasting positive impact on science 
and society.
Alan Hirzel, CEOAbcam plc  Our impact 202025
 Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 25
Our partnerships with others in the 
life sciences help us expand our 
scale, reach and, ultimately, our 
impact in the world. 
We take pride in only working with 
those who have a common goal of 
contributing to human health and 
we only select, retain and partner 
with suppliers that share our ethics 
and our values. 
Doing business with integrity  
is the responsibility of all our 
suppliers. Without compromise, 
together we hold ourselves 
accountable for making the  
right choices and achieving the 
standard of values appropriate  
and proportionate to the size  
of their business.
Diane Bolton
Global Procurement DirectorReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202026
Primary stakeholders
Partners, Customers, Society
Our multi-year sustainability commitments
   Increase our impact through long-term, mutually beneficial 
relationships based on trust
  Uphold our ethical standards across our value chain
KPIs
  Number of products validated on third-party platforms  
or as diagnostics (‘Abcam Inside’)
 OEM suppliers signed up to our Code of Conduct (%)
Performance in 2020
  We grew the number of clones used by our partners 
significantly in the year to 459 (2018/19: 137)
  We made significant progress toward our goal of 100% 
compliance (of OEM Suppliers signed up to our Code  
of Conduct)
Alignment to SDGsContinued
We expect our partners to demonstrate a culture that reinforces ethical  
and lawful behaviours.
Becoming the most influential life sciences company
At Abcam, our ambition is to be the most influential life 
sciences company in the world. That means building our 
network of partners – from suppliers to research partners, 
NGOs, charities and funding bodies. What we all have in 
common is a commitment to the highest ethical standards 
and to making a positive difference in the world. 
An ethical culture
We expect our partners to demonstrate a culture that 
reinforces ethical and lawful behaviours. They must ensure  
all aspects of their business comply with applicable laws  
and regulations, both in the country in which they operate 
and in the country to which the services or products are 
supplied. We select suppliers with this in mind and monitor  
the performance of specific suppliers through audits, 
reviewing the progress of any corrective action plans  
and measuring of key performance indicators. 
All new suppliers and distributors are required to sign up to 
and abide by our Supplier and Distributor Codes of Conduct. 
Since launching new codes in 2017/18, a programme has 
also been in place to transition all existing suppliers and 
distributors to these new codes. The codes are available 
on our website, dedicated supplier web portal and every 
purchase order issued to them. As of this year, 100% of 
suppliers are compliant, with 98.3% signing up to the new 
codes of conduct, and relationships with the remaining 1.8% 
ending due to our zero-tolerance approach. To allow us to 
collaborate while not compromising on our standards, we 
only sign suppliers’ codes of conduct when they match or 
exceed our own. 
We have committed to rolling out our whistleblowing ‘Speak 
Up’ hotline across our supply chain. We have also partnered 
with EcoVadis to undergo an audit of our top 100 suppliers, 
representing more than 70% of our supply chain by value. 
Through the partnership, we will be able to monitor a range 
of important sustainability criteria to manage risk, reduce 
cost and increase revenue. Collaboration
Building strategic, commercial partnerships to support the 
advancement of research, drug discovery and diagnostic 
development and commercialisation is an ongoing priority. 
Over 450 of our antibodies are validated for commercial 
use on third party platforms or as diagnostic tools in IVD 
applications, including 11 FDA-approved diagnostic assays. 
Hundreds more are currently undergoing evaluation by our 
partners. In addition, over the last 12 months we signed 
over 50 new agreements with industry partners, as well as 
entering into discussions regrading over 30 collaborations 
relating to diagnostic, treatment and vaccine development 
for COVID-19.
CASE STUDY
Working with the Michael J Fox 
Foundation
Today, there are over six million people around the 
world living with Parkinson’s disease. Through close 
partnership, Abcam and the Michael J Fox Foundation 
have committed to co-creating innovative tools that help 
accelerate Parkinson’s disease research globally. To date, 
a total of 72 products have been developed, including 
standalone antibodies and immunoassays, which have 
been cited in over 300 publications. The relationship has 
recently been extended to include Abcam’s new bioactive 
protein capability, opening new possibilities  
and opportunities. Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
Abcam plc  Our impact 202027
Continued
Partnering to understand  
our customers’ needsCASE STUDY CASE STUDY To better understand our customers’ needs, we partner 
with top scientists, key opinion leaders and biopharma 
to learn about the tools they require for their research. 
This insight informs the design of our new products and 
the development of our portfolio. We also partner with 
scientists in our early-access programme by allowing 
customers to test products for suitability prior to their official 
launch. The data from this programme is shared with other 
customers, helping them to select the best products for 
their needs. 
As a result of this approach to portfolio development, 
Abcam was independently verified as the largest 
antibody contributor to peer-reviewed publications in 
Alzheimer’s disease research (CiteAb, 2018, 21% market 
share compared to our closest competitor at 19%). In 2019, 
we were also recognised by Biocompare in its annual 
Antibody Market Research Report for contribution to 
neurobiology, with a gold award. 
In 2019, we were also recognised  
by Biocompare in its annual 
Antibody Market Research Report 
for contribution to neurobiology, 
with a gold award.Partnership with Cancer Research UK
In July 2020, Abcam and Cancer Research UK 
announced a new partnership for the development 
and commercialisation of novel custom antibodies to 
support the acceleration of cancer research. Abcam 
will develop custom protein-based reagents to targets 
identified by Cancer Research UK-funded researchers. 
The resulting antibodies will support research to further 
the understanding of cancer biology, help generate new 
diagnostic tools, and potentially form the basis for novel 
therapies. Subsequently, Abcam’s global supply capability 
and location in major technology hubs throughout the 
world will enable these reagents to be made readily 
accessible to the wider research and diagnostic 
development community. 
Tony Hickson, CBO at Cancer Research UK, said: “We 
are excited to be partnering with Abcam to expand our 
access to biological reagents and to create the tools our 
scientists need to help accelerate our understanding of 
cancer. Abcam’s antibody development capabilities and 
“end-to-end” expertise will help provide our researchers 
with antibody reagents that can be applied from early-
stage R&D right through to the clinic.”Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  Planet
Abcam plc  Our impact 202028
Continued
CASE STUDY
Strategic partnership with BrickBio
In November 2019 Abcam announced a strategic 
partnership with BrickBio, experts in site-specific protein 
modification and a Tiger Gene portfolio company, 
covering the use of BrickBio’s proprietary platform for 
introducing conjugation-ready sites into antibodies 
and other proteins in both mammalian and bacterial 
expression systems.
Under the partnership, Abcam has exclusive rights to 
the platform for the creation of novel conjugation-ready 
recombinant products for the research tools market,  
as well as rights to commercialize the platform across  
its recombinant antibody and protein portfolio for 
diagnostic use. 
John Boyce, CEO of BrickBio and Co-Founder of Tiger 
Gene, commented: “With one of the largest and highest 
quality recombinant antibody portfolios in the market, 
Abcam was a natural fit to be our exclusive partner 
to take our technology to scientific researchers. We 
are excited to work together to further industrialize the 
platform and see it widely introduced into the research 
segment of the market. At the same time, BrickBio will 
focus on becoming a critical platform for therapeutic 
partners, enabling biopharma clients to solve difficult 
protein-based drug development needs, helping to  
build high performing protein therapeutics, such as  
ADCs, for controlled labelling and manufacturing.”
We are engaged in 30 + 
potential collaborations 
relating to the development 
of reagents to assess and 
detect Sars-CoV-2/COVID-19 
during the global 
pandemic.
100%  of our original 
equipment manufacturer 
suppliers have signed up  
to our Code of Conduct.*
* as of year-end 2020, 98.3% signed them with the remaining  
1.8% served notice that we can no longer work with themReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202029
 Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 29
We take pride in how we 
package our products and  
we want to be proud of the 
materials we use too. 
There is so much passion  
across our Logistics teams to  
do this and we are harnessing 
this enthusiasm to trial new 
packaging options which are 
100% curbside recyclable. 
Nick Manning
Logistics Project ManagerReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202030
Primary stakeholders
Society  
Communities
Our multi-year sustainability commitments
   Reduce our environmental impact
KPIs
  Carbon emissions, tCO2e
 Waste to landfill, tonnes
Performance in 2020
  Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions, covering global 
vehicle use and purchased electricity of 4,752 tCO2e.  
This was the first year reporting and forms the baseline  
from which we will compare our activity going forward
  77.5 tonnes waste sent to landfill across our global operations in 
the year. This was the first year reporting and forms the baseline 
from which we will compare our activity going forward
Alignment to SDGsContinued
Reflective of the sentiment behind our environmental policy, this year 
we chose to go beyond compliance for Streamlined Energy and Carbon 
Reporting (SECR). 
Measuring our impact on the environment
We recognise that, as a result of our business activities, we 
create negative impacts on the planet and understand 
that a damaged environment has broader long-term 
consequences for the health and wellbeing of society. 
Although our negative impact is low, we want it to be lower. 
Climate action is a new area of focus for Abcam this year 
but our concern for the environment is long-lived. We 
have a global environmental policy that positions good 
environmental management at the heart of our values  
and commits us to fully comply, as a minimum, with all 
relevant environmental legislation. We are dedicated to 
continually improving our operations and performance 
through innovation. 
Alongside a formal approach, we will go on harnessing 
the environmental passions of our people, including our 
environmental champions, who have driven much of our 
work on greening Abcam so far. 
Capturing our emissions impact
Reflective of the sentiment behind our environmental policy, 
this year we chose to go beyond compliance for Streamlined 
Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR), and we are reporting 
on our Scope 1 and 2 emissions globally rather than just in 
the UK. We are also undertaking an additional analysis of 
our emissions under Scope 3, which will capture all upstream 
and downstream emissions related to our business. The 
results will be published on our website when the analysis is 
complete.
In the table (right), Scope 1 relates to emissions from 
activities that the business owns or controls, including 
combustion of fuel and operation of facilities. Scope 2 relates 
to emissions from purchase of electricity, heat, steam and 
cooling purchased for our use at the Group’s locations, all 
of which have been converted using government-published 
conversion factors. The SECR data also includes some Scope 
3 data relating to emissions from business travel in rental  
cars or employee-owned vehicles where the Company  is responsible for purchasing the fuel.  
The figures shown are in tCO2e and total tCO2e per £m sales 
revenue. 
Current reporting year 1st July 2019 – 30th June 2020
Location(s) covered  UK Global  Global  
by the scope  (excluding  total 
   the UK)
Emissions from activities for which  
the company own or control  
including combustion of fuel  
& operation of facilities  
(Scope 1) (tCO2e) 952 602 1,554
Emissions from the purchase  
of electricity, heat, steam and  
cooling purchased for own use  
(Scope 2) (tCO2e) 618 2,580 3,198
Total gross Scope 1 and Scope 2  
emissions (tCO2e) 1,570 3,182 4,752
Intensity ratio: tCO2e  
(gross Scope 1+2) per  
£m sales revenue 6 12 18
4,752
tCO2e global emissions  Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202031
Continued
Greening our travel and estate
A network of local environmental champions and 
sustainability committees across our sites work with our 
Environment, Health and Safety Team to improve standards 
and promote positive behaviours, such as cycling to work. 
Depending on the season, 20–30% of our people choose to 
cycle to work, significantly higher than national averages, 
encouraged by pop-up bike shops and training at our 
Cambridge base and a Cycle to Work purchase scheme  
that allows colleagues to buy bikes at a reduced tax rate. 
Meanwhile approximately 25% commute by walking, public 
transport or car share. We see this as an opportunity to 
further engage with our people and as an effective strategy 
to minimise environmental impact. Given the vastly reduced 
travel and its related emissions that we’ve seen during the 
global pandemic, we will be looking at how we can further 
embrace online meetings to keep this impact low.
We also continue to use local bike couriers to deliver 
products and reduce traffic in Cambridge, UK, and Boston, 
MA. Outspoken, who transport for us within Cambridge,  
are currently looking at how they can also travel by train  
and bike to supply labs further afield in London.
As part of our Scope 3 analysis, we’re working with a  
third party to report on our indirect emissions from sources 
that are not in our control. This includes the deliveries we 
make to customers through courier services around the 
world. The data will be made available on our website   
and will be used to inform science-based targets to reduce 
our carbon emissions and improve resource efficiency.Through our buildings, we take steps to conserve natural 
resources, improve efficiency and reduce resource 
consumption by investing selectively when we open new 
facilities. For our new Cambridge site, we worked with 
the developer to ensure the building reached a BREEAM 
standard of VERY GOOD. The standard puts the building 
in the UK’s top 25% for environmental performance and is 
considered ‘advanced good practice’. The criteria take 
resource and energy, land use and ecology, and transport 
and movement into account.
In September, we were audited by the UK’s Energy Savings 
Opportunity Scheme, for which we were compliant. The 
assessment identified a Building Management System as 
the greatest single opportunity for us to save on energy, 
which we plan to put in place. We intend to also take this 
opportunity into our new site opening in Waltham, MA 
next year, and to extend the same principles of good 
environmental performance across our sites as we  
continue to upgrade and open new facilities globally. CASE STUDY
Connecting online to reduce emissions
In the last year, given the uncertainty of international 
travel due to the pandemic, travel between our sites has 
inevitably decreased. We travelled more than 1,000,000 
kilometres less by air last year than the previous saving 
nearly 120 tCO2e. 
Before the reduction in travel, our people were already 
choosing to connect with colleagues across continents 
virtually unless meeting in person was necessary. This 
is a trend that is set to continue as the impacts of the 
pandemic have changed the way business is done.  
We have no intention to return to the levels of employee 
air travel of 2019 as part of our responsibility to mitigate 
climate change.
20-30 % 120
Cycle to work tCO2e in air travel savedReviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202032
Reducing the impact of our packaging
How we package our products not only has an impact on 
their viability but also on the environment. Striking the right 
balance between keeping them safe and at temperature, 
while ideally being low impact on the planet, requires both 
literal and metaphorical thinking outside the box.
We have already made changes across our different  
offices. In the UK we have moved to 100% recyclable paper 
shipping tape and paper-wrap instead of bubble wrap.  
For European deliveries, we use 100% biodegradable air 
pillows. Globally, we have moved to digital datasheets,  
but we want to go further. 
Our ambitious aim is 100% curbside recyclable packaging. 
To achieve this, we’re testing prototypes of biodegradable 
bamboo bricks to hold vials, with the brick lids made of 
recycled soft drinks bottles or nylon fishing nets. We’re  
also working to get rid of EPS (expanded polystyrene),  
all while providing comparable performance with  
traditional packaging, to ensure our products remain  
at optimum quality.Continued
BREEAM standard of 
VERY GOOD for our new 
Cambridge siteCASE STUDY
 CASE STUDY
Our ambitious aim is 100% curbside 
recyclable packaging. To achieve 
this, we’re testing prototypes of 
biodegradable bamboo bricks to 
hold vials, with the brick lids made 
of recycled soft drinks bottles or 
nylon fishing nets.Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202033
Reducing lab waste
Abcam’s laboratories and logistics processes generate 
a significant amount of biological waste, much of which 
is plastic. Nitrile gloves and plastic lab consumables are 
typically autoclaved and sent to landfill. In 2017 Abcam’s 
Boston site sent 840 cubic feet of biological waste to landfill, 
which is the equivalent of about two concrete trucks. 
To address this, Abcam’s Boston office has now enrolled in 
a “Red to Green” programme where our biological waste 
undergoes a physical and chemical treatment process to 
completely sterilise the material and extract the plastics 
for recycling. The recycled plastic is then converted into 
a benign, reusable plastic lumber product, which can be 
used for construction, farming tools, and other applications. 
Beyond this, we will no longer be requiring all of the 
cardboard boxes that were previously used to accumulate 
our biological waste. This new system utilises 96-gallon plastic 
containers for collection, which we hope will minimise the 
physical footprint of our biological waste and reduce the 
amount of cardboard we send to landfill. 
CASE STUDY
 We are going beyond 
compliance for SECR  
to report on our global 
environmental impact 
looking beyond the UK. 
Continued
New system utilises 96-gallon  
plastic containers for collection, 
which we hope will minimise the 
physical footprint of our biological 
waste and reduce the amount of 
cardboard we send to landfill.Reviewing our performance:  Products  People  Partners  PlanetAbcam plc  Our impact 202034
Governance
We have a culture founded on trust that our people will 
make the right decisions and do the right thing. This is 
reflected in our Code of Conduct, ‘How we do things at 
Abcam’, which outlines our high standards and how we 
strive for the very best in all that we do. We also have strong 
governance in place with regular reporting to the Board and 
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and this gives us a blend of 
leadership-led and employee-driven governance.
We are also transparent and provide multiple ways for 
colleagues to report concerns, including an anonymous 
whistleblowing hotline ‘Speak Up’ managed by a third party 
and anonymous direct access to our CEO, ‘Ask Alan’. We 
investigate every whistleblowing report and respond openly 
on our global Yammer channel to every question submitted 
to ‘Ask Alan’. Our staff forums are also able to escalate  
ideas and issues to the relevant groups.
It is for everyone in the business to play their part – from our 
Board of Directors through to all of our employees. A blend of leadership-led and employee-driven 
governance for impact 
CEO Alan Hirzel has overall responsibility for delivering our 
linked business and sustainability objectives, supported by 
every member of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), the 
Global Leadership Team (GLT), and championed by SVP  
of HR, Nick Skinner as our Global Sponsor for Corporate & 
Social Responsibility.
Oversight of impact is built into our Board structures and our 
robust governance framework is bolstered by committees, 
groups and colleagues who feel empowered to instigate 
and drive activity. This means many of our more impactful 
programmes are driven from the bottom-up. When we began the 
sustainability review and 
reflected on our governance 
for sustainability, we found 
that many of the behaviours 
underlying the ESG agenda 
are already integral to how  
we operate.
Our leadership routinely considers the perspectives 
of all relevant stakeholders when it comes to making 
decisions on strategy and operations, particularly with 
consideration of cultural fit and ethical behaviour. 
We are also committed absolutely to transparency 
and identifying where we can do better, for example 
improving our gender pay gap. Our ambition is to go 
further and we’re continuing to progress. By further 
embedding ESG risks into our risk management 
processes, we’re going beyond reputational concerns to 
identify, assess and mitigate ESG risks across our value 
chain. We’re also signing up to third party standards and 
commitments related to sustainability so we can be held 
to account to these standards.
Marc Perkins
General CounselWe have a culture founded on trust that our people will make the 
right decisions and do the right thing.
Board
Executive Leadership Team
Sustainability GroupAudit and Risk Committee
Diversity and  
Inclusion Group  Ethics Committee
Employee Resource Groups Charity 
CommitteesSpeak UpEnvironment 
Champions
Staff ForumsAbcam plc  Our impact 202035
How it works:
  Our Board of Directors reviews our policies every year, 
drawing from the annual policy compliance reports it 
receives from each part of the business. All items on 
every agenda for the Board are linked to key risks and the 
Directors’ duties under section 172 of the Companies Act. 
The Board regularly discusses the impact of its decisions 
on all stakeholders, from employees and customers to 
partners and shareholders.
  Our Audit and Risk Committee  reports to the Board, meets 
quarterly and reviews risks annually. It is comprised of 
three of our Non-Executive Directors with support from 
the Company Secretary and General Counsel and is 
regularly attended by the Chairman, CFO, VP Finance, 
and VP Investor Relations. Key stakeholders throughout 
the business present to the Committee on a regular basis, 
including our Data Protection Officer and Director of IT 
Security.
   Our Ethics Committee  is made up of 24 key leaders with 
relevant expertise throughout the business and has ELT 
representation. 
   Our Sustainability Group  meets throughout the year  
and reports quarterly to the ELT. Led by our Director  
of Internal Communication, Engagement and Corporate 
& Social Responsibility, it includes VP of Investor Relations, 
Head of Global Safety, General Counsel, our Diversity 
& Inclusion lead, and Corporate & Social Responsibility 
Communication Advisor – a role that we created this 
year to help coordinate our actions and communicate 
progress. Other groups, leaders and passionate 
advocates from across the business may attend to  
present new ideas and progress on projects that help  
drive our sustainability efforts. 
   Our Diversity and Inclusion Group , led by one of our 
Global Human Resources Directors, reports quarterly to 
the ELT and encourages new ways of approaching old 
challenges, including enabling our Employee Resource 
Groups to champion sustainable change from the 
ground-up and drive appropriate targets in agreement 
with the ELT.
  Our Environmental champions and sustainability 
committees  have been set up across some of our  Governance
Continued
sites. They drive positive environmental behaviours 
and initiatives in our buildings, as well as across the 
business, and are supported by our Environment, Health 
and Safety Team. 
  Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) support diversity 
and inclusion. Colleagues from across the business 
meet regularly to drive change and raise the voice of 
the people they represent. They include the Women’s 
Network, Women in Leadership and Family Network. 
This year, our employees have started four new ERGs 
driving change in support of people of colour, mental 
health, social mobility and LGBTQ+. Each group has 
dedicated HR support and an executive sponsor and 
are represented in the Diversity and Inclusion Group.
  There are three Charity committees, in the UK, US, and 
Asia. They distribute charity spending so that we can 
have an impact on local communities where we do 
business and engage our employees on causes that 
matter to them. They also lead fundraising activities  
and raise awareness of issues important to our people. 
Not all employee-led activities are instigated through 
formal groups. Our culture of innovation, collaboration 
and entrepreneurialism empowers our people to be 
audacious to push for change. Our initiatives to reduce 
packaging waste in our supply chain, for example, are 
owned by passionate people in our Logistics team.
Abcam plc  Our impact 202036
 Abcam plc  Our impact 2020 36
Reporting
Our Impact 2020 is our first step in 
reporting on our impact, and is guided 
by our sustainability framework
As we continue to create sustainable value, we 
recognise the actions we take and progress we make  
are dynamic and ongoing. We will provide further 
updates and disclosures on the impact we have in  
the sustainability section of our website as appropriate 
throughout the year. 
In developing this report we have taken into 
consideration the GRI approach and standards, and 
intend further embedding GRI-aligned approaches 
and metrics into our reporting in the future. We will 
continue to report on our contribution to the SDGs, 
and having applied to become a signatory of the UN 
Global Compact, we have committed to an annual 
Communication of Progress, setting out our activity 
against the 10 UNGC principles, the first of which will  
be autumn 2021.
Please refer to our website for supporting policies, data 
points and our GRI content index .Governance
ContinuedAbcam plc  Our impact 202037
What next?
We do know that in the years to come, we will:
  measure our impact on society through the customers 
we serve, tracking progress and reporting on our 
performance
  continue to invest in our people, creating a better,  
more inclusive, supportive company where people thrive 
and play an active role in promoting STEM as a career 
without boundaries
  increase our impact through long-term, mutually 
beneficial relationships based on trust with selected 
partners
  decrease our environmental footprint both at Abcam  
and throughout our supply chain
Integral to our sustainability journey so far has been our 
collaborative approach. We listened to all our stakeholders 
to develop our sustainability framework and inform our 
next steps and we invite all you who read this – customers, 
employees, suppliers, investors and future employees – to 
give us feedback.
We look forward to working together on the next stage of 
our sustainability journey as we develop our KPIs, establish 
science-based targets, and tell our story as it happens.
Please do contact us at sustainability@abcam.com
Supporting material: data 
The data gathered in our inaugural year of reporting in 
this way marks our first step towards assessing, monitoring, 
measuring and enhancing our impact. Refer to our  
website for supporting policies, data points and our  
GRI content index . Our Impact 2020 is a moment in time against which future progress can be 
reported. It reflects a far broader commitment to communicate more about 
what we do to all our stakeholders. 
Abcam has always been a  
purpose driven organisation,  
with a strong emphasis on doing 
business the right way. Beyond  
the delivery of financial results,  
we are aware of our need to  
ensure that we have a positive 
impact on our stakeholders,  
 society and the environment.
This year we set out and embarked upon on a new  
five-year ‘invest-to-grow’ strategy. As we pursue that 
plan, we will ensure that we operate transparently 
and responsibly, managing our business to generate 
attractive and sustainable long-term economic 
returns and create value.
Michael Baldock
Chief Financial OfficerAs we continue to mature and deliver 
our ambitious growth strategy , so too 
we expect our impact to increase. 
In financial terms, we report hard 
numbers and have a fixed five-year 
revenue goal. It is a fair question to ask 
the same of our sustainability strategy 
and we will answer that question this 
coming year.Abcam plc  Our impact 202038
Abcam plc
Discovery Drive
Cambridge Biomedical Campus
Cambridge CB2 0AX
UK
Email: sustainability@abcam.com
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000
Fax: +44 (0)1223 215215