2018 CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    2
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
CONTENTS
Company Overview ............................................................................................................ 4
Sustainability in ABM Operations .............................................................................. 5
ABM in the Community ................................................................................................. 33
COMMUNITY COMPANY SUSTAINABILITYCORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    3
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-14   Statement from Senior Decision-Maker 
❚ ABM’s Sustainability Journey 
This is a special year for ABM as it marks 110 years since our founder, Morris Rosenberg, 
started this amazing company on the streets of San Francisco with nothing more than a 
mop and bucket. T oday we are one of the largest facilities services companies in the United 
States with approximately 140,000 team members. As a company with more than 100 
years of experience, we understand the need to implement sustainable business practices 
that provide value and longevity for the business, our shareholders, our clients and our 
team members. This ethos is core to our success and is articulated within our purpose as a 
company—to take care of the people, places and spaces that are important to you.
We are not alone in this thought process. The Business Roundtable, comprised of the 
CEOs of 193 of the largest U.S. companies, issued a new statement on the “purpose” of a 
corporation. The new statement emphasizes delivering value to shareholders, customers, 
investing in team members, protecting the environment, dealing fairly and ethically with 
suppliers, and supporting communities through sustainable practices. 
Like many of these companies, ABM is in a unique position to impact communities where 
we work and live. I am excited to share with you some the sustainability progress we have 
made in 2018.
❚ Our Progress
Related to environmental aspects, we continued to reduce our carbon footprint and, I am 
excited to say, we achieved our GHG reduction target to decrease our metric tons of CO2e 
per FTE by 15%. ABM contributed to the environmental performance of our clients by 
expanding our sustainable portfolio of services, especially around our GreenCare cleaning 
program, and increased the installation of Electric Vehicle charging stations by 20%. 
Through ABMCares and our affiliated philanthropy programs, we donated more than $2 
million to charities in FY 2018, and our team members volunteer hours grew by 45%. I am 
very proud of our people who committed their time and resources to give back to their 
communities. ❚ Ensuring Stakeholder Trust
ABM’s strategy has evolved over the years to better support the evolution of 
environmental, social and governance growing requirements. Recently, we have 
established the three pillars of our sustainability strategy: 
•  Doing business in a responsible way – Ensuring ethical business practices are critical to 
sustainability and creating trust with our stakeholders. 
•  Improving our value chain continuously – Focusing on partnering with our clients on their 
sustainability’s strategies and within our own value chain is at the heart of environmental 
sustainability. 
•  Impacting the ecosystem – Bringing to market services and offerings that have a 
sustainable or social impact can help positively evolve the entire landscape.  
These pillars define our anchor points and, under this focus, we will seek to grow our 
program to ensure we are meeting our stakeholders’ expectations. Our entire company is 
focused on strengthening our sustainability initiatives at our client’s facilities, growing our 
energy savings and renewable energy offerings, measuring our sustainability performance 
in effort to track our progress, and implementing proper business policies. 
I want to thank you for taking the time to read our Corporate Sustainability Report. We will 
continue to strengthen our sustainability efforts and make sure we embed sustainability 
criteria into our decision-making processes. I am proud of what we have achieved so far 
and ABM is committed to sustainability as a core business requirement. 
Scott Salmirs
President & CEO, ABM
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    4
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
DISCLOSURES
102-1  Name of the Organization
ABM Industries Incorporated
102-2  Activities, Brands, Products and Services 
ABM is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions that enable our clients 
to deliver exceptional facilities experiences. We serve urban, suburban, and 
rural areas and properties of all sizes—from schools and commercial buildings 
to airports, data centers, hospitals, and manufacturing plants.
2017 began with the completion of our organizational realignment (2020 
Vision – Phase 1), which established five industry groups – Aviation, Business & 
Industry, Education, High T ech -- and a T echnical Solutions group spanning the 
five industry groups.
Those groups evolved into the following segments (see chart below). Through 
them, we offer our full complement of solutions on a standalone basis or in 
combination with each other or with specialized mechanical and electrical 
technical services. Following is a general description of the services we provide.
Complete information is provided in the links below:Business & Industry (B&I)
ABM.com/Banking-Financial
ABM.com/Commercial-Building-Maintenance
ABM.com/Sports-Entertainment
ABM.com/Retail
ABM.com/Biopharma 
Aviation
ABM.com/Aviation
Education
ABM.com/Education
Technical & Manufacturing (T&M)
ABM.com/Industrial-Manufacturing
ABM.com/T echnology
Technical SolutionsSegment Descriptions
Aviation Aviation includes services supporting airlines and airports ranging from parking and janitorial 
to passenger assistance, catering, air cabin maintenance, and transportation.
B&I Business & Industry, our largest segment, encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering, and 
parking services for commercial real estate properties, and sports and entertainment venues.
Education Education provides custodial, landscaping and grounds, facilities engineering, and parking 
services for public school districts, private schools, colleges and universities.
Technology & 
ManufacturingT echnology & Manufacturing combines our Industrial & Manufacturing (“I&M”) business, which 
was previously included in our B&I segment, with our High T ech industry group. Services include 
janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services for clients in these industries.
Technical 
SolutionsT echnical Solutions provides specialized mechanical and electrical services. These services 
can also be leveraged for cross-selling across all of our industry groups, both domestically and 
internationally.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    5
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM SERVICES 
We’ve built our strong reputation in part by continually striving to improve upon 
our client service offerings through the ABM GreenCare® program. As part of the 
program, we actively work with our clients on a wide range of these efforts, from 
energy reduction to green cleaning and Leadership in Energy & Environmental 
Design (LEED) certification. 
❚ ABM GreenCare®  
ABM.com/GreenCare/GreenCare-Services  
helps clients make improvements in 
four key areas: environmental and social 
responsibility, team member productivity and retention, property protection, 
and fiscal responsibility. This program’s offerings span our businesses and 
the key industries we serve. As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council 
(USGBC), we also continue to offer specific products and procedures for 
buildings to maintain certification through the LEED Rating system.Some of the key value-adds that ABM GreenCare® offers to clients include:
• Green cleaning programs with Green Seal certified or environmentally 
preferable products and certified equipment that improves indoor 
environmental quality for building occupants. We also provide recycling, 
touch-free water conservation, and LEED certification assistance for clients.
ABM.com/Services/GreenCare.
• Just as with our entire line of services, ABM is utilizing technology to upgrade 
our sustainable offerings. This technology includes electrically activated 
water systems that produce general cleaning and sanitizing solutions from 
water, salt and electricity. These allow ABM to produce safe, non-toxic daily 
cleaning solutions onsite and reduce packaging, transportation, and storage 
issues associated with traditional chemicals  
• ABM continues to identify new products and methods to operate more 
efficiently for our clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable practices 
and new innovations in cleaning methods and equipment. Through our strong, 
established relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical, and raw 
material manufacturers, we are actively implementing new solutions.
Reduced clients’ 
energy use by
23+ percent
on average
Implemented at
1,000+ buildings, 
totaling 460+ million
square feet across 
the United States
Installed 10,000+ EV
charging ports across the 
United States with many more 
expected in 2019
 Assisted 230+ 
million square feet of 
client buildings to maintain 
certification through the
LEED rating system
We service 450+ USGBC
LEED-certified and 
registered sitesABM’s commitment to measuring its GreenCare program performance has led 
to some statistics relating to its clients’ sustainability efforts, including: CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    6
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
❚  Energy 
Our expertise in energy savings performance contracts and Property 
Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing provides us with the unique ability to 
collaboratively work with clients to help them address facility upgrade needs, 
sustainability goals, and financing options. Through the implementation 
of the ABM program, clients benefit from improved facilities that are paid 
for through their existing budget and from the savings incurred by the 
improvements. In addition to traditional facility upgrades that help clients 
lower costs — HV AC, mechanical, electrical and lighting — we also offer a 
number of other energy conservation measures, including EV charging and 
solar solutions. ABM.com/Energy .
Energy Performance Contracting Program
As an accredited member of the National Association of Energy Companies, ABM 
achieves cost reductions and sustainability goals for our partners by using future 
savings to enable projects. Our energy performance contracting program has 
helped public and private sector clients save an average of 23% on their energy 
costs and millions of dollars over the course of their contracts.
EV Charging
As one of the leading installers of EV charging stations, ABM has installed 
more than 10,000 EV charging ports. ABM’s partnership with multiple market 
leaders of EV hardware and network providers brings us the first all-inclusive, 
affordable charging service plan. There’s no need to choose either DC or Level 
2 Fast Charging Stations, which creates a value-added amenity for all of a 
clients’ customers.
Solar
We help clients understand that solar has become a viable financial solution for 
companies. ABM enables facilities to receive the financial and environmental 
benefits of adopting a solar power solution and assists with the design, 
installation, financing and management of these systems.❚ Parking
For parking facilities, ABM provides LEED certification support, such as EV 
charging ports, solar panel installation, green cleaning, and energy-efficient 
lighting. Our customized mobile app helps drivers save time, money, and gas 
through online payments, a parking locator, a frequent parker program, and 
online reservations. We were one of the founding members of ParkSmart and 
service two ParkSmart Green Certified garages, in addition to our sustainable 
practices at other locations. 
ABM parking also provides the incentive of discounted parking for people who 
share rides or participate in van pools. One of our client’s rideshare programs 
consists of 34 leased vehicles and has more than 3,000 participants. 
We install bicycle parking and offer shuttle services to assist our clients’ 
customers to safely and sustainably move from parking lots to facilities, or 
from public transit centers to client facilities. For riders’ convenience, we sell 
public transit passes (bus or train), and we help clients by doing SCAQMD 
emissions reporting. More than half of our shuttles use natural gas or propane, 
running 11 million miles a year. We wash our vehicles according to local 
environmental regulations. 
❚ Landscape & Grounds
ABM uses alternative fuel and water-efficient, “smart” irrigation systems 
with timers and flow sensors to help keep clients’ properties sustainable. 
Approximately 65 smart controllers have been installed in 2018. Our services 
include draught tolerant plantings, integrated pest management, and LEED 
certification support. 
❚ Air Travel
ABM’s GreenCare Program is an integral part of our services at several airport 
locations. We are committed to reducing our clients’ impact on the environment 
by providing a full range of services, from environmentally friendly janitorial and 
maintenance to energy efficiency improvements.
Brands that are also part of the ABM family
OmniServ (based in the U.K., serves airlines and airports worldwide).
Blackjack Promotions (based in the U.K., serves airport operators, retailers and other clients).CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    7
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-3 - Location of Headquarters
New Y ork, NY102-4 - Location of Operations
Primary operations occur throughout the United States and various international 
locations, including the United Kingdom.
BermudaCanada
Mexico
Costa Rica
PeruEcuadorColombia
ChileJamaicaPuerto Rico
Netherlands AntillesCayman Islands350+ US OfficesNorway
UK
Republic of Ireland
Spain
Portugal
AustraliaGuamQatar
UAE
ABM Self-Performed Services Franchise and Joint Venture Operations
*Countries shown in green are franchise locations.
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    8
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-5 Ownership and Legal Form
ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a publicly 
traded company, governed by a board of directors. ABM common stock is listed 
on the New Y ork Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM].
The person or entities known to ABM to be beneficial owners of more than 
5% of the shares of ABM common stock as of December 31, 2018 are set 
forth below. This disclosure is based on a review of Schedule 13G filings and 
Schedule 13D filings.
• BlackRock, Inc. 
• The V anguard Group, Inc
• State Street Corporation
• FMR LLC102-6 Markets Served
ABM serves commercial, industrial, government, and retail clients in the following 
markets throughout the United States and various international locations.
• Aviation
• Banking & Financial Services
• Biopharma
• Commercial Buildings
• Data Centers
• Education
• Government
• Healthcare
• Hospitality
• Industrial & Manufacturing
• Mission Critical
• Retail
• Sports & Entertainment
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    9
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-7 - Scale of the Organization
Dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts. Information relates to 
ABM’s fiscal year ending October 31, 2018.
2018 2017 2016
Number of Team 
members136,766 135,912 114,658
Net revenues $6,442.2 $5,453.6 $ 4 , 8 9 7. 8
Net income per share $1.47 $0.07 $1.33
102-8 - Information on Team members and Other Workers
Total Male Female
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 12 10 9 67% 70% 66% 33% 30% 34%
Service 129.266 128,137 1 0 7, 4 4 6 52% 52% 55% 48% 48% 45%
Staff & Management 7.49 6 7, 7 6 5 7, 2 1 2 60% 59% 61% 40% 41% 39%
Age <30 Age 30-50 Age >50
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 100%
Service 20% 20% 19% 42% 42% 52% 38% 38% 39%
Staff & Management 8% 9% 23% 53% 52% 42% 39% 39% 35%
Minority White Not Specified
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 33% 40% - 67% 60% - 0% 0% -
Service 73% 73% - 19% 17% - 8% 10% -
Staff & Management 47% 50% - 51% 48% - 2% 2% -
Full time Part time Union Non-union
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board - - - - - - - - - - - -
Service 102,233 98,130 - 27,023 30,007 - 45,074 50,509 - 79,354 7 7, 6 2 8 -
Staff & Management 7,433 7, 7 2 0 - 63 45 - 34 0 - 6,987 7, 7 6 5 -
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    10
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-9 - Supply Chain
ABM uses strategic supplier partnerships, providing a capable, modern supply 
chain allowing ABM team members to order and receive the products used 
to service our clients in the most efficient manner. Having strategic suppliers 
implementing modern supply chain practices allows ABM to asses and minimize 
the Company’s impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, etc. between 
work sites.  
ABM’s suppliers fall into several 
categories. These include suppliers 
for internal operations (office 
supplies, information technology, 
communications, utilities, etc.), 
suppliers for products used in 
our services (cleaning chemicals, 
cleaning equipment, paper and 
plastic liner products, engineering 
HV AC, alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, landscape materials), 
service providers (pest control, landscaping, engineering, waste removal) and 
suppliers for external marketing and communications (consultants, printing, 
materials). 
102-10 - Significant Changes to the Organization and Its Supply Chain
ABM is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions, customized by industry, 
with a mission to make a difference, every person, every day.
❚ 2020 Vision
In September 2015, we announced a comprehensive transformation initiative 
(“2020 Vision”) intended to drive long-term, profitable growth through an 
industry-based go-to-market approach. In connection with our 2020 Vision, we have achieved savings through the realignment of our organization by industry 
group, divested businesses that were not at the core of our strategy, centralized 
key functional areas, strengthened our sales capabilities, initiated investments 
in service delivery tools and processes, improved our team member engagement 
programs, and added to our position as a leading integrated service provider 
through the acquisition of GCA. We continue focusing on several key initiatives 
across our organization to sustain our 2020 Vision strategy and profitably deliver 
leading industry-based facility solutions. 
❚ Systems and Technology Transformation
Following the acquisition and integration of GCA, we began with significant 
investments in our information technology infrastructure. We have begun to 
upgrade several key platforms, including our human resources information 
systems, enterprise resource planning system, and labor management system. 
We are also utilizing technology to help improve processes company-wide, 
including account planning, labor management, payroll, and procurement. T o 
further improve work order management, we have also launched a “T ag Pricer” 
tool that allows us to capture work orders more efficiently. We believe these 
improvements will help simplify our operating environment, drive productivity, 
and create consistency and efficiency across our organization. 
❚ Strategic Growth
We are focused on long-term, profitable growth related to both new and existing 
clients across and within our industry groups. We believe operational leverage 
from our strategic growth initiatives, combined with our continued focus on 
operational efficiency, will increase profitability.
❚ Cost Optimization
We continue to centralize many of our back-office functions through our 
Enterprise Services Center in Sugar Land, T exas to help drive consistency in 
practice and support operating efficiency. In addition, by consolidating purchasing 
activities we have been able to leverage our scale, increase our purchasing power, 
and identify preferred suppliers, which has enabled cost saving opportunities in 
supplies and materials procurement.
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    11
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-11 - Precautionary Principle or Approach
ABM’s management is responsible for day-to-day risk management activities. 
The ABM Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is 
responsible for the oversight of ABM’s risk management. Our management has 
implemented an enterprise risk management process designed to work across 
ABM to identify, assess, govern and manage risks and ABM’s response to those 
risks. The ABM Board of Directors’ Strategy and Enterprise Risk Committee 
assists the Board in its oversight of the overall enterprise risk management 
program, including risks relating to operations. The Enterprise Risk Management 
Committee identifies key enterprise risks. The Board of Directors’ Strategy 
and Enterprise Risk Committee and the Board itself each receive regular ERM 
reports. ABM continues to move forward with the integration of sustainability 
into our business strategy following the four key principles:
• Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad range of items including 
labor standards, talent management, diversity and inclusion, discrimination 
and harassment, team member training and safety, and team member health;
• Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around client safety, service 
quality, responsible sourcing and supply chain management, and proper and 
responsible marketing practices;
• Responsibility in the environment is centered on our energy and resource 
efficiency, reducing or eliminating drains on the environments we share and 
reusing or repurposing products we use and distribute to maximize their 
lifecycle; and
• Responsibility in the community is the culmination of the first three principles 
as well as our focus on philanthropy and community involvement through our 
ABMCares program. 
All of the above feed directly into how we affect the public at large within our 
circle of influence.Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating 
discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the 
protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and 
the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and 
hazardous substances. These laws can have the effect of increasing costs and 
potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations.
In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at some 
of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of 
complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to 
United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on 
our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high standard. ABM is committed to 
complying with all laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence to minimum 
age provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal 
workforce and our suppliers. ABM also expects its subcontractors to commit 
to proper treatment of their workers, specifically including human rights and 
freedom of association.
102-12 - External Initiatives
• Energy Services Coalition (ESC) 
• Energy Star Partner (ES) 
• International Crime Free Association (ICFA) 
• International Facility Management Association (IFMA) 
• International Sanitary Supply Association (ISSA) 
• National Facilities Management & T echnology (NFMT) 
• Tradeline Animal Research Facilities (Tradeline) 
• US Green Building Council (USGBC)CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    12
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-13 - Membership of Associations
We are a member of numerous trade and industry groups. Our group 
memberships include:
• American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 
• American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers 
(ASHRAE); Member & Program Chair ASHRAE T echnical Committee 2.8 
Building Environmental Impacts & Sustainability 
• American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) 
• American Solar Energy Society (ASES)
• ASHRAE T echnical Committee 6.7 Solar Energy Utilization 
• Association of Energy Engineers (AEE) 
• Infrared Thermography Levels I&II Training and Certification (IRI and IRII) 
• Institute Electrical & Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
• International Electrical T esting Association (NETA)
• International Solar Energy Society (ISES) 
• ISNetworld Certification (ISN) 
• National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO) 
• National Fire Protection Association: NFPA 70E and 70B Training and 
Certification 
• National Institute for Certification in Engineering T echnologies (NICET) 
• National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) 
• Project Management Institute (PMI) 
• Zero Net Energy Alliance (ZNE) 
• Airports Council International - North America 
• American Association of Airport Executives (AAAE) 
• Community Association Institute (CAI) 
• Association of Luxury Suite Directors (ALSD) 
• Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) • Building Services Contractors Association International (BSCAI) 
• Commercial Real Estate Women Network (CREW) 
• CoreNet Global (CNG) 
• Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) 
• International Downtown Association (IDA) 
• International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) 
• Parenteral Drug Association (PDA) 
• International Association of Venue Managers (IA VM) 
• Professional Retail Store Maintenance Association (PRSM) 
• Stadium Managers Association (SMA) 
• National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) 
• National School Board Association 
• APPA: Leadership in Educational Facilities 
• Golf Course Superintendents Association of America (GCSAA) 
• American Academy of Medical Administrators (AAMA) 
• American Association of Ambulatory Healthcare (AAAHC)
• American Association of Healthcare Administrative Management (AAHAM) 
• American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE) 
• American College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE) 
• American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) 
• American Hospital Association (AHA) 
• American Society for Healthcare Engineering (ASHE) 
• American Society of Healthcare Risk Management (ASHRM) 
• Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) 
• Association of Healthcare Resource and Materials Managers (AHRMM) 
• Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) 
• International Parking Institute (IPI) 
• National Parking Association (NPA) CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    13
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-16 - Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of Behavior
❚ Code of Business Conduct 
For more than 100 years, we have been working to gain our stakeholder’s trust. In 
our Code of Business Conduct we ensure that our principles of respect, integrity, 
collaboration, innovation, trust and excellence are applied through our operations, 
and that these values are aligned with our vision to lead the industry in the 
delivery of integrated facility service solutions.❚ ABM Vision & Core Values
We continue to be dedicated to the following:
Our MISSION
To make a 
diﬀerence, 
every person, 
every day. Our PURPOSE
To take care of the people, 
spaces, and places that 
are important to you.
Our VISION
 To be the clear choice 
in the industries we serve 
through engaged people.
Our Commitment to Shared ValuesRESPECT
Every person brings value and is acknowledged as an 
asset to our team. 
INTEGRITY
We are sincere, trustworthy, and accountable. We tell the 
truth and do not tolerate behavior that breaches our values. 
COLLABORATION
We believe that we can do be/t_ter and achieve more when we 
work together and learn from our collective experiences. 
INNOVATION
We bring fresh ideas and data-driven insights to solve 
business challenges. We say What if? Why not? What’s next? 
EXCELLENCE 
We deliver consistent, reliable service, but we don’t stop 
there. We are commi/t_ted to exceeding expectations. 
TRUST
We build conﬁdence and demonstrate that we are worthy 
of keeping it. CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    14
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-18 - Governance Structure
❚ Governance
At ABM, our governance structure, along with our Code of Business Conduct, 
provide the framework for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and team 
members with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing 
the business and strategy of the company. As of October 31, 2018, ABM had 12 
directors: LeighAnne G. Baker, Linda Chavez, Donald F . Colleran, J. Philip Ferguson, 
Anthony G. Fernandes, Art A. Garcia, Thomas M. Gartland, Sudhakar Kesavan, 
Lauralee E. Martin, Filippo Passerini, Scott Salmirs, and Winifred M. Webb. 
All of our directors, other than our Chief Executive Officer, Scott Salmirs, are 
independent. One of our independent directors, Sudhakar Kesavan, serves as 
Chairman of the Board.
ABM’s Audit Committee, comprised of Anthony G. Fernandes (Chair) J. Philip 
Ferguson, Art A. Garcia, Lauralee E. Martin, and Winifred M. Webb, oversees the 
company’s financial reporting process and assists the Board with respect to the 
Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to 
its other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews policies with respect to 
financial risk management and the company’s major financial risk exposures. 
ABM’s Compensation Committee, comprised of Thomas M. Gartland (Chair), Linda 
Chavez, Lauralee E. Martin, and Filippo Passerini, has responsibility for providing 
direction to the company in the area of executive compensation  and monitors 
potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s compensation programs.
ABM’s Governance Committee, comprised of Linda Chavez (Chair), J. Philip 
Ferguson, Thomas M. Gartland, and Sudhakar Kesavan, is responsible for 
identifying qualified candidates for membership on the Board and for developing 
and recommending to the Board corporate governance principles and policies. 
ABM’s Strategy and Enterprise Risk Committee, comprised of Filippo Passerini 
(Chair), Anthony G. Fernandes, Art A. Garcia, and Winifred M. Webb, is responsible 
for oversight with respect to strategy development and strategy implementation and the Company’s overall enterprise risk management program, including risks 
relating to operations. 
More information about ABM’s governance structure can be found in ABM’s 
2018 Proxy Statement, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 13, 2019. Additional information concerning our Board 
and governance can also be found at Investor.ABM.com.
ABM’s Corporate Sustainability Manager oversees the company’s sustainability 
strategy and ensures the embedding of sustainability aspects into the day to 
day operations of the business. The Corporate Sustainability Manager reports 
directly to the Chief Communications Officer. Bi-weekly meetings are held in 
order to ensure the implementation of the strategy, review the implementation of 
sustainability initiatives and track metrics evolution. Further, sustainability-related 
results are presented to top management during the quarterly business reviews. 
102-40 - List of Stakeholder Groups
ABM identifies our stakeholders as our investors, clients, team members, vendor 
partners, distributors, and the communities in which we serve. 
102-41 - Collective Bargaining Agreements
ABM is party to approximately 250 active collective bargaining agreements 
across the U.S, with approximately 34% of team members covered by collective 
bargaining agreements. These collective bargaining agreements are periodically 
renegotiated through bargaining with labor representatives. They also set 
terms for wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment. For 
single-site collective bargaining agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor 
representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM frequently bargains in a group 
of employers who are covered by the same agreement.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    15
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-42 - Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders
ABM Key stakeholders are identified as audiences who have some interest or 
impact on the business both through direct and indirect means.
During 2018, ABM performed an update of its materiality analysis in order to 
ensure the alignment of the material topics with the transformation process 
coming from the 2020 vision and with the new acquisitions that the company 
made during the previous years.
Based on this, the company increased its reach of external and internal 
stakeholders including more team members from different service levels and top 
vendors and clients in order to ensure the alignment.
102-43 - Approach to Stakeholder Engagement
ABM’s services are generally provided at our clients’ locations and are often an 
integral part of our clients’ sustainability related initiatives (e.g., cleaning, facility 
maintenance, energy conservation, safety, etc.). Therefore, our approach to 
sustainability begins within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. 
Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion within our clients’ supply 
chain. While not a carbon intensive company, the decision to identify and track 
our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol toolsets and thinking 
of our company’s role, risks and potential gains in relation to climate change 
brought sustainability integration out of merely a service element and into a 
business component. Our team members continue to be the driving force behind everything we do at 
ABM, and we seek to deliver value for all our stakeholders each day. Finally, ABM 
feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate responsibly both for and within the 
communities in which we operate and serve. 
102-44 - Key Topics and Concerns Raised
ABM sought feedback from major stakeholders, including various team members, 
clients and vendor partners through a Materiality Survey, compiled by CSE. More 
than 95 different stakeholders were interviewed through surveys that aimed 
to rate the importance of the different material topics from low to high. This 
assessment allows ABM to understand which aspects of sustainability our key 
stakeholders feel we should be concentrating our efforts on.
Our executives and team members considered as highly important topics like 
client’s health and safety, equal remuneration for men and women, diversity and 
equal opportunity and economic performance. Further, or clients considered as 
highly important customer privacy, employment practices, and environmental 
performance. Finally, our vendors considered as important our economic 
performance, anti-corruption practices and employment practices among others.
T o ensure that ABM responds to the concerns of each stakeholder group, ABM 
has put in place procedures like anti-harassment and Code of Ethics trainings, 
increased its efforts to ensure the safety of our team members and clients, 
expanded training programs for team members, and is focused on meeting all 
the requirements to ensure that team members have safe and appropriate 
working conditions.
2018’s revised materiality assessment included topics on security practices and 
materials. Other topics that are no longer considered as the most material ones 
are still included in the sustainability report.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    16
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-45 - Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated subsidiaries as of the fiscal year-
end in Exhibit 21.1 to ABM’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with 
the SEC on December 21, 2018.
102-46 - Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries
❚ Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Our approach to sustainability is based upon addressing known and perceived 
stakeholder needs. With ABM’s primary stakeholders being investors, clients, 
team members, vendor partners, shareholders and the communities in 
which we serve, people drive our strategy, and understanding the varied and 
sometimes intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to the success of 
ABM’s sustainability program. 
Readers can send feedback, comments or questions regarding our sustainability 
plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at sustainability@
abm.com. We welcome your insights on how we can meet our shared commitment 
to a sustainable world.❚ Report Parameters 
This is ABM’s ninth Sustainability Report and covers activities related to our 
2018 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2018. The development of this report 
evolved from various discussions with key stakeholders as well as a materiality 
assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index 
of the GRI indicators and metrics is provided on page 35, linking the applicable 
topics with the corresponding page(s). For the seventh year in a row, we 
submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an 
independent audit assessment.
Additional information about the company can be found at www.abm.com 
and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and 
can be accessed at the “Investors” section of the company website. The ABM 
Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services 
provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America and various 
international locations. The report is designed to introduce ABM, our services, 
and organizational structure. We identify our key impacts, risks and opportunities 
relating to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders 
for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our 
governance for ensuring we perform with the utmost integrity on behalf of our 
stakeholders. Critical to our sustainability platform are:Year Economic Environmental Labor Practices and Decent Work Human Rights Society Product Responsibility
2018 •  Economic 
Performance•  Compliance
•  Materials•  Employment
•  Occupational Health & Safety
•  Trained and Education
•  Diversity and Equal Opportunity
•  Equal Remuneration for Women and Men•  Non discrimination
•  Security practices•  Anti-corruption
•  Compliance•  Customer Privacy
•  Customer Health and Safety
•  Compliance
2017 •  Economic 
Performance
•  Procurement 
practices•  Compliance •  Employment
•  Occupational
•  Health & Safety
•  Training and Education
•  Diversity and Equal Opportunity
•  Equal Remuneration for Women and Men•  Non-discrimination •  Anti-corruption
•  Anti-Competitive Behavior
•  Compliance•  Customer Privacy
•  Customer Health and Safety
•  ComplianceCORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    17
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
• Sustainability in ABM Operations
• Sustainability in ABM Services
• Our People
• Social Responsibility 
Materials issuesBoundaries Limitations
Within the 
OrganizationOutside the 
OrganizationWithin the 
OrganizationOutside the 
Organization
Economic 
performanceABM Industries 
IncorporatedShareholders
The ABM Corporate Sustainability 
Report covers the corporate activities 
and services provided by ABM and its 
subsidiaries throughout North America 
and various international locations.Anti-corruptionABM Industries 
IncorporatedClients, team 
members, 
shareholders, local 
communities
MaterialsABM Industries 
IncorporatedClients, local 
communities
EmploymentABM Industries 
IncorporatedT eam members
Occupational 
health and safetyABM Industries 
IncorporatedT eam members
Training and 
educationABM Industries 
IncorporateT eam members
Diversity and equal 
opportunity (Equal 
Remuneration)ABM Industries 
IncorporateT eam members
Non-
discriminationABM Industries 
IncorporateT eam members
Security PracticesABM Industries 
IncorporateT eam members
Customer health 
and safetyABM Industries 
IncorporateClients
Customer privacyABM Industries 
IncorporateClients
Socioeconomic 
ComplianceABM Industries 
IncorporateClients, team 
members, 
shareholders, local 
communities102-47 - List of Material Topics
For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is considered relevant based on ABM 
stakeholders’ feedback as well as our own perspective. 
102-48 - Restatements of Information
None.High
Equal 
Renumeration 
for Women 
and Men
Environmental 
ComplianceSecurity 
PracticesTraining & 
Education
Market Presence
Procurement 
PracticesLocal 
Communities
Supplier Social 
AssessmentEnergy
EmissionsCustomer Health
& Safety
Equal 
RemunerationMaterials
Occupational 
Health & SafetyDiversity &
Equal 
Opportunity
Non-
discriminationAnti-corruption
Customer Health 
& Safety
Market Presence Employment
Indirect 
Economic 
ImpactsEﬄuents & 
WasteMarketing & 
LabelingSocioeconomic 
Compliance
High Level of ABM Concern - Signiﬁcance of ImpactsInﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessments & DecisionsSupplier 
Environmental 
Assessment
Labor/
Management 
RelationsWater
Anti-competitive 
BehaviorCORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    18
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-49 - Changes in Reporting
The U.S. Economic Labor Outlook continues to demonstrate positive underlying 
fundamentals, with expanding gross domestic product growth and improving 
employment conditions, which have led to historically low levels of both 
unemployment and underemployment across the country. These factors have 
contributed to the lower availability of qualified labor for our business and higher 
turnover in certain markets, as our team members have more job opportunities 
both inside and outside our industry. This in turn has caused, and may continue to 
cause, higher labor and related personnel costs. United States T ax Reform The 
T ax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “T ax Act”), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, 
represents the most significant overhaul of the U.S. tax code in more than 30 
years. Among other provisions, the T ax Act provides for a reduction of the federal 
corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a “transition tax” to be levied 
on the deemed repatriation of indefinitely reinvested earnings of international 
subsidiaries. Since we have an October 31 fiscal year end, the lower corporate 
income tax rate was phased in, resulting in a U.S. statutory federal rate of 23.3% 
for fiscal 2018 and 21% for subsequent fiscal years. Other provisions under the 
T ax Act become effective for us in fiscal 2019, including limitations on deductibility 
of interest and executive compensation, as well as a new minimum tax on Global 
Intangible Low-T axed Income (“GIL TI”). As a result, in 2019 we expect our effective 
tax rate to increase from the 2018 rate. The impact of the T ax Act, as summarized 
below for the year ended October 31, 2018, is further described in Note 17, “Income 
T axes, ” in the Financial Statements. Y ear Ended (in millions) October 31, 2018 
Remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities $ 27.7 Transition tax 
on non-U.S. subsidiaries’ earnings (4.5) T otal impact of the T ax Act on the benefit 
for income taxes $ 23.2. Due to the complexities of implementing the provisions 
of the T ax Act, the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued 
Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”), which provides guidance on accounting 
for tax effects of the T ax Act and permits a measurement period not to exceed one 
year from the enactment date for companies to complete the required analyses and accounting. As permitted under SAB 118, the adjustments we recorded due 
to the T ax Act, including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities 
and the transition tax, were based on reasonable estimates and were considered 
provisional during the year. As of October 31, 2018, the one-time impact of the 
change in tax rate on our deferred tax assets and liabilities is complete. Additionally, 
we have completed our assessment of GIL TI and have established a policy to 
account for this tax on a period basis beginning in fiscal year 2019. We have also 
completed our analysis of the one-time transition tax and recorded the impact. 
Acquisition of GCA during 2017 On September 1, 2017 (the “ Acquisition Date”), we 
acquired GCA, a provider of integrated facility services to educational institutions 
and commercial facilities, for approximately $1.3 billion, consisting of $837.5 million 
in cash (revised during the second quarter of 2018 to reflect a post-closing purchase 
price adjustment related to a net working capital settlement) and approximately 9.4 
million shares of ABM common stock with a fair value of $421.3 million at closing. 
Refer to Note 3, “ Acquisitions, ” in the Financial Statements for more information 
on this transaction. Our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and 
statements of cash flows include GCA ’s results of operations in 2018, but exclude 
GCA ’s results of operations in the comparative years prior to the Acquisition Date. 
During the year ended October 31, 2018, we recognized total revenue from GCA of 
$1.0 billion, including incremental revenues of $855.7 million.
102-50 - Reporting Period
Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our 2018 fiscal year which ended 
October 31, 2018. 
102-51 - Date of Most Recent Report
Fiscal 2017 (November 1, 2016 through October 31, 2017)CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    19
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
102-52 - Reporting Cycle
Annual
102-53 - Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report
Readers can send feedback, comments or questions regarding our sustainability 
plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communication team at sustainability@
abm.com. 
102-54 - Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI Standards
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.102-56 - External Assurance
For the eighth year in a row, we submitted our report to the Centre for 
Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment.
201-1 - Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed
Financial information can found in ABM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    20
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
201-2 -  Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities Due to 
Climate Change
Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating 
discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the 
protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and 
the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and 
hazardous substances. These laws generally have the effect of increasing costs 
and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, 
from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at some of our 
locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying 
with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United 
States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our 
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
❚ Risks by regulation changes
Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of ImpactEstimated Financial 
ImplicationsManagement Method Cost of Management
Changes in tax and regulation burdens could 
add additional costs to ABM.Increased 
operational costDirect About as likely as not LowDifficult to quantify 
however the cost impacts 
are anticipated to be 
relatively minor.Reviewed by management 
and included within 
our Enterprise Risk 
Management.No current costs 
associated with managing 
this risk at this time
Changes in tax and regulation burdens could 
add additional costs to clients and indirectly 
affect ABM due to client budgetary 
constraints.Reduced demand for 
goods/servicesIndirect (Client) About as likely as not Low-mediumDifficult to quantify the 
client’s response and 
capability to absorb these 
changes.Reviewed by management 
and included within 
our Enterprise Risk 
Management.No current costs 
associated with managing 
this risk at this time
❚ Risks by climate-related developments
Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact
Customers whose business model is moderately to heavily affected by climate change and/or 
climate change regulation are likely to be influenced by ABM’s carbon performance.Reduced demand for goods/services Direct Unlikely Low-medium
Radical shifts in customer team member density within existing space can dramatically affect 
our ability to service an area with the existing labor. These changes may occur within the next 
five years as companies that are significantly affected by carbon regulation use methods to 
consolidate people, resources and energy consumption in condensed areas.Other: The primary driver of our costs are labor dollars, 
increases in density can change our costs to maintain 
the area at the same service level prior to the density 
changesDirect About as likely as not MediumCORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    21
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
❚ Opportunities by regulation changes
Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact
Our Facility Solutions Group has opportunities to increase our involvement in assisting clients 
with calculating and reporting their emissions related to building operations.Increased demand for existing products/services Indirect (Client) Likely Medium
Our Facility Solutions Group has opportunities to assist clients with auditing and improving upon 
energy consumption, provisioning and building automation upgrades to meet new regulations 
and standards.New products/business services Indirect (Client) Likely Medium
❚ Opportunities by climate-related developments
Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact
Customers currently are looking for facility services companies that understand the processes and importance 
of fostering sustainability and minimizing environmental impact. ABM actively works with its customers on 
a wide range of these efforts, from energy reduction to LEED certification. ABM can provide these services 
across our service geographies, in the U.S., Canada and United Kingdom. As customers embrace and implement 
various changes within their operating model due to climate change and look for facility service companies that 
understand their role and impact around these changes, ABM stands to maintain as well as gain market share by 
proactively offering sustainable service offerings within all our Industry Groups as well as “walking the talk” within 
our own corporate operations.Increased demand for existing 
products/servicesDirect More likely than not Medium
201-3 - Defined Benefit Plan Obligations and Other Retirement Plans
❚ Plan Liabilities
ABM’s Plan Liability is $3,543,000 and Assets are $1,204,000. We also have 
$5.0M for Life Insurance plan, but it is covered annually by including those team 
members in our general Life Insurance program.
❚ 401(k) Eligibility
Eligible team members can participate in the plan on the first of the month 
following completion of 6 months of qualifying service. Eligible team members 
are regular, active and full time and part time team members who are not covered 
by a CBA that excludes them from participation. 
A rehired team member who previously qualified for the ABM 401(k) T eam 
member Savings Plan will qualify immediately upon rehire. ❚ Company Match
ABM will match 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of the eligible 
compensation that an team member contributes. T o receive the maximum 
company, match of 4%, an team member must contribute 5% of her eligible 
compensation.
The number of participants varies during the year; the current number of 
participants represents 18% of the eligible population.
201-4 - Financial Assistance Received from Government
ABM does not receive significant financial assistance from any host government.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    22
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
204-1 - Proportion of Spending on Local Suppliers
In 2018, ABM’s local network of 40+ strategically positioned suppliers utilized 
over 100 distribution centers to distribute products to significant locations of 
operations. ABM defines a local geography to be within a maximum 100-mile 
radius of an ABM distribution center. 
ABM has a broad customer base and defines a significant location of operation 
as a metropolitan area or a location in excess of 500,000 square feet 
(manufacturing, industrial, etc.). In 2018 ~85% of ABM’s significant locations 
budget was distributed locally. 
205-2 -  Communication and Training About Anti-Corruption Policies and 
Procedures Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures Generated 
and Distributed
ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Harassment Training are 
required for all staff and management team members – our Code of Business 
Conduct was updated in FY 2017 and published in November 2017. The Code of 
Business Conduct training tool also has been modified and updated to include 
questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, 
political contributions, personal relationships, information systems usage and the 
overall ethical environment at ABM.
COBC - US 7400 Complete
Anti-Harassment - US 7046 Complete
COBC - UK 595 Complete
Anti-Harassment - UK Program Not Offered206-1 -  Legal Actions for Anti-Competitive Behavior, Anti-Trust and 
Monopoly Practices
A discussion of certain legal actions relating to fiscal year 2018 can be 
found in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
October 31, 2018.
301-3 - Reclaimed Products and Their Packaging Materials
From Nov. 2017 through Oct. 2018, ABM securely shredded and recycled 72.284 
short (US) ton(s) (144,568.813 pounds) of paper in 2018, which resulted in the 
below estimated environmental benefits – ABM works with Iron Mountain to 
accumulate this data.
• Carbon Footprint: 104,667.232 lbs. of CO2 emissions avoided = 10.12 cars off 
the road per year
• Landfill Space: 361.420 Cubic Y ards of landfill space conserved
• Trees: 1,212.926 trees preserved
• Energy: 163,361.840 kWh of electricity saved = 433.704 years of energy 
demand for a laptop
• Water: 1,981,376.724 Gallons of water saved = 216.852 pools full of water 
savedCORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    23
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
302-1 - Energy Consumption with the Organization
Source MWh
2018 2017 2016
Electricity (MWh) 12,267 14,885 14,800
Motor Gasoline N/A 133,822 179,102
Diesel N/A 14,519 13,235
Biogasoline N/A 159 67
Natural Gas 5,488 5,468 5,910
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(Revised Edition) and relevant tools were used in these calculations.
Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through our annual survey. 
Office locations in which the utilities are included in common area maintenance 
(CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size 
and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle and by 
model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific 
vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our 
primary vehicle type within the ABM fleet.
Actual data was gathered through our online survey when available. For offices 
that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within CAM 
charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same 
region or previous year data (if available).305-1 - Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions
ABM’s direct Scope 1 GHG Emissions from 2018 and 2017 are listed in the 
below table:
Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1 CO2 - e To n n e s 45,833 39,377 4 7, 7 8 0
Scope 1 - Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through a survey. 
Offices in which the utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon 
similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data 
of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases 
not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty 
Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. The Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) and 
relevant tools were used in these calculations.
305-2 - Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions
ABM’s indirect Scope 2 GHG Emissions from 2018 and 2017 are listed in the 
below table:
Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016
Scope 2 CO2 - e To n n e s 6,536 8,295 7, 8 9 6
Scope 2 - Actual electricity data was gathered through our online survey when 
available. For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity is 
included within CAM charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized 
offices of the same region or previous year data (if available). The Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) 
and relevant tools were used in these calculations.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    24
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
305-3 - Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions
ABM’s indirect Scope 3 GHG Emissions from 2018, 2017 and 2016 are listed in the 
below table:
❚ Emissions
Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016
Scope 3 CO2 - e To n n e s 39,458 36,795 33,910
Scope 3 - T eam member Air Travel Miles, by passenger mile, by flight length <300, 
300 - 1000, >1000 miles acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was 
the mileage of aviation service fleet vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG 
Protocol Transport tool. The actual gallons used was not able to be tracked as 
client supplies the fuel at their own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via 
percentage of vehicle types.
305-4 - GHG Emissions Intensity
Intensity figureMetric numerator (Gross global 
combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions)Metric denominatorMetric denominator: 
Unit totalScope 2 figure used % change from previous yearDirection of 
change from 
previous year
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
0.55 0.625 metric tonnes CO2efull time equivalent 
(FTE) team member95723.83 75035.34 Location based 13.39 5.36 Decrease
0.000264 0.000305 metric tonnes CO2e until hour worked 52689.3 1 5 6 0 7 3 9 7. 3 Location based 13.44 6.27 Decrease305-5 - Reduction of GHG Emissions
ABM is seeking to reduce its metric tons of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% 
from our 2011-year baseline by 2020. The types of energy included in the 
reductions include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and natural gas used at 
our office locations.
Scope% of 
emissions 
in scope% 
reduction 
from base 
yearMetricBase 
yearNormalized 
base year 
emissions 
covered by 
targetTarget
 year
S co p e 1+2 
(location 
based)100% 15%Metric tonnes 
CO2e per unit 
FTE team 
member2011 58,120.15 2020
% complete (time) % complete (emissions or renewable energy)
2018 2017
100%
62% 66%CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    25
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
307-1 - Non-Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations
Disclosure relating to regulatory environment and environmental compliance 
can be found in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2017 fiscal year 
ending October 31, 2018.308-1 - New Suppliers Screened Using Environmental Criteria
As part of ABM’s network of 40+ strategic supply partnerships, four were added 
in 2017 (Karcher, Heritage Bag, Essity/T ork, Spartan Chemical). ABM requires 
sustainability considerations in order to do business with ABM.
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    26
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
401-1 - New Team member Hires and Team member Turnover
❚ ABM Hires/Re-Hires (11/1/2017 - 10/31/2018)
Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
ABS - Technical 
Solutions US 303 433  299 413  4 20  263 358  40 75  67 79  165 239  71 115 0  95 144  204 289  4 0
AVI - Aviation  16,332 18,783  15,761 18,044  571 739  7,416 8,284  8,916 10,499  8,942 10,441  5,158 5,879  2,232 2,463 0  14,726 1 7, 3 3 8  1,302 1,309  304 136
BNI - Business & 
Industry 31,713 39,682  18,437 24,565  13,276 15,117  16,057 20,719  15,656 18,963  11,157 13,833  13,310 1 7, 0 6 1  7,24 6 8,788 0 12  23,132 29,855  5,830 7,1 9 9  2,751 2,616
COO - Commercial 
Ops HQ 4 5  4 5  -   0  3 3  1 2  2 0  2 2  -   3 0  2 0  1 5  1 0
CSA - Corporate  215 374  198 343  17 31  88 140  127 234  69 99  115 204  31 71 0  121 243  76 125  18 6
EDU - Education  18,699 21,575  15,074 16,7 74  3,625 4,801  7,138 8,314  11,561 13,261  5,623 6,820  7,310 8,443  5,766 6,312 0  11,589 13,710  4,453 3,976  2,657 3,889
HLC - Healthcare  4,036 3,921  2,651 2,400  1,385 1,521  1,836 1,881  2,200 2,040  1,606 1,586  1,483 1,455  947 880 0  2,644 2,701  1,278 918  114 302
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing 16,104 7, 7 5 3  13,658 6,865  2,446 888  7,928 3,661  8,176 4,092  5,974 2,875  6,881 3,155  3,249 1,723 0  9,740 4,653  4,210 1,621  2,154 1,479
 87,4 06 92,526  66,082 69,409  21,324 23,117  40,729 43,360  46,677 49,166  33,440 35,733  34,424 36,438  19,542 20,355 0 12  62,049 68,644  17,354 15,442  8,003 8,428
Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
ABS - Technical 
Solutions US 303 433 99% 95% 1% 5% 87% 83% 13% 17% 22% 18% 54% 55% 23% 27% 0% 0% 31% 33% 67% 67% 1% 0%
AVI - Aviation  16,332 18,783 97% 96% 3% 4% 45% 44% 55% 56% 55% 56% 32% 31% 14% 13% 0% 0% 90% 92% 8% 7% 2% 1%
BNI - Business & 
Industry 31,713 39,682 58% 62% 42% 38% 51% 52% 49% 48% 35% 35% 42% 43% 23% 22% 0% 0% 73% 75% 18% 18% 9% 7%
COO - Commercial 
Ops HQ 4 5 100% 100% 0% 0% 75% 60% 25% 40% 50% 0% 50% 40% 0% 60% 0% 0% 50% 0% 25% 100% 25% 0%
CSA - Corporate  215 374 92% 92% 8% 8% 41% 37% 59% 63% 32% 26% 53% 55% 14% 19% 0% 0% 56% 65% 35% 33% 8% 2%
EDU - Education  18,699 21,575 81% 78% 19% 22% 38% 39% 62% 61% 30% 32% 39% 39% 31% 29% 0% 0% 62% 64% 24% 18% 14% 18%
HLC - Healthcare  4,036 3,921 66% 61% 34% 39% 45% 48% 55% 52% 40% 40% 37% 37% 23% 22% 0% 0% 66% 69% 32% 23% 3% 8%
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing 16,104 7, 7 5 3 85% 89% 15% 11% 49% 47% 51% 53% 37% 37% 43% 41% 20% 22% 0% 0% 60% 60% 26% 21% 13% 19%
 87,4 06 92,526 76% 75% 24% 25% 47% 47% 53% 53% 38% 39% 39% 39% 22% 22% 0% 0% 71% 74% 20% 17% 9% 9%CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    27
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
❚ ABM Terminations/Separations (11/1/2017 - 10/31/2018)
Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
ABS - Technical 
Solutions US 272 311  264 290  8 21  235 278  37 33  39 37  158 183  75 91 0  88 96  184 215  -   0
AVI - Aviation  17,120 18,771  16,447 1 7, 7 3 0  673 1,041  7,753 8,471  9,367 10,300  9,048 10,371  5,457 5,710  2,615 2,690 0  15,432 1 7, 2 5 7  1,496 1,364  192 150
BNI - Business & 
Industry 29,557 42,540  17,86 1 25,210  11,696 1 7, 3 3 0  15,283 22,538  14,274 20,002  9,010 13,315  12,207 18,287  8,340 10,938 0 4  21,380 32,212  6,137 8,152  2,040 2,172
COO - Commercial 
Ops HQ 8 1  8 1  -   0  7 0  1 1  1 0  2 0  5 1 0  3 0  5 1  -   0
CSA - Corporate  259 293  240 270  19 23  100 109  159 184  51 56  136 170  72 67 0  141 184  86 102  32 7
EDU - Education  16,713 19,848  12,901 15,391  3,812 4,457  6,714 8,070  9,999 11,778  4,724 6,324  6,404 7, 9 2 6  5,585 5,598 0  10,230 12,468  3,916 3,870  2,567 3,510
HLC - Healthcare  3,959 4,267  2,563 2,494  1,396 1,773  1,925 2,236  2,034 2,031  1,522 1,767  1,447 1,541  990 959 0  2,629 2,862  1,212 1,194  118 211
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing 14,735 8,108  12,330 6,980  2,405 1,128  7,432 4,023  7,303 4,085  5,189 2,715  6,198 3,368  3,348 2,025 0  8,921 5,044  3,857 1,603  1,957 1,461
 82,623 94,143  62,614 68,369  20,009 25,7 74  39,449 45,727  43,174 48,416  29,584 34,587  32,009 3 7,1 8 6  21,030 22,370 0 4  58,824 70,125  16,893 16,503  6,906 7, 5 1 1
Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
ABS - Technical 
Solutions US272 311 97% 93% 3% 7% 86% 89% 14% 11% 14% 12% 58% 59% 28% 29% 0 0% 32% 31% 68% 69% 0% 0%
AVI - Aviation 17120 18,771 96% 94% 4% 6% 45% 45% 55% 55% 53% 55% 32% 30% 15% 14% 0 0% 90% 92% 9% 7% 1% 1%
BNI - Business & 
Industry29,557 42,540 60% 59% 40% 41% 52% 53% 48% 47% 30% 31% 41% 43% 28% 26% 0 0% 72% 76% 21% 19% 7% 5%
COO - Commercial 
Ops HQ8 1 100% 100% 0% 0% 88% 0% 13% 100% 13% 0% 25% 0% 63% 100% 0 0% 38% 0% 63% 100% 0% 0%
CSA - Corporate 259 293 93% 92% 7% 8% 39% 37% 61% 63% 20% 19% 53% 58% 28% 23% 0 0% 54% 63% 33% 35% 12% 2%
EDU - Education 16,713 19,848 77% 78% 23% 22% 40% 41% 60% 59% 28% 32% 38% 40% 33% 28% 0 0% 61% 63% 23% 19% 15% 18%
HLC - Healthcare 3,959 4,267 65% 58% 35% 42% 49% 52% 51% 48% 38% 41% 37% 36% 25% 22% 0 0% 66% 67% 31% 28% 3% 5%
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing14735 8,108 84% 86% 16% 14% 50% 50% 50% 50% 35% 33% 42% 42% 23% 25% 0 0% 61% 62% 26% 20% 13% 18%
82623 94,143 76% 73% 24% 27% 48% 49% 52% 51% 36% 37% 39% 39% 25% 24% 0 0% 71% 74% 20% 18% 8% 8%CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    28
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
401-2 -  Benefits Provided to Full-Time Team members Not Provided to 
Temporary or Part-Time Team members
❚ ABM Team member Benefits
ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to meet the diverse needs of our 
full-time team members. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life 
and disability and a 401(k) plan. 
Note: Service Worker and union workers’ benefits are provided consistent with 
their employment and/or client contract. 
❚ Serious Disease Prevention
Through our health plan partners, we offer the following for covered team 
members and their families:
• Disease management programs which assist members in the management 
of their chronic medical conditions such as coronary artery disease, diabetes 
and congestive heart failure
• Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks and support 
to members requiring transplant services
• Health and Wellness coaching programs such as smoking cessation. Includes 
monetary incentive to complete a Health Risk Assessment.
• Complex case management services, which assist and coordinate the care of 
members with serious and complex medical issues.
• A 24-hour nurse line that assists with non-medical emergencies
Here are some additional programs that we continue to employ:
• Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program
• Maternity Support
• Wellness coaching
• Care for diabetes
• Legal preparation course for will assistance403-2 - Types of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost 
Days, and Absenteeism, and Number of Work-Related Fatalities
Case Classification
DeathDays Away 
From WorkJob Transfer or 
RestrictionOther 
Recordable 
CasesGrand Total
Group Super RegionClaimant 
Gender2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
B & IBNI - CentralFemale - - 63 54 59 64 68 62 190 180
Male - - 28 56 43 61 50 38 121 155
BNI -Central Total - - 91 110 102 125 118 100 311 335
BNI - GLNEFemale - - 113 114 33 36 49 80 195 230
Male - - 93 92 24 19 44 83 161 194
BNI - GLNE Total - - 206 206 57 55 93 163 356 424
BNI - Sports 
& EntFemale - - 6 16 13 11 10 11 29 38
Male - - 6 4 10 5 5 9 21 18
BNI - Sports & Ent Total - - 12 20 23 16 15 20 50 56
BNI - WestFemale - - 113 101 93 125 187 196 393 422
Male - - 106 126 76 87 127 164 309 377
BNI - West Total - - 219 227 169 212 314 360 702 799
BNI - Vehicle 
ServicesFemale - - 9 - 29 - 23 29 61 29
Male - - 24 - 14 - 22 46 60 46
BNI - Vehicle Services - - 33 - 43 - 45 75 121 75
BNI - Group OHFemale - - - - - 1 - 1 -
Male - - - - - 1 - 1 -
BNI - Group OH Total - - - - - 2 - 2 -
AviationAVI - Ops 1Female - - 77 45 98 95 51 86 226 226
Male - - 49 49 46 36 54 69 149 146
AVI - Ops 1 Total - - 126 86 144 131 105 155 375 372
AVI - Ops 2Female - - 99 67 50 119 23 65 172 251
Male - - 41 56 42 59 22 44 105 159
AVI - Ops 2 Total - - 140 123 92 178 45 109 277 410
AVI - Ops 3Female 1 - 8 - 42 - 14 - 65 -
Male - - 4 - 15 - 7 - 26 -
AVI - Ops 3 Total 1 - 12 - 57 - 21 - 91 -CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    29
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
Case Classification
DeathDays Away 
From WorkJob Transfer or 
RestrictionOther 
Recordable 
CasesGrand Total
Group Super RegionClaimant 
Gender2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
EducationEDU - 
Northeast / 
MidwestFemale - - 48 25 64 10 37 73 149 108
Male - - 49 30 42 7 31 74 122 111
EDU - Northeast / Midwest 
Total- - 97 55 106 17 68 147 271 219
EDU - WestFemale - - 39 24 49 25 71 96 159 145
Male - - 12 2 20 8 29 42 61 52
EDU - West Total - - 51 26 69 33 100 138 220 197
EDU 
-SoutheastFemale - - 62 21 72 15 56 133 190 169
Male - - 45 18 54 6 30 89 129 113
EDU - Southeast Total - - 107 39 126 21 86 222 319 282
HealthcareHLC - Non - 
AcuteFemale - - 39 25 29 11 68 31 136 67
Male - - 12 9 6 1 18 13 36 23
HLC - Non - Acute Total - - 51 34 35 12 86 44 172 90
HLC - Patient 
ExpFemale - - 10 15 27 12 13 21 50 48
Male - - 25 24 21 17 15 15 61 56
HLC - Patient Exp Total - - 35 39 48 29 28 36 111 104
HLC - Tech Serv Male - - - - - 1 4 3 4 4
HLC - Tech Serv Total - - - - - 1 4 3 4 4
HLC - Group OH Male - - - - - - 1 - 1 -
HLC - Group OH Total - - - - - - 1 - 1 -Case Classification
DeathDays Away 
From WorkJob Transfer or 
RestrictionOther 
Recordable 
CasesGrand Total
Group Super RegionClaimant 
Gender2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
T & MTCM - Group 
OHFemale - - - - - 1 1 1 1 2
Male - - - - 1 3 - 1 1 4
TCM - Group OH Total - - - - 1 4 1 2 2 6
TCM - West / 
PacNWFemale - - 16 13 28 10 38 52 82 75
Male - - 15 14 21 2 15 17 51 33
TCM - West / PacNW Total - - 31 27 49 12 53 69 133 108
TCM 
-Southeast 
& IFSFemale - - 18 29 34 30 19 42 71 101
Male - - 38 33 27 34 21 56 86 123
TCM - Southeast & IFS Total - - 56 62 61 64 40 98 157 224
TCM - CentralFemale - - 24 12 16 11 13 26 53 49
Male - - 17 7 17 14 13 12 47 33
TCM - Central Total - - 41 19 33 25 26 38 100 82
TCM - So West / 
MT & NuclearFemale - - 18 1 22 13 22 32 62 46
Male - - 19 3 3 9 30 30 52 42
TCM - So West / MT & Nuclear 
Total- - 37 4 25 22 52 62 114 88
TCM - 
NortheastFemale - - 18 6 14 1 9 34 41 41
Male - - 20 4 13 2 13 25 46 31
TCM - Northeast Total - - 38 10 27 3 22 59 87 72
Technical
Solutions USABS - Bldg 
Solutions 
(ABS)Female - - - - - - 1 - 1 -
Male - - 10 6 15 3 2 9 27 18
ABS - Bldg Solutions (ABS) 
Total- - 10 6 15 3 3 9 28 18
ABS - Elec 
Power Sol 
(APS)Male - 1 - 2 2 1 2 1 4 5
ABS - Elec Power Sol (APS) 
Total- 1 - 2 2 1 2 1 4 5
ABS - Elec Sol 
(AESL)Male - - - 1 3 3 2 - 5 4
ABS - Elec Sol (AESL) Total - - - 1 3 3 2 - 5 4
CorpCSA - Legal 
Summary- - - - - - 1 2 1 2
CSA - HR 
/ Benefits 
Summary- - - - - 1 2 1 2 2
Grand Total 1 1 1,393 1,101 1,287 969 1,336 1,931 4,017 4,002CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    30
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
Our OSHA rates were as follows:
TRC DAFW DART
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
3.3 3.52 0.63 0.72 1.28 1.74
404-1 - Average Hours of Training Per Year Per Team member
Approximately 15 hours of training are devoted to 10% of ABM leadership 
and management level team members while 90% of ABM service level team 
members devote 35 hours on average to training annually. T eam members are 
provided awareness training monthly in addition to regulatory-related training as 
pertains to their job. 
TRCHours of Training Scope per Team member
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
ABM Leadership and 
Management Level15 12 10 10% 10% 25%
Service Level 35 35 25 90% 90% 80%
404-2 - Programs for Upgrading Team member Skills and Transition 
Assistance Programs
V arious learning and development programs at ABM include annual 
harassment prevention training, regional supervisor training, ethics training, 
and wage and hour training. T echnical training for HV AC and electrical field 
team members range from an additional 16-24 hours annually.
All ABM management level team members are eligible to participate in the 
goal setting process and attend corporate sponsored training courses in 
addition to courses offered at the divisional level nationwide emphasizing the engagement of team members, customer satisfaction and driving 
results. In 2017, a manager development program rolled out, and ongoing 
training is available to all people leaders.  In 2018 additional blending 
learning opportunities became available for ABM in the areas of:
• Using coaching as a leadership style
• Customer service
• Communicating & listening
• Time management & delegation
• Human resource fundamentals 
In 2018 over 8,000 courses in these areas were completed.
As a company overall, more than 165,000 training courses were completed 
in 2018 outside of on the job training/operational training. 
404-3 - Percentage of Team members Receiving Regular Performance 
and Career Development Reviews
ABM is committed to fostering an environment in which each team member and 
manager partner to build a trusting and respectful relationship in which feedback 
and coaching are candid and frequent; opportunities for development that align 
with the team member’s goals, strengths, and career interests are provided; and 
outstanding performance, high potential and great leadership are rewarded.
Building this relationship is the essence of ABM’s performance and development 
process, referred to as GPS – Grow. Perform. Succeed! At the center of this 
relationship between team member and manager are, at a minimum, quarterly 
conversations – constructive, friendly and continuous two-way conversations 
about performance, development and career growth.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    31
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
405-1 - Diversity of Governance Bodies and Team members
Total Male Female
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 12 10 9 67% 70% 66% 33% 30% 34%
Service 91,101 128,127 1 0 7, 4 4 6 51% 52% 55% 49% 48% 45%
Staff & 
Management5,897 7, 7 6 5 7, 2 1 2 58% 59% 61% 42% 41% 39%
Age <30 Age 30-50 Age >50
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 0 0% 0 0 0% 0% 100% 100% 100%
Service 22% 20% 19% 42% 42% 52% 36% 38% 39%
Staff & 
Management9% 9% 23% 52% 52% 42% 39% 39% 35%
Minority White Not Specified
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Board 33% 40% - 67% 60% - 0% 0% -
Service 79% 73% - 18% 17% - 3% 10% -
Staff & 
Management51% 50% - 48% 48% - 1% 2% -
405-2 - Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men
ABM is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer 
operating in compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, Title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act, as amended, and The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended. Our 
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, which states ABM’s zero tolerance policy 
toward discrimination, is signed and supported by President and Chief Executive 
Officer Scott Salmirs and applies to “all employment practices, including 
recruitment, hiring, promotion, layoff or termination, compensation and training 
programs. ” We are committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
and status as a protected veteran, among other characteristics.
ABM is fully committed to equality. However, circumstances prevent us from 
providing our report at this time. Specifically, ABM has just completed Phase 
I of a multi-phase reorganization that, given the size of our organization, is 
anticipated to take several years to complete. (We have approximately 100,000 
team members and operations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of 
Columbia, as well as in England and the Middle East.) Under our current structure, 
we have more than 20 “team member categories” and at least 460 “significant 
locations of operation. ” Much of this is in flux due to the reorganization. 
406-1 - Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken
Professional behavior is expected and required of all ABM team members. The 
company’s intent is to provide all team members with a workplace environment 
consistent with ABM’s core values of Respect, Integrity, Collaboration, 
Innovation, Trust and Excellence. Accordingly, ABM does not tolerate workplace 
discrimination or harassment based on age, ancestry, color, religious creed, 
request for / use of family and medical care leave, disability (mental or physical) 
including HIV and AIDS, marital status, medical, genetic information, military 
and veteran status, national origin, race, sex, gender, gender identity, gender 
expression, sexual orientation, or any other status protected by law. T o ensure 
that all team members have a confidential channel for reporting incidents of 
misconduct and unlawful business practices, ABM provides a Compliance Hotline, 
a reporting system that allows team members to report a variety of concerns, 
including but not limited to: harassment, discrimination, retaliation, wage and 
hour issues (such as not being paid properly for all hours worked, not being 
paid properly for overtime, paycheck problems, etc.), accounting irregularities, 
corporate abuse and fraud, theft, safety concerns, workers’ compensation 
fraud, or other suspected violations of law or company policy, that they 
observe or encounter in the workplace. The Hotline is staffed by professional, CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    32
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
trained specialists 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Reports may be made in any 
language and callers may remain anonymous if they wish. All completed reports 
to the Hotline will be assigned to an investigator. ABM conducts a prompt, 
objective, thorough and confidential investigation of the reported concern. The 
investigation process will reach reasonable conclusions based on the evidence 
collected. If ABM determines that conduct violating its policies has occurred, it 
will take prompt and appropriate remedial action which can include termination 
of the individual who engaged in inappropriate conduct and/or other measures 
designed to prevent future discrimination or harassment. In order to encourage 
team members to utilize the Hotline and report concerns, ABM does not publicly 
disclose information about complaints, the status of the investigations related 
thereto, or the specific remedial measures taken. 
410-1 -  Percentage of security personnel who have received formal 
training 
Security practices were highlighted as highly important by our stakeholders 
during our materiality review. However, due to the changes of our business 
nature, ABM no longer provides security services. Therefore, security-related 
information is not part of our material topics.
413-1 - The reporting organization shall report the following information
Foremost, all ABM HR recruiting for site level team members starts in the local 
communities in which that site is located. We want our people who work at 
client locations to be members of that community, if at all possible.
CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    33
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
ABM is committed to operating under a core set of fundamental values:
• Respect
• Integrity
• Collaboration
• Innovation
• Trust
• Excellence
These values intertwine to provide a baseline mentality for how we operate, and 
nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities 
that impact stakeholders and the environment.
This year, more than 25,000 ABM team members were impacted by the 
devastating impact of natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes and 
wild fires. During these times, our team members banded together to care for 
their communities, clients, and each other, even as they faced their own personal 
losses. This illustrated the strength and character of our organization and our 
ability to drive results through resilience.CORPORA TE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018    |    34
❚ DISCLOSURES                                                                ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM                    ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY
❚ How We Give Back 
We’ve launched our ABMCares program to ensure that every staff and 
management team member can take a day to do community work, if they choose. 
We have also formalized a charitable donation matching policy to help our 
management and staff team members continue to give back to the communities 
in which they work, play, and live. An ABMCares web portal makes it simple 
for our team members to find charities, donate their time and resources, and 
electronically enable donations with company matching. 
In 2018, team members in each of our industry groups and supporting business 
functions engaged in philanthropic projects in their own communities 
throughout the enterprise. As a result, thanks to the ABMCares program and 
the company's philantrophic contributions more than $2 million dollars where 
donated to charities. 
We also celebrate these activities on our Facebook page and other social 
media sites. 
Individuals, ABM service teams, and clients have received international and 
local recognition for their contributions to sustainability, service excellence, 
and community. 
Click here to read more about ABM’s Awards and Recognitions.
ABM.com/Awards-Recognitions416-2  Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning the Health and Safety 
Impacts of Products and Services 
For FY 2018, ABM was issued 4 OSHA Citations of Serious and 3 of Other than 
Serious/General/Regulatory. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive 
claim management has sustained our Experience Mod Rating (EMR) of .87. 
418-1  Substantiated Complaints Concerning Breaches of Customer 
Privacy and Losses of Customer Data 
In 2018, ABM did not identify any leaks, thefts or loss of customer data.
419-1  Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and 
Economic Area 
ABM has not received significant fines or non-monetary sanctions in 2018.
102-55  The reporting organization shall report the following information
GRI INDEX The Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE), assessed ABM Sustainability Report in accordance with the instructions of the GRI STANDARDS and confirms that they are in compliance level “In Accordance - Core''.  Disclosure Description Reference (page) External Assurance  ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the Organization 4 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 4-6 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 √ 102-4 Location of operations 7 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 √ 102-6 Markets served 8 √ 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9 √ 102-9 Supply chain 10 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10 √ 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 11 √ 102-12 External initiatives 11 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 12 √ STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 √ ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13 √ GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 14 √ STAKEHODLER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 14-15 √ 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 √ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15-16 √ REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 16 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 16-17 √ 102-47 List of material topics 18 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 18 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 18-19 √ 102-50 Reporting period 19 √ 102-51 Date of most recent report 19 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 20 √ Disclosure Description Reference (page) External Assurance 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 20 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 20 √ 102-55 GRI Content Index 34-… √ 102-56 External Assurance 20 √ ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (201) 103 Management Approach 20-22 √ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 20-21 √ 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 22 √ 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 22 √ PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (204) 103  Management Approach 22 √ 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 22 √ ANTI-CORRUPTION (205) 103  Management Approach 22 √ 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 22 √ ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR (206) 103 Management Approach 22 √ 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 22 √ MATERIALS (301) 103 Management Approach 23 √ 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 23 √ ENERGY (302) 103 Management Approach 23-24 √ 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 23-24 √ EMISSIONS (305) 103 Management Approach 24-25 √ 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 24 √ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 24 √ 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 24-25 √ 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25 √ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 25 √ ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (307) 103 Management Approach 25 √ 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 25 √ SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (308) 103 Management Approach 25 √ 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 25 √  Disclosure Description Reference (page) External Assurance EMPLOYMENT (401) 103 Management Approach 26-28 √ 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 26-27 √ 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 28 √ OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (403) 103 Management Approach 28-30 √ 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 28-30 √ TRAINING AND EDUCATION (404) 103 Management Approach 30 √ 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 30 √ 404-2 Programs for updating employee skills and transition assistance programs 30 √ 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 30 √ DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (405) 103  Management Approach 31 √ 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31 √ 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 31 √ NON-DISCRIMINATION (406) 103 Management Approach 31-32 √ 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 31-32 √ SECURITY PRACTICES (410) 103 Management Approach 32 √ 410-1 Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training 32 √  LOCAL COMMUNITIES (413) 103 Management Approach 32-34 √ 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 32-34 √ CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (416) 103 Management Approach 34 √ 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 34 √ CUSTOMER PRIVACY (418) 103 Management Approach 34 √ 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 34 √ SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (419) 103 Management Approach 34 √ 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 34 √ 