2020
CORPORA TE
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORTINTRODUCTION
2 A Message from Our CEO
3-4  Challenges of COVID-19
5 Timeline of ABM’s Response to COVID-19
6-8  ABM at a Glance
8 Sustainability Awards and Recognition
9-11  Governance
12-14  Stakeholders and Materiality Analysis
15 Sustainability Strategy and Dashboard
16 Sustainable Development Goals Contribution
DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
18 Creating V alue for Clients through Our GreenCare Program
19-21  How We help Our Clients Fight Climate Change
22 A Snapshot of Our Clients’ Case Studies of Sustainable Solutions
23-25  Our EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility Programs
26-27  ABM’s Sustainable Procurement Initiatives
28-31  Our Ethical Business Approach
32-36  T aking Care of Our People and Clients
37 Our Give-Back ApproachENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
39-41  Our Workforce
42-43  A Diverse Workforce Is Our Competitive Advantage 
44 Developing Our T eam Members’ Potential
44 T eam Member Engagement
45 Increasing Our T eam Members’ Well-Being
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
47-48  Our Carbon Footprint
49 Risks and Opportunities From Climate Change
50 Greening Our Fleet
51 What Are We Doing T o Reduce Our Environmental Footprint?
TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT
52-58  GRI and SASB Content Index T ableCONTENTSINTRODUCTIONABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  2INTRODUCTION
Our purpose has never meant more than it has 
during the past year, and the value of what we 
do has never been higher. As so many of our 
team members worked on the frontlines during 
the pandemic, the world came to recognize 
what we have known all along—that our team 
members and the work they do are, indeed, 
essential. Over the past year, I have never been 
more inspired by our people, our purpose and 
our organization, and I want to take a moment 
to thank our team members again for the 
dedication to our company’s mission: to take 
care of the people, spaces and places that are so 
important to us all.
The pandemic has posed unprecedented 
challenges for our clients and society at large, 
and we at ABM have shown we are up to the 
task. We rapidly focused on the safety of our 
team members and the heightened needs of our 
clients. We developed our proprietary, expert-
backed EnhancedClean™ and EnhancedFacility™ 
programs to deliver healthy spaces, safety 
benefits and peace of mind to our clients and 
their employees. We also assembled an Expert 
Advisory Council, consisting of leading internal Our purpose – to take care of the people, spaces and places that are 
important to you – has never meant more or been more relevant.““and external experts in infectious diseases 
and industrial hygiene, that will continue to 
provide significant value to our clients and our 
communities for many years to come.
We have also become a leading voice for our  
industry. In April 2020, we partnered with other  
large organizations to form the Cleaning 
Coalition of America. As a founding member, 
ABM is committed to representing the needs of 
an industry that played a vital role in keeping 
essential services operating as the country 
recovered. 
Through all of this, we’ve always maintained 
a focus on sustainability. Yes, we had to 
adapt fast to what seemed like ever-changing 
conditions, but we took no shortcuts. Instead, 
we recommitted ourselves to leaving a healthier 
planet for the next generation and beyond. As 
a result, we ensured that our new services were 
fully aligned with green building standards, and 
we engaged with our key suppliers on initiatives 
that report back environmental benefits to our 
clients. We also continued our pledge to increase 
the electrification of our vehicles, looked at 
opportunities to increase the procurement of 
renewable electricity and devoted considerable 
resources to being consistent with what we bring 
to the market and the way we operate. This is 
why we renewed our carbon reduction goals 
in alignment with the Science Based Targets 
initiative methodology. 
The past year brought to light much more 
than the challenges of the pandemic. Social 
and cultural movements swept across the 
country and the world, underscoring that being a good global citizen goes beyond 
environmental stewardship. As a representative/
leader of more than 100,000 vital and dynamic 
team members from diverse backgrounds 
and countries who proudly represent the 
communities in which they live and serve, 
there has never been a more powerful time to 
reaffirm our company’s core values of respect 
and integrity. To underscore our commitment 
to diversity and inclusion among our board of 
directors, executive leadership and our entire 
workforce, we instituted a Culture and Inclusion 
Council comprised of team members across 
the business, dedicated to fostering diverse 
talent, driving meaningful social change and 
strengthening our communities. We also plan 
to enter into partnerships with respected 
organizations that are focused on building a 
more equitable society for the next generation  
in the areas of advocacy, civil rights, education, 
and workforce development.
Looking back, it’s truly been a remarkable year. 
We faced monumental challenges and overcame 
every hurdle put before us. As we continue to 
raise the standard in everything we do, we will 
be a driving force of a cleaner, healthier and 
more sustainable world. 
Scott Salmirs  
President & CEO, ABMA MESSAGE  
FROM OUR  
CEO
[102-14] Statement Senior decision-maker.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  3INTRODUCTION
Our response to COVID-19
Throughout its history, ABM has built our reputation on being 
there for our team members, clients and the communities 
we serve during the most critical times. To ensure business 
continuity for our clients and the safety of our employees, 
ABM quickly established protocols to deliver the essential, 
critical services thousands of our clients depend on.  
In February 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
ABM formed an Operational Response Team (ORT) whose 
members would represent corporate functions and industry 
groups across the enterprise. The ORT would collectively 
become the communication network to share strategies 
for moving through the pandemic and into the future. 
Additionally, we formed an Expert Advisory Council with 
internal subject matter expertise in cleaning and disinfection, 
as well as external experts in infection prevention and control, 
safety and industrial hygiene. Information from the advisory 
council is channeled through various subcommittees and the 
ORT, and ultimately is cascaded throughout the organization 
through weekly industry group team calls.
The Expert Advisory Council focuses on the health, well-being 
and safety of our team members and our clients. The council 
works in partnership with ABM to review and advance innovative 
technologies that support consistent cleaning and disinfection 
practices in the workplace across our industry groups. They 
also work to respond to real world needs for providing safe, 
clean, healthy environments for building occupants. This group 
has advised on the development of ABM’s EnhancedClean and 
EnhancedFacility programs.The EnhancedClean  program demonstrates that we are delivering clean, 
healthy  and safe  environments through solutions that meet their green 
building certification standards and reduce their environmental footprint 
and includes these dynamic program elements: 
Standard Operating Procedures  have been developed for cleaning and 
disinfection, safety, hand hygiene, PPE and social distancing in alignment 
with recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO), the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA) and other governing agencies.
Communication  to our ABM team is supported by daily safety messaging, 
Standard Operating Procedures, white paper Position Statements and 
office-hour webinars that update the field on changing technologies.
Informational Tools  are readily available to our team members and 
clients, including safety signage and guidance on the strategic placement 
of hand sanitizing stations and on the positioning of staff to police high-
traffic areas with a focus on increased frequency of cleaning high-touch 
surfaces.
An Accredited Training Program  requires the validation of knowledge 
and competencies of janitorial staff who deliver our EnhancedClean 
protocols.CHALLENGES   
OF COVID-19
[Response to Social Crisis].
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  4INTRODUCTION
We developed a three-step approach, Return Safely , for 
returning to work, spaces and places safely, consisting of 
formal training of our team members and increased frequency 
of high-touch disinfection and broader disinfection protocols,  
to help clients deliver assurance to their employees, customers 
and the public.
Site assessments for both the EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility 
programs have been developed to identify the need for increased 
frequency and look at effective locations for hand sanitizing 
stations, touch-less products, and a focus on indoor air quality 
and technologies that improve total building health. Frequent High-Touch Disinfection  includes the ongoing approach to 
surface disinfection and recommendations for increasing frequencies, 
using EPA-registered disinfectants.
Broader Disinfection  for the EnhancedClean program includes 
electrostatic spraying and UV light technologies that complement  
the daily disinfection of surfaces.
Personal Protective Equipment  training is provided and implemented 
throughout the program, as well as social distancing and proper hand hygiene 
for all ABM team members and encouraged for all customer personnel.
EnhancedFacility is designed to help customers assess the health  
and controls of their buildings from an HVAC controls standpoint,  
where ABM can assist with indoor air quality and some integrated  
surface disinfection systems.CHALLENGES  
OF COVID-19  
CONTINUEDABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  5INTRODUCTION
JANUARY 2020 MA Y 2020Media reports begin to emerge from Wuhan, China, 
about a mysterious respiratory illness.
ABM assembles small working group, including 
Safety, HR, Operations, Risk and Communication, 
to devise internal COVID-19 response, and begins 
regular email cadence to U.S. and U.K. teams with 
guidance from WHO and CDC.
First U.S. and U.K. cases; CDC begins screenings at JFK 
International, San Francisco International and Los 
Angeles International airports.
ABM establishes infection-control and cleaning 
protocols based on CDC and WHO guidance. 
WHO declares global public health emergency.The ABM Expert Advisory Council is 
established. Composed of leading experts 
in infectious disease and industrial hygiene, 
the team ensures consistent, high-quality 
operating practices and best-in-practice 
training so team members, clients and the 
public remain healthy and safe.
ABM creates New Ways of Working team 
and campaign, featuring tips, tools and 
resources to help team members working 
remotely.
FEBRUARY 2020
Global air travel restrictions begin.
U.S. declares public health emergency.
ABM issues information to team 
members so they can talk with clients 
about processes and protocols in place. 
ABM establishes expanded COVID-19 
Operational Response Team (ORT) to 
include human resources HR, lLegal, 
Risk, Safety, Operations, Service 
Delivery, Communications, Marketing 
and leaders from across the enterprise.MARCH 2020Cases begin to multiply around the globe; WHO 
declares COVID-19 a global pandemic.
U.S. states begin to enact stay-at-home orders, 
except for essential needs or jobs; ABM’s team 
members are considered essential workers.
ABM launches public-facing COVID-19 
Information Center and internal, 
dedicated employee site with extensive 
resources, as well as a dedicated email 
box for team members to send questions 
and to track any team members 
suspected or known to have COVID.
ABM announces remote working policy 
and travel restrictions and implements 
daily management communication.
APRIL 2020
ABM announces the ABM EnhancedClean 
program— a new standard for cleaning and 
disinfection rooted in expert insight and 
industry knowledge—developed to help in 
the fight against COVID-19.
ABM is a founding member of the Cleaning 
Coalition of America to advocate on behalf 
of the 1  million professional cleaners 
nationwide to shape and advance crucial 
policies and measures that promote the safe 
and responsible return to business and the 
reopening of our economy.SEPTEMBER 2020
ABM introduces EnhancedFacility program to 
provide facility services and solutions focused 
on improving indoor air quality to foster 
better occupant well-being through improved 
building health, safety and efficiency.DECEMBER 2020
JANUARY 2021Vaccinations begin to be offered in the U.S. 
and U.K.
As a founding member of the Cleaning 
Coalition of America, ABM advocates for 
cleaners to be prioritized for vaccination 
early as essential workers. 
ABM kicks off an ongoing COVID-19 
vaccination education campaign with 
team members, providing resources such 
as FAQs, posters, weekly state-by-state 
report on each state’s vaccine phase and 
links to state vaccine websites.TIMELINE OF ABM’S RESPONSE TO COVID-19
2020 2021
Text in bold denotes ABM’s initiatives, anything else corresponds to external events.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  6INTRODUCTION
ABM A T A GLANCE
[102-1] Name of the organization [102-2] Activities, Brands, Products and Services  
[102-3] Location of the organization headquarters [102-4] Location of operations  
[102-6] Markets served.
PURPOSEThree core principles are at the heart of ABMOur Business 
ABM Industries Inc., a leading provider of integrated facility solutions, 
is headquartered in New York City. The company delivers exceptional 
experiences to our clients, and serves properties of all sizes across 
urban, suburban and rural areas, including:
Aviation 
Aviation services support airlines and airports, and range 
from parking and janitorial to passenger assistance, 
catering, air cabin maintenance and transportation.
Business & Industry 
Business & Industry, our largest reportable segment, 
encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering and parking 
services for commercial real estate properties and sports 
entertainment venues, as well as traditional hospitals 
and non-acute healthcare facilities. We also provide 
vehicle maintenance and services to rental car providers.
Education 
Education provides custodial, landscaping and grounds 
services, in addition to facilities engineering and parking 
services for public school districts, private schools, colleges 
and universities.
Technology & Manufacturing 
Technology & Manufacturing provides janitorial, facilities 
engineering and parking services to industrial and high-
tech manufacturing facilities.
Technical Solutions 
Technical Solutions specializes in mechanical and 
electrical services.ABM SERVES A WIDE  
V ARIETY OF MARKETS,  
INCLUDING:
Airports 
Airlines 
Banking & Financial Services 
Commercial Properties 
Government 
Hospitality 
Retail & Distribution 
Sports & Entertainment 
Higher Education 
K-12 Education 
Hospitals 
Medical Office Buildings 
Senior Living 
Industrial & Manufacturing 
Life Sciences 
Technology & Data Centers To take care of the people, spaces and 
places that are important to our clients 
and team members
To see fully engaged people make us the 
clear choice in the industries we serve
To make a difference, for every person, 
every dayVISION
MISSIONBermudaCanada
Mexico
Costa Rica
PeruEcuadorColombia
ChileJamaica
Netherlands AntillesCayman Islands350+ US OfficesNorway
UK
Republic of Ireland
Spain
Portugal
AustraliaGuamQatar
UAE
ABM Self-Performed Services Franchise and Joint Venture OperationsINTRODUCTION
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  7INTRODUCTION
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  8External Initiatives
[102-12] External Initiatives.
• International Facility Management 
Association (IFMA) 
• U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)
• Energy Star Partner (ES)
Membership or Association
[102-13] Memberships of associations. 
• Association of Energy Engineers (AEE)  
• National Association of Energy Service 
Companies (NAESCO)  
• Zero Net Energy Alliance (ZNE)  
• Building Owners and Managers 
Association (BOMA) 
• Commercial Real Estate Women 
Network (CREW) 
• Energy Management Association (EMA)
• Association of Energy Engineers (AEE)
• American Society of Heating, 
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning 
Engineers (ASHRAE)Ownership and Legal Form
[102-5] Ownership and legal form. 
ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware  
and is a publicly traded company, governed by a board of directors. 
ABM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
[NYSE: ABM].
The person or entities known to ABM to be beneficial owners of 
more than 5% of the shares of ABM common stock as of December 
31, 2020, are set forth below. This disclosure is based on a review 
of Schedule 13G filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC).
• Blackrock, Inc.
• The Vanguard Group, Inc.
• State Street Corporation 
• ArrowMark Colorado Holdings LLC 
• Dimensional Fund Advisors LP
Scale of the Organization
[102-7] Scale of the organization. 
Dollar amounts in millions, except per-share amounts. Information relates to ABM’s  
fiscal year ending Oct. 31, 2020.
*For more information about our financial statements please refer to the financial 
data provided on our Annual Report available on-line at our website2020 2019 2018
Number of employees 110,870 135,807 136,762
Net revenues $    5,987.6 $      6,498.6 $   6,442.2
Elimination Inter Segment Revenues $     (122.4) $       (127.7) $   (147.1)
Business & Industry $    3,157.8 $      3,251.4 $   3,268.4
Technology & Manufacturing $       956.0 $         917.0 $      925.4
Education $       808.8 $         847.0 $      856.7
Aviation $       680.9 $      1,017.3 $   1,038.7
Technical Solutions $       506.6 $         593.2 $      500.1
Net income per share $         0.00 $           1.90 $        1.47SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS  
AND RECOGNITION  
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance Ratings 
ABM´s outstanding sustainability commitment and performance has been reflected 
in the ratings we received from the very first year we responded to the ratings 
services. The company has engaged in cross-functional efforts to understand and 
use the ratings as one source for identifying areas of improvement that align with 
ABM’s sustainability journey.
ISS ESG Corporate Rating : ISS ESG PRIME  | 
positioning the company in the top 10%  
of the industry.
EcoVadis: BRONZE |  ABM moved from 45/100 to 
52/100, positioning ourselves at the top 44% of the 
overall score distribution of all companies rated by 
EcoVadis in ABM’s industry space.
Carbon Disclosure Project: C |  ABM moved from  
D to C, outperforming the North American average. 
Commitment to the United Nations Global CompactBBB  | on a scale of AAA-CCC
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  9INTRODUCTION
GOVERNANCE
[102-18] Governance structure.
At ABM, our governance structure provides the framework to serve all of our 
stakeholders, including team members, clients, suppliers, investors and communities, 
with integrity. Our board of directors sets the tone at the top, and oversees ABM’s 
management and strategic initiatives. As of March 24, 2021, the date of ABM’s 2021 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our board of directors had 10 members: Quincy L. 
Allen, LeighAnne G. Baker, Linda Chavez, Donald F. Colleran, Art A. Garcia, Thomas M. 
Gartland, Jill M. Golder, Sudhakar Kesavan, Scott Salmirs and Winifred M. Webb. All of 
our directors, with the exception of ABM’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Salmirs, are 
independent. One of our independent directors, Sudhakar Kesavan, also serves as 
chairman of the board of directors.
Annually, or more frequently as needed, our Governance Committee reviews 
committee assignments and makes recommendations to the board with respect 
to committee membership, taking into consideration each director’s qualifications 
and the desire to refresh committee membership. The primary responsibilities of 
each committee, as well as membership of each committee as of April 1, 2021, are 
summarized below. Each committee is governed by a charter, which sets forth its 
responsibilities. For more information, see the committee charters on the corporate 
governance section of our website at investor.abm.com/corporate-governance.cfm . ABM’s board of directors has four standing committees. Each committee 
is composed solely of independent directors; meets periodically 
throughout the year; reports its actions and recommendations to the 
full board; receives reports from senior management; meets regularly 
in executive session; annually evaluates its performance; and has the 
authority to retain outside advisors.
ABM’s Audit Committee, comprised of Art A. Garcia (chair), Quincy L. Allen, Jill M. 
Golder and Winifred M. Webb, oversees the company’s financial reporting process 
and assists the board with respect to the company’s compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews policies with 
respect to financial risk management and the company’s major financial risk 
exposures. The Audit Committee met eight times in fiscal year 2020.
ABM’s Compensation Committee,  comprised of LeighAnne G. Baker (chair), Linda 
Chavez, Donald F. Colleran and Thomas M. Gartland, provides direction on executive 
compensation and monitors potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s 
compensation programs.  The Compensation Committee met eight times in fiscal 
year 2020.
ABM’s Governance Committee,  comprised of Thomas M. Gartland (chair),  Linda 
Chavez, Jill M. Golder and Sudhakar Kesavan, identifies qualified candidates to 
serve on the board, and reviews the board and its committees’ composition and 
structure. In addition, the Governance Committee is tasked with developing and 
recommending corporate governance principles and certain company policies to  
the board. The Governance Committee met nine times in fiscal year 2020.  
ABM’s Stakeholder and Enterprise Risk Committee, comprised of Winifred M. Webb 
(chair), LeighAnne G. Baker, Donald F. Colleran and Art A. Garcia, assists the board in 
its oversight of the company’s activities and practices relating to social, environmental 
and public policy matters, as well as in identifying, evaluating and mitigating strategic 
and operational risks. The Stakeholder and Enterprise Risk Committee, formed in June 
2020, met two times in fiscal year 2020. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  10TENURE
DIVERSITY6.4
40% 40%10+  years 0-5 years
6-10 yearsYEARS AVERAGE
WOMENRACIALL Y OR  
ETHNICALL Y  
DIVERSEOur board of directors is committed to refreshment and proactive assessment 
of its collective skills, experience, and perspectives. Fifty percent (50%) of our 
current members have served on the board for five or fewer years. In analyzing 
director nominations and director vacancies, our Governance Committee seeks 
to recommend candidates who will create a collective membership on the board 
with varied experience, backgrounds and perspectives, including the specific 
qualifications of industry knowledge; accounting and finance; management; 
leadership; business strategy and operations; corporate governance; other 
public board experience; and risk management. The Governance Committee 
also seeks diversity in its directors, including but not limited to diversity in the 
areas of race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, and age. When identifying highly 
qualified candidates for membership, our Governance Committee includes, and 
requests that any such search firm it engages include, women and racially and 
ethnically diverse persons in the initial pool from which director candidates are 
chosen, in accordance with ABM’s Corporate Governance Principles. 
During fiscal year 2020, the board held 12 meetings. Each director attended 100% 
of those meetings and 100% of his or her committee meetings. More information 
about our governance structure can be found in ABM’s 2021 Proxy Statement, 
filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 
2021. Additional information concerning our board and governance can also be 
found at abm.com/investors/ .Our Board of Directors and Governance Committee are committed to 
Board diversity: 40%  of our Board members are women and 40%  of our 
Board is racially or ethnically diverse.INTRODUCTIONABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  11INTRODUCTION
Sustainability Governance 
During the 2020 fiscal year, ABM’s board of directors established the Stakeholder and 
Enterprise Risk (SER) Committee. Comprised entirely of independent directors, The SER 
Committee is responsible for oversight of social, environmental, and public policy matters; 
stakeholder impacts; and enterprise and strategic risks. 
The company’s corporate sustainability manager regularly reports to the SER Committee on 
topics including, but not limited to, ABM’s sustainability strategy axes, its impacts, initiatives, 
and performance metrics; the company’s sustainability commitments in terms of carbon 
reduction and increased electrification of its fleet; ABM’s ESG ratings; and our alignment with 
sustainability disclosure standards. Reporting directly to the chief communications officer, 
the corporate sustainability manager oversees sustainability strategy and monitors different 
initiatives, such as the GreenCare® portfolio of sustainable services and the company’s 
philanthropic program ABMCares.
In addition, this manager oversees the Sustainability Committee, which is comprised of various 
sustainability project managers from across the company with expertise in waste, energy, 
green cleaning services, and the ABMCares committee that comprises team members who 
volunteer their time to advance social and philanthropic projects. Also, weekly meetings 
between the corporate sustainability manager and the company’s environmental manager in 
the U.K. ensure alignment of sustainability efforts. During the 2021 fiscal year, ABM plans to 
create a position that will manage diversity, culture, and inclusion efforts and that will report 
on the company’s social impact and human capital efforts. 
Climate change risk is addressed by the company’s enterprise risk management system that 
aims to demonstrate that ABM understands and strives to manage risks associated with our 
business strategy and objectives. This system covers topics related to human capital, cyber 
risk, class action lawsuits, extensive shareholder activism and climate change. T o ensure dissemination of information at the highest levels of the company, the results 
of ABM´s sustainability performance, as well as its ESG questionnaires, are presented on 
a quarterly basis to the members of the Company’s senior management team.  ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  12INTRODUCTION
Effective communication with our stakeholders is key to a successful approach to sustainability. We 
maintain an ongoing and open dialogue with our clients, vendors, team members and executives 
including gathering valuable insights that inform our sustainability efforts. For example, we have 
identified key stakeholders with a growing interest in our sustainability programs and policies including 
clients who valued this as an important topic on the client satisfaction surveys; suppliers who support 
our delivering sustainable services; and our top 300 leaders across the organization. 
In 2020, ABM conducted a yearly materiality assessment and analysis, adhering to the principles 
of inclusion, materiality, responsiveness, and impact defined in the AA1000  standards. This process 
ensured alignment of the company’s material aspects with stakeholder expectations.
This year, we are disclosing our main sustainability challenges and associated action plans to our 
stakeholders through our Sustainability Report and 10-K document on a regular basis. ABM annually 
reports a list of all consolidated subsidiaries as of the fiscal year in Exhibit 21.1 to ABM’s 2020 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on Dec. 17, 2020. S ubsidiaries have been excluded 
from this Sustainability Report. STAKEHOLDERS AND  
MA TERIALITY ANAL YSIS
[102-40] list of stakeholder’s groups [102-42] Identifying and selecting stakeholders [102-43] Organization’s approach to stakeholder 
engagement [102-45] Entities included in the consolidated financial statements.Investors and Analysts:  Shareholders and analysts expect ABM 
to grow in a profitable and sustainable way.
Clients: ABM’s services are generally provided at the locations 
of our clients, who expect the provision of sustainability 
services around energy, water, waste, and green cleaning. 
Team Members: Our team members continue to be the driving 
force behind everything we do, and they expect a safe working 
environment, decent working conditions and development 
opportunities.
Vendors:  As a service-based company, ABM relies strongly on 
the know-how of a number of vendors and partners providing 
services and products. They expect ABM to be a responsible 
partner and employer.
Communities:  Where ABM operates expect the company to do so 
in a responsible way, generating a positive impact at a local level.Who Are Our Stakeholders and What Are Their Expectations? INTRODUCTION
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  13Materiality Analysis
[101 Foundation][102-44] Key topics and concerns raised [102-46] Defining the 
report content and topics’ boundaries [102-47] List of material topics [102-53] 
Contact point for questions regarding the report [102-54] Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI Standards.
To ensure transparency across our corporate sustainability 
analysis, we’ve partnered for the ninth year in a row with the 
Center for Sustainability Excellence to perform a materiality 
analysis and publish an independent audit. To ensure accuracy 
of reporting, we’ve introduced an internal audit exercise 
to verify both qualitative and quantitative information. 
Results from the internal audit exercise have been shared 
with the Board of Directors. In addition, we received external 
feedback from AdvisIRy Partners and Seyfarth Shaw LLP to 
ensure we cover key topic trends and best practices in our 
report.
In order to build our materiality matrix, we distributed a 
survey with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) list of 
topics material to ABM and asked both our internal (team 
members, executives) and external (clients, vendors) 
stakeholders to rank them in order of importance. 
New material issues identified this year are: economic 
performance, anti-competitive behavior, tax, supplier social 
assessment and response to social crisis. In order to identify 
priority topics to include in our sustainability strategy, 
we decided to focus on the aspects identified with “high 
importance” by our internal and external stakeholders. 
Occupational Health & Safety   IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
IMPORTANCE TO ABMNondiscrimination   HIGH LOWHIGH LOWResponse to Social Crisis   
Customer Health & Safety   
Employment   
Diversity & Equal Opportunity   Tax   
Training & Education   
Human Rights   
Anti-Competitive Behavior   
Energy   Anti-Corruption   
Economic Performance   
Socioeconomic Compliance   
Customer Privacy   INTRODUCTION
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  14Internally, topics such as taxes, employment, 
occupational health and safety, non-discrimination, 
diversity, customer health and safety and response 
to social crisis were identified as most relevant. 
Our vendors prioritized anti-corruption, energy, 
emissions, supplier environmental and social 
assessment and impact on local communities, 
among others. Finally, our clients prioritized 
employment, occupational health and safety, 
diversity, customer privacy and response to social 
crisis. 
Topics such as emissions were no longer considered 
a priority this year but are still included in our 
2020 Sustainability Report. More information 
on our specific management approach for each 
material topic can be found in each section of this 
Sustainability Report. 
We welcome your insights into how we can meet 
our shared commitment to a sustainable world. 
Please send feedback, comments and questions 
regarding sustainability plans and progress to the 
ABM Sustainability Team at sustainability@abm.com. Material Issue Management Approach and Boundaries GRI and SASB Material Topic
Health, Safety 
and SecurityEnsure the protection of our employees, clients 
and their clients’ health and welfare with our 
comprehensive risk management and safety program.*Occupational health and safety (GRI 403)  
*Customer health and safety (GRI 416)  
*Customer privacy (GRI 418)   
*Data Security (SASB SV-PS-230a)
Diversity and 
InclusionCreate a culture of belonging that allows us to develop 
diverse talent. Supported by our team member-
led Culture and Inclusion Council and our supplier 
diversity efforts.*Non-discrimination (GRI 406)  
*Diversity and equal opportunity (GRI 405)  
* Workforce diversity and engagement  
(SASB – SV-PS-330a)
Business  
EthicsContinue our commitment to ethical business 
practices and ensure compliance with regulations, 
supported by a strong governance policies and 
standards.*Anti-competitive behavior (GRI 206)  
*Anti-corruption (GRI 205)  
*Professional integrity (SASB – SV-PS-510a)  
*Human rights (GRI 412)  
*Tax (GRI 207)
*Socioeconomic Compliance (GRI 419)
Team Member 
Development  
and Well-BeingFoster an environment in which team members find 
development opportunities supported by our training 
programs and channels like ABMVoice to ensure every 
voice is heard.*Employment (GRI 401)  
*Training and education (GRI 404)
Environmental 
ManagementReduce our environmental footprint by setting 
carbon reduction targets based in science and 
developing a carbon reduction roadmap that impacts 
our sustainability efforts with regard to fleet and 
electricity procurement.*Energy (GRI 302)
*Emissions (GRI 305) 
*Economic Performance (GRI 201)
COVID-19 
ResponseContinue moving forward through the pandemic with 
our EnhancedClean and EnchancedFacility solutions, 
while ensuring our team members and clients remain 
in a safe environment.*Response to social crisisMore Information
p.34, p.28
p.46
p.27, p.30
p.44-45
p.49-53
p.3, p.5, p.24INTRODUCTION
Based on these three strategic axes, we have defined a set of metrics to measure and report the performance of our 
sustainability strategy: 
Sustainability Strategic Axes Key Performance Indicator Unit 2019 2020
DOING BUSINESS IN A  
RESPONSIBLE WAYHours volunteered by team members # 9,217 3,113
Total charitable contributions $ 383,587 175,513
ABM Enterprise Supplier Diversity Spend $M $128 $77
Number of data breaches # 0 0
OSHA Frequency rate # 3.08 2.14
Team members taking training on business ethics % 98 98
GREENCARE - PORTFOLIO OF 
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONSGHG emissions saved by our clients from EPC 
agreementsTCO2e 71,100 68,414
MWhs saved by our clients from EPC 
agreements# 100,492 96,702
GHG emissions saved through the installation 
of electrical vehicle chargersTCO2e 9,564 19,915
ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’  
WELL-BEINGAverage hours of training per team member # 15 19
Team member attrition % 33 31
Percentage of women in top management 
positions% 19 22
Participation rate for the team member 
satisfaction survey% 60 52
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 
FOOTPRINTGHG Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) TCO2e 52,532 42,640.73
Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) TCO2e 93,174 44,835.74
Renewable Electricity Purchased Kwh 186,183 10,301SUSTAINABILITY  
STRA TEGY AND  
DASHBOARD
DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WAY 
Ensure the compliance with ethical business practices 
across our entire value chain; bring sustainable services 
to market that positively contribute to our clients’ 
environmental performance; and engage with the  
local communities where we operate.
ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
Contribute to the professional and personal development 
of our team members while ensuring a safe and healthy 
work environment.
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Act consistently with our offering of sustainable 
services and continue to grow our environmentally 
friendly practices to manage the carbon footprint of  
our own operations. Based on the results of our materiality analysis, we have 
identified three main axes to define our sustainability strategy:
Keynotes:
• Total charitable contributions take into account only donations done through the ABMCares platform, excluding corporate donations. 
• GHG and energy saving emissions cover Energy Performance Contacting agreement projects in AZ, CA, DC, FL, GA, MA, MI, NC, OH, PA, TX and VA. 
• Business ethics training completion covers staff and management team members. 
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  15
INTRODUCTION
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  16We have analyzed each specific SDG target related to the nature of our business and operations, evaluated its risks  
and benefits and defined a bifold approach to map our contributions:
SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS  
CONTRIBUTION
ABM has performed an analysis on how our sustainability efforts 
contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs), 
and we intend to report the contribution to each of them across the 
different sections of this Sustainability Report. To perform that analysis, 
the company followed the Practical Guide for Integrating the SDGs into 
Corporate Reporting , developed by the Global Reporting Initiative  and the 
United Nations Global Compact . SDG SDG Target ABM contribution 
Good Health and  
Well-Being3.9: By 2030, reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from 
hazardous chemicals and toxic air Green cleaning program 
Assessment of products before  
use by team members
Quality Education4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youths and 
adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational 
skills for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship Learning and development 
Decent Work and 
Economic Growth8.5: By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and  
decent work for all women and men Team members’ well-being
Reduced Inequalities10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic  
and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, 
race, ethnicity, religion, economic or other status Diversity
Affordable Consumption 
and Production7.2: By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable 
energy in the global renewable energy mix 
7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in  
energy efficiency
Creating value for clients through 
our sustainable services
Quality Education12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational 
ones, to adopt sustainable practices 
Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure9.4: By 2039, upgrade the infrastructure and retrofit industries 
to make them sustainable with increased resource efficiency and 
greater adoption of clean, environmentally sound technologies 
and industrial processes.ABM Material SDGs ABM Sustainable Solutions PortfolioDOING BUSINESS IN   
A RESPONSIBLE WA YDOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
GreenCare – Our Portfolio of Sustainable Solutions for Client Facilities
As part of our sustainability strategy, ABM is strongly committed to adding value for clients 
through our sustainable solutions portfolio. Buildings represent a sizable portion of cities’ 
overall greenhouse gas emissions inventories, so it must be a priority to operate them in 
a more environmentally friendly way. We aim to become a key strategic partner for our 
clients to achieve their sustainability goals. ABM has designed solutions to increase waste 
diversion rates from landfills, conduct energy-efficiency retrofits, install on-site renewable 
generation and use green cleaning supplies.
We have built a strong reputation in part by continually striving to improve our client service 
offerings through the ABM GreenCare program. As a member of the U.S. Green Building 
Council (USGBC), we also continue to offer specific products and procedures for buildings  
to maintain and improve their LEED certifications. 
Our expertise in providing sustainable services 
• Our clients have saved more than 68,414 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and 
96,702 megawatt hours (MWh) of energy consumption through our energy performance 
contracting services.
• We are one of the biggest installers of electric vehicle charging stations in the U.S. So far, 
we have installed more than 20,000 EV charging stations.
• Our green cleaning program has been implemented in more than 361 million square 
feet across our clients’ facilities. We have serviced over 450 USGBC LEED-certified and 
-registered sites. 
• Our energy performance contracting program has helped public and private sector 
clients save an average of 23% of their energy costs and millions of dollars over the 
course of their contracts. We have built a strong reputation in part by continually striving to improve 
our client service offerings through the ABM GreenCare program.CREA TING V ALUE FOR  
CLIENTS THROUGH OUR  
GREENCARE PROGRAM
REACHING YOUR FACILITY’S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS WITH GREENCARE
Proactive MaintenanceSolar Panels
Solar Glass
Sustainable Cleaning Services
Electric FleetBuilding AutomationLED LightingEﬀ icient HV AC
Low Water Toilet
Energy 
StorageBack up
PowerEV ChargingCarbon CaptureSustainable Landscaping ServicesWaste CentralizationTenant Environmental Awareness Communication
On-Site Trash Sorting, 
Waste Audits
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  18ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  19DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
HOW WE HELP  
OUR CLIENTS  
FIGHT CLIMA TE  
CHANGEHelping Our Clients Reduce Their Facilities’ Energy Consumption
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS 
A leading installer of EV charging stations, ABM has installed more than 
20,000 EV charging ports. Our partnerships with multiple market leaders 
of EV hardware and network providers allow us to offer the first all-
inclusive, affordable charging service plan to our clients. We have the 
scope to design, self-perform and manage customized implementations  
at client sites.
ELECTRICAL FLEET
ABM supports our clients’ transition to electric vehicles. We are on top 
of the latest market developments in order to provide the cleanest 
transportation services. 
SOLAR PANELS AND GLASS
We help our clients understand that solar has become a viable financial 
solution for companies. We enable facilities to take advantage of the 
financial and environmental benefits of solar power generation, and assist 
with the design, installation, financing and operation of the systems. 
ENERGY PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING
As an accredited member of the National Association of Energy Companies, 
ABM improves energy efficiency across our clients’ buildings, reducing 
energy demand and its associated carbon emissions. Importantly, our all-in 
approach, compared to traditional facility upgrades, also helps clients lower 
costs for HVAC, mechanical, electrical, and lighting.
CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE
We offer carbon capture and recycle solutions for our clients to 
contribute to the circular economy and convert carbon into concrete.
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  20DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Green Cleaning Program
ABM maintains a customizable, environmentally friendly cleaning program that helps clients achieve credit points under the USGBC 
LEED v4 Building Operations and Maintenance Green Building Rating System and the WELL standard. We have partnered with our 
chemical, paper and equipment suppliers to provide clients with green-certified products such as those meeting the requirements of 
Green Seal, ECOLOGO, Green Guard and the Forest Stewardship Council. ABM’s janitorial team has also been trained to apply company 
standards and provide services that follow our clients’ cleaning policies. These measures improve indoor environmental quality and 
positively contribute to the health and productivity of building occupants.
CHEMICALS  
We have selected only products that meet the strongest 
environmental certifications:
• ECOLOGO: Demonstrates environmental leadership, 
meeting requirements for performance, limited toxicity, 
biodegradability and limited waste and resource use.
• Green Seal: This program aims to reduce, to the 
extent technologically and economically feasible, the 
environmental impact associated with the manufacture,  
use and disposal of products.
• GreenGuard: This third-party product certification program 
based on proven emissions standards provides procurement 
professionals with a resource for low-emitting products. 
• BioPreferred: Increases the purchase and use of products 
that come from plants, marine and forestry materials, and 
other renewable agricultural resources.DISINFECTANTS  
Accelerated Hydrogen Peroxide (AHP).  AHP is a globally patented 
synergistic blend of commonly used ingredients that produces 
exceptional potency as a germicide and superior performance 
as a cleaner. It has proven to be particularly effective in the 
ongoing battle with COVID-19. Our main chemical supplier, 
Diversey, acquired the global intellectual property rights related 
to AHP based on Virox technologies Inc. This chemical breaks 
down into oxygen and water during the sanitizing process, while 
many other disinfectants can leave behind undesirable chemical 
residues. 
PAPER  
Promoting mixed fiber.  Mixed fiber is used in brown paper 
towels and is made up of materials you recycle at home, such 
as magazines, carton packages, corrugated boxes and direct 
mail. Our partner Georgia Pacific uses 100% recycled materials 
to produce natural paper towels. It supports healthier forests, 
reduces the environmental impact of our products and includes 
the use of post-recycled content.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  21DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Improving Waste Diversion from Landfills
ABM waste management services can help clients manage your facility’s materials 
and resources more sustainably and achieve zero waste goals while also reducing 
operating costs and minimizing environmental impacts. These services have proven  
to increase our clients’ waste diversion rates, reduce operation costs, and achieve 
LEED and True Zero Waste certification credit points. We offer services such as:
WASTE AUDITS
We establish a facility’s baseline waste diversion rate, identify material composition, 
and determine financial and environmental savings if potential waste diversion is 
met. Audit results identify improvement opportunities, pinpoint facility hotspots 
and highlight contamination concerns. We help our clients identify current, true and 
potential waste diversion rates that will help determine costs and environmental 
savings from the implementation of different initiatives.
SOLID WASTE DATA TRACKING & MONITORING 
We can provide monthly customized reports via interactive KPI dashboards that 
highlight cost savings from program impacts and the resulting return on investment. 
Thanks to our solid waste reporting platform, clients can track impacts of implemented 
programs using key metrics identified for success. As a result, ABM is able to build 
dashboards that allow clients to take a deeper dive into facility trends, tenant waste 
streams, landfill reduction, cost savings over time and more. 
ON-SITE TRASH SORTING PROGRAM 
Dedicated people on-site pull out recyclable and compostable materials from landfill 
and end facility recycle contamination. 
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND TENANT AGREEMENT 
ABM provides customized program signage, implements waste reduction and recycling 
initiatives, and promotes best practices for waste disposal and personalized audits.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  22DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
A SNAPSHOT OF OUR CLIENTS’ CASE  
STUDIES OF SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
Aiken County Public Schools  
Energy Performance Contracting
Aiken County Public Schools in Aiken County, South Carolina, 
selected ABM to extend the lifespan of the school system’s 
40-plus facilities, while decreasing energy and operational 
expenses. 
To achieve these goals and improve the learning environment 
for its students and faculty, we developed a customized 
solution that included lighting, HVAC and control upgrades; 
water conservation measures; and the installation of solar 
fields at six campuses. 
The upgrades and operational changes were not only 
implemented without cutting into the school system’s budget, 
they are instead projected to save the system more than  
$2.2 million in energy and operating costs in the first year 
alone. Cost reductions will continue during the life of the 20-
year program, resulting in a projected savings of $70 million.
DOWNLOAD THE PDF9/11 Memorial & Museum  
Integrated Facility Solutions
Located where the Twin Towers once stood in New York City, 
the 9/11 Memorial & Museum invites visitors to learn about 
the history of the 9/11 attacks and 1993 World Trade Center 
bombing. 
A site of this size, scope and public stature required a  
single-source provider for its complex facility needs. That 
provider is ABM, which administers the facility’s engineering, 
lighting, electrical, HVAC systems, landscaping, janitorial and 
other maintenance needs at a level commensurate with the 
site’s purpose. 
Furthermore, by leveraging our expertise in servicing unique 
environments, ABM has helped the facility control its operating 
costs, achieve LEED Gold Certification and ensure smooth 
operations behind the scenes, so the 9/11 Memorial & Museum 
team can focus on its core mission. Aladdin Airport Parking  
High-efficiency lighting and EV charging stations
San Diego’s Aladdin Airport parking garage needed a lighting 
upgrade to improve efficiency and reduce maintenance costs. 
It also wanted to further reduce its carbon footprint through 
the installation of EV charging stations. 
ABM Energy and ABM Parking Services achieved all these 
goals via a comprehensive solution that was completed with 
no money out of pocket and had immediate cash flow upon 
completion. Not only was energy usage cut in half, but the new 
lighting significantly improved safety and dramatically reduced 
maintenance costs. 
ABM also helped procure government grants for the EV 
charging stations and rebates for the new lighting, further 
reducing costs.
DOWNLOAD THE PDF
 DOWNLOAD THE PDF
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  23DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
OUR ENHANCEDCLEAN AND  
ENHANCEDFACILITY PROGRAMS
A New Standard
From the things we touch to the air we breathe ABM delivers healthier facilities with the latest 
approaches in data-driven cleaning and facility services. Among our latest product offerings are 
EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility. 
Developed as a response to challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic, these programs have 
been embraced by our customers and held up as model offerings by the facilities services and cleaning 
industry. Their applicability, however, has proven to be much broader than simply stopgap solutions  
to threats presented by COVID-19. 
Combined, EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility offer a comprehensive, customized program of 
infection and virus control to help protect both people and places. As fact-based, expert-developed, 
dynamic approaches to occupant wellness, delivered by team members trained in highly specialized  
and effective disinfection methods, these initiatives have become the benchmark for mitigation of 
air- and surface-based viral transmission risks. While resetting that standard, they also help increase 
efficiencies in facility services, improve the financial health of the operations we serve, and perhaps  
most importantly, restore confidence among occupants.
Even when the pandemic fades from the headlines, the public continues to have a heightened sense of 
awareness concerning infection control. Our clients, therefore, will need to demonstrate they are doing 
their utmost to provide clean, healthy and safe environments. With the latest and most effective preventive 
practices and methods of regular disinfection, EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility provide that path to a 
higher standard.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  24DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
These specific recommendations help prioritize budgets to focus  
on actions that will have the most impact.EnhancedFacility: Overview
ABM’s EnhancedFacility program provides facility services and solutions 
focused on improving indoor air quality (IAQ), which in turn fosters better 
occupant well-being through improved building health, safety and efficiency. 
Utilizing the latest in advanced technologies for disinfection and improved 
IAQ, EnhancedFacility’s utility helps mitigate more than just the transmission  
of COVID-19; it strengthens overall resiliency for total building health. 
However, because each facility has its own singular requirements, 
EnhancedFacility calls first for a healthy building risk assessment that 
includes several measures, such as an HVAC inspection and a determination 
of the effectiveness of disinfection protocols. Depending on the results of 
the assessment, a range of solutions are devised, including needlepoint 
bipolar ionization technology within HVAC systems, dry hydrogen peroxide 
generation, and far-UV and UV-C lighting solutions. 
Maintenance is also part of the package, as are funding options that are 
tailored to the needs of each business. These include public and private  
loan programs that could be paid for by savings realized with a professional 
service agreement.EnhancedClean: Overview
Again, as facilities return to normal occupancy levels, providing reassurance and 
peace of mind is critical. The ABM EnhancedClean program delivers such assurance 
with a three-step certified disinfection process that’s backed by experts.
Providing consistent intervals of frequent disinfection of high-touch point and 
other surfaces, the EnhancedClean process was developed with input from our 
Expert Advisory Council, which includes board-certified experts in infectious 
disease and industrial hygiene. To properly instruct our EnhancedClean 
facilitators on the program’s highly effectively and specialized cleaning processes, 
we’ve also developed a rigorous training program accredited by the American 
National Standards Institute, a globally recognized nonprofit organization that 
establishes standards for training programs, processes and products. Such 
accreditation helps ensure that team members servicing our clients’ facilities  
have best-in-class training that aligns with the desired outcomes. 
A supplement to EnhancedClean is the use of a digital cleaning log, a proprietary 
tool offering exceptional benefits that ABM has developed to capture, archive 
and report on the cleaning being performed. This data is pulled into a reporting 
dashboard to clients displaying KPIs and trends like cleaning logs and type 
of cleaning performed. Furthermore, evidence-based testing of the program 
offers a scientific measurement of the cleanliness of facility surfaces, data that 
is also employed to objectively measure the efficacy of and provide continuous 
improvements to the EnhancedClean program. 
While each building has unique requirements, all facilities have in common an 
ongoing need for preventive practices and regular disinfection to improve the 
health and wellness of the building and its occupants. ABM’s EnhancedClean 
takes that cleaning to a new level. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  25DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Environmentally Friendly Solutions
Even during the height of the pandemic and the push to develop new 
initiatives, such as EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility, we’ve remained 
committed to exploring and developing solutions that protect the planet’s 
limited resources. We’ve continued to explore and adopt cleaning chemicals 
with environmental certifications like EcoLogo and GreenSeal that do not harm 
our clients’ green building achievements. Our goal remains to leave a healthier 
planet for the next generation and beyond. 
* ABM EnhancedClean services are designed to reduce but not eliminate the risks of spreading 
infectious disease and viruses. There is no guarantee that the EnhancedClean Services or any 
cleaning services will completely eliminate the risks of spreading infectious diseases and viruses.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  26ABM’S SUSTAINABLE  
PROCUREMENT INITIA TIVES
[102-9] Supply Chain.
ABM’s Supply Chain
As a facilities management service provider, we make purchases in support of 
and on behalf of our clients and corporate functions. During 2020, ABM engaged 
with over 50,000 suppliers and spent more than $1 billion to provide materials and 
services to our clients and to our own operations:ABM’s Supplier Code of Conduct
Using Environmental and Social Criteria for Screening Our Suppliers and 
Mitigating Risks
ABM uses strategic supplier partnerships to provide a capable, modern supply 
chain that allows ABM team members to receive the same products used 
to service our clients in the most responsible manner. All this is done while 
managing our supply base through strategic sourcing processes and risk 
mitigation efforts. 
We have established the ABM Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that 
suppliers, including subcontractors that provide services directly to ABM’s 
clients, uphold the company’s policies. These requirements cover compliance 
with all applicable local laws, respect for human rights, environmental 
conservation and the safety of all the products and services we provide.
Through this Code of Conduct, our suppliers are committed to upholding  
the human rights of workers, and to treating their team members with dignity 
and respect. This applies to all workers, including temporary, migrant, student, 
contract, direct team members and any other type of worker. In addition,  
we ask our new contractors to have Safe Contractor accreditation or agree  
to apply for and achieve accreditation within three months of becoming an 
approved supplier.
Our suppliers shall maintain all required environmental permits and safety data 
sheets, as well as records of the solid waste, wastewater and air emissions 
generated by their operations. At the same time, they should strive to reduce 
all types of waste generation, including water and energy consumption, as an 
overall strategy to implement environmentally friendly business practices. In 
addition, ABM suppliers shall strictly prohibit any form of corruption, adhere 
to fair business practice standards and comply with any applicable anti-
corruption law.SPEND
51%
Janitorial Suppliers
Cleaning Equipment
MRO Suppliers49%
Janitorial Services
Human Resources
Personal & Fleet Vehicles
Recruitment Consultants
IT Software & ServicesDOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Services MaterialsABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  27DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Supplier Diversity
ABM recognizes the importance of maintaining supplier 
diversity. We are committed to providing minority-owned, 
women-owned, as well as disabled veteran-owned 
(MWDVE) businesses direct access to subcontractor 
opportunities and procurement bids. We strongly believe 
that a robust and diverse supplier base not only helps 
ABM’s competitiveness in the marketplace, but it also fuels 
the economic vitality across all sectors in our industry.
The company actively participates in supplier diversity 
initiatives and is proud to support MWDVE enterprises 
through ABM’s mentoring program. Our extensive training 
and introduction to the latest cleaning techniques, supplies 
and equipment have all played a major role in the success 
stories where we subcontracted MWDVE companies.
ABM enterprise supplier diversity spend has increased 
more than 164% over the past four years since the 
inception of our program. We now have over $128 million in spend with diverse supplier partners. During the 2020 
fiscal year, that spend decreased considerably due to 
COVID-19 impacts on the business. 
In 2020, 17% of ABM’s overall supplier spend was with 
minority-owned businesses. Indeed, ABM is committed to 
“walking the walk” when it comes to culture and inclusion. 
And as our teams should be a direct reflection of the 
communities we serve, so should, we believe, our suppliers 
and partners. This extends not just to their workforce 
makeup, but to their supplier diversity practices as well. 
To date, ABM’s most substantial spend with diversity 
suppliers is concentrated in California (23% of total 
diversity spend), Georgia (16%), Illinois (12%) and Texas 
(11%).* These states are also where some of our largest 
markets are located. This means the dollars we spend go 
directly back into these communities, demonstrating our 
commitment to local economic development.
DIVERSITY SPEND TREND
$200
$150
$100
$50
$ -
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020164% INCREASEPartnering With Our Suppliers for Sustainable 
Procurement Practices
We are constantly identifying new products and methods 
to operate more efficiently for our clients, while staying at 
the forefront of the most innovative sustainable practices. 
As an example, we have a strong relationship with Diversey, 
our industry-leading chemical supplier. This partnership has 
worked to implement sustainability initiatives across all of 
ABM’s value chain. Diversey’s latest innovations in packaging 
and chemical concentrations have reduced ABM shipping 
volumes by an equivalent of 37 truckloads over 2020, and 
plastic and cardboard usage by 347,123kg which has offset 
about 899,122kg CO2e of carbon emissions.* 
Diversey, which is our main chemical supplier, promotes a 
sustainable supply chain that implements circular-economy 
principles. The company uses post-consumer recycled 
(PCR) corrugated cardboard for all products (at least 75%) 
and offers highly concentrated cleaning products in closed-
loop dispensing systems, which significantly reduces the 
need for single-use plastic containers. For instance, a hard-
surface cleaner like Pur-Eco is diluted 1:256 from ready to 
dispense. Compared to a ready-to-use product sold in 1-gallon 
containers, there is a 99% reduction in packaging. 
Also, as part of Diversey’s Facilitators for Life sustainability 
strategy, the company has a goal to reduce its overall 
packaging footprint. This is being accomplished via four 
methods: making packaging lighter, increasing the chemical 
concentration of the products it handles, increasing PCR 
amounts and moving to more easily recycled materials.
* Based on calculations from life cycle assessments, industry knowledge and  
   engineering factors. Technical information of estimations at the end of the report.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  28DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
For more than 100 years, ABM has been committed to ethical business practices, 
and we hold our suppliers to the same high standards. It is our policy to comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations where we operate and to conduct business 
activities in an honest and ethical manner.
Our Code of Business Conduct 
Our code of business conduct ensures that our principles of respect, integrity, 
collaboration, innovation, trust and excellence are applied throughout our 
operations, and that these values are aligned with our vision to lead the industry in 
the delivery of integrated facility-service solutions. Our code of business conduct 
covers topics such as conflicts of interest, duty of loyalty, gifts and gratuities, bribery 
and corruption, and harassment and discrimination, among others. 
ABM is absolutely committed to fostering a professional and safe working 
environment. As part of our efforts to increase awareness of business ethics-related 
topics, we provide a comprehensive training program for team members at all levels 
that fully complies with and exceeds all federal and state law requirements. During 
the 2020 fiscal year, 98% of ABM staff and management team members in the U.S. 
and 93% in the U.K. completed this Code of Business Conduct (COBC) certification. OUR ETHICAL BUSINESS  
APPROACH
[102-16] Values, principles, standards, norms of behavior  [418] Customer privacy management approach [418-
1] Sustained complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy [419] Socio economic compliance 
management approach [205] Anti-corruption management approach [205-2] Communication and training 
about anti-corruption practices [406] Nondiscrimination management approach [205-3] Confirmed incidents 
of corruption [406-1] Incidents of discrimination and corrective action plans [412] Human Rights management 
approach [412-2] Employee training on human rights policies or procedures [206] Anti competitive behavior [206-
1] Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices   (SV-PS-510a.1). DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Anti-Corruption Policies
ABM’s corporate culture is characterized by integrity, accountability, 
transparency and a strong “line from the top.” All support efforts to 
combat bribery and corruption in all aspects of company business. ABM 
supports in-person as well as anonymous reporting of potential corruption 
and bribery violations, including an ethics and compliance hotline operated 
by third-party vendors. Team members are encouraged and instructed 
to use any of our reporting mechanisms, including the ABM compliance 
hotline, if they encounter or witness any type of inappropriate behavior or 
have any concerns or complaints. 
ABM performs periodic risk assessments and audits to identify potential 
corruption or bribery risks, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption training 
is provided on a biannual basis to ABM’s team members. The training 
ensures that they know how to disclose potential violations. The course 
takes place via online platform. Participation is tracked and documented 
for this mandatory training course. In 2021, compliance training will be held 
for around 4,100 team members (over 50% of the staff and management 
workforce), including U.S., U.K. and Qatar. The audience for the mandatory 
training is based on certain criteria that align with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) and U.K. Bribery Act. In addition, ABM’s annual 
COBC training is required of all ABM staff and management and includes 
reference to anti-corruption requirements for all team members.
To combat corruption and bribery by third parties, ABM revised its due 
diligence process to include high-level risk assessment on the basis 
of predefined criteria; external and internal feedback; and a required 
questionnaire, to be completed and signed by the potential third party. 
As of 2020, no allegation had been made against ABM with regard to 
corruption, and no confirmed incidents under any applicable corruption 
laws had been reported. Also, there were no legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices.Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policies and Procedures
ABM is absolutely committed to fostering a professional and safe working environment for all our team members. We 
have zero tolerance of unlawful harassment of any kind, and we actively investigate any claims brought to our attention.  
In addition, our company has an industry-leading anti-harassment program and procedures to prevent harassment for 
our more than 130,000 team members. ABM has been proactively addressing this issue for many years. We are very  
proud of our programs.
Our policies and procedures are the best in class in our industry. We commit considerable resources to their implementation,  
and we continually update and enhance them. In fact, here are a few of our programs and procedures:
• We have written policies prohibiting unlawful 
discrimination, harassment and retaliation in our 
national team member handbook, our code of 
business conduct and in our new-hire package. Our 
internal complaint procedures are well publicized 
in each of these written locations. We also have a 
written workplace investigations policy, which requires 
complaints of unlawful discrimination, harassment, or 
retaliation to be investigated by an ABM designated 
investigator (a member of ABM’s professional HR staff 
who has been through ABM’s extensive investigations 
training program or an attorney or private 
investigator). 
• We have a comprehensive training program for team 
members at all levels that fully complies with and 
exceeds all federal and state law requirements. Our 
training program includes web-based annual training 
for all staff and management team members, and 
online and/or in person training for all new hires 
and hourly team members in all states and localities 
where such training is required by state or local law. 
Beginning in 2022, we have committed to enhancing 
our training program by providing anti-harassment 
training to all team members at the time of hire and 
annually thereafter. We will provide two-day in-
person training of more than 100 HR professionals in substantive and lawful investigations of unlawful 
discrimination and harassment allegations. We also 
created a customized “Acceptable Behavior” video 
training course that addresses acceptable behavior 
in the ABM workplace, ABM’s prohibition against 
harassment, bystander responsibilities and our 
reporting mechanisms. This video is available on ABM’s 
public webpage as well. 
• Team members are instructed to contact any of our 
several reporting mechanisms if they encounter or 
witness any type of inappropriate behavior or have 
any concerns or complaints, including the compliance 
hotline administered by a third party. The hotline takes 
calls anonymously, if desired, and is available 24/7/365 
in 100 languages. ABM has a separate employee 
relations hotline and local HR staff who are trained and 
available in taking reports. In addition, team members 
who are members of a labor union may report any 
concerns to their union representative. 
• We also conduct timely reviews of any complaints or 
investigations by our trained professionals that adhere 
to leading protocols and methodologies set forth in 
our written workplace investigations manual. 
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  29Our Data Protection Approach
(SV-PS-230a.1 - SV-PS-230a.2 - SV-PS-230a.3). 
ABM utilizes a multilayer defense aligned with the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology (NIST) framework to identify and 
mitigate cybersecurity risks, where best-in-class security tools are 
used to aggregate and remediate risk as soon as possible, post 
identification. We use internal and external tools and resources to 
support the cybersecurity program and any associated technology-
enabled initiatives. Additionally, in an effort to advance the maturity 
of the cybersecurity program, executive leadership began a search 
to find ABM’s first named chief information security officer (CISO). 
The new CISO will be responsible for modernizing the IT security 
landscape and serve as an expert on security risk analysis and 
preventive measures. 
Customer data is retained in aggregate; meaning organizational 
data is a part of customer master data. However, personally 
identifiable information (PII) is limited in nature, and demographic 
information is not maintained. Data is managed in accordance 
with ABM’s data classification policy. 
During 2020, ABM had zero breaches of customer privacy or losses 
of customer data, and we continue to strive to be on the forefront 
of compliance with laws and guidelines brought from General Data 
Protection Regulation, California Consumer Privacy Act, and all 
new guidelines and laws for personal information and retention. 
ABM meets and, in many cases, exceeds those guarantees of 
protection against collection and retention of private information.Our Human Rights Statement
ABM follows all international labor and immigration laws and does 
not tolerate the use of child labor; any acts of modern slavery; human 
trafficking; or other illegal, abusive or forced labor practices. This includes 
compliance with internationally recognized laws and regulations in all 
locations where we operate, regardless of local business customs. We 
are taking significant steps like trainings on MSA for general audience/
team members and procurement, on site audits or suppliers and the 
establishment of a modern slavery working group to evaluate and assess 
the presence of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain, 
and we do not tolerate forced labor or slavery in any form or in any part of 
the business or supply chain.
ABM’s U.K. business maintains a Modern Slavery Act Statement wherein ABM 
states its support of the Modern Slavery Act of 2015. The company considers 
its team members as critical to its success and it is committed to operating 
free from forced labor, slavery and human trafficking. DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  30ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  31DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Tax Compliance
[207] T ax.
Tax Planning.  We seek to conduct our tax affairs in an efficient manner 
in compliance with existing laws. We do not participate in artificial tax 
arrangements. We seek to apply tax relief as intended and, where necessary, 
request tax rulings so we have certainty in our tax affairs and operate 
compliantly. We conduct transactions between ABM-affiliated companies 
in compliance with controlling tax law and in accordance with Organization 
for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) principles, including 
country-by-country reporting. 
Relationships With Governments. We are committed to complying 
with tax laws in a responsible manner and having open and constructive 
dialogue with the tax authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate. 
We support the principles of cooperative compliance and hold the view 
that a relationship based on mutual respect and collaboration furthers the 
aims of the company. We actively seek to ensure that ABM pays the legally 
prescribed amount of tax.
Tax Risk Management. We do not believe that it is in the interest of the 
stakeholders for the company to take a high-risk approach to tax. The 
company has controls in place to ensure timely submission of tax returns 
for all taxes due. We have implemented processes and procedures designed 
to identify tax risk and ensure such risks are managed and dealt with 
appropriately. Where issues are identified, we seek to disclose these promptly 
and make appropriate and timely changes to mitigate tax risk going forward. 
Governance.  Our tax policy is overseen by our vice president, tax, who reports 
to the chief accounting officer. Our approach to tax is underpinned by a 
control framework. Controls are monitored and tested in line with this policy. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  32
TAKING CARE OF OUR PEOPLE  
AND CLIENTS
[403-1] Occupational Health and Safety Management system  [403-2] Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 
[403-3] Occupational health services [403-5] Worker training on occupational health and safety [403-6] Promotion of worker health [403-7] 
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships [403-9] Work related injuries 
[416] Customer health and safety  [416-2] Incidents of non compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services  
(SV-PS-OOO.B).
ABM’s mission to make a difference, every person, every day,  is evidenced in our approach to risk 
management and safety. Our programs are designed not only to ensure compliance with OSHA  
and other regulatory bodies, but also to protect the health and welfare of our team members,  
clients and clients’ clients. A cornerstone of ABM’s comprehensive risk management and safety 
program is safety awareness to ensure our team members are:
• Educated on how to complete tasks safely.
• Trained in hazard identification.
• Aware of emergency response procedures to immediately address challenges.
• Proficient in reporting accidents utilizing applicable procedures to ensure appropriate loss 
mitigation techniques are implemented should a loss occur.
Our “Think Safe” approach to safety includes 
establishing a safety mindset from day one of 
employment by focusing on our safety absolutes. 
This safety culture is continuously reinforced 
through daily moments for safety messaging, 
monthly relevant training topics, and unique 
programs and materials created for our team 
members. Examples include the ABMWay Hub, 
which contains specific information about how to 
prevent certain types of workplace injuries; ways 
to proactively address potentially catastrophic 
situations such as hurricanes or tornadoes; and 
refreshers on ABM’s safety absolutes. One of the cornerstones of our ThinkSafe 
program is a collaboration with operations to 
help leaders identify workplace hazards and 
implement changes to prevent accident or injury. 
In our frontline leader training, participants 
are guided in creating a culture of caring, 
through leadership engagement tours (LETs) 
and participation in the safe work observations 
program (SWOP). Frontline leader training also 
provides guidance on what to do should a claim 
occur to ensure team members receive the right 
care at the right time to expedite their recovery.DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA YABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  33DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Health and Safety Policy 
The safety organization is comprised of safety managers imbedded 
within our industry groups, though safety managers do report centrally 
to the vice president of risk management and safety. This deployment 
allows safety managers to create custom industry group solutions to 
challenges that arise from operations and to ensure all safety activities 
are aligned with ABM corporate goals and objectives. Our risk and 
safety leadership can in turn adapt our safety program to include client 
safety requirements and oversee the safety activities of subcontractors. 
Initiatives
The strong partnership between our risk and safety and operations 
areas has resulted in a number of initiatives. For example, with our 
top focus sites initiative, we looked at our top frequency accounts 
and developed a strategic partnership with operational leadership 
to conduct a holistic review that then focused on intervention and 
engagement at all levels from frontline team members to operational 
leadership. Program components included:
• Initial site assessments
• Development of a site-specific safety improvement plan
• Biweekly progress calls
• Team member engagement through safe work observations
• Regular site visits/audits by safety team
• Monthly progress review meetings
Results coming from this initiative have been outstanding at our client 
sites, with successes including:
Apparel accessories sports equipment industry client:  
40% year-over-year injury reduction (found that leaders were not as 
engaged in safety leadership as they could be, and we showed how 
they could be leaders in safety and influence culture)
Packaged bakery industry client:  
58% year-over-year injury reduction (found that we weren’t working 
well as a team in improving safety and worked to improve our 
collaboration for shared results)
Automated machinery & equipment industry client:  
68% year-over-year injury reduction (found that having formerly been 
a different company, that they had a different culture in which safety 
was just a cost of doing business and we partnered in helping shift to 
a culture where safety was valued)
Equally important as these results, there were meaningful safety 
conversations at all levels among operational leaders, frontline team 
members and the safety team.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  34DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Moving Forward 
Looking toward the future, our ultimate goal is recognition by our team 
members, clients, customers and communities as having a world-class safety 
environment, where safety has been embedded as a core value. In order to 
reach this goal, we’ve developed a strategy consisting of three pillars:
• Strengthen our safety infrastructure by developing compliance and data-
driven programs and initiatives in conjunction with operations. 
 –Partner with operations to deliver value-added programs and services
 –Deploy safety programs and initiatives that ensure compliance  
and address behavioral concerns
 –Focus on mitigating safety risk at locations and with tasks 
demonstrating elevated levels of claims/injuries
• Mature our safety culture through management commitment, awareness 
and new ways to engage team members.
 –Integrate safety into all operational tasks and business planning
 –Drive operational ownership and understanding through awareness 
and education
 –Utilize technologies and observations to engage team members
• Ensure that the safety department continues to evolve with the needs of 
the organization, and that we are developing a high-performance team 
that can help us move to increasingly higher levels of achievement.
 –Develop a sustainable and high-achieving safety team that is 
conducive to attracting and retaining team members
 –Appropriately recognize and compensate high performers
 –Provide development and advancement opportunities
ABM UK Highlight
ABM Group companies in the UK retains ISO standards for the following: 
ISO 45001 Occupational Health & Safety, ISO 14001 Environmental 
Management, ISO 9001 Quality Management, and ISO 50001 Energy 
management. Audits performed during the 2020 fiscal year returned no 
Non-Conformances to requirements. Hazard Identification 
As mentioned earlier, ABM’s safety program helps leaders identify hazards and 
make changes to prevent accident or injury.  A job hazard analysis protocol has been 
developed that applies to all ABM on-site service team members across all service 
lines. It highlights the responsibilities of frontline managers, branch managers, team 
members and the safety department to identify and report hazards and implement 
critical actions to mitigate them. 
Along with this job hazard analysis protocol, ABM maintains a PPE hazard assessment 
process, a safety inspection process and a safe work observation process. Also, our 
employee safety manual and employee handbook require reporting of all unsafe 
acts/conditions to supervisors. To that end, team members can report work-related 
concerns via the safety hotline: (866) 208-2114, and have authority to cease work 
whenever they encounter unsafe working conditions. 
Increasing Awareness 
ABM programs are designed to increase the safety acumen of our staff. We deliver 
tailored training to team members based on their job requirements, hazards 
identified through site assessments, and OSHA- and client-mandated training 
topics. These topics are delivered through interaction with the managers. They can 
be delivered via Moment for Safety messages in a pre-shift meeting, weekly safety 
briefings and/or tailored safety programs for all service lines. These interactions 
are documented for regular safety audits and inspections, including on-site client 
reviews. Additionally, ABM partners with client environmental health and safety staff 
to ensure consistent processes between both organizations.
The Results
Safety programs for fiscal year 2020 produced the fifth consecutive year of claim 
frequency reductions. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive claims 
management has sustained our experience modification rating (EMR) of .91 and an 
OSHA frequency rate of 2.14.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  35DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
Our Commitment to Safety in Action
• Management is committed to providing the highest standards of safety 
and health to our team members.
• Operations has partnered with corporate functions in developing and 
deploying policy and programs.
• Safety has been involved in all stages of development of new services 
and products, such as EnhancedClean and EnhancedFacility.
Key Deliverables
• Membership: Operational leaders, risk and safety, legal, human 
resources, communications, IT, learning and development, marketing, 
and strategy and innovation 
• Work efforts/products: Policy/standard operating procedures/work 
instructions; communications; printed materials such as posters/fliers; 
FAQs; position papers; and materials for clients
 –Exposure control plan intended to protect team members and 
comply with reopening guidelines and regulatory standards. 
Components Include
• Screening and return-to-work procedures for team members
• PPE guidance and policy
• Social distancing guidance and policy
• Personal hygiene guidance and policy
• Training (completed at 100%)
• Locations/project-specific plans (completed at 100%)
• SharePoint site to house documents
• EnhancedCleanSAFETY CUL TURE AND COVID-19
We’ve worked diligently to ensure team members 
are protected against COVID-19. Throughout the 
pandemic, we’ve also had to put an increased focus 
on chemical safety, specifically for the disinfectants 
that we use, as we are having to use a higher 
volume of them, as well as different disinfectants, 
due to demand. 
However, at the same time we’ve looked toward 
team member safety, we’ve also had to balance 
our focus with client concerns stemming from 
information that has not always been based in 
science. Because of this, and to ensure general 
transparency and consistency in processes, we’ve 
put even greater emphasis on partnering with our 
clients’ environmental, health and safety staff. Such 
cooperation provides opportunities for sharing of 
best practices, compatibility and compliance, and 
the opportunity to build even greater trust during 
these difficult times.With EnhancedClean as an example, operations 
engaged the safety department in the earliest stages 
of development to ensure we took into account 
the well-being of both our team members and the 
occupants of the facilities we service. To do so, every 
disinfectant product we use was first vetted by our 
Expert Advisory Council, consisting of industrial 
hygienists, safety specialists and infectious disease 
specialists. In these instances, we didn’t just look at 
the efficacy of the products we use, but also what 
impact they may have on our team members. 
Once products are selected, procurement only 
secures disinfectants that have been approved for 
use in ABM operations. Then, exposure assessments 
are conducted by safety to ensure the proper level 
of team member protection. Standard operating 
procedures and position papers are drafted to 
ensure safety and aligned communications, and an 
engaging curriculum is designed to ensure team 
member understanding.The maturation of ABM’s safety culture has been demonstrated in our 
handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Safety is not just a part of the discussion. 
Safety is involved in ALL aspects of business planning and development.
Number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-
related injury: 0, 0.00
Number and rate of recordable work-related injuries: 
1,769, 2.24
Main types of work-related injuries: Overexertion, 
Slip/Trip/Fall
Numbers of hours worked: 157,944,185
(calculated based on 200,000 hours worked per 100 full-time 
equivalents (FTEs)  No workers have been excluded; if the employee 
had an OSHA recordable injury it is counted)
Days away, restricted or transferred (DART) rates: There 
were 1,104 DART recordable incidents (1.40 rate)ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  36DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
GROUP INDUSTRY SUPER REGIONCLAIMANT  
GENDERD AY S  AWAY 
FROM WORKJOB TRANSFER 
OR RESTRICTIONOTHER 
RECORDABLE 
CASESGRAND 
TOTAL
Business  
& IndustryBNI - CentralFemale 43 53 52 148
Male 24 21 26 71
BNI - Central Total 67 74 78 219
BNI - GLNEFemale 45 10 31 86
Male 40 22 24 86
BNI - GLNE Total 85 32 55 172
BNI - WestFemale 62 67 125 254
Male 40 41 83 164
BNI - West Total 102 108 208 418
BNI PARKINGFemale 15 15 12 42
Male 14 17 20 42
BNI PARKING Total 29 32 32 93
AviationAVI - AIRSIDE WESTFemale 10 18 11 39
Male 9 9 4 22
AVI - AIRSIDE WEST Total 19 27 15 61
AVI - AIRSIDE SOUTHFemale 7 14 6 27
Male 3 5 7 15
AVI - AIRSIDE SOUTH Total 10 19 13 42
AVI - LANDSIDEFemale 16 8 7 31
Male 5 6 10 21
AVI - LANDSIDE Total 21 14 17 52
AVI - AIRSIDE NORTHFemale 9 1 6 16
Male 12 3 4 19
AVI - AIRSIDE NORTH Total 21 4 10 35
EducationEDU - Northeast/MidwestFemale 24 35 28 87
Male 19 27 26 72
EDU - Northeast/Midwest Total 43 62 54 159
EDU - WestFemale 14 15 18 47
Male 6 8 8 22
EDU - West Total 20 23 26 69
EDU - SoutheastFemale 35 37 18 90
Male 16 28 20 64
EDU - Southeast Total 51 65 38 154GROUP INDUSTRY SUPER REGIONCLAIMANT  
GENDERD AY S  AWAY 
FROM WORKJOB TRANSFER 
OR RESTRICTIONOTHER 
RECORDABLE 
CASESGRAND 
TOTAL
Technology & 
ManufacturingTCM - West/PacNWFemale 7 10 22 39
Male 7 4 13 24
TCM - West/PacNW 14 14 35 63
TCM - Southeast & IFSFemale 5 10 7 22
Male 13 14 3 30
TCM - Southeast & IFS 18 24 10 52
TCM - CentralFemale 6 12 13 31
Male 3 4 6 13
TCM - Central Total 9 16 19 44
TCM - So West/MT & NuclearFemale 8 9 9 26
Male 1 14 11 26
TCM - So West/MT & Nuclear Total 9 23 20 52
TCM - NortheastFemale 14 11 13 38
Male 3 6 7 16
TCM - Northeast Total 17 17 20 54
Technical Solutions 
USABS - Bldg Solutions (ABS) Male 7 3 7 17
ABS - Elec Power Sol (APS) Male 1 1 2
ABS - Elec Sol (AESL) Male 2 2
Healthcare Technology Male 1 1
Corporate CSA - CFO Summary Female 1 1
#N/A#N/AFemale 5 5
Male 2 2
#N/A Total 7 7
Grand Total 543 561 665 1,769
RIDDORS Combined FR RIDDOR - Major RIDDORS > 8 Days
Aviation 0.17 0.00 0.17
B&I 0.11 0.01 0.10U.K. Safety Metrics:ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  37DOING BUSINESS IN A RESPONSIBLE WA Y
OUR GIVE-BACK  
APPROACH
ABMCares Program
At ABM, we developed our company mission—to make a difference,  
every person, every day—because we truly believe our business needs  
to positively affect the communities where we live and work. 
ABMCares is our matching philanthropy program for all staff and 
management team members. This company-wide program encourages 
our team members to give back to their local communities and to engage 
in activities that contribute to their well-being. It is our aim to position 
charitable giving as part of our corporate identity and to spark interest 
in wellness programs at the local level. During 2020 we were proud to 
announce that the program was extended to the U.K. team members  
as part of our CEO’s commitment to giving back. 
ABMCares Ambassadors
ABMCares ambassadors guide and support team members who engage 
in the ABMCares program. In this voluntary role, ambassadors drive 
participation in both philanthropy and wellness activities. They are the 
liaison between their local offices and ABM corporate.ENSURING OUR TEAM  
MEMBERS’ WELL-BEINGABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  39ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
OUR WORKFORCE
[102-8] Information about team members and other workers [401] Employment 
[401-1] New team member hires and turnover [405-1] Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees (SV-PS-000.A) (SV-PS-330a.1) (SV-PS-330a.2).
TOTAL MALE FEMALE
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Board 10 10 12 60% 60% 67% 40% 40% 33%
Service 102,039 124,897 129,266 49% 50% 52% 51% 50% 48%
Staff & Management 8,831 10,910 7,496 57% 58% 60% 43% 42% 40%
AGE <30 AGE 30-50 AGE >50
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Board 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 100%
Service 17% 20% 20% 42% 42% 42% 41% 38% 38%
Staff & Management 8% 13% 8% 50% 49% 53% 42% 38% 39%
MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Board 40% 30% 33% 60% 70% 67% 0% 0% 0%
Service 68% 65% 73% 20% 18% 19% 12% 17% 8%
Staff & Management 53% 51% 47% 44% 42% 51% 3% 7% 2%
FULL TIME PART TIME UNION NON-UNION
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Board - - - - - - - - - - - -
Service 86% 86% 79% 14% 14% 21% 33% 33% 36% 67% 67% 64%
Staff & Management 99% 99% 99% 1% 1% 1% 5% 5% 0% 95% 95% 100%
*Union and non-union excludes ABM UKAbout ABM Team Members 
Our mission is to make a difference for every person, every day. We are serious about having a culture where 
each of our team members feels like part of a team, that they are trusted, listened to, trained and rewarded.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  40ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
OUR WORKFORCE, CONTINUED
Industry GroupTOTAL FULL-TIME PART-TIME MALE FEMALE AGE <30 AGE 30-50
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
ABS - Technical Solutions 312 434 303 288 431 299 24 3 4 248 357 263 64 77 40 55 92 67 155 232 165
AVI - Aviation 5,723 12,720 16,332 5,399 12,057 15,761 324 663 571 2,796 6,062 7,416 2,927 6,658 8,916 2,571 6,632 8,942 2,016 4,099 5,158
BNI - Business & Industry 35,218 37,045 31,713 26,867 29,915 18,437 8,351 7,130 13,276 15,918 18,182 16,057 19,300 18,863 15,656 12,788 12,809 11,157 14,954 15,588 13,310
COO - Commercial Ops HQ - 9 4 0 9 4 0 - - 0 8 3 0 - 1 0 2 2 0 2 2
CSA - Corporate 177 236 215 177 235 198 - - 17 58 92 88 119 144 127 32 71 69 97 134 115
EDU - Education 17,269 18,046 18,699 15,027 16,035 15,074 2,242 2,011 3,635 6,314 6,888 7,138 10,955 11,158 11,561 5,493 5,911 5,623 7,131 7,267 7,310
HLC - Healthcare - - 4,036 - - 2,651 - - 1,385 - - 1,836 - - 2,200 0 - 1,606 0 - 1,483
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing14,077 15,518 16,104 12,503 14,187 13,658 1,574 1,331 2,446 6,582 7,639 7,928 7,495 7,879 8,176 5,219 5,880 5,974 6,043 6,598 6,881
72,776 84,008 87,406 60,261 72,869 66,082 12,515 11,138 21,324 31,916 39,228 40,729 40,860 44,779 46,677 26,158 31,397 33,440 30,396 33,920 34,424ABM HIRES REHIRES
Industry GroupAGE >50 AGE NOT SPECIFIED MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
ABS - Technical Solutions 102 110 71 - - - 83 112 95 131 214 204 98 108 4
AVI - Aviation 1,136 1,989 2,232 - - - 3,537 7,966 14,726 346 854 1,302 1,840 3,900 304
BNI - Business & Industry 7,476 8,648 7,246 - 1 -18,230 18,614 23,132 4,208 4,958 5,830 12,780 13,473 2,751
COO - Commercial Ops HQ 0 5 - - - - 0 4 2 0 4 1 - - 1
CSA - Corporate 48 - 31 - - - 84 128 121 53 50 76 40 58 18
EDU - Education 4,645 4,868 5,766 - - - 8,462 9,019 11,589 2,882 2,797 4,453 5,925 6,230 2,657
HLC - Healthcare 0 - 947 - - - 0 - 2,644 0 - 1,278 - - 114
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing2,815 3,040 3,249 - - - 8,326 7,515 9,740 3,220 3,013 4,210 2,491 4,990 2,154
16,222 18,660 19,542 - 1 -38,722 43,358 62,049 10,840 11,890 17,354 23,174 28,759 8,003
*Hires: excludes ABM UK aviation
* Terminations: excludes ABM UK aviation and presents ABM UK B&I as a totalABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  41OUR WORKFORCE, CONTINUED
Industry GroupTOTAL FULL-TIME PART-TIME MALE FEMALE AGE <30 AGE 30-50
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
ABS - Technical Solutions 445 307 272 429 305 264 16 2 8 374 255 235 71 52 37 81 52 39 196 152 158
AVI - Aviation 11,186 14,703 17,120 10,360 14,449 16,447 826 254 673 6,000 7,022 7,753 5,186 7,681 9,367 3,936 7,104 9,048 4,033 4,859 5,457
BNI - Business & Industry 41,129 29,593 29,557 31,866 27,416 17,861 9,263 2,177 11,696 19,925 14,811 15,283 21,204 14,782 14,274 13,061 8,927 9,010 16,465 11,929 12,207
COO - Commercial Ops HQ 3 4 8 3 4 8 0 - - 1 4 7 2 - 1 0 1 1 2 3 2
CSA - Corporate 209 325 259 209 325 240 0 - 19 81 114 100 128 211 159 17 58 51 119 167 136
EDU - Education 19,180 18,535 16,713 16,755 17,634 12,901 2,425 901 3,812 7,453 7,353 6,714 11,727 11,182 9,999 5,227 5,513 4,724 7,552 7,212 6,404
HLC - Healthcare - - 3,959 0 - 2,563 0 - 1,396 0 - 1,925 0 - 2,034 0 - 1,522 0 - 1,447
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing14,132 14,343 14,735 12,420 13,769 12,330 1,712 574 2,405 6,872 7,192 7,432 7,260 7,151 7,303 4,906 4,919 5,189 5,985 5,944 6,198
86,284 77,810 82,623 72,042 73,902 62,614 14,242 3,908 20,009 40,706 36,751 39,449 45,578 41,059 43,174 27,228 26,574 29,584 34,352 30,266 32,009
Industry GroupAGE >50 AGE NOT SPECIFIED MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
ABS - Technical Solutions 168 103 75 - - - 130 96 88 270 185 184 45 26 -
AVI - Aviation 3,217 2,740 2,615 - - - 8,712 11,151 15,432 1,206 1,088 1,496 1,268 2,464 192
BNI - Business & Industry 11,603 8,737 8,340 - - -27,799 18,829 21,380 6,134 4,436 6,137 7,196 6,328 2,040
COO - Commercial Ops HQ 1 - 5 - - - 2 1 3 1 3 5 - - -
CSA - Corporate 73 100 72 - - - 109 190 141 96 114 86 4 21 32
EDU - Education 6,401 5,810 5,585 - - -12,274 10,697 10,230 3,698 3,169 3,916 3,208 4,669 2,567
HLC - Healthcare 0 - 990 - - - 0 - 2,629 0 - 1,212 0 - 118
TCM - Technology & 
Manufacturing3,241 3,480 3,348 - - - 8,306 7,877 8,921 3,218 3,337 3,857 2,608 3,129 1,957
24,704 20,970 21,030 - - -57,332 48,841 58,824 14,623 12,332 16,893 14,329 16,637 6,906
*Hires: excludes ABM UK aviation
* Terminations: excludes ABM UK aviation and presents ABM UK B&I as a totalENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
TERMINATIONS SEPARATIONSABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  42
A DIVERSE WORKFORCE IS OUR  
COMPETITIVE ADV ANTAGE
[405] Diversity and equal opportunity management approach.
Equal Opportunity Employment
At ABM, we know that a diverse workforce is essential to success. As a federal contractor, ABM is an Equal Opportunity and 
Affirmative Action employer in compliance with the requirements of Executive Order 11246 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 
and the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act. We are committed to equal opportunity and affirmative action 
initiatives, such as proactive outreach programs that create opportunities for all and foster a diverse, inclusive workforce. 
We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, color, creed, sexual orientation, disability, 
ancestry, marital or veteran status or any other protected status covered by the law.
Our diversity and inclusion efforts 
We are comitted to ensuring that everyone from every background is seen, heard and valued at ABM. Our first step 
was establishing a team member-led, executive leader-sponsored Culture and Inclusion Council to develop organizational 
priorities that nurture an inclusive workplace that drive meaningful impact. We also conducted an Organizational Culture 
Assessment to measure the current perspective related to culture and define priorities. One of the main highlights of this 
assessment is that Leadership is committed to diversity and inclusion being a part of ABM’s new culture and that frontline 
workers are a diverse and valuable group to ABM.Female Male
American Indian or Alaska Native 89 142
Asian 1,494 2,315
Black or African American 11,834 12,105
Hispanic or Latino 24,368 18,754
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 101 103
Two or more races 769 912
White 8,591 11,771
Not disclosed 6,644 5,070
* Diversity metrics exclude ABM UK team membersDuring the 2020 fiscal year, ABM performed listening sessions and 
inclusive leadership training over multiple sessions. This training 
focused on identifying the key traits and building the capabilities of 
inclusive leaders to foster the company’s commitment to its culture 
and inclusion efforts. It was delivered to the Executive Leadership 
Team and all Council members.  Looking forward during 2021, we 
will strength our commitment to diversity and inclusion and we 
plan to partner with organizations focused on equal opportunity 
and advancement for all.
Developing inspirational leaders. Working as a team, we will create programs, 
tools and training to foster a supportive, dynamic and inclusive culture, including 
leadership development programs, mentorship opportunities and affinity groups.
Empowering team members. We’ll enable every team member to be their 
best by reimagining how we support and develop talent at every level, approach 
succession planning and develop diverse talent.Showing up for our team. Idendifying ways to recognize and reward our team 
members’ successes in ways that are meaningful to them.
Creating a culture of belonging. Every team member has a story, and we aim to 
elevate every voice through new platforms, programs, networks and partnerships 
that foster a culture of connection and belonging to drive lasting change. ABM’s Culture and Inclusion Council focuses on the following:ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEINGABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  43ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
Highlight: ABM U.K. Diversity Efforts
ABM U.K. has piloted and launched the following initiatives within its aviation business: 
ABM Aviation supported the journeys of disabled passengers at Heathrow, Stansted, 
Manchester, Liverpool and Edinburgh in 2020. 
• Every one of the airports where ABM operates received a good or very good status 
accessibility rating by the Civil Aviation Authority, based on operational performance, 
facilities and the level of consultation with disabled consumers.  READ MORE 
• Increasing awareness: to support individual customer journeys, team members receive 
a comprehensive training package accredited by Disability Rights U.K., covering both 
visible and invisible disabilities. 
• ABM Aviation is a strategic founding partner to #PurpleLightUp. This is a global annual 
event that celebrates workplace contributions of disabled employees. Samantha 
Saunders, our head of innovation and regulatory compliance, is one of their 10 
ambassadors who help shape growth and engagement strategies.  READ MORE 
• ABM Aviation is a member of the Valuable 500 group of companies. We are committed 
to introducing work experiences to young persons with disabilities and extending our 
supported internship program to them. To make this happen, we committed to the 
journey of achieving Disability Confident Employer Status, which will see us embark 
on a range of initiatives to raise the standards of passengers with reduced mobility 
(PRM) services offered through staff training, partnerships with disability groups and 
investments in new technologies and specialist equipment.  READ MORE 
• ABM Aviation has attained Level 2 status in the U.K. Government Disability Confident 
Employer program.  READ MORE ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
ABM 2021 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  44DEVELOPING OUR TEAM 
MEMBERS’ POTENTIAL
[404] Training and education management approach [404-1] Average hours of training per 
year per employee.
Learning and Development Opportunities
ABM’s employees who make a difference, every person, every 
day, take ownership of their careers as they grow and develop. 
This is why we maintain a learning management system called 
ABMUniversity, our online platform that provides our staff and 
management employees with access to a multitude of training 
courses, videos, reference material and other tools. Outside of 
ABMUniversity, our front line team members receive on-the-job 
training to ensure we are executing for our clients. 
Our leadership and staff and management team members, which 
account for 10% of our workforce, complete an average of 19 hours 
of training per year, and our service-level employees average 38 
hours of training per year. Employees receive monthly awareness 
training in addition to regulatory-related training as pertains 
to their jobs. We also require annual harassment-prevention 
training around our code of business conduct. Some of our 
courses for management include using coaching as a leadership 
style; customer service; communicating and listening; time 
management and delegation; and human resource fundamentals. 
More than 38 courses in these areas were completed, and more 
than 213 training courses were completed outside the scope of  
on-the-job training.Career and Performance
We promote an environment in which every team member and 
manager builds a trusting and respectful relationship with candid, 
frequent feedback and coaching. This relationship is the essence 
of ABM’s career and performance process. Our program aims 
to develop inspirational leaders; to clearly cascade and align goals 
and priorities; and to strengthen communication with frequent, 
consistent talent conversations.
INCREASING OUR TEAM 
MEMBERS’ ENGAGEMENT
(SV-PS-330a.3)
Team Member Engagement - ABMVoice Program
At ABM, every voice matters. In 2020, we conducted a pulse survey 
of our staff and management team to assess engagement, our 
culture and the organization’s response to the pandemic. More 
than half of our team members participated in the survey and 
provided valuable feedback. 
The response rate of the 2020 survey was 56% and the engagement 
rate was 75%. To measure our team members engagement rate, 
we took into account the response that they provided to questions 
like: I feel accepted by my teammates, I find my work engaging, I 
recommend ABM as a great place to work and it would take a lot 
to get me to leave ABM.
The good news is that we have a great foundation to build upon. 
We have team members who are aligned around the mission of the 
company and understand the path to success. We can be proud of 
the work that has been done over the past few years and we can 
use it as a baseline for our continued growth.
As we continue to make ABM a great place to work, areas  
of opportunity were identified in the survey, and we are taking 
action to improve team member development, culture and 
inclusion, and performance management.Here are a few key highlights from the nearly 6,000  
responses we received:
• Team members felt well-supported during the pandemic  
and trusted leadership to create a safe workplace.
• Team members are aligned around ABM’s mission and  
believe in our future success.
• Although there were slight decreases in engagement,  
scores remain healthy overall.
• There is an opportunity to make team members feel  
more valued.
• We need to better define and prioritize team member 
development.
HOURS OF TRAINING
2020 2019 2018
ABM Leadership and 
Management Level19 15 15
Service Level 38 35 35
* Includes only ABM USABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  45ENSURING OUR TEAM MEMBERS’ WELL-BEING
TEAM MEMBERS’   
WELL-BEING
[401-2] Benefits provided to full time team members not provided to temporary team members.
The health, wellness and job satisfaction of our team members are vital to the continued 
success of our clients. ABM provides all our team members access to health and welfare 
benefits, retirement savings, worker’s compensation coverage and paid time off.
ABM’s comprehensive benefits offerings are designed to meet the diverse needs of our 
eligible full-time team members and many part-time team members as well. Benefits 
offered include: 
• 401(k) plan with company match for all team members with at least six months  
of service, including company match of 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next  
2% of eligible contributions.
• Access to financial planning education and materials, whether participating in  
the 401(k) or not.
• Paid time off for sick leave, vacation, and company-observed holidays.
• ABMCares provides to staff and management team members one day off per  
year to volunteer and up to $1,000 in matching charitable contributions annually  
to support our team members in the communities in which they live and work.
• Employee assistance program to support mental health and various challenges.
• Variety of medical, dental, vision and voluntary benefits, with choices to best meet 
team member and family needs, including: 
 –COVID-19 testing and treatment, with waiver of copays aligned with best practices.
 –Disease management programs, which assist team members in the management  
of chronic medical conditions, such as coronary artery disease, diabetes, asthma, 
and congestive heart failure.
 –Telemedicine benefits, unlimited in some plans and circumstances. 
 –Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks and support to 
team members requiring transplant services.
 –Health and wellness coaching programs, maternity support, and care for diabetes.
• Legal preparation courses for will assistance, among other topics.Collective Bargaining Agreements
[102-41] Collective bargaining agreements [401] Employment management approach [404-3] Worker participation, consultation and communication 
on occupational health and safety.
ABM respects team members’ rights to associate freely and is committed to comply with all laws, such 
as adherence to minimum wage provisions of applicable laws and regulations, including ABM’s internal 
workforce and subcontractors. We are one of the largest-sector unionized employers in the United States. 
Approximately 34% of our team members are represented by 250 active collective bargaining agreements. 
These collective bargaining agreements are periodically renegotiated with labor representatives. They 
also set terms of wages, benefits and other conditions of employment. For single-site collective bargaining 
agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM frequently 
bargains in a group of employers who are covered by the same agreement.
FULL TIME PART TIME UNION NON-UNION
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Board - - - - - - - - - - - -
Service 86% 86% 79% 14% 14% 21% 33% 34% 35% 67% 62% 61%
Staff & Management 99% 99% 99% 1% 1% 1% 5% 7% 0% 95% 86% 93%
* Union and non-union excludes ABM UKMANAGING OUR   
ENVIRONMENTAL   
FOOTPRINTABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  47MANAGING OUR OWN ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
[302-1] Energy consumption with the organization [305] Emissions [305-1] Direct scope GHG emissions [305-2] Energy indirect GHG 
emissions [305-3] Other indirect GHG emissions [305-5] Reductions of GHG emissions.
ABM recognizes the role the company plays in limiting its impact on the environment and facing the global warming challenge. We are currently 
working on strengthening our environmental reporting processes and have increased the sites reporting and type of information we need. Due to the 
COVID-19, a significant part of our staff and management workforce worked remotely during 2020. This explains the reduction in energy consumption 
and carbon emissions from our operations. ABM recognizes the role the company plays in limiting its impact on the environment and facing the global 
warming challenge. We are currently working on strengthening our environmental reporting processes and have increased the sites reporting and type 
of information we need. Due to the COVID-19, a significant part of our staff and management workforce worked remotely during 2020. This explains the 
reduction in energy consumption and carbon emissions from our operations. 
Our Carbon Footprint 
ABM’s overall carbon footprint decreased by 52% during the 2020 fiscal year. This can be explained by the significant decrease of 95% on business 
travel’s emissions due to travel restrictions during the pandemics and also a decrease of 19% on our scope 1 and 2 emissions due to the implementation 
of remote working and a decrease of fuel consumption linked to a reduction in our business activities. 
GHG Emissions (CO2e Tonnes)
2020 2019 2018
Scope 1 - Direct Emissions Gas Consumption, Fleet 36,833 46,076 45,833
Scope 2 - Indirect Emissions Purchased Electricity 5,808 6,456 6,536
Scope 3 - Business Travel 2,195 40,642 39,458GHG Emssions  
(CO2e Tonnes)
US UK
Scope 1 - Direct Emissions Gas Consumption, Fleet 35,220 1,613
Scope 2 - Indirect Emissions Purchased Electricity 5,738 70
Scope 3 - Business Travel 2,164 31
Consumption (MWh)
Source 2020 2019 2018
Electricity 10,833 12,356 12,595
Gasoline 125,844 172,615 N/A
Diesel 9,542 15,003 N/A
Biofuel 12,620 13,491 N/A
Natural Gas 5,104 7,193 5,488ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  48MANAGING OUR OWN ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Addressing the Climate Change Challenge and Setting Carbon Reduction Goals
ABM is deeply committed to reduce the company greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
in line with the commitments undertaken in the Paris Climate Agreement. As a 
result, we have chosen to renew our carbon reduction targets in alignment with the 
Science Based Targets initiative methodology in order to limit global temparatures 
no more than 2 Celsius degrees above pre-industrial levels as indicated by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
During the 2019 fiscal year, ABM reached its carbon reduction target to reduce 
metric tons of GHG emissions from its scope 1 and 2 per FTE equivalent by 15% 
from our 2011-year baseline (0.67 Tons of CO2e/FTE) by 2020. This is why, during 
the 2020 fiscal year we partnered with the Center for Sustainability and Excellence 
to develop our company’s Science Based Targets and to verify our emission factors 
used to calculate the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. Due to the significant 
decrease on our energy consumption because of COVID-19, we have decided to use 
the 2019 as our baseline year.
Utilizing the Absolut Contraction Approach (ACA) Method under the Well Below 2 
Degrees (WB2C) scenario, we plan to reduce by 27.5% our Scope 1 (direct emissions 
from gas consumption and fleet), Scope 2 (indirect energy emissions from purchased 
electricity) and Scope 3 emissions (business travel) by 2030 from a 2019 base year. 
This target plans to be submitted to the Science Based Target initiative for approval 
and it might vary depending on the approval process.ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  49MANAGING OUR OWN ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FROM CLIMA TE CHANGE
[102-11] Precautionary principle approach  [302] Energy management approach [201] Economic performance [201-2] Financial implications and other risks  
and opportunities due to climate change.
In addition to mitigating the effects of climate change, ABM continuously evaluates the risks and opportunities  
that climate change represents for us and our clients. Potential climate change impacts are identified, assessed  
and managed as part of ABM’s enterprise risk review, which is reported to the board of directors. The company’s  
management and its board continuously monitor the risk profile.
Risks Related to Climate Change
Policy, Regulations and Energy Prices 
Our operations are subject to various federal, state 
and/or local laws regulating topics such as discharge 
of materials into the environment or otherwise 
relating to the protection of the environment. As an 
example, ABM U.K. is subject to the Climate Change 
Levy, which requires the company to report its GHG 
emissions. Also, some of ABM’s energy-efficiency 
projects are subject to federal and state legislation 
and policies that support those kinds of projects. 
Ineffective compliance with current laws and 
regulations could affect our reputation or generate 
financial fines that could increase the costs and 
potential liabilities associated with the conduct of 
our operations. To ensure compliance, we maintain 
an environmental policy that provides guidelines on 
discharge into soil, water and air, and the generation, 
handling, transportation and disposal of waste and 
hazardous substances. We also stay abreast of 
any regulation updates in terms of environmental 
compliance. 
Technology
Peers implementing the latest cleaning and technical 
solutions and related technologies can affect our 
contract retention and revenues. To manage this risk, ABM’s strategy department is constantly looking at 
the latest innovation trends to ensure we provide our 
clients with the best technology available in the market. 
Also, regarding our own operations, we have designed 
a road map to increase the electrification of our fleet.
Market
Clients have expressed an increased interest in 
sustainability-related services that could help 
them to improve their sustainability performance, 
including reduction of energy consumption and 
waste generation. Inability to provide such services 
could affect our client retention rates. To manage this 
risk, ABM has put in place its GreenCare portfolio of 
sustainable solutions to help clients reach their green 
cleaning, zero waste and carbon-neutrality goals. 
Physical
Adverse weather conditions can lead to reduced 
travel activity and affect service delivery at some of 
our clients’ locations. This can generate increased 
operational costs. To manage this risk, ABM has 
designed contingency plans, business continuity 
plans, crisis management procedures and disaster 
recovery procedures. Opportunities Related to Climate Change
Development and/or Expansion of Low-Emissions Services and Products
An increase of clean energy and climate change-related regulations and 
incentives like rebates could generate an increase in demand for our 
sustainable services, as they contribute to a reduction of our clients’ 
environmental footprint. Also, as many of our clients are more actively 
managing their climate change risks, we may see increased demand for 
our lower-emissions products and services. Many more companies are 
responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project and making commitments  
to the Science Based Targets initiative 
ABM has worked hard to be up to date on the latest sustainability trends and 
client-industry regulations to ensure that the company can identify the right 
opportunities and generate added value through our portfolio of sustainable 
services. Through our GreenCare program, we have the greatest opportunity 
to help our clients reduce their environmental footprint with solutions like 
green cleaning services, energy efficiency services, on-site renewable energy 
generation, installation of EV chargers and sustainable parking solutions, 
among others. 
Physical 
Although weather conditions may lead to increased costs as described above, 
some weather events might create opportunities for increased services 
related to cleanup and restoration; severe weather situations can also affect 
our operations in the affected areas related to our offices and our clients’ 
locations. This could lead to an increase of our tag work and therefore 
positively affect our sales. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  50MANAGING OUR OWN ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
GREENING OUR FLEET
As a company that provides transportation services and maintains a 
significant vehicle fleet, we are conscious of our environmental footprint. 
This is why we are actively measuring and reporting emissions from our fleet 
of more than 5,400 vehicles. They include light, medium and heavy trucks; 
minivans; passenger cars; forklifts; and trailers, among others. 
We are also transitioning to more sustainable fuels and hybrid and electric 
vehicles. In the U.K., our ABM company car and cash allowance policy states 
that all available vehicles will be from hybrid and EV ranges, and that CO2 
emissions are capped at 130 g/km. In the U.S., ABM is currently exploring 
opportunities in each state to increase the electrification of our fleet and 
promote the use of electric vehicles at our clients’ sites. 
During the 2021 fiscal year, ABM plans to develop a commitment to increase 
the electrification of its vehicles and will be sharing more information 
about the implementation road map.  So far, we have identified more than 
4,000 vehicles that are eligible for the transition, based on available market 
options. As the market evolves, we expect to continue that transition. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  51
MANAGING OUR OWN ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
WHA T ARE WE DOING TO REDUCE OUR  
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT?
As an industry leader, we are committed to reducing the impact of our operations on climate change as well as supporting our clients’ 
transitions toward a reduced carbon/net zero economy. We are currently working on aligning our reduction efforts with climate science, 
based on the COP 21 agreement to keep the increase in average global temperature to well below 2˚C or 1.5˚C, if possible. 
Measures we have implemented include:
• Setting carbon reduction goals aligned with science:  
Develop a carbon reduction target under the Science Based 
Target initiative in order to ensure that we align with global 
efforts to reduce global warming. 
• Office consolidations:  We are consolidating some of our  
offices in an effort to substantially reduce duplicated heating  
and cooling energy, use of electrical devices and lighting. 
• Renewable energy procurement:  The majority of our 
offices in the U.K. purchase renewable electricity, reducing 
carbon emissions considerably. We are currently evaluating 
opportunities to engage in a renewable electricity procurement 
strategy, and we’re evaluating offsets for the remaining offices. • Real estate development:  When opening new offices and 
upgrading existing ones, we use open floor plans wherever 
possible to reduce the overall footprint through a variety of 
measures that include: reducing the amount of construction; 
providing HVAC to fewer individual spaces; increasing the 
amount of lighting via daylight; and reducing electricity demand.
• Increasing environmental awareness among team 
members: ABM maintains a course catalogue open for team 
members with courses to increase environmental awareness. 
Some of the courses we offer are: greening existing buildings, 
net zero energy, triple bottom line of sustainability and 
introduction to corporate sustainability. 
During the first half of fiscal year 2021, we plan to publicly launch our Science Based Targets initiative commitment and plan to plan to develop 
commitments around vehicle electrification. Also, we plan to develop a renewable energy procurement strategy for the sites we can directly 
control, and scale to other offices our waste management pilot that includes proper separation of waste and composting at our main offices. TECHNICAL   
INFORMA TION   
ABOUT THE  
REPORTTECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  53[102-49] Significant changes from previous reporting periods (SV-PS-000.B) (SV-PS-510a.2)  
[419-1] Non compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 
Calculation Methods and Sources of Information
• Scale of the organization dashboard financial information:  selected financial data 
comes from our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Human Resources Metrics
• Women in top management positions:  categories like senior vice president, director, 
executive vice president and vice president are considered as top management positions. 
• Team members engagement rate:  the engagement rate is calculated based on four 
questions: I feel accepted by my teammates, I find my work engaging, I recommend  
ABM as a great place to work, and it would take a lot to get me to leave ABM. This survey 
is performed by Quantum Workplace and the calculation of the favorability is the sum  
of favorable responses (agree and strongly disagree) divided by total possible responses.  
 
The questions included in the survey were: I feel accepted by my teammates, I find my 
work engaging, I recommend ABM as a great place to work, it would take a lot to get me 
to leave ABM, I understand how my job helps ABM achieve success, I believe ABM will be 
successful in the future, I see professional growth and career development opportunities 
for myself at ABM, the culture at ABM supports my health and wellbeing, the senior 
leaders of ABM demonstrate integrity, inclusion is valued at ABM and ABM leaders value 
team members above all stakeholders. 
• Human resources’ reporting systems:  due to our human resources reporting 
structure, we might not be able to provide detailed information on region, type of 
contract and turnover metrics.
Business Ethics Metrics 
• Communication and training anti-corruption:  all staff and management team 
members are requested to complete the Code of Business Conduct training. The metric 
excludes team members reclassified, terminated, on leave or furloughed.
• Material legal proceedings:  for the company are disclosed in Note 13, Commitments 
and Contingencies, on page 86 of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
• Board of director metrics:  reflect the Board composition as of April 1, 2021. • ABMCares donations and volunteered hours metrics:  disclosed information has been directly 
captured from our ABMCares platform managed by a third-party vendor who processes all 
donations and matchings and volunteered hours logged by ABM’s team members.
• Sustainable procurement - carbon footprint calculator Diversey:  Calculations were based 
on ABM 2019 product purchases analyzed. Compared to industry standard glug-glug packaging. 
Assumptions from Diversey product specifications, studies, or industry knowledge: concentrated 
products in Diversey dispensing systems average 1:128 dilution – Comparative industry standard 
product assumed 1:16 dilution (this is a conservative number since overuse of glug bottles has been 
shown to be significant) – carbon footprint estimate based on packaging reductions (3.02 kg CO2e/
Kg HDPE, 2.94 Kg CO2 e/Kg LLDPE, 1.49 Kg CO2e/Kg cardboard.  
• Safety metrics:  ABM follows the OSHA requirements set by statutes, standards, and regulations. 
Recordable injuries are defined as any work-related fatality, and any work-related injury or illness 
that results in loss of consciousness, days away from work, or transfer to another job, and any  
work-related injury or illness requiring medical treatment beyond first aid. Main types of work-
related injuries are considered as: overexertion, slip/trip/fall.  
 
Incidence rate of injuries and illnesses are computed from the following formula  (number  
of OSHA recordable injuries and illnesses x 200,000)/employee direct hours worked = incidence  
rate. The 200,000 figure in the formula represents the number of hours of 100 employees working 
40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year, and provides the standard base for calculating incidence  
rate for an entire year. ABM does not track high-consequence work-related injuries. 
• Human rights training:  human rights related topics are covered in our Code of Business  
Conduct training. 
Environmental Metrics: 
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) 
and relevant tools were used in these calculations. Data of natural gas use in leased offices was 
gathered through our annual survey. Office locations in which the utilities are included in common 
area maintenance (CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size and 
region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle and by model year were analyzed. 
Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a light-duty vehicle (small 
truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type within the ABM fleet. Actual data was gathered through 
our online survey when available. For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity 
is included within CAM charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same 
region or previous year data (if available). TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT
ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  54Scope 1 - Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through a survey. Offices in 
which the utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon similarity to other known 
offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by 
model year, were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were 
calculated as a light-duty vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. The 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) 
and relevant tools were used in these calculations. 
Scope 2 -  Actual electricity data was gathered through our online survey when available. 
For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within CAM 
charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same region or 
previous year data (if available). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) and relevant tools were used in these calculations. 
Scope 3 - Team member air travel miles, by passenger mile, by flight length <300, 300 - 1000, 
>1000 miles were acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was the mileage of 
aviation service fleet vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG Protocol Transport tool. 
The actual gallons used was not able to be tracked as client supplies the fuel at their own 
fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via percentage of vehicle types. 
Emission factors verified by the Center of Sustainability and Excellence for the 
calculation of ABM’s Science Based Targets: 
• Emission factors associated with the generation of purchased electricity for different 
countries (World Resources Institute. GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion. 
Version 4.7). 
• U.K. Government 2019 Conversion Factors for greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting 
(department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy). 
• Emissions associated with transportation (World Resources Institute (2015).  
GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion. Version 2.6) 
• Sample of factors related to vehicle fuel economy and comparison with relating 
databases (e.g. www.fueleconomy.gov, EPA) 
Omissions: 
[102-50] Reporting period [102-51] Date of the most recent period [102-52] Reporting cycle.This report covers the corporate activities and services provided by ABM through North America and 
the U.K. It has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core Option 
and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board information requirements for professional and 
commercial services. Additional information about the company can be found at www.abm.com, as 
well as in our filings with the SEC, which can be accessed in the investor section of our website. ABM 
publishes its sustainability report annually, covering information from the fiscal year (November 2019 
– October 2020). Our latest report, the 2019 Sustainability Report, published in September 2020, is 
available on our website. 
• [406-1] Incidents of discrimination and corrective action plans taken: ABM treats incidents 
and investigations confidentially. When an incident is substantiated, ABM will take action 
that is proportional and appropriate to the situation, including and not limited to termination 
of employment. Pursuant to its anti-harassment policy, ABM also reserves the discretion to 
take appropriate action to reinforce its commitment to providing a work environment free of 
harassment.
• [207-4] Country–by–country reporting: ABM does not disclose country-by-country reporting. Tax 
disclosure can be found in our 10-K. 
• [205-2] Anti-corruption training: During the 2020 fiscal year ABM did not perform anti-corruption 
training. The next anti-corruption training is planned for the 2021 fiscal year and we plan to disclose 
completion metrics in our 2021 sustainability report. 
• [202] Market presence: ABM is working on consolidating the reporting system to disclose proportion 
of senior management hired from local communities and plan to report on this on future exercises. 
Inclusions: 
The GRI topic emissions has been included even if it was not listed as material by ABM’s internal and 
external stakeholders. This to ensure that the report covers requirements on climate change aspects 
from ESG ratings. 
Significant changes from previous reporting periods: 
[102-10] Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain [102-48] Restatements of information [102-49] Changes in reporting. 
Metrics directly related to business activity decreased significantly compared to the 2019 ones due  
to COVID-19 impacts on our operations and our client’s activities.
Due to improvement in our reporting system, metrics related to GHG emissions and MWhs saved  
by our clients from EPC agreements have been updated for the 2019 fiscal year. ABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  55TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
GRI 101: Foundation
101 Report Content 13
GRI 102: General Disclosures
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the Organization
6102-2 Activities, brands, products and services
102-3 Location of headquarters
102-4 Locaton of operations
102-5 Ownership and legal form 8
102-6 Markets served 6
102-7 Scale of the organization 8
102-8Information on employees and other 
workers39
102-9 Supply chain 26
102-10Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chain54
102-11 Precautionary principle approach 49
102-12 External initiatives
8
102-13 Membership associations
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior28
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 9Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 45
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
12
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements12
102-46Defining report content and topic 
boundaries13
102-47 List of material topics
102-48 Restatements of information
54
102-49 Changes in reporting
102-50 Reporting period
54 102-51 Date of most recent report
102-52 Reporting cycle
102-53Contact point for questions regarding the 
report13
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI Standards
102-55 GRI Content Index
55
102-56 External assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
32103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Occupational health servicesABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  56Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (continued)
403-1Occupational health and safety 
management system
32403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment and 
incident investigation
403-3 Occupational health services
403-4Worker participation, consultation and 
communication on occupational health 
and safety
403-5Worker training on occupational health 
and safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationships
403-9 Work related injuries
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 406 NON DISCRIMINATION
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
28,54103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
406-1Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
action plans
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 46103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
the health and safety impacts of products 
and services32Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15,46103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
401-1 New team members hires and turnovers 39
401-2Benefits provided to fill-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employees45
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 44103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
405-1Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees39
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 207 TAX    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 42103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
207-1 Approach to tax
31207-2Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
207-3Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
207-4 Country by country reporting 54
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
404-1Average hours of training on human rights 
policies or procedures44TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORTABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  57Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 412 HUMAN RIGHTS    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-2Employee training on human rights 
policies or procedures28
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 206 ANTI COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavoir, 
anti trust, and monopoly practices28
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 302 ENERGY    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 47103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
302-1Energy consumption within the 
organization47
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 305 EMISSIONS
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 47103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
47305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissionsDisclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 205 ANTI CORRUPTION    
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
205-2Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures28, 54
205-3Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken 28
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses 
of customer data28
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 49103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change49
MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
103-1Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundary
13-15, 28103-2The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations 
in the social and economic area53TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORTABM 2020 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  58SASB STANDARD FOR PROFESSIONAL AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES INDEX TABLE
Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
MATERIAL TOPIC: DATA SECURITY
SV-PS-230a.1Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks
30SV-PS-230a.2Description of policies and practices 
relating to collection, usage, and retention 
of customer information
SV-PS-230a.3  Number of data breaches
MATERIAL TOPIC: WORKFORCE DIVERSITY AND ENGAGEMENT
 SV-PS-330a.1Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic 
group representation for (1) executive 
management and (2) all other employees 39
SV-PS-330a.21) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover 
rate for employees
 SV-PS-330a.3 Employee engagement as a percentage4 44
MATERIAL TOPIC: PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY
SV-PS-510a.1Description of approach to ensuring  
professional integrity28
SV-PS-510a.2Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
professional integrity53
ACTIVITY METRICS
SV-PS-000.ANumber of employees by: (1) full-time and 
part-time, (2) temporary, and (3) contract39
SV-PS-000.BEmployee hours worked, percentage 
billable53TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT
OTHER
Disclosure Description SDG ReferenceExternal 
Assurance
ABM: GREENCARE PORTFOLIO OF SUSTAINABLE SERVICES
Portfolio of Sustainable Solutions - 
GreenCare
18
ABM : RESPONSE TO SOCIAL CRISIS
Responding to the COVID-19 challenge 3