Corporate Sustainability Report 
2015ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  2
Company Overview ...................................................................................... 4
Sustainability in ABM Operations ...................................................... 13
Sustainability in ABM Services  ........................................................... 16
ABM in the Community ........................................................................... 23ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  3
G4-1 Statement from the Most Senior 
Decision-Maker of the Company
Letter to Investors
 It is an honor to be the seventh CEO in ABM’s 107-year history.  2015 was a defining year for us as we initiated a bold new vision to transform our business from a company organized by service lines to a company organized by industry.  This change, from a services provider to a solutions provider, has aligned us more closely with our clients, allowing us to continue to be a highly-valued partner.
Amidst that change at ABM, our commitment to 
sustainability remains as strong as ever. ABM remains committed to the UN Global Compact and we are proud to be part of this international sustainability policy initiative.  Whether we’re streamlining efficiencies for clients, maintaining a keen focus on how our operations impact our shared environment, creating new jobs, or giving back to the communities in which we serve, sustainability is paramount.  
And we walk the walk, having reported on our 
sustainability efforts for the past five years – following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and submitting our report each year for an independent third party audit assessment by the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE).  
In particular, Safety performance is top of mind at ABM.  
We remain deeply focused on cultivating our “ThinkSafe” culture and are taking technological measures to help our employees have best-in-class claims management reporting processes, among other initiatives.  Additionally, training remains a critical component of our safety program. Employees are provided awareness training monthly, in addition to regulatory training related to their job.  These include Bloodborne pathogens, Safe Lifting, Electrical Safety, Pushing/Pulling Safety, Fire Safety, and Situational Safety Awareness.
ABM is grateful to have the opportunity to impact tens 
of thousands of lives every day.  In 2015, we saw more employees than ever roll up their sleeves and give back to their communities – and we are working on plans to further enhance the ability of ABM employees to give back to their local communities.
While I have been with the company for over 12 years, 
I’ve never been more proud to be part of ABM than I am at this very moment.  Our team’s passion and dedication is incredible. As our business evolves, we are committed to our people and shared environment. We strive to be accountable as an organization – to our own people, to our clients, and to future generations.
I’m proud of all that we accomplished in 2015.
Scott Salmirs
President & CEO, ABM
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  4
Company OverviewG4-3 Name of the organization. 
ABM Industries Incorporated
G4-4  Report the primary brands, 
products, and services.
ABM is a leading provider of end-to-end integrated facility solutions to thousands of commercial, industrial, institutional, retail, residential, and governmental facilities located primarily throughout the United States. Our comprehensive capabilities include electrical & lighting, energy solutions, facilities engineering, HV AC & mechanical, janitorial, landscape & turf, mission critical solutions, parking, and commercial aviation support services, which we provide through stand-alone or integrated solutions. Following is a general description of the services we provide, with reference to our reporting segments.
Our janitorial segment provides a wide range 
of essential janitorial services for a variety of facilities, including commercial office buildings, educational institutions, government buildings, health facilities, industrial buildings, retail stores, shopping centers, stadiums and arenas, airports and other transportation centers, and warehouses. These services include general cleaning and dusting, carpet cleaning, floor cleaning and finishing, furniture polishing, window washing, and other building cleaning services. Janitorial services are provided in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as well as in certain international locations.Our facility services include onsite mechanical engineering and technical services and solutions for facilities and infrastructure systems for a variety of facilities, including commercial office buildings and infrastructure, data centers, educational institutions, high technology manufacturing facilities, museums, resorts, airports and other transportation centers, and shopping centers. These services are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations. Facility services are provided in 42 states and the District of Columbia, as well as in certain international locations.
Our parking services provide parking and 
transportation services for clients at many facilities, including commercial office buildings, airports and other transportation centers, educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, municipalities, retail centers, and stadiums and arenas. Parking services are provided in 41 states and the District of Columbia.
Our Building & Energy Solutions group provides 
custom energy solutions, HV AC, electrical, lighting and other general maintenance and repair services. These services include preventative maintenance, retro commissioning, installations, retrofits and upgrades, environmental services, systems start-ups, performance testing, energy audits, mechanical and energy efficient products and solutions, and bundled energy solutions that include 
energy savings performance contracts for a wide variety of clients in both the private and public sectors. This segment also provides services for healthcare clients, including facility management, environmental services, food and nutrition services, and clinical technology management. It also provides support to U.S. Government entities for specialty service solutions, such as military base operations, public works departments, leadership development, education and training, energy efficiency management, healthcare support services, and construction management. These services are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations.
ABM’s aviation group provides facility solutions to 
clients in our aviation vertical related to passenger assistance, including wheelchair operations, aircraft cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus operations, and access control. ABM’s aviation group operates in 24 states and the United Kingdom.
Brands that are also part of the ABM family are 
listed on our website.
G4-5  Location of ABM’s headquarters. 
New Y ork, NYABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  5
Company OverviewG4-6  Number of countries where 
the organization operates.
Primary operations occur in the United States. ABM operates in approximately 30 countries.G4-7  Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 
ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a publically traded company, governed by a board of directors. ABM common stock is listed on the New Y ork Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM]
The person or entities known to ABM to be 
beneficial owners of more than 5% of the shares of ABM common stock as of December 31, 2015 are set forth below. This disclosure is based on a review of Schedule 13G filings and Schedule 13D filings.
•  Bank of America  Corporation, directly and on 
behalf of certain subsidiaries
• Blackrock, Inc.
• V anguard Group, Inc.
G4-8  Report the markets served 
The markets referenced are US only.
• Aviation
• Banking & Financial Services
• Biopharma
• Commercial Buildings
• Data Centers
• Education
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  6
Company Overview• Government
• Healthcare
• Industrial & Manufacturing
• Mission Critical
• Retail
• Sports & Entertainment
G4-9  Report the scale of the 
organization, including: 
• T otal number of employees: 
• T otal number of operations: 
•  Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) : 
Number of employees 114,658
Net revenues $4,897.8
Diluted earnings per share $1.33
Dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts. Information relates to ABM’s the fiscal year ending October 31, 2015.
G4-10  Report the total number of employees 
by employment contract and gender. 
•  Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
•  Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.•  Report the total workforce by region and gender.
 Employee 
Breakdown*Total% 
Male% 
FemaleAge 
<30Age 
30-
50Age 
>50
Mgt 7,212 61% 39% 23% 42% 35%
Non-Mgt 107,446 55% 45% 9%  52% 39%
Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown*
Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time
114,658 57% 43% 72% 28%
* The data presented in this table is as of December  31, 2015.
G4-11  Collective bargaining agreements.
ABM is party to approximately 200 active 
collective bargaining agreements across the U.S. These collective bargaining agreements are periodically renegotiated through bargaining with labor representatives, and set terms for wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment. For single-site collective bargaining agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM frequently bargains in a group of employers who are covered by the same agreement.
G4-13  Significant changes during 
the reporting period.
In January 2015, ABM named Scott Salmirs as president and CEO, effective March 31, 2015.
In April 2015, ABM Named Anthony Scaglione as 
executive vice president and CFO.Commencing in the spring of 2015, ABM undertook a comprehensive strategic review to develop a long-term strategic plan for our business. In September of this year, we announced the 2020 Vision strategic transformation initiative (the “2020 Vision”), which is designed to, and which we expect will, drive long-term profitable growth and enhance shareholder value. Pursuant to our 2020 Vision, we will reorganize the delivery of our services through an industry-based go-to-market strategy that will initially focus on five verticals: Aviation, Business and Industry, Education, Healthcare, and High T ech. We believe this will position us to deliver value-added solutions, establish clear competitive differentiation, and enable deep client penetration.
T o execute on our 2020 Vision, we will take the 
following actions:
•  Organizational Realignment : Align business 
operations to better support specific industries and develop custom client solutions, including transitioning to an integrated, industry-focused company, with a simplified organizational structure, and a consolidated shared services model.
•  Consistent Excellence: Implement best practices in account management and labor management across the organization, and develop a more integrated approach for continuous improvement in our risk and safety programs.
•  Cost Optimization : Leverage our scale to manage costs more efficiently and effectively, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  7
Company Overviewincluding supplier consolidation and process and 
procurement enhancement.
•  T alent Development : Create greater opportunities and career paths for ABM employees by further developing our talent management system capabilities.
Significant Transactions
On October 26, 2015, we sold all of the assets of our 
Security business to Universal Protection Service, a division of Universal Services of America, for pre-tax proceeds of $131.0 million.
We expanded our HV AC and Energy Solutions 
presence in the DC Metro area with the acquisition of CTS Services and Facility Support Services.
G4-14  Report whether and how the 
precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.
Enterprise risks are reviewed by ABM’s Enterprise Risk Management Committee on a periodic basis. This committee includes divisional and functional leadership. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee identifies key enterprise risks. The Company’s Board of Directors receives regular reports from the Risk Management Committee.. 
ABM continues to move forward with the 
integration of sustainability into our business strategy following the four key principles:
•  Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad 
range of items including labor standards, talent management, diversity and inclusion, employee training and safety, and employee health;
•  Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around client safety, service quality, responsible sourcing and supply chain management, and proper and responsible marketing practices;
•  Responsibility in the environment is centered on our energy and resource efficiency, reducing or eliminating drains on the environments we share and reusing or repurposing products we use and distribute to maximize their lifecycle; and
•  Responsibility in the community is the culmination of the first three principals as those feed directly into how we affect the public at large within our circle of influence. 
Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws generally have the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at certain of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high 
standard. ABM is committed to complying with all laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence to minimum age provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal workforce and our suppliers. ABM also expects its subcontractors to commit to proper treatment of their workers, specifically including Human Rights and Freedom of Association.
G4-15  Externally developed economic, 
environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 
UN Global Compact
Green Parking CouncilGreen Sports Alliance – Green Cleaning PlaybookHealthcare without Harm
G4-16  List memberships of associations 
We are a member of numerous trade and industry 
groups. Our group memberships include:
• Stadium Managers Association
• National Parking Association (NPA)ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  8
Company Overview•  Building Owners and Managers Association 
(BOMA)
•  Healthcare Information and Management Systems Association (HIMMS)
• American College of Healthcare Executives
• National School Boards Association (NSBA)
• Professional Retail Store Maintenance (PRSM)
• International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC)
•  Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
•  American Association of Airport Executives (AAAE)
• Green Sports Alliance
•  American Society for Healthcare Engineering (ASHE)
•  National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO)
• North Central Healthcare Alliance (NCHA)
•  International Association of Venue Managers (IA VM)
• International Downtown Association (IDA)
•  International Facility Management Association (IFMA)
• Airports Council International (ACI)• Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM)
G4-17 ABM’s consolidated financial statements
ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated subsidiaries as of the fiscal year-end in Exhibit 21 to ABM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. ABM’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed with the SEC on December 17, 2015.
G4-18  Process for defining the report 
content and the Aspect Boundaries. 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Our approach to sustainability is based upon 
addressing known and perceived stakeholder needs. With ABM’s primary stakeholders being clients, employees, shareholders and the communities in which we serve, people drive our strategy, and understanding the varied and sometimes intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to the success of ABM’s sustainability program. 
Readers can send feedback, comments or questions 
regarding our sustainability plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at sustainability@abm.com. We welcome your insights on how we can meet our shared commitment to a sustainable world.
Report Parameters This is ABM’s sixth Sustainability Report and covers 
activities related to our 2015 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2015. The development of this report evolved from various internal discussions with key stakeholders as well as a materiality assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index of the GRI indicators and metrics is provided here, linking the applicable topics with the corresponding page(s). For the fourth year in a row, we submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment.
Additional information about the company can 
be found at ABM.com and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and can be accessed at the “Investors” section of the company website The ABM Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America and various international locations. The report is designed to introduce ABM, our services, and organizational structure. We identify our key impacts, risks and opportunities relating to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our governance for ensuring we perform with utmost integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. Also critical to our sustainability platform are:
• Sustainability in ABM Operations
• Sustainability in ABM Services
• Our People
• Social Responsibility ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  9
Company OverviewG4-19  List all the material Aspects identified in 
the process for defining report content.
and
G4-20   For each material Aspect, report 
the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: 
•  Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization 
•  If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: 
 -  The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or 
 -  The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material 
•  Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 
G4-21  For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: 
 •  Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization 
•  If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified 
•  Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 
For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is considered relevant based on ABM stakeholders feedback as well as our own perspective.  G4-24   Provide a List of Stakeholder Groups 
Engaged by the Organization.
ABM identifies our stakeholders as our clients, employees, vendor partners, distributors, and the communities in which we serve. 
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  10
Company OverviewG4-25  Report the basis for identification 
and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 
and
G4-26  Report the organization’s approach 
to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 
Key stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, vendor partners, distributors, and the communities in which we serve.
With ABM’s services are generally provided at our 
clients’ locations, and are often an integral part of our clients’ sustainability integration (e.g. – cleaning, facility maintenance, energy conservation, security, safety, etc.). Therefore, our approach to sustainability begins within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. 
Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion 
within our clients’ supply chain. While not a carbon intensive company, the decision to identify and track our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol toolsets and thinking of our company’s role, risks and potential gains in relation to climate change brought Sustainability integration out of merely a service element and into a business component. Our employees continue to be the driving force behind everything we do at ABM, and we seek to deliver value for our shareholders each day. Finally, ABM feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate responsibly both for and within the communities in which we operate and serve.
G4-27  Report key topics and concerns 
that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.
In 2015, ABM sought feedback from major stakeholders, including various employees, clients and vendor partners 
Material Issues 2016 – Based on ABM Stakeholder 
Feedback
Y ear Economic EnvironmentalLabor Practices 
and Decent WorkHuman Rights SocietyProduct 
Responsibility
2016 •   Economic 
Performance•   Effluents & Waste
•   Supplier Environmental Assessment
•   Compliance   •   Employment
•   Occupational Health & Safety
•   Training & 
Education
•   Diversity & Equal Opportunity
•   Equal Remuneration for Women & Men•   Non-Discrimination•   Local Communities
•   Anti-Corruption
•   Anti-Competitive Behavior•   Customer Privacy
•   Customer Health & SafetyG4-28  Reporting period 
Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our 
2015 fiscal year which ended October 31, 2015. 
G4-29  Date of most recent previous 
report (if any). 
Fiscal 2014 (November 1, 2013 through October 31, 2014)
G4-30  Reporting cycle (such as 
annual, biennial).
Annual
G4-31  Provide the contact point for questions 
regarding the report or its contents. 
Readers can send feedback, comments or questions regarding our sustainability plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communication team at sustainability@abm.com.ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  11
Company OverviewG4-32  GRI Content Index 
GRI G4
G4-33  ABM’s policy and current practice 
with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
For the fifth year in a row, we submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment.
Governance Governance• Committee Composition
• Directors
• Governance Documents
At ABM, our governance structure, along with our 
Code of Business Conduct, provide the framework for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and employees with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the business and strategy of the Company. ABM currently has 10 directors, including our Chief Executive Officer. All of our directors, other than our Chief Executive Officer, are independent. One of our independent directors serves as Chairman of the Board. 
ABM’s Audit Committee oversees the Company’s 
financial reporting process and assists the Board with respect to the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to its other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews policies with respect to risk management and the Company’s major financial risk exposures. 
ABM’s Compensation Committee has responsibility 
for providing direction to the Company in the area of executive compensation, and monitors potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s compensation programs.
ABM’s Governance Committee is responsible 
for identifying qualified candidates for membership on the Board and for developing and recommending to the Board corporate governance principles and policies. 
ABM’s Corporate Citizenship and Communications 
Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice with respect to various matters, including sustainability and environmental and green energy issues as well as health and safety issues. 
More information about ABM’s governance 
structure can be found in ABM’s 2016 Proxy Statement. Additional information concerning our Board and governance can also be found at Investor.ABM.com.
G4-56  Values, principles, standards 
and norms of behavior.
Code of Business Conduct
ABM Vision & Core V aluesG4-EC1  Direct Economic Value 
Generated And Distributed
 Financial information can found in ABM’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
G4-EC2  Financial Implications And 
Other Risks And Opportunities Due To Climate Change
Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws generally have the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at certain of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
G4-EC3  ABM’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations 
ABM Employee BenefitsABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to 
meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life and disability along with a 401(k) plan. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  12
Company OverviewNote: Service Worker and union workers benefits 
are provided consistent with their employment and/or client contract. 
G4-EC4 Financial assistance received 
from government.
ABM does not receive significant financial 
assistance from any host government.
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  13
ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and 
operations affect our shared environment. Just as we are Building V alue for clients through world-class services, we continually seek to enhance our organizational efficiencies and reduce ABM’s own carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every day, we walk the sustainability talk.
G4-EN3  Energy Consumption 
MWh
Electricity 16443
Motor Gasoline 182560
Diesel 7490
Biogasoline 274
Natural Gas 7292
CNG 9
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard                (Revised Edition)
Data of natural gas use in leased offices was 
gathered through a survey. Offices in which the utilities are included in common area maintenance (CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type.Actual data was gathered through our online survey when available. For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within common area maintenance (CAM) charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same region or previous year data (if available).
EN-6 Report the amount of reductions 
in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives
ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 2011 year baseline by 2020. The types of energy included in the reductions include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and natural gas used at our office locations.
ID Scope % reduction 
from base 
yearMetric Base 
yearNormalized 
base year 
emissionsTarget 
yearComment
Int 1 Scope 1+2 15% metric tonnes CO2e 
per FTE employee2011 58120.15 2020 ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons 
of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 
2011 year.
 
  For all of your targets, please 
provide details on the progress made in the reporting year.
ID % complete 
(time)% complete 
(emissions)Comment
Int1 44% 90.9%Sustainability in ABM Operations
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  14
Sustainability in ABM OperationsG4-EN15  Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions (Scope 1) 
and
G4-EN16  Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) 
and
G4-EN17  Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) 
ABM’s direct and indirect GHG Emissions from 2015 are listed in the below table:
2015 2014              
Scope 1 CO2 - e T onnes 47,309 47,763
Scope 2 CO2 - e T onnes 8,790 9,696
Scope 3 CO2 - e T onnes 27,467 27,272
Fuel used     MWh 190,333 198,398
Electricity Used     MWh 16,433 17,981
Scope 1 - Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through a survey. Offices in which the utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. 
. Scope 2 - Actual electricity data was gathered 
through our online survey when available. For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within CAM charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same region or previous year data (if available). 
Scope 3 -mployee Air Travel Miles, by passenger 
mile, by flight length <300, 300 - 1000, >1000 miles acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was the mileage of aviation service fleet vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG Protocol Transport tool. The actual gallons used was not able to be tracked as client supplies the fuel at their own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via percentage of vehicle types.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity a. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. b.  Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio 
denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. 
c.  Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). 
d. Report gases included in the calculation.G4-EN8, 9, 10
While ABM strives to minimize our water usage in 
the delivery of services (e.g. – Microfiber, Automatic Scrubbing versus Pressure Washing, etc.) our water usage is primarily under the client’s control as required by the specifications within our contracts. Additionally, as our service delivery occurs at our client’s locations we do not have the ability to separately meter our usage from the client’s usage.
G4-EN23 Waste
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  15
Sustainability in ABM OperationsFrom Oct. 2014 through Oct. 2015, ABM securely 
shredded and recycled 81.310 short (US) ton(s) [162,619,.632 pounds] of paper in 2015, which resulted in the below estimated environmental benefits – ABM works with Iron Mountain to accumulate this data.
•  Carbon Footprint: 117,736.880 lbs of CO2 
emissions avoided = 11.383 cars off the road per year
•  Landfill Space: 406.550 Cubic Y ards of landfill space conserved
•  Trees: 1,364.382 trees preserved
•  Energy: 183,760.600 kWh of electricity saved = 487.860 years of energy demand for a laptop
•  Water: 2,228,788.410 Gallons of water saved = 243.930 pools full of water saved
G4-12 Describe ABM’s organization’s 
supply chain
ABM Supply Chain 
ABM uses strategically located distributors, 
providing an efficient locally-based way for our employees to order and receive the products used in our daily service delivery to clients.  Having strategic local vendors placed near various urban locations enables ABM to minimize the Company’s impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, et al. between work sites.   ABM’s suppliers fall into several categories.  These include suppliers for internal operations (office supplies, Information T echnology, communications, utilities, etc.), suppliers for products used in our services (cleaning chemicals, cleaning equipment, paper and plastic liner products, engineering HV AC, alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, landscape materials) and suppliers for external marketing and communications (consultants, printing, materials).
G4-EN29  Monetary fines from Significant Environmental Sanctions
None.
G4-EN32  Percentage of new suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria
As part of ABM’s network of 33 primary suppliers, our three new additions in fiscal 2015 required sustainability considerations in order to partner with ABM.
G4-EN33  Significant actual and potential 
negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken.
G4-PR8    Total Number of Substantiated Complaints Regarding Breaches of Customer Privacy and Losses of Customer Data 
In 2015, ABM had zero known data breaches involving client locations. 
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  16
We’ve built our strong reputation in part by 
continually striving to improve upon our client service offerings through our ABM GreenCare
® 
program. As part of the program, we actively work with our clients on a wide range of these efforts, from energy reduction to green cleaning and LEED
® 
certification. 
ABM GreenCare® 
ABM GreenCare® helps clients make improvements 
in four key areas: environmental and social 
responsibility, employee productivity and retention, property protection and fiscal responsibility. This program’s offerings span our businesses and the key industries we serve. Within our service offerings, some of the key value-adds the GreenCare program offers ABM clients include:
•  Janitorial: Green cleaning programs with Green 
Seal certified equipment and chemicals to improve indoor environmental quality for building occupants; recycling programs and touch-free water conservation; LEED certification assistance for clients.
•  Energy: ABM’s energy conservation methods 
for clients include its Bundled Energy Solutions Program, Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Station installation and maintenance and solar capabilities for fixed/reduced energy costs.•  Parking: ABM’s customized mobile app, pay by phone option, and web services help drivers spend less time in their cars.
•  Landscape & Turf: ABM utilizes alternative fuel 
and water-efficient irrigation systems to help keep clients’ properties sustainable.
•  Aviation: Per several aviation client contract 
agreements, ABM’s GreenCare Program is an integral part of our services at those locations.
ABM’s commitment to measuring its own performance has led to some eye-opening statistics relating to its clients’ sustainability efforts, including:
•  ABM GreenCare has been implemented at over 
1,000 buildings, totaling more than 450 million square feet across the United States. 
•  ABM has assisted approximately 229 million square feet worth of client buildings with products and procedures to maintain certification through the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system.
•  Since December 2010, ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions program reduced clients’ energy use by over 21 percent saving them over $30M.
•  ABM has installed over 6,000 EV charging stations across the United States with many more expected in 2016.Janitorial GreenCare
® 
ABM GreenCare services surpassed 450 million square feet of implementation in 201, 229 million square feet of which is LEED certified. Just as is the case across our entire line of services, ABM Janitorial is utilizing technology to upgrade our sustainable offerings. This includes electrically activated water systems that produce general cleaning and sanitizing solutions from water, salt and electricity. These allow ABM to produce safe, non-toxic daily cleaning solutions onsite and reduce packaging, transportation and storage issues associated with traditional chemicals. 
ABM continues to identify new products and 
methods to operate more efficiently for our clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable practices and new innovations in cleaning methods and equipment. Through our strong, established relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical and raw material manufacturers we are actively implementing new solutions such as: 
• Bio-based cleaning alternatives 
•  Specialized cleaning solutions for various surface 
types that increase productivity 
• Electrically Activated Water Cleaning Solutions Sustainability in ABM ServicesABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  17
Sustainability in ABM ServicesAs a member of the U.S. Green Building Council 
[USGBC], we continue to offer specific products and procedures for buildings to maintain certification through the Leadership in Energy & Environmental 
Design [LEED] Rating system.
Sum of Gross Square Footage (in million)
LEED® Certified 229,112,000
Initial Phase 156,653,000
LEED® Registered 67,445,000
Grand T otal 453,210,000
Number of LEED® Certified Buildings T otal 448
T otal in Program 1,035
Energy GreenCare®
ABM’s energy business continues to provide 
tremendous solutions for our clients through our energy performance contracting program, our electric vehicle (EV) installation and maintenance capabilities, and our enhanced expertise in the solar market in 2015. 
Bundled Energy Solutions ProgramOur energy performance contracting program 
packages energy retrofit services and costs into a turnkey offering with guaranteed energy savings that are then used to finance the project. Since 2010, ABM has reduced our clients’ energy and operating costs by over $30 million. Over the next 10 years, we expect to reduce their costs by over $100 million. Our financing solution, combined with our exceptional technical expertise, has kept demand high for our offerings. Key among our fiscal 2015 Bundled Energy Solutions contracts was a partnership with to reduce several key Southern California Federal Buildings’ energy and operating costs by nearly $50 million over the life of the contract, along with a partnership with Florida Green Energy Works and BrandSmart USA to fund a $2 million retrofit with PACE financing.
EV Charging ABM continued to build on our leadership position 
in installing and maintaining EV charging stations in 2015. We are one of the largest commercial EV infrastructure installers in the country and one of the nation’s largest resellers and installation partners for ChargePoint®, which has 70%+ share of all networked charging stations.
Our 2015 growth in the EV market was substantial 
as we ended the year with over 6,000 ports we’ve installed or maintain – that’s double from the year prior. 
Parking GreenCare
® 
ABM’s parking application for smart phones and 
mobile devices now allows drivers to quickly and easily make reservations – this is in addition to its previous features that have been helping drivers find the airport, pinpoint available spaces, and park their cars since 2013.G4-EN7  Reductions In Energy Requirements of Products and Services 
a.  Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples.
b.  Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it.
c.  Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions program has reduced our clients’ energy use by 21.5%, saving them $30+ million.
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  18
Sustainability in ABM ServicesBuilding Value through Our People
Our people continue to be the driving force behind 
everything we do at ABM. We take tremendous pride in our skilled and knowledgeable workforce. Spanning our wide array of service solutions and in a diverse set of markets, we firmly believe that our rich diversity of expertise and experience is unmatched anywhere.
G4-LA1  Total Number and Rates of New 
Employee Hires and Employee Turnover By Age Group, Gender and Region 
Turnover Data as of 10-31-15
Annualized Turnover
Overall Voluntary Involuntary
Enterprise 63.2% 34.1% 29.0%
Corporate 11.9% 5.9% 5.9%
Shared Services 20.9% 14.5% 6.4%
Facilities Services 35.3% 14.2% 21.1%
AIR Serv - Omni Serv 81.1% 49.5% 31.7%
Building & Energy 
Solutions 49.0% 30.5% 18.4%
Janitorial 64.7% 33.6% 31.2%
Parking 41.1% 25.5% 15.7%
Staff & Mgmt 24.4% 12.8% 11.6%
Service 65.6% 35.5% 30.1%
Compared to 2014 fiscal year data:
Turnover Data as of 10-31-14
Annualized Turnover
Overall Voluntary Involuntary
Enterprise 57.5% 30.1% 27.4%
Corporate 18.4% 9.9% 8.8%Overall Voluntary Involuntary
Shared Services 23.9% 17.4% 6.5%
Facilities Services 30.2% 11.8% 18.3%
AIR Serv - Omni Serv 70.9% 27.6% 43.3%
Building & Energy 
Solutions 40.3% 28.3% 12%
Janitorial 59.4% 31.6% 27.8%
Parking 37.4% 23.9% 13.5%
Security 65.3% 37% 28.3%
Staff & Mgmt 26.4% 14.6% 11.8%
Service 59.5% 31.1% 28.4%
G4-LA2 Benefits
ABM Employee BenefitsABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to 
meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life and disability and a 401(k) plan. 
Note: Service Worker and union workers benefits 
are provided consistent with their employment and/or client contract.
Serious Disease PreventionThrough our health plan partners, we offer the 
following for covered employees and their families:
•  Disease management programs which assist 
members in the management of their chronic medical conditions such as Coronary Artery Disease, Diabetes and Congestive Heart Failure•  Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks and support to members requiring transplant services
•  Health and Wellness coaching programs such as smoking cessation. Includes monetary incentive to complete a Health Risk Assessment.
•  Complex case management services which assist and coordinate the care of members with serious and complex medical issues.
•  A 24 hour nurse line that assists with non-medical emergencies
Here are some additional programs that we continue to employ:
• Healthy Weight program
• Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program
• Healthy Back program
• Wellness coaching
• Healthy pregnancy program
• Care for Diabetes
• Health classes
• Overcoming insomnia class
• Care for your back
• Overcoming depression
• Nourish/nutritional counseling
• Free will preparation if enrolled in life insuranceABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  19
Sustainability in ABM ServicesG4-LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, and 
Total Number of Work-Related Fatalities, By Region and By Gender 
Days Away 
From WorkJob 
Transfer or 
RestrictionOther 
Recordable 
CasesDeathGrand 
Total
Division Overhead 12 14 15 41
Female 3 2 4 9
Male 9 12 11 32
Onsite Midwest 114 118 140 372
Female 77 73 79 229
Male 37 45 61 143
Onsite Northeast 153 57 196 406
Female 64 30 89 183
Male 89 27 107 223
Onsite South Central 122 269 306 697
Female 51 139 161 351
Male 71 130 145 346
Onsite West 208 178 537 923
Female 114 116 301 531
Male 94 62 236 392
Western Region 26 45 66 137
Female 9 25 35 69
Male 17 20 31 68
Eastern Region 47 44 93 184
Female 33 27 57 117
Male 14 17 36 67
ABM Bldg. & Energy Sol (ABES) 10 12 1 23
Male 10 12 1 23Days Away From WorkJob 
Transfer or 
RestrictionOther 
Recordable 
CasesDeathGrand 
Total
Central Region 24 11 97 132
Female 16 6 53 75
Male 8 5 44 57
ABM Healthcare Support Service 4 3 54 61
Female 3 2 32 37
Male 1 1 22 24
ABM Government Services (AGS) 7 6 7 20
Female 1 1 1 3
Male 6 5 6 17
R/Benefits Summary 1 1
Female 1 1
Strategic Solutions Summary 2 2
Female 1 1
Male 1 1
Grand Total 727 745 1526 1 2999
OSHA Rates                                                                                                                                         0.98    1.98                 3.29
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  20
Sustainability in ABM ServicesG4-LA9  Average Hours of Training Per 
Year Per Employee By Gender, and By Employee Category 
Approximately ten hours of training are devoted to 25% of ABM leadership and management level employees while 80% of ABM service level employees devote 25 hours on average to training annually. 
Employees are provided awareness training monthly 
in addition to regulatory related training as pertained to their job. These include Bloodborne pathogens, Safe Lifting, Electrical Safety, Pushing/Pulling Safety, Fire Safety, and Situational Safety Awareness.
G4-LA10  Programs for Skills Management 
and Lifelong Learning that Support the Continued Employability of Employees and Assist Them in Managing Career Endings 
a.  Report on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. 
b.  Report on the transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.
V arious learning and development programs at ABM include annual harassment prevention training, regional supervisor training, ethic train and wage and hour training All ABM management level employees are eligible to participate in the goal setting process and attend corporate sponsored training courses in addition to courses offered at the divisional level nationwide emphasizing customer service, safety practices, business ethics, professional development courses, and contractual training agreements are also offered by ABM to its large client-base.
G4-LA11  Percentage of Employees Receiving 
Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews, By Gender and By Employee Category 
Performance Review Data
Division # of Performance Reviews 
on SP site as of 1/27/15
Air Serv 181
Corporate 294
Facility Services  Group 158
Janitorial 1,387
Parking 644
Security 143
Grand T otal 2,818
G4-LA12  Composition of Governance Bodies 
and Breakdown of Employees Per Employee Category 
Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown*
Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time
114,658 57% 43% 72% 28%Diversity and Inclusion Stats*
 Total % 
Male% 
FemaleAge 
<30Age 
30-50Age 
>50
Board 9 66% 34%   100%
MGT 7,212 61% 39% 23% 42% 35%
Non-Mgt 107,446 55% 45% 19% 52% 39%
*as of Dec. 31, 2015
G4-LA13  Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.
ABM is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer operating in compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended, and The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended. Our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, which states ABM’s zero tolerance policy toward discrimination, is signed and supported by Chief Executive Officer Scott Salmirs and applies to “all employment practices, including recruitment, hiring, promotion, layoff or termination, compensation and training programs. ” We are committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and status as a protected veteran, among other characteristics.
ABM is fully committed to equality. However, 
circumstances prevent us from providing our report at this time. Specifically, ABM has just completed Phase I of a multi-phase reorganization ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  21
Sustainability in ABM Servicesthat, given the size of our organization, is 
anticipated to take several years to complete. (We have approximately 120,000 employees and operations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, as well as in England and the Middle East.) Under our current structure, we have more than 20 “employee categories” and at least 460 “significant locations of operation. ” Much of this is in flux due to the reorganization. 
G4-HR3  Total number of incidents 
of discrimination and corrective actions taken 
Professional behavior is expected and required of all ABM employees. The Company’s intent is to provide all employees with a workplace environment consistent with ABM’s core values of Respect, Integrity, Collaboration, Innovation and Excellence. Accordingly, ABM does not tolerate workplace discrimination or harassment based on age, ancestry, color, religious creed, request for / use of family and medical care leave, disability (mental or physical) including HIV and AIDS, marital status, medical, genetic information, military and veteran status, national origin, race, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, or any other status protected by law. T o ensure that all employees have a confidential channel for reporting incidents of misconduct and unlawful business practices, ABM provides a Compliance Hotline (“Hotline”), a reporting system that allows employees to report a variety of concerns, including but not limited to: harassment, discrimination, retaliation, wage and hour issues (such as not being paid properly for all hours worked, not being paid properly for overtime, paycheck problems, etc.), accounting irregularities, corporate abuse and fraud, theft, safety concerns, workers’ compensation fraud, or other suspected violations of law or company policy, that they observe or encounter in the workplace. The Hotline is staffed by professional, trained Specialists 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Reports may be made in any language and callers may remain anonymous if they wish. All completed reports to the Hotline will be assigned to an investigator. ABM conducts a prompt, objective, thorough and confidential investigation of the reported concern. The investigation process will reach reasonable conclusions based on the evidence collected. If ABM determines that conduct violating its policies has occurred, it will take prompt and appropriate remedial action which can include termination of the individual who engaged in inappropriate conduct and/or other measures designed to prevent future discrimination or harassment. In order to encourage employees utilize the Hotline and report concerns, ABM does not publicly disclose information about complaints, the status of the investigations related thereto, or the specific remedial measures taken. 
G4-SO1   Percentage of Operations with Implemented Local Community Engagement, Impact Assessment and Development Programs
Foremost, all ABM HR recruiting for site level employees starts in the local communities in which that site is located. We want our people that work at client locations to be members of that community, if at all possible.
In 2015, we implemented local community 
engagement through philanthropic in at least 18 cities across the United States.
Click here to read more about ABM’s commitment 
to our local communities.
G4-SO2   Operations with Significant Actual 
or Potential Negative Impacts on Local Communities
G4-SO3  Total Number and Percentage of Operations Assessed for Risks Related to Corruption and the Significant Risks Identified 
and
G4-SO4  Communication and Training on Anti-
Corruption Policies and Procedures 
ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Harassment Training are required for all staff and management employees – our Code of ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  22
Sustainability in ABM ServicesBusiness Conduct was last updated in September 
2015. The Code of Business Conduct training tool also has been modified and updated to include questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, political contributions, personal relationships, information systems usage and the overall ethical environment at ABM.
G4-SO7   Total Number of Legal Actions for 
Anti-Competitive Behavior, Anti-Trust and Monopoly Practices and Their Outcomes
None.
G4-PR2  Total Number of Incidents of Non-
Compliance With Regulations and Voluntary Codes Concerning the Health and Safety Impacts of Products and Services During Their Life Cycle, By Type of Outcomes 
For FY15, ABM received 10 OSHA Citations. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive claim management has sustained our Experience Mod Rating (EMR) of .82. These efforts help reduce ABM’s OSHA Days Away From Work (DAFW) 38% from 2014; Days Away and Restricted Activity or Job Transfer (DART), 40%; and T otal Rate Case (TRC), 13%. 
ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015   |  September 2016  |  23
ABM is committed to operating under a core set of 
fundamental values:
• Respect• Integrity• Collaboration• Innovation• ExcellenceThese values intertwine to provide a baseline 
mentality for how we operate, and nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities which impact stakeholders and the environment.
How We Give Back
We believe that in order to be a good business leader, we must also be a good community leader. We support many different programs and endeavors that help fuel the social and economic vitality of various community sectors. Below are just some of the examples of how ABM employees have given back to their various communities over the course of 2015.
Click here to read more about ABM’s commitment 
to our local communities.
Click here to read more about ABM’s Awards and 
Recognitions.ABM in the Community
