 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
REP RT 
Contents
Reducing Environmental Impact 4
Empowering Students and Members  8
Cultivating a Diverse and Inclusive Culture 15
Adhering to Corporate Governance 18
Making a Global Impact 20
Supporting COVID-19 Relief Efforts 21
Investing in Our Communities 24
Appendix: Community Partners 29
Report Contributors:
Pamela Murphy, Vice President, Government Relations and Sustainability  
Lauren Rengel, Senior Manager, Community Relations and Public Affairs1
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
At Adtalem Global Education, our vision is rooted in 
creating a better future for all. We take seriously 
our responsibility to help confront the challenges facing 
society and the planet today. We meet this responsibility 
by empowering students, members and colleagues 
to make inspiring contributions to the world and by 
working to continuously improve the human, societal and 
environmental impacts of our business.2
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
#WeAreAdtalem is more than just a hashtag, it is a representation of our 
culture. We are greater together than apart and know that united we can 
make a difference in our communities and across the globe.
We are committed to a sustainability strategy that takes a holistic approach in the 
communities we serve, providing quality learning and workforce opportunities for 
students and members, caring for the places where we operate and conducting 
business in a transparent, ethical and responsible manner. We remain steadfastly 
focused on our overarching philosophy of stewardship.
We use this strategy as a guiding light to advance our  
sustainability initiatives by focusing on these core pillars: 
Reducing Environmental Impact
Empowering Students and Members
Adhering to Corporate Governance
Making a Global Impact3
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
In the past year, we have seen many successes. Adtalem earned a #1 rating in 
our sub-category by Sustainalytics. This shows our commitment to sustainability 
and many accomplishments in improving the world around us. We joined the 
CSR Board, a membership organization for people leading corporate social 
responsibility at the world’s biggest companies and launched our first multi-year 
initiative to reduce our environmental impact.
When the world began experiencing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Adtalem took immediate steps to adjust our education methods and invest in our 
local communities. We continued to offer our expertise and resources to help 
those impacted by the pandemic.
In late spring, Adtalem held various town halls to address social injustices. We were  
intentional in our communications to discuss the challenges in addressing systemic  
racism and inequality and ensured colleagues had the resources they needed to 
engage in impactful discussions. Adtalem also developed a diversity and inclusion 
training program for all colleagues in July 2020 as well as shared a toolkit for 
colleagues to use as a powerful resource in engaging in discussions on social justice.
We are proud of the progress we have made, but appreciate that we have 
continued work to do. Adtalem is eager to embrace new opportunities, improve 
our performance and accelerate positive change both within our business and 
the world at large, because together we can transform lives and enable careers.
4
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBy the end of fiscal year 2023, complete a set of defined ECMs to achieve 
a 10% reduction1 of controllable energy use and GHG emissions levels 
across Adtalem’s U.S. properties by 2024.
In fiscal year 2020, Adtalem completed 18 ECMs for an estimated GHG 
reduction of approximately 338 mtCO2e.2
From 2021 through 2024, aim to initiate an average of one renewable 
energy project per year at an owned location.
By the end of 2024, implement an enhanced waste and recycling 
initiative across Adtalem’s controllable waste portfolio.3
The initiative focuses on alignment with LEED Guidelines for effective 
management of ongoing waste streams across our U.S. properties to  
reduce waste generated by our operations that is disposed of in landfills.
Goal 1
Goal 2
Goal 3
Since the program was implemented in November 2019, the actions  
completed towards Adtalem’s environmental goals resulted in reductions 
in total energy and water usage compared to baseline data.4
Reducing Environmental Impact
Adtalem’s sustainability efforts are focused on the environment, as we understand 
just how important natural resources are to the communities we serve. We strive 
to lessen our environmental impact and have launched various initiatives that help 
better our communities through recycling and reusable materials, disaster medicine 
and environmental and agricultural programs.
Enhanced Waste & 
Recycling Initiative
across controllable waste portfolio10%
reduction across our U.S. 
properties by 2024
338 mtCO2e
estimated GHG reduction in fiscal year 2020Launching Strategic Environmental Goals
We are committed to confronting the challenge 
of climate change by reducing the environmental 
impact of our operations. To that end, Adtalem 
launched a multi-year environmental initiative during 
the first half of fiscal year 2020, after completing its energy audits. These three strategic goals define 
Adtalem’s Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs) 
and Green House Gas (GHG) reduction activities 
through 2024.
1/year
renewable energy project
1 When compared to 2019 calendar year levels. 2 Metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (mtCO2e). 3 As of August 1, 2020, sites in the controllable  
waste portfolio include Addison, IL; Boise, ID; Long Beach, CA; Miramar, FL; Naperville, IL; North Brunswick, NJ; Sacramento, CA; Tinley 
Park, IL. 4 Baseline data was measured from November 2017 - October 2018. Additional reduction in energy (1.89%) and water usage (2.59%) was 
measured from November 2018 - October 2019. Results are from November 2019 - February 2020 as the shift to remote work created a large 
decrease in usage that is due primarily to the COVID-19 pandemic and not the completion of ECMs..2.40% kBtu
energy reduction0.21%
water reduction5
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWith a continued focus on reducing plastic use, Ross  
University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM) 
continued offering reusable utensils, a program that  
began last fiscal year, eliminating the use of more than  
22,000 plastic utensils annually. This year RUSVM 
provided reusable cups to faculty and staff members 
to reduce single-use plastic and Styrofoam on campus.  
This eliminated approximately 25,000 Styrofoam 
cups this year. In addition, RUSVM participated in a 
community march to end plastic pollution in St. Kitts 
and Nevis on July 27, 2019.
OnCourse Learning donated its office furniture to the Elgin Community Crisis Center, 
a volunteer organization supporting individuals and families in crisis, after consolidating 
operations in their Brookfield, WI headquarters in March 2020. Any furniture not 
donated was repurposed, recycled or sustainably disposed of via InstallNET .Increasing Recycling and Reusability
In an effort to reduce waste and protect the 
ecosystems surrounding our offices and campuses, 
Adtalem implemented various initiatives.
Adtalem’s partnership with InstallNET allows us 
to recycle furniture, fixtures, equipment and other materials required to be removed from a site at the 
end of a lease or when a location is sold. Through 
this partnership, 155,000 pounds of material were 
diverted from landfills in fiscal year 2020, with 62% of 
materials recycled and 38% donated to be reused.
Adtalem also offers hazardous waste recycling as an ongoing program for all  
36 locations managed by our facility services partner JLL. In fiscal year 2020, the 
locations recycled 1,793 pounds of these materials.
121 lbs
batteries recycled1,555 lbs
lamps recycled117 lbs
ballasts recycled6
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“The agreement between CDEMA and the CCDM is a great link for Sint Maarten, thereby enhancing our 
disaster preparedness and response in relation to medical and healthcare. AUC School of Medicine plays 
such a great role here on Sint Maarten and we hope to continue forging ways of collaboration in the interest 
of education and healthcare…We hope that any actions, decisions and future plans from this partnership 
may give us better direction in the way we respond to the needs of our communities and in safeguarding and 
promoting the overall health of the people of Sint Maarten before, during and after a disaster.”
– Silveria Jacobs, prime minister of Sint Maarten Providing Disaster Medicine Relief and Preparedness 
With many of Adtalem’s locations in areas prone to 
natural disasters, we strive to provide support and 
ensure our local communities are prepared.
In December 2019, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency 
Management Agency (CDEMA) and the American 
University of the Caribbean (AUC) School of Medicine’s  
Caribbean Center for Disaster Medicine (CCDM) 
signed an agreement to increase collaboration and strengthen disaster medicine in the Caribbean. 
Through this partnership, CDEMA, the regional 
agency for disaster management and the CCDM, 
which focuses on disaster medicine education 
and training, will bring together stakeholders and 
resources to train professionals and enable the public 
to better prepare for disaster-related medical and 
healthcare issues.
Each year, RUSVM performs an exercise around 
hurricane preparedness, bringing together the 
National Emergency Management Agency and other 
civic partners in St. Kitts to strengthen collaboration. 
The “Hurricane Tabletop Exercise” allows the 
government and community partners to learn how to 
share best practices on navigating through a crisis to 
achieve better preparedness.
On October 13, 2019, AUC School of Medicine held its 
inaugural TEDx event. The theme, “Weathering the 
Storm,” was carefully selected to pay homage to the 
response to Hurricane Irma. Conference organizers 
chose topics that applied to the theme, both literally 
and metaphorically, for seven hours of powerful and 
inspiring talks.
7
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPrioritizing Agricultural Initiatives
Adtalem’s institutions and students are extremely 
active on environmental issues and engaged in the 
communities that surround their campuses. RUSVM 
created a three-year memorandum of understanding 
with St. Kitts Aquaculture and the Department of 
Marine Resources of St. Kitts with a goal to develop 
sustainable food production for the island nation. 
This program, which has successfully completed its  
year-long pilot study, aims to prove the ability to rear  
Florida pompano from imported one-gram fingerlings  
to one-pound fish for the table.
This developing aquaculture facility on St. Kitts also  
presents us with a unique opportunity to expose 
interested Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and 
research students to the basics of aquaculture and 
aquatic food security to help other communities 
post-graduation. It will also allow the study and monitoring of the onset of diseases and parasites in 
the farmed environment that will create important 
future research opportunities.
In addition, RUSVM continues its partnership with  
the St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Agriculture through 
the Goat Breeding Program. The program’s goal is to  
improve goat production in the twin-island Federation. 
Through the crossbreeding of local indigenous species 
with goats from other countries, the project enhances  
the agriculture industry through the quality of livestock  
on the island nation and produces offspring with better 
growth rates, higher quality of meat and stronger 
resistance to local diseases. In addition to providing 
higher-quality food sources to the Federation, it also 
provides practical experience for the RUSVM students 
who help care for and monitor the goat populations.
© 2020 - ZIZ Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved.8
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Empowering Students and Members
Offering a better future for students and members and the local communities 
we serve is part of Adtalem’s mission. We use the TEACH values – Teamwork, 
Energy, Accountability, Community and Heart – to fulfill this promise. Through 
our dedication to students and members and our dual focus on wellness and 
diversity and inclusion, Adtalem strives to be a good steward to our community 
and to empower students and members to make a difference in their chosen 
professional careers.
TEACH
Our TEACH values shape how we work together to fulfill our 
promise to our students, our members and each other.
Teamwork
We put the team first, appreciate diverse 
points of view, assume positive intent, 
collaborate and communicate openly.
Energy
We move quickly, learn from mistakes, 
build positive spirit and always look for a 
better way.
Accountability
We take ownership and initiative, 
demonstrate courage as we speak up and 
act with integrity in all that we do.
Community
We operate with a shared sense of 
responsibility and purpose and enrich 
colleagues, students and the broader 
community we serve.
Heart
We serve students and each other with 
passion, respect and care.Student Commitments
This stewardship begins with Adtalem’s 
voluntary Student Commitments, 
which build upon our strong 
foundation of existing practices 
to benefit, inform and support 
students at all of our Title IV 
educational institutions. These 
20 commitments were designed 
to provide transparency and 
accountability in student services, student outcomes 
and financial obligations beyond any state or federal 
regulatory requirements. To show this promise to 
continuous improvement and full transparency, 
Adtalem reviews the Student Commitments annually 
and has an independent third-party review and 
recommend improvements. Adtalem also provides 
disclosures on expenses and federal funding 
commitment results.
The voluntary Student Commitments cover six areas:
• Informed Student Choice
• Responsible Recruitment and Enrollment
• Responsible Participation in the Federal Loan Process• Financial Literacy and Academic Transparency
• Improving Student Satisfaction
• Successful Student Outcomes and Accountability
Adtalem complies with the U.S. Department of  
Education’s disclosure guidelines providing transparency 
to new and potential students and members. Our 
“Know Before You Go” fact sheets*, which go beyond 
government requirements, can help applicants 
understand their financial investment and make 
informed decisions about their education options by 
reviewing key outcomes such as graduate rates, exam 
pass rates and earnings. 
We are also committed to the responsible marketing 
of our products and services and to transparency and  
honesty in our advertising, messages and promotional  
communications. As part of this commitment, we  
developed our Responsible Marketing and 
Communications Statement, which consolidates 
Adtalem’s standards from its Code of Conduct, 
Student Commitments and other policies, during 
fiscal year 2020. 
*The links to each institutions’ “Know Before You Go” fact sheets can be found on the Student Consumer Information pages at these links: 
American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine , Chamberlain University , Ross University School of Medicine and Ross University 
School of Veterinary Medicine .
9 ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTExceptional service and care are at the core of the education and experience we offer. Recently, RUSVM 
was recognized as an Apple Distinguished School for its dedication to providing a creative, active learning 
environment for students. This designation extends through 2022 as it highlights RUSVM’s continued 
innovative and compelling learning environment. 
Also driven by our TEACH values and our purpose, Adtalem and its institutions offer scholarships each 
year to students who may not otherwise be able to continue their education and advance professionally. 
This fiscal year, Adtalem awarded millions of dollars in scholarships to students striving to reach their 
professional ambitions. Further detailed below is a selection of those scholarship programs that have contributed 
to the future of our students and members:
Empower Scholarship Fund 
Empower Scholarship Fund provides financial support to current students 
across our Title IV institutions who have a successful academic track record 
and who otherwise would find it difficult to continue their education. In 
fiscal year 2020, a total of 228 scholarships were awarded for a total of 
$601,449 through the Empower Scholarship Fund. This increased the 
average gift from $2,163 in fiscal year 2019 to $2,638 in fiscal year 2020. 
Becker Professional Education
Becker Professional Education’s Newt Becker Scholarship was awarded  
to 110 accounting professionals or students with high moral character,  
strong leadership qualities and community service, for a total of 
$263,000 during fiscal year 2020. 
American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine
To address Canada’s healthcare workforce shortage, AUC’s scholarship 
to Canadian students is renewable each semester providing $5,000 
for the first 5 semesters and $6,000 for the remaining, dependent on 
the student’s good academic standing, and totaling up to $55,000 per 
student. Sixty-nine students had been awarded the scholarship as of 
January 2020, and could receive a collective total of more than $3.5 
million over the course of their studies.228 
scholarships$601,449
awarded
110 
scholarships$263,000
awarded
$3,500,000
awarded in total over 10 semesters69
scholarships awarded
Each semester, AUC also awards several first-generation MD 
scholarships to incoming students who are the first in their family 
to pursue a medical degree. These students come from diverse 
backgrounds and in many cases, they are not only the first in their 
family to pursue medicine but also to receive a college or graduate 
degree. In fiscal year 2020, AUC awarded $10,000 scholarships to 50 
first-generation students. Each scholarship can be renewed for up to 
five semesters, provided good academic standing. Overall, AUC will 
award up to $2.5 million to these first-generation students.$10,000 
scholarships to 50 first-generation students
$2,500,000 
awarded in total over 5 semesters
10 ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT11
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSupporting Student, Member and Colleague Wellness
While we remain committed to empowering students 
and members to achieve their goals and professional 
successes, Adtalem also strongly prioritizes the 
health and well-being of the individuals across our 
enterprise. We understand personal well-being is the 
key to successful living, academically, occupationally 
and personally, and we strive to ensure we adopt 
and maintain wellness in all aspects of our lives . To 
encourage this, we offer a variety of programs to aid 
in personal wellness. 
Some examples are the wellness programs at AUC 
and RUSVM. AUC’s program is designed to promote 
a culture of well-being across AUC’s Sint Maarten 
campus serving faculty, staff and students. Groups of 
students work together to develop specific wellness 
initiatives as well as community-wide programs. 
AUC tracks its progress with surveys to all members 
and finds ways to meet member demands. This has 
resulted in a new position at AUC – clinical sciences 
wellness counselor – to provide students transitioning 
from Sint Maarten to their clinical placements with 
counseling services. RUSVM’s program takes a  
holistic approach to foster well-being on a community 
level. This program covers emotional, environmental, 
financial, intellectual, occupational, physical, social 
and spiritual wellness. Geared toward students, 
faculty, staff and administration, RUSVM’s program emphasizes the significance of total health—mind 
and body. Through the program, RUSVM now has a 
wellness activity coordinator who champions wellness 
across the community and the university’s gym has 
been refurbished with new flooring and equipment.
Additionally, EduPristine was awarded and certified 
as a Safe Place to Work organization for women 
in India by Rainmaker. EduPristine was among the 
top 10 honorees from a survey completed by 5,500 
women across India on the safety and security they 
feel in the workplace.
Addressing Critical Workforce Shortages and Training in Healthcare 
and Financial Services
At Adtalem, it is our mission to provide global access 
to knowledge that transforms lives and enables 
careers. This is important now more than ever, as the 
world faces critical workforce shortages and training 
needs in a variety of industries, including healthcare and financial services. To address these global demands, 
the Adtalem team developed initiatives and programs 
that would empower others to join these fields and 
commit to making inspiring contributions to our 
global community.
Combatting the Healthcare Workforce Shortages
In an effort to address the current healthcare workforce shortages, Chamberlain University expanded its Bachelor of 
Science in Nursing (BSN) class options in 2020. Chamberlain students at the North Brunswick, NJ; Phoenix, AZ; and 
Arlington, VA campuses can now enroll in evening and weekend classes while still receiving the same quality faculty, 
administrative and clinical support as the traditional BSN degree program. This expansion is a result of a successful 
launch last year at the Addison, IL campus where demand continues to remain strong.
A shortage of nurses is also impacting the ability of Caribbean nations to provide much-needed healthcare to their 
communities. To help with this training and demand for workforce expansion in this region, Chamberlain and AUC 
signed a Scope of Service agreement to aid in the development of an Associate Degree nursing program at the 
National Institute for Professional Advancement’s School of Nursing in Sint Maarten.
“ At a time when nurses are in high demand, it is unacceptable that access is a barrier to 
education. Expanding the opportunity to earn a BSN degree is a critical path to reducing the 
nursing shortage and ensuring the health of the public. An evening and weekend option is a 
great fit for students who have families, daytime jobs or other responsibilities preventing them 
from being able to attend a traditional BSN degree program.” 
– Karen Cox, Ph.D., RN, FACHE, FAAN, president of Chamberlain University
12 ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT13
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The physician workforce shortages also continue to be acute, as made more evident during the global pandemic. In 
order to address this critical need, AUC and Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM) are uniquely positioned as the 
schools’ medical education programs begin three times per year, allowing students to obtain their Doctor of Medicine 
degree at more frequent intervals. This regularity provides Adtalem the ability to make significant contributions to 
fill this urgent physician workforce gap. During the start of the pandemic in April 2020, more than 900 students and 
graduates attained residency positions in the United States and Canada, with more than half already graduated and 
able to contribute to the fight against COVID-19. “We recognize as a supervisory board of directors [that] there needs to be a boost in the public-
health entities in St. Maarten, as well as in the region, in order for us to address continuous 
public-health threats on a global scale. There is no other way to achieve that outside of properly 
equipping our people to take on these jobs. Chamberlain University has rightfully positioned 
itself as the key provider in this, as it has given us the curriculum in nursing.” 
– Peggy-Ann Dros-Richardson, chairperson of the National Institute for Professional Advancement’s Supervisory Board 
In addition to filling nursing and physician workforce shortages, Adtalem is committed to increasing diversity in the  
healthcare workforce. Beginning in fiscal year 2019, RUSM partnered with minority serving institutions to provide a  
prescriptive path to medical training for their graduates. These partnerships increase opportunities for aspiring students,  
while helping to improve the participation of physicians of color, especially in primary care medicine. Qualified students 
in the program receive savings on tuition and students with limited access to medical school are also given facilitated 
access to our 15-week medical readiness preparatory program designed to increase their academic success once they 
enroll at RUSM. The initiative was expanded in fiscal year 2020 and as of June 30, 2020, RUSM had nine Historically 
Black College and University and Hispanic Serving Institution partners, including new partnership agreements with:
• California State University - Dominguez Hills in Carson, CA
• Oakwood University in Huntsville, AL
• Saint Peter’s University in Jersey City, NJ
• Fairleigh Dickinson University - Metropolitan Campus in Teaneck, NJ
• University of Puerto Rico in San Juan, PRChamberlain University has over 
76,000 alumni able to combat the 
nursing shortage. 
Chamberlain University 
 AUC and RUSM
 AUC and RUSM
70% of 2019-2020 Adtalem medical 
graduates who matched entered 
primary care, addressing shortages 
across the globe.  AUC and RUSM have 21,700 alumni 
practicing in every U.S. state, 
including those hardest hit by the 
COVID-19 crisis. 
76,000
alumni21,700
alumni70%
entered primary care14
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Meeting the Demands of the Financial Services Industry
As the workforce shortages in the healthcare industry are being acutely felt due to the global pandemic, the financial 
services industry is facing similar struggles. Not only are new challenges hitting the industry due to COVID-19, but 
the regulatory environment for the financial services and mortgage industries are evolving at a rapid pace, requiring 
companies to maintain higher control standards. Adtalem and its companies continue to develop educational events 
to share best practices, learning products including certifications and certificates, and partnerships that address these 
challenges and allow more of our members and customers to be well equipped and prepared for their roles.
In June 2020, ACAMS hosted its first-ever, 
all-virtual global summit, titled “ACAMS24+”. 
The inaugural, full day event attracted more 
than 3,000 attendees from over 110 countries 
to discuss the most pressing financial crime 
issues. For more than 24 hours, financial crime 
prevention professionals including regulators, 
law enforcement officials, subject matter experts 
and compliance executives spoke about the rise 
of COVID-19 related fraud, sanctions, domestic 
terrorism threats, human trafficking, and the 
challenges of implementing artificial intelligence 
and other technological tools.
ACAMS also launched the “Know Your Customer” (KYC) certification for early career professionals and their 
supervisors to set up young professionals for a career in compliance. The program sets a new global standard for KYC 
compliance staff involved in analysis, onboarding, anti-money laundering prevention and other related roles. It also 
provides members core competencies required to perform KYC/customer due diligence, including enhanced oversight 
for higher risk customers with minimal supervision and experience. 
OnCourse Learning, one of the largest national providers of training in bank, credit union and mortgage industries, 
is also taking part in advancing the financial services industry to meet its current demand. During fiscal year 2020, 
OnCourse Learning hosted more than 500 webinars, with a combined total of nearly 30,000 attendees and 
expanded its enterprise partnerships in both mortgage and bank/credit union markets to meet the continued demand 
for increased mandatory training on regulatory and internal compliance requirements. 
Additionally, Becker was reintroduced into the market as an organization focused on advocacy and education 
for accountants. The company’s updated offerings expand outside of CPA exam preparation and into continuing 
education. Accountants can now turn to Becker for additional certifications through its accreditation by the 
Accrediting Council for Continuing Education & Training. Becker also leverages its partnerships through sponsorships 
of industry events, such as the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Awards.
In addition, Adtalem is focused on offering training courses to help our own colleagues grow in their careers and 
become more successful professionals. A selection of our colleague leadership courses includes:
• New Leader Immersion: Onboarding program for newly hired senior level leaders with a focus on building networks,  
 providing a deeper grounding in Adtalem’s leadership expectations and immersion into Adtalem’s culture. 
• Leading the Adtalem Way: For employees newly promoted or recently hired into a supervisor/manager role, this  
 program helps leaders understand what it takes to succeed as a leader at Adtalem.
• Key Talent Program: 12-month accelerated senior level leadership development program.
• Catalyst: Two-year executive level leadership development program designed to prepare leaders for senior-level and  
 general management operational roles.
15
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCultivating a Diverse and Inclusive Culture 
At Adtalem, we believe in equality and social justice. We believe in an inclusive 
culture. We believe in empowering others through knowledge. 
We understand the need to create diverse workforces  
in the healthcare and financial services industries and 
believe that diversity and inclusion brings new ideas 
and experiences to create a better future for all. Throughout our global organization, we live by our 
commitment to diversity and inclusion. To us, diversity 
and inclusion must be intentional to be impactful. We 
don’t just welcome differences, we celebrate them. 
Students,1  
Fall 2019 enrollment
85% female
42% minority3
All Global Colleagues,  
as of June 30, 2020
75% female
31% minoritySenior Leadership,2  
as of June 30, 2020
38% female
50% minority
75% gender and ethnic  
diversity, combined
1 Students from Title IV schools only. 2 Senior leadership includes CEO, COO, Group Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents. All directly 
report to the CEO of Adtalem. 3 Minority group includes individuals who selected any category other than white, nonresident alien or 
unknown/not specified.
*Tier II spend equates to Adtalem’s suppliers’ contracts with their supply base. **Adtalem defines Diverse Suppliers as self-reported 
Disability-, HUBZone-, LGBT-, Minority-, Veteran- and/or Woman-owned business enterprises.Adtalem works to encourage diversity and inclusion 
from inside our institutions to our local communities, 
which includes our supply chain. Colleagues are 
encouraged to request a quarterly business review 
from suppliers to assess their performance and receive 
details on Tier II* supplier diversity. Additionally, new 
Adtalem construction project requests for proposals include a requirement that at least 20% of the general 
contractor’s total spend be subcontracted to diverse 
suppliers**. As an example of the impact this can have, 
the construction of one of our new campuses saw over 
30% spending with diverse subcontractors due to the 
implementation of the new requirement.“What I’ve learned is it’s just not as simple and easy as putting out an edict that you want to 
have a diverse population of leaders in your organization. Y ou have to be intentional about 
programs to grow people from within and get them the skills that they need.”
– Lisa Wardell, chairman and CEO of Adtalem Global Education16
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn addition to these commitments, Adtalem also 
supports diversity with an inclusive culture. Through 
communications and town halls led by Chairman and  
CEO Lisa Wardell, we tackle today’s most important 
issues. On June 25, 2020, Lisa Wardell; Dr. Gil Singletary,  
senior director of College of Health Professions at 
Chamberlain University; Dwight Hamilton, director 
of equity and access; and Dr. Jessica Shepherd, MD, 
MBA, FACOG, OB/GYN-gynecologic surgeon at Baylor 
University Medical Center and RUSM graduate, held 
a town hall panel discussion. The group addressed 
the importance of a culture of inclusion, addressing 
implicit bias and the work we can do as individuals 
and as an organization to practice anti-racism. In 
addition to open conversations, Adtalem launched a 
required diversity and inclusion training course for 
all colleagues to encourage additional education. The 
training covered topics including: unconscious bias, 
microinequities, creating an inclusive workplace and 
responding to workplace challenges.
Furthermore, Adtalem’s healthcare and medical 
institutions - AUC, Chamberlain, RUSM and RUSVM - 
adopted a set of commitments to social justice, and 
over the course of fiscal year 2020 created diversity and inclusion task forces using those commitments 
as a framework for their individual committees. 
These task forces are addressing racism as a public 
health crisis and are dedicated to listening, learning, 
studying and acting to advocate for social justice. 
They are committed to continuously reviewing the 
components of our educational programs, systems 
and processes to ensure that we are addressing 
systemic bias within our enterprise, as well as 
partnering with organizations that share our values 
to collectively address these challenges and have an 
intentional impact on the broader healthcare industry.
Through these task forces, our institutions are 
creating new programs to encourage discussion 
and change on campus. For example, Chamberlain 
completed its first racial climate survey in 2019 
and created a 16-hour continuing education course 
focused on educating faculty on how to support 
multilingual and multicultural students in the classroom. 
This Cultural Inclusivity course is now a requirement 
for all new full-time faculty and leaders within the first 
year of their hiring, and existing colleagues are also 
required to complete the course by the end of the 
calendar year.
17
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRUSM’s task force also established new forums for 
students to discuss diversity and inclusion as well as  
work together to mitigate cultural disparities throughout 
the healthcare system. The task force is working to 
create a level of social consciousness in students so 
they can better serve their communities and patients. 
RUSM is also initiating a review of the current curriculum  
and the academic learning environment to ensure this 
is included in the students’ overall education.
Adtalem’s EDGE network is another initiative 
that promotes diversity and inclusion across our 
organization. EDGE, which stands for Empowerment, 
Diversity, Growth and Excellence, supports the 
enhanced career experience and advancement 
of women in the workforce. It is one of Adtalem’s 
most vibrant programs promoting professional 
development and diversity across 23 global chapters. 
Some of the events that Adtalem and its institutions 
hosted to bring awareness to diversity and inclusion, 
as well as facilitate discussions around social justice, 
during fiscal year 2020 included:
In honor of World Day for Cultural Diversity, the 
Adtalem and global chapters of EDGE invited 
members to listen to a podcast on “Developing Your 
Diversity IQ: Perspective, Passion, Collaboration, 
Patience and Persistence.” During the podcast, 
Chamberlain University Dean of Academic Operations, 
Strategy and Student Success Janelle Sokolowich, PhD,  
MSN, RN discussed her experience with Chamberlain’s 
diversity and inclusion journey to inspire others.
To recognize Women in Medicine Month, the AUC 
chapter of EDGE and the American Medical Women’s 
Association hosted a panel to discuss balancing 
selfcare and passion as a female professional. 
Students, faculty and staff were invited to attend 
and hear from Sint Maarten leaders, like Dr. Rolinda Carter, Dean of Academics at the University of Sint 
Maarten; Sarah Wescot-Williams, Honorable President 
of Parliament for Sint Maarten; Damali Bryson, nurse 
leader and change manager at the National Institute 
for Professional Advancement; and 5th semester AUC 
student Nicole Shaw.
The Barbados EDGE chapter’s #EachforEqual 
campaign was displayed throughout campus to 
promote International Women’s Day on March  
8, 2020. 
The St. Kitts EDGE chapter hosted a Purple Tea 
Party event on March 8, 2020. The keynote speaker 
was Gisele Matthews, president of the St. Kitts and  
Nevis Chamber of Industry Commerce, the 
organization’s first female president in 71 years. All 
profits were donated to The Garden of Rebirth, an 
organization that assists women and their children 
who are victims of gender-based violence.
18
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAdhering to Corporate Governance
Adtalem is committed to the highest standards of corporate conduct and we 
pride ourselves on our governance standards and transparency. Our Code of 
Conduct and Ethics sets professional standards for how we operate, including 
the set of TEACH values that guides our leadership team and the work we do. 
Adtalem colleagues are asked to review and acknowledge the Code to show 
their dedication and understanding for these values. Our responsible marketing 
policy is outlined in the Code, to guide our communications with various 
stakeholders in a comprehensive and accountable manner.
Adtalem’s dedication to a diverse and successful leadership team and Board of Directors along with a 
responsibility to data security and integrity is the basis of all that we do.
Prioritizing Board Diversity and Independence
Since 2016, under the leadership of Chairman and CEO Lisa Wardell, Adtalem has notably increased female 
and multicultural representation on its Board of Directors.
Board Diversity1
Female 
44.44% (4/9) 
Persons of Color 
44.44% (4/9) 
Combined Female and  
Persons of Color
66.67% (6/9)
Board Independence Data1
Full Board
88.9% Independence
9 Members
Audit
100% Independence
3 Members
Compensation
100% Independence
3 MembersExternal Relations
100% Independence
2 Members
Academic Quality
100% Independence
2 Members
Nominating
100% Independence
3 Members
“ At Adtalem, we embrace and advocate for diversity and inclusion. It’s not just something we talk about, 
it’s intentional and a factor in our hiring, our decision making and our culture as an enterprise. I firmly 
believe that we benefit from a diverse workforce as a business and find great value in how these individuals 
reinforce our mission to provide access to education to everyone, regardless of their background.” 
– Lisa Wardell, chairman and CEO of Adtalem Global Education
1 As of June 30, 202019
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProtecting Our Data
Adtalem takes the custody of student and employee 
data seriously and thus employs strong governance 
practices for protecting our data security. As a result, 
Adtalem’s Enterprise Safety and Security team was 
ranked ninth on Security Magazine’s 2019 Security 
500 Report in the Education/University/College/
Technical Institutions sector.
To be leaders in this field, Adtalem’s Enterprise 
Information Security Framework policy and 
Information Governance and Security procedures are 
modeled on the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology 800-53 policy framework.
Valuing Integrity
Adtalem is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate conduct in our business operations. All 
Adtalem employees are asked to review and  
acknowledge our Code of Conduct during onboarding. 
We offer an anonymous whistleblower reporting 
helpline, which is operated by an independent 
company. The 24/7, multilingual service receives and processes the request and shares the report with 
Adtalem’s Integrity and Compliance team. This team 
is responsible for reviewing all allegations and taking 
the appropriate course of action. 
Beginning in Fall 2019, to aid in promoting a harassment 
free work environment, Adtalem also requires 
employees to regularly complete harassment training.
We pursue our business objectives with integrity, trust and respect and operate in full 
compliance of all applicable laws and regulations. Adtalem’s policies apply to all colleagues 
and work environments. In view of our commitment, we are requiring that all colleagues 
complete a web-based harassment training course, which is designed to increase awareness 
and knowledge of applicable laws and how they may impact job responsibilities.20
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAdtalem Global Education Foundation
Independent from the corporate giving efforts,  
the Adtalem Global Education Foundation, a 
501(c)(3) organization founded in 2010, focuses on 
supporting global education and workforce initiatives  
that advance career opportunities for underserved 
populations and improve the economic and physical 
health of local communities. The Foundation supports 
non-profit organizations that align with the values  
of its sole member, Adtalem, and promotes a vision  
of an equitable, healthy and economically  
productive society.
In fiscal year 2020, the Foundation awarded  
20 grants totaling $739,000.
.
Fiscal year 2020
70 
partners$339,000
Corporate Giving
Adtalem utilizes corporate giving to further support 
the global communities our institutions and 
businesses serve. In FY20, Adtalem provided over 
$339,000 to 70 global community and civic partners.
Board Members1
• Pamela Murphy, President and Director
• Susan Groenwald, Director
• Richard Gunst, Director
• Fernando Lau, DirectorOfficers
• Lauren Rengel, Vice President and Secretary
• Maureen Resac, Treasurer
• Amar Patel, Assistant TreasurerMaking a Global Impact
Adtalem and its family of institutions and companies are committed to serving 
as responsible community citizens. We provide financial support to charitable 
and civic organizations globally through the Adtalem Global Education 
Foundation and through our corporate giving efforts.
Financials for Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2020
Beginning Cash Balance  $809,283 
Revenue 
Contribution Received from ATGE  $500,000
Interest Income  $1,790
Expenses 
Grants to Public Charities  $739,000
Operating Expenses  $105
Ending Cash Balance  $571,968
1 Board Members and Officers as of June 30, 202021
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Adtalem’s leadership continued to find ways to connect  
with the communities we serve during this time. 
Adtalem Chairman and CEO, Lisa Wardell and 17th 
Surgeon General of the United States, Distinguished 
Professor at University of Arizona and RUSM and 
RUSVM Board Member Dr. Richard Carmona had 
a virtual conversation to discuss COVID-19 and its 
impact to the world. The conversation focused on steps the public should take, such as social distancing, 
to help flatten the curve and how Adtalem graduates 
have the power to be force multipliers during this 
ongoing health threat. They encouraged the Adtalem 
community to do their part to support the safety of 
our communities through education.Taken advantage of our existing platforms and added more than 15,000 students online, 
bringing our total of online students to more than 40,000, enabling the next generation of 
front-line healthcare professionals to continue their medical education without interruption.
Enabled thousands of Financial Services members and customers to move to fully virtual 
environments by  leveraging our existing online platforms - the CPAs who serve as the 
engines of business, the mortgage brokers who fuel home ownership and the anti-financial 
crime advocates who protect world economies.
In just one week’s time during March 2020, the Adtalem team had...
Empowered our thousands of colleagues to take care of their health, safety and well-being 
in support of our people and communities in which they live by facilitating remote work.
Adtalem’s colleagues have continued working; teachers have continued teaching; and students, customers and 
members have continued learning.
Supporting COVID-19 Relief Efforts
Like many organizations, Adtalem was impacted by the worldwide COVID-19 
pandemic. However, as a leading workforce solutions provider, we stood ready to 
support our students and members in the continuation of their education during 
this time. The Adtalem team used our existing technology and platforms  
to further expand the way we teach and work in the pandemic setting. As a 
result, Adtalem successfully transitioned on-campus programs to online delivery 
and enabled our financial services customers to move fully virtual in just one 
week’s time. Furthermore, we empowered our colleagues to take care of their 
health and well-being by facilitating remote work.Leading through COVID-19 
As the pandemic impacted communities worldwide, 
Adtalem participated in recovery efforts to ensure a 
healthy and safe environment for all. With support 
from the Adtalem Global Education Foundation, we donated a total of $300,000 to the American Nurses 
Foundation and A Better Chicago to assist with 
economic and mental health support as communities 
addressed the pandemic.
#CareForCaregivers
Throughout the global pandemic, healthcare workers have 
been on the front lines in their day-to-day work caring 
for others. In order to show support for nurses and other 
healthcare professionals – many of whom are Adtalem’s 
students and alumni – Adtalem created a campaign to 
boost healthcare worker morale and encourage others to 
post videos, photos and words of gratitude for healthcare 
workers with #CareForCaregivers on social media 
channels and its Wall of Gratitude website. 
The website for the campaign also included information 
on sending care packages to healthcare departments, 
sharing front-line stories from healthcare professionals in 
the field, providing educational and support resources and 
offering special savings for healthcare workers at many 
large retailers and restaurants.In addition to this monetary donation, Adtalem and  
Chamberlain University provided more than 200,000  
medical supplies and personal protective equipment,  
including N95 masks, gowns, gloves and sanitizer, to 
healthcare systems across the U.S. In the Caribbean, 
Adtalem and its institutions - AUC, RUSM and RUSVM -  
donated nearly $100,000 in medical supplies and grants 
to local organizations helping with the communities’ 
relief efforts. During the pandemic, we’ve shown our support 
for caregivers, ensured our enterprise and other 
professionals have the resources they need to be 
safe and continued to prioritize serving our local 
communities. Adtalem strives for a better future 
now more than ever, as we continue to develop new 
programs and initiatives to come out of the pandemic 
healthier and safer than before. 
“ At Adtalem Global Education, we recognize the importance of providing accessible healthcare and 
education opportunities. The COVID-19 crisis has put unprecedented pressure on everyone, with a 
particular impact on low-income families and those on the front lines fighting this pandemic, which 
is why we chose the American Nurses Foundation and A Better Chicago for these donations.” 
– Lisa Wardell, chairman and CEO of Adtalem Global Education
22 ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT23
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The pandemic brought many new challenges to the  
healthcare industry and Adtalem was there to help.  
Chamberlain created free courses that allowed healthcare  
professionals to learn more about the pandemic. Over  
13,000 have registered for courses on acute care 
readiness, NCLEX-RN® test review and contact tracing.*
The Adtalem enterprise also committed to incorporating  
new courses to Adtalem’s medical school curriculums. 
Beginning in fiscal year 2021, AUC, Chamberlain and 
RUSM will require students to take mandatory PPE 
training before starting a clinical clerkship as an added 
measure to ensure students are safe while in different 
care environments.
In addition to focusing on the health and safety of 
Adtalem’s students and the general public, Becker 
Professional Education and OnCourse Learning created  
a variety of free courses and toolkits for the financial 
services industry. This included tools for working 
remotely, continuing education courses and webinars 
focused on the evolution of economic stimulus and 
implications on tax law due to COVID-19. These 
courses and resources were very successful and 
highly sought after with over 25,000 participants 
registering for the events.
*The contact tracing course began in July 2020.
Engaging Communities 
Adtalem strives to serve its local communities, especially during times of crisis. Through monetary and supply 
donations and local events, we instill a community-oriented mindset in our students so they can see the impact they 
can make on the world. This led to a variety of programs during the pandemic, including: 
• AUC and RUSM students created new chapters of COVIDSitters, an independent student volunteer group that 
assists front-line workers with services like running errands and child and pet care during the pandemic. This 
program garnered media attention, and there are now seven chapters across the United States with AUC and 
RUSM student participation. 
• In April 2020, AUC provided offsite monitoring for 17 patients diagnosed or showing symptoms of COVID-19. The 
students, faculty and colleagues involved in the project remotely monitored patients’ daily vital signs, symptom 
progression, mental health and the criteria for their release from quarantine. More than 600 hours of volunteer time  
was completed caring for these patients.
• Dr. Karen Cox, president of Chamberlain University and Dr. Linda MacIntyre, chief nursing officer at the American 
Red Cross, hosted a podcast to raise awareness about the need for blood donors during these uncertain times. 
This drove interest for Chamberlain University’s blood drives, held in partnership with the American Red Cross, in 
North Brunswick, NJ in fiscal year 2020, with more scheduled for fiscal year 2021.
Adtalem knows the importance of virtual education and recognizes the digital divide felt by many during the 
pandemic. In an effort to address this divide and provide technology for online youth education, Adtalem made 
multiple donations this past year. 
• A $10,000 donation to Chicago Public Schools’ Children First Fund that supported 45 students with access to 
internet connectivity for the completion of the academic year.
• AUC School of Medicine donated 57 laptops to MVG Technology, a local electronic repair center, for its “Recycle 
for Students” program that supports local schools and students who do not have the resources to attend class and 
take exams remotely. 
• In June 2020, Adtalem donated $7,500 to Massy Technologies InfoCom, the largest supplier of information and 
communications technology in the Caribbean, to support the technology needs of students in Barbados. The funds 
were used to purchase computers for students in need so they can complete their schoolwork remotely.Continuing Education Opportunities
Becker Professional Education
- Held webcasts to discuss COVID-19 and CPA exam 
updates in March and April 2020.
- Created 24 new continuing professional education 
courses, including a series of free webcasts for 
practitioners, covering various aspects of the COVID 
stimulus packages and the pandemic’s impact on 
accounting and taxes. 
OnCourse Learning 
- Offered 12 webinars to the banking community on the 
implications of COVID-19 in March and April 2020. 
- Held a “Weekly Compliance Updates for Uncertain Times” 
webinar series in May and June 2020. 
- Hosted free webinars, including one with a former  
United States surgeon general, to learn more about the  
virus’ global impacts. 
- Launched a COVID-19 Pandemic Preparedness Guide  
with over 50 relevant resources and introduced a series of 
blogs and eBooks on Pandemic Preparedness, CARES Act, 
Leading in Uncertain Times and more.24
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTInvesting in Our Communities
We provide community support to global charitable and civic 
organizations that share Adtalem’s values, as we greatly understand the 
importance of volunteering and engaging with our local communities. 
We also strive to instill the value of service in our students and 
encourage colleagues and staff to lead by example. This has allowed 
our entire global organization to volunteer at company- or institution-
sponsored events and programs that align with our mission for a total of 
nearly 20,000 hours in fiscal year 2020.
20,000 hours
Across the global organization
Volunteer hours 
Knowing how important every aspect of our community is, Adtalem gives to a variety of entities that align with our values. 
From giving back to our local communities to raising awareness of non-communicable diseases to advocating for others, 
our enterprise serves as responsible community citizens through institution-led events. 
© 2020 - OneGoal25
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnhancing Local Communities
Multiple times throughout the year, AUC hosts Community 
Action Days, opportunities for the university to collaborate 
with local organizations on projects benefitting the people 
and communities of Sint Maarten. During the February 22, 
2020 event, members of the AUC community contributed 
a total of 672 hours of service through a variety of projects 
with partners including the Mental Health Foundation, Tri-
Sport, Tzu Chi Foundation and others. Although the August 
1, 2020 Community Action Day could not be held in person 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, AUC created a virtual 
event to continue to provide service to the Sint Maarten 
community.
Similarly, in Fall 2019, RUSM initiated a Day of Service 
program to give back to the Barbados community. During 
the inaugural event, more than 120 students volunteered 
at eight different locations on the island nation. Projects 
included beach cleanups, preparing beds for a new 
homeless shelter, reading to hospital patients and planting 
trees to create more food options for the local monkey 
population.
Adtalem’s companies also donate to the local communities 
with various donation drives. Becker’s colleagues 
participated in a school supply drive in conjunction with People’s Resource Center, a non-profit providing 
food and other basic necessities, as well as education classes and resources, to northeast Illinois. Adtalem 
also provided a corresponding financial donation in support of People’s Resource Center’s adult learning and 
literacy programming. 
OnCourse Learning has various volunteer programs focused on improving their local community in the 
Milwaukee, WI region. They partnered with Literacy Services of Wisconsin, an organization that provides 
access to quality education and skills training to adult learners to improve their lives, enrich their families and 
strengthen the broader community. This partnership allowed OnCourse Learning to host a Book Drive in 
August and September 2019. The program collected containers of children’s books, which were then given to 
incarcerated parents who recorded themselves reading the books to their children. 
In December 2019, OnCourse Learning employees donated clothing and hygiene items to Hope Center of 
Waukesha, a non-profit organization with a mission to reduce the risks of poverty in Waukesha County. 
In addition, in 2019 EduPristine launched its HOPE (Humanity, Opportunity, Purpose and Empowerment) 
platform to allow colleagues to volunteer and contribute to community development and social welfare on a 
voluntary basis. Through this platform, EduPristine launched a pandemic relief initiative in May 2020.
EduPristine, which is based in India, has continued its English learning program for colleagues with limited 
educational backgrounds who want to develop their skills and build confidence. The program also offers 
computer training courses so colleagues can advance within the organization.
26
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAddressing and Raising Awareness of Non-Communicable Diseases
To support cancer research, Adtalem partners with and sponsors various organizations around the globe. 
In Fall 2019, Adtalem and its institutions - AUC, RUSM and RUSVM - sponsored CIBC FirstCaribbean’s Walk 
for the Cure, the region’s largest cancer fundraising and awareness event. The group took part in walks in 
Barbados, St. Kitts and St. Maarten. 
RUSM also partnered with the Barbados Cancer Society on a number of student engagement initiatives throughout 
the year and held a media roundtable during Breast Cancer Awareness Week. AUC continued to offer free  
breast cancer screenings with routine health assessments as part of an ongoing service to the local community. 
The screenings are part of a larger breast health initiative of AUC, the Ministry of Health and the Positive 
Foundation to raise awareness of breast cancer and drive local screening policies and protocols in Sint Maarten.  
Data from the screenings also helps identify the prevalence of breast abnormalities in the Caribbean population. Despite major strides in early detection and treatment, breast cancer remains the most common 
cancer in women worldwide. At AUC, we are doing our part to raise awareness of this deadly 
disease. For the third consecutive year, Dr. Naira Chobanyan, clinical oncologist and professor 
of clinical medicine, has organized a series of free breast screenings in Sint Maarten. The events 
are open to the public and provide a space for Dr. Chobanyan to conduct free exams while our 
clinical medicine fellows and students perform routine health assessments.
“Childhood obesity is a challenge in Barbados and across the world and is linked to diet and 
environment. We are doing our part to positively impact the community and also students who are 
interfacing with the community…Such programs are important considering that while doctors are usually 
focused on treating diseases, physicians also hold the responsibility to assist in preventing diseases.” 
– Dr. Hedda Dyer, associate professor in the department of clinical foundations, RUSM27
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThe Adtalem enterprise also put a priority on encouraging healthy lifestyles. In February 2020, RUSM 
partnered with Forlam Clinic to host an inaugural event to promote a more active lifestyle and help fight non-
communicable diseases in Barbados. Through a series of outreach clinics in communities across the island 
nation, the partners provided information to the public on prevention and healthy behaviors that address 
childhood obesity and non-communicable diseases. Through this initiative, medical students participated in 
community projects serving the health of Barbadians.
Encouraging Quality Youth Education
As advocates for increased access to higher education, Adtalem and RUSVM jointly provided scholarships 
for 14 local students in St. Kitts to attend Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College, which offers undergraduate and 
continuing education learning opportunities to help local students become personally and professionally self-
sufficient by promoting their intellectual, social, moral and ethical development.
In addition to scholarships, RUSVM provided school supplies to families in need in September 2019. The 
donations were provided to two primary schools and other community organizations in St. Kitts. With more 
than 100 students receiving school supplies. RUSVM also gifted school supplies for 40 at-risk youth through 
Mol-Phil Explorers Club, an organization that engages young people to encourage positive community 
involvement, and The Singles Mothers’ Network, an organization founded by an RUSVM employee that 
supports more than 30 single mothers in the Federation.
In November 2019, RUSM’s Student National Medical Association hosted a Mini Med School and Journey 
to Medicine program to encourage local high school students to pursue careers in the healthcare field. The 
students toured the campus, took part in an anatomy exercise, were introduced to heart sounds and high-
fidelity simulations and discussed their interests in science and healthcare with RUSM students.“Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine has given generously to the Mol-Phil Explorers. 
This contribution is well-appreciated and will support our efforts to cater to the welfare of the 
children in the Mol-Phil Explorers Club.” 
– Inspector Rosemarie Isles Joseph, founder and coordinator of the Explorers Clubs
“RUSVM’s focus on education and community building will help give moms the supplies they need for 
the upcoming year. We are thankful for this gesture and happy to begin this meaningful partnership.” 
- Danella Hodge, president of The Single Mothers’ Network28
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAdvocating Across the Globe 
As part of its goal to create a heathier community, RUSVM introduced a graduate certificate in One Health.  
The program uses an interdisciplinary approach to understanding the interconnectivity between the health of  
humans, animals and the environment. Upon completion of the certificate, students will be prepared to lead  
and advocate for issues related to One Health on a global scale. This program garnered national attention  
when in February 2020, Adtalem leaders and RUSVM Dean Dr. Sean Callanan met with Her Excellency, Dr.  
Thelma Phillip-Browne, ambassador of St. Kitts and Nevis to the U.S. in Washington D.C. to highlight the One  
Health program and its connection to public health in the Caribbean region.
In February 2020, ACAMS hosted its first Anti-Financial Crime  
and Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C. for financial  
professionals, policy makers and non-governmental organizations.  
Attendees shared best practices and expertise on pressing issues  
including global sanctions and proliferation financing, Bank  
Secrecy Act reform and modern slavery and human trafficking.  
The event featured Reps. Ann Wagner (R-MO) (see photo)  
and Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and other experts discussing  
important bipartisan work to address these financial crimes. 
At the conference, ACAMS also announced a strategic partnership with the Liechtenstein Initiative for Finance  
Against Slavery and Trafficking (FAST), a project based at the United Nations University Centre for Policy  
Research, to further mobilize financial sector stakeholders against modern slavery and human trafficking.  
ACAMS launched an Official Pledge in support of FAST, encouraging its more than 80,000 member community  
in more than 175 countries worldwide to commit to taking action in line with the FAST Blueprint program. 
In addition, ACAMS has committed to creating awareness on modern slavery and human trafficking within  
its global community and beyond through its events, webinars, chapters and editorial content. ACAMS also  
works closely with its chapters and other key stakeholders to encourage adoption of the FAST blueprint and  
action the goals outlined.
Combating Financial Crime and Human Trafficking 
To continue to raise awareness of human trafficking, FAST and ACAMS launched a new modern-day slavery  
and human trafficking certificate for financial sector actors at the ACAMS24+ Virtual Global Summit. This is a  
first of its kind certificate program and is provided free-of-charge to the public. The certificate has been very  
successful with over 3,200 professionals from over 100 countries enrolled in the course, as of the end of fiscal  
year 2020.
In September 2019, OnCourse Learning also began offering a human trafficking course in collaboration with ACAMS.
The new modern-day slavery and human trafficking certificate was highlighted during a recent 
United Nations webinar organized by #FinanceAgainstSlavery that discussed modern slavery during 
COVID-19 and the role the financial sector can play in fostering effective action against it. 
29
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAppendix: Community Partners 
The Adtalem Global Education Foundation Partners
• A Better Chicago
• American Humane Association
• American Nurses Foundation
• American Red Cross
• Association House of Chicago
• BIO Ventures for Global Health
• Chicago Debate Commission
• Children First Fund – The Chicago Public  
Schools Foundation
• Communities in Schools of Chicago
• Golden Apple Foundation for Excellence in Teaching• Inner City Computer Stars Foundation (i.c.stars)
• Junior Achievement of Chicago
• NAMI of DuPage County, IL
• New Leaders Inc.
• OneGoal
• One Love Pets
• Polaris Project
• Summer Search of New York City
• Teach for America
• WINGS Program, Inc.
U.S. Community and Civic Partners
• After School Matters
• American Cancer Society
• American Heart Association
• American Red Cross
• American Nurses Foundation
• AMVETS
• Association House of Chicago
• Aurora Area Interfaith Food Pantry
• Berkley Neighborhood Watch, Inc.
• Bright Leadership Institute
• Changing Worlds
• Chicago United
• Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
• Children First Fund – The Chicago Public  
Schools Foundation
• Communities in Schools
• Cub Scout Pack 134
• Feed My Starving Children• Girls in the Game 
• Greater Chicago Food Depository
• Habitat for Humanity
• International 22q11.2 Foundation, Inc. 
• International Women’s Forum
• Junior Achievement
• Make a Wish Foundation
• NACD
• Naperville Gymnastics Parents Organization
• Northern Illinois Food Bank
• OneGoal
• People’s Resource Center
• Project C.U.R.E. 
• Thurgood Marshall College Fund
• University of Chicago Medicine Clinical  
NeuroSciences Center 
• WINGS Program, Inc.
• Women Employed30
ADTALEM 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCaribbean Community and Civic Partners
• Barbados Cancer Society
• Barbados Diabetes Foundation
• Barbados Ministry of Education, Technological and 
Vocational Training 
• Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency 
(CDEMA)
• Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College
• Community Outreach Mentorship & Empowerment 
(C.O.M.E.) International Foundation
• Diabetes Foundation of St. Kitts
• Diabetes Foundation of St. Maarten
• Dr. William Connor Primary School 
• Eden Lodge Youth Charitable Trust
• FirstCaribbean International ComTrust Foundation -  
CIBC Walk For The Cure
• The Forlam Foundation
• Foundation for the Management and Conservation of 
Nature on St. Maarten
• Garden of Rebirth
• The Heart & Stroke Foundation of Barbados Inc.
• The Hope Foundation
• Irish Town Primary School • K1 Britannia Foundation
• Mental Health Foundation
• Mol Phil Explorers
• The Myeloma, Lymphoma and Luekemia Foundation  
of Barbados
• The National Cultural Foundation
• Positive Foundation
• Rotary Club of Barbados South Charitable Trust - Step by 
Step Diabetes Food Care Programme
• The Royal St. Christopher & Nevis Police Force
• Saddlers Primary School
• Saddlers Secondary School 
• Safe Haven
• Sandy Point Primary School
• SILS Renal Care Ltd
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Agriculture 
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Education
• St. Maarten AIDS Foundation
• St. Pauls Primary School 
• Tzu Chi
• Waste2Work
RUSVM Dean Sean Callanan awards community grants to partners in St. Kitts and Nevis.500 W. Monroe Street, Chicago, IL, 60661
Phone: 312.651.1400 
adtalem.com
© 2020 Adtalem Global Education. All rights reserved. 