2019
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORTDear readers,
I’m delighted to introduce Adtalem Global Education’s fiscal year (FY) 2019 Sustainability 
Report. Our global community of faculty, employees, students and members are 
passionate about delivering meaningful support to our local communities, and within this 
year’s report you will find many examples of this passion and impact where we teach, 
learn and work together.
  
As a leading global workforce solutions provider, Adtalem graduates physicians, nurses 
and veterinarians who are providing critical healthcare throughout the United States, and 
internationally. Similarly, members of our Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering 
Specialists (ACAMS) are fighting financial crime worldwide. Together, our institutions and 
companies are building communities of life-long learners who truly contribute their 
expertise to revitalize our global community.
In addition to community partnership news, investment and volunteerism trends, we are 
pleased to share how we’re leveraging our core capabilities to build stronger, healthier 
communities. For example, the Caribbean Center for Disaster Medicine launched in Sint 
Maarten this year and represents our work to create powerful partnerships to improve 
preparedness for major disasters and emergencies. We’ve also signed articulation 
agreements with minority-serving institutions as part of our ongoing work to graduate 
more underrepresented physicians who are practicing in underserved areas throughout 
the United States. And in St. Kitts, the One Health Research Foundation works to ensure 
future medical professionals receive vital transdisciplinary research and training.
In FY19, we expanded our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) platform, 
including ESG reporting. We continue to measure our performance and set new goals in 
areas including academic and policy standards; diversity and inclusion of Adtalem 
suppliers; and energy and waste reduction programs.
Adtalem’s sustainability programs support our purpose: to empower students to achieve 
their goals, find success and make inspiring contributions to our global community. We 
thank all the members of our global community for their inspiring dedication to making a 
difference around the world!
Lisa Sodeika
SVP, Corporate Relations, Adtalem Global Education 
President of the Adtalem Global Education Foundation
3Sustainability: Our Environmental,
Social and Governance Strategy
Adtalem is committed to a holistic approach in our communities, providing quality learning and working opportunities, 
caring for the places where we operate, and conducting our business in a transparent and responsible manner. We 
advanced our ESG strategy during FY19, and remained steadfastly focused on our overarching philosophy of stewardship. 
Our Sustainability Strategy: Adtalem’s ESG practices support our purpose – to empower students to achieve 
their goals, ﬁnd success and make inspiring contributions to our global community. Adtalem aims to empower 
and enhance the communities in which we teach, learn and work by operating sustainably, maintaining 
responsible governance standards and supporting our global community.
The global footprint of our organization brings the responsibility to respect cultures, communities and natural resources 
around the world and the opportunity to create positive change in an array of environments. Adtalem Global Education 
people and places can be found in 182 countries1, including:
Countries with an Adtalem presenceAdtalem Global Education 
Headquarters - Chicago, 
Illinois, United States
Adtalem Brazil Headquarters 
- São Paolo, Brazil
American University of the 
Caribbean School of 
Medicine (AUC School of 
Medicine) – Sint Maarten, 
West Indies, CaribbeanAssociation of Certiﬁed 
Anti-Money Laundering 
Professionals (ACAMS) 
Headquarters – Miami, 
Florida, United States, 
presence in 180 countries
Becker Professional 
Education Headquarters – 
Chicago, Illinois, United 
StatesChamberlain University – 21 
campuses in 15 states, 
United States
EduPristine Headquarters – 
Mumbai, India
OnCourse Learning (OCL) 
Headquarters – Brookfield, 
Wisconsin, United StatesRoss University School of 
Medicine (RUSM) – 
Barbados, West Indies, 
Caribbean
Ross University School of 
Veterinary Medicine 
(RUSVM) – St. Kitts, West 
Indies, Caribbean
1 Location data as of 6/30/19.Environmental
Practices
This was a year of enhancing our environmental activities by advancing eﬀorts to use resources wisely as we maintained 
ongoing best practice programs. This commitment was embodied by eﬀorts of our employees, students and faculty 
members around the world.
4
Also on St. Kitts, RUSVM veterinary students supported the St. Kitts Sea Turtle Monitoring Network, a community 
non-proﬁt organization. The group monitored and tagged turtles, led educational camps on the ecosystem and engaged 
the community in surveys about sea turtles. The work of this organization continued to encourage responsible behavior by 
residents and visitors, and was recognized with the 2018 Sustainable Tourism Award from the St. Kitts Tourism Authority.
In Brazil, Wyden Environmental Engineering students and faculty took part in several beach cleanups in Salvador to raise 
awareness of sound environmental practices. The campus community also held brainstorming sessions to develop new 
ways to protect the local ecosystem.  ENERGY USE: We made notable progress in the exploration of renewable energy sources for our global 
organization and continued to encourage our suppliers in their environmentally responsible practices. Our 
newly constructed student housing for RUSM's campus in Barbados utilizes solar water heaters and solar 
street lights. RUSVM in St. Kitts began a feasibility study on the use of solar energy for their needs, while in 
Brazil we began an analysis of programmable energy switchboards for our classrooms. Additionally, we 
conducted an audit of energy use on campuses and in oﬃces across our global enterprise that will inform a 
program to increase conservation measures going forward.
EMISSION REDUCTION: To incent the use of public transportation, Adtalem oﬀers a beneﬁt program for 
full-time employees that allows the use of pre-tax dollars to oﬀset the cost of public transportation. We 
continued to promote this transit beneﬁt during the year.
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS: AUC School of Medicine forged a partnership with Harvard Medical Faculty 
Physicians at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center to establish the Caribbean Center for Disaster Medicine 
(CCDM), a regional center of excellence to foster education, research and training on disaster preparedness 
and response. 
ECOSYSTEM: Two of our Caribbean campuses, AUC School of Medicine in Sint Maarten and RUSVM in St. Kitts, 
furthered their recycling eﬀorts and reduced the use of single-use plastics by oﬀering reusable utensils, 
eliminating the annual use of more than 22,000 plastic utensils. RUSVM also began a "Go Green" project to 
reduce paper associated with academic projects, exams and administration.  
RUSVM students volunteer with
the St. Kitts Sea Turtle
Monitoring Network.Wyden students and faculty
collect trash and clean a
beach in Salvador, Brazil.5Social
Practices
At Adtalem, we look for opportunities to improve the world around us. Our TEACH values—Teamwork, Energy, 
Accountability, Community and Heart—shape how we work together to fulﬁll our promise to students, members and each 
other.  
STUDENT COMMITMENTS: Adtalem’s voluntary Student Commitments build upon our strong foundation of 
existing practices to beneﬁt, inform and support students at all of our Title IV-participating institutions.
2 Source: Association of American Medical Colleges, Graduates by U.S. Medical School and Race/Ethnicity (Alone or In Combination)RUSM has an open and transportable model to diversify enrollment, and other medical schools are encouraged to replicate 
this model.  In FY19, RUSM partnered with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and a Historically Black 
Graduate Institution to provide a prescriptive path to medical training for their graduates. Partners included Charles Drew 
University, Florida A&M University, Tuskegee University and Dillard University. These partnerships will increase 
opportunities for aspiring students, while helping to improve the participation of physicians of color, especially in primary 
care medicine. Qualiﬁed students in this program receive savings on tuition. Students from groups with limited access to 
medical school are given facilitated access to RUSM, or to Adtalem’s 15-week medical readiness preparatory program 
designed to increase their academic success once they matriculate into RUSM.
Additionally, in 2019, Adtalem Global Education joined the HBCU Challenge of the Congressional Black Caucus, becoming 
the ﬁrst educational partner to take the challenge. This bipartisan eﬀort invests in creating strategic collaborations with 
HBCUs and works to increase diversity in key workforce sectors. Because we are committed to continuous improvement and transparency, we review and refresh our Commitments 
annually, and for the second year, an independent third party measured our quality results for a public report. Our Student 
Commitments are comprehensive and address the following areas:
• Informed Student Choice
• Responsible Recruitment and Enrollment
• Responsible Participation in the Federal Loan Process
ACCESS TO MEDICAL EDUCATION FOR UNDERREPRESENTED MINORITY STUDENTS: The United States is 
facing a signiﬁcant absence of diversity in medicine, and the disproportionately low numbers of 
African-American physicians is contributing to negative health outcomes in communities across the country. 
RUSM is committed to addressing this critical need by educating and graduating diverse physicians.  In the 
2018-2019 academic year, the average U.S. medical school graduated only eight black doctors, while RUSM 
graduated 83.2• Financial Literacy and Academic Transparency
• Improving Student Satisfaction
• Successful Student Outcomes and Accountability
Dr. Roberta Troy, Interim Provost and Vice President
for Academic Aﬀairs, and Dr. Lily McNair, President,
of Tuskegee University join Lisa Wardell, Chairman
and CEO of Adtalem, and Dr. William Owen, Dean
and Chancellor of RUSM, to sign an articulation agreement.63 Source: Institutional analysis of data from The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System. Data as of 7/15/19.
DIVERSE NURSES TO HELP ADDRESS CRITICAL SHORTAGE: Chamberlain University has the largest nursing 
school in the United States, and was the largest provider of Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees to 
underrepresented minority students in the United States3, granting 2,787 degrees to these students in the 
2018-2019 academic year. 
At Chamberlain, students are aﬀorded opportunities to gain a deeper understanding of cultural and socioeconomic 
diﬀerences and provide impactful care at a global level.  In 2019, students participated in Chamberlain’s Global Health 
Education Program and provided free healthcare to more than 4,300 patients in Haiti, Kenya and Brazil.  These students 
advanced their nursing skills and gained clinical experience on the service trips. 
Chamberlain students in Kenya, as part
of the Global Health Education Program.
Total Impact of the Chamberlain University Global Health Education Program:
11 COUNTRIES
Bolivia, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti,
India, Kenya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Philippines, Uganda More than
50,000
Patients Served Chamberlain helped to address the critical shortage of nurses in the U.S. by graduating more than 13,000 students in the 
2018-2019 school year. Of these graduates, 10,100 received bachelor’s degrees and 3,700 earned master’s or doctoral 
degrees. These graduates included students from 20 campuses in 14 states, as well as online students.
Additionally, Chamberlain formed a ﬁrst-of-its-kind partnership with the National Institute of Health and Social Studies and 
the Ministry of Health, Seychelles. Twenty-one graduates from Chamberlain’s BSN program and 12 graduates from the 
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) program will work to help improve the quality of patient care throughout the 
Seychelles. Some of the graduates completed the Nurse Educator and Nurse Executive Tracks from the MSN program and 
will teach future nurses across the Seychelles. These extraordinary nurses received scholarships from their country, worked 
diligently to advance their education and are better positioned to improve the overall health of those in their country.
Graduates and faculty pose
at Chamberlain's ﬁrst graduation
ceremony in the Seychelles.7CARIBBEAN WORKFORCE SUPPORT: As a part of its commitment to the Caribbean region, Adtalem provides 
its institutions assistance through its Tuition Advantage Program. This has resulted in AUC School of Medicine 
supporting workforce development on Sint Maarten through job training and tuition assistance for its 
employees. AUC School of Medicine also hosted local high school students who learned from the AUC School 
of Medicine IT department during a job shadow week. The students helped to refurbish laptops which were 
then donated to United Academy, a charitable organization on the island.
DISRUPTION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING THROUGH FINANCIAL EXPERTISE: ACAMS is dedicated to 
combatting human traﬃcking and related ﬁnancial crimes, and supported the development of the STAT 
(Standing Together Against Traﬃcking) platform in partnership with Polaris, a leader in the global ﬁght to 
eradicate modern slavery, and Enigma, a data service company that specializes in evaluating insurance risk 
and combating money laundering. STAT brings together these leading organizations to foster collaboration 
and ﬁnd solutions to this criminal activity. Also in FY19, the Adtalem Global Education Foundation awarded a 
grant to Polaris to populate STAT with research and resources to help identify money laundering concerns.
ADVOCATES FOR ONE HEALTH RESEARCH: The One Health Research Foundation’s mission is to improve 
human, animal and environmental health in the Caribbean and other tropical areas of the world through 
support of integrative, multidisciplinary research and innovation. Forty RUSVM employees were named 
Inaugural Research Fellows and Research Scientists by the One Health Research Foundation. 
In recognition of RUSVM’s dedication to the One Health philosophy, the One Health Commission, a nonproﬁt organization 
that seeks to educate and create networks to improve health outcomes of humans, animals and plants through a 
collaborative approach, granted one of two global awards to RUSVM, recognizing our students’ One Health projects from 
October of 2018.  This recognition includes a monetary award, which RUSVM will utilize for annual One Health Day events in 
fall of 2019. 
RUSVM student Nicole Artherley gives her
award-winning "three minute thesis"
presentation on the Caribbean spiny lobster
during One Health Week.8Diversity
and Inclusion 
Under the leadership of Chairman and CEO Lisa Wardell, Adtalem has successfully driven diversity at the top and an 
inclusive culture throughout the organization. Adtalem brings together diverse teams and innovative ideas to best serve 
our diverse students and members. We work collaboratively, committed to the idea that inclusion leads to innovation and 
drives the performance of our organization. We empower nearly 12,000 diverse employees around the world to excel on 
the job and pursue their career goals.
4 Board and Leadership data as of 6/30/19.
5 Adtalem colleague diversity metrics are for U.S. employees only. Data is as of 6/30/19 and represents those who choose to report. Source of U.S. Averages: U.S. Department of Labor
and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2016 Current Population Survey.
6 Student data is for fall 2018 enrollment at Adtalem’s Title IV institutions, and metrics represent the known percentages for the population as a whole.Employee Data5: Our employee base in the U.S. is predominantly female and includes a stronger minority 
representation than the U.S. labor force. Globally, our employee base is approximately half female.
Minority
AdtalemMinority
U.S. Labor Force
38.0% 21.7%Female
AdtalemFemale
U.S. Labor Force
77.7% 46.8%LEADERSHIP, COLLEAGUE AND STUDENT DIVERSITY
Leadership Data: The Adtalem senior leadership team is nearly 80 percent diverse when considering gender 
and ethnicity.
Student Data6:
The student population at our Title IV institutions is similarly diverse in gender and ethnicity.
Title IV SchoolsFemale:
84.6%Minority:
38.1%Female: 6/14
43%Minority: 6/14
43%Combined: 11/14
79%Minorities: 4/9
44%Combined: 6/9
67%Female: 4/9
44%Board Data4: Diversity at Adtalem begins at the top, with a Board of Directors that is 67 percent diverse when 
including both gender and ethnicity.
Adtalem All: Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
At Adtalem Global Education, we pride ourselves in nurturing a culture that encourages everyone to bring their full selves 
to work each day. To us, diversity and inclusion needs to be intentional to be impactful. We don’t just welcome diﬀerences, 
we celebrate them. #WeAreAdtalem9INCLUSIVE CULTURE: Adtalem supports a culture where colleagues can bring their full, authentic selves to 
work, and is inclusive regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Adtalem supports 
the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) community, and it provides healthcare beneﬁts to 
same-sex life partners of employees, medical coverage for gender reassignment surgery and beneﬁts for 
adoption by same-sex partners.
On our campuses, students experience the beneﬁts of a diverse environment. Our institutions promote and foster diversity 
through a variety of student-led organizations and activities related to heritage, gender, faith and orientation. As an 
example, students and alumni from RUSVM attended the 2019 National Association of Black Veterinarians Conference, 
which focused on advancing minorities in veterinary medicine.
In an eﬀort to further the diverse supplier initiative in FY19, Adtalem conducted a third party review of supplier spending 
for the year and revised the supplier diversity policy to clarify the categories of diversity. Adtalem’s North American 
operations deﬁne diverse suppliers as self-reported Disability-, HUBZone-, LGBT-, Minority-, Veteran- and Woman-owned 
business enterprises. The updated policy also requires all requests for proposal include at least one diverse supplier, 
therefore improving the inclusiveness and competitive nature of the event. Tier II supplier diversity reporting calculations 
were also deﬁned and oﬃcial templates shared with Adtalem’s largest Tier I suppliers to formally collect Tier II spend. Also, 
in order to promote the supplier diversity conversation with Adtalem’s strategic supplier base, all quarterly business 
reviews now require a status update of supplier diversity eﬀorts.New this year to our semi-annual employee engagement survey, colleagues were asked about diversity in the workplace 
and their comfort level in the work environment. Analyzing their responses will allow Adtalem to identify strengths and 
weaknesses, and establish strategic plans for continued intentionality in diversity and inclusion.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY: Adtalem is proud to serve a diverse student and member population and our 
commitment to diversity extends to our supply chain. To this end, Adtalem creates an equal opportunity for 
suppliers to participate in the procurement process and is committed to diversity and nondiscrimination in its 
business operations. Program initiatives include: providing tools and resources to assist Adtalem departments 
and institutions in identifying diverse suppliers; developing strategic relationships with diverse suppliers; 
monitoring and reporting on supplier diversity spend; and ensuring supplier diversity program awareness 
across the organization.RUSVM students attend the 2019 National
Association of Black Veterinarians Conference.10EDGE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT NETWORK: With 23 chapters globally, the Adtalem EDGE (Empowerment, 
Diversity, Growth, Excellence) Network, which supports the enhanced career experience and advancement of 
women in the workforce, is one of our most vibrant internal programs promoting professional development 
and diversity. EDGE’s vision is to empower an internationally diverse group of women to network, mentor and 
participate in professional development programs, and our employees were joined by students and members 
at various EDGE events in FY19.
SCHOLARSHIP SUPPORT: The Empower Scholarship Fund increased the total dollars and number of 
recipients who received this valuable ﬁnancial support for their education in FY19. The Fund strives to help 
keep education within reach by providing ﬁnancial support to qualifying students. Established in 2000, the 
Fund provides scholarships (restricted and unrestricted) to current students, especially those with the greatest 
need who have established a successful academic track record.Adtalem Chairman and CEO Lisa Wardell led discussions with inspiring and accomplished female leaders from business and 
government at events in Chicago and Barbados during the year. The EDGE chapter at AUC School of Medicine held an 
event where the Prime Minister of Sint Maarten addressed the group. Additionally, the RUSVM chapter on St. Kitts held the 
Purple Glam Gala and Awards Ceremony to celebrate the contributions of the country’s female leaders and their eﬀorts to 
further increase gender parity.
RUSVM EDGE Champion and Director of Lab Services Trellor Fraites presents
a Purple Glam Gala award to Faith Caines of Kajola Kristada Ltd, a manufacturing
company in St. Kitts.Adtalem's Chairman and CEO Lisa Wardell and Loop Capital Markets President
Kourtney Gibson discuss the evolving roles of female leaders during an EDGE event
in Chicago.
Empower Scholarship Fund Awards
Sum of Awards2018: +$529,0002019: $703,000
Total Awards2019: 325
2018: 278
Additionally, Becker Professional Education provided more than $270,000 in scholarship funds from its annual Newton D. 
Becker Scholarship Program. Through this program, 80 Certiﬁed Public Accountant (CPA) candidates receive full 
scholarships for Becker’s CPA Exam Review. The program, which has awarded $2.3 million to more than 1,000 students 
since 2013, honors Newton D. Becker, who founded Becker Professional Education in 1957.Governance
Practices
Adtalem is committed to the highest standards of corporate conduct, and we pride ourselves on our governance standards 
and transparency. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics sets professional standards for how we operate, including the set of 
TEACH values that guide the work we do. Adtalem colleagues are required to review and acknowledge the Code and 
receive training to enhance their understanding. Our responsible marketing policy is detailed in the Code, to guide our 
communications with various stakeholders in a comprehensive and accountable manner. The Code also includes instruction 
on how employees can anonymously report concerns.
11INSTITUTIONAL BOARD GOVERNANCE: To standardize our approach to governance, allow a greater 
exchange of ideas and develop a stronger board community, this year Adtalem more closely aligned 
Adtalem’s Institutional Boards with the Association of Governing Boards standards. The boards for the four 
Title IV-participating institutions have shifted to a common digital board book platform and now include a 
standard meeting sequence and a quarterly agenda checklist to increase eﬃciencies.
DATA SECURITY: We take seriously the custody of student and employee data, and employ strong governance 
practices regarding data security. For example, Adtalem’s Enterprise Information Security Framework policy 
and Information Governance and Security procedures are modeled on the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) 800-53 policy framework.Independence of Board and Board Committees
Independence Members 
88.9% Full Board 9
100% Audit 4
100% 3 Compensation
100% 3 External Relations
100% 4 Academic Quality
100% 4 NominatingBOARD COMPOSITION7: Our governance principles coupled with the intentional diversity of our Board of
Directors and leadership team drive the performance of our global organization. Our Board is 67 percent 
diverse and all Board Committees are 100 percent independent.
7 Board Composition data as of 6/30/19.12Community
Investment 
Adtalem Global Education contributes to the well-being of local communities through support of philanthropic 
organizations and student, faculty and employee volunteer eﬀorts. Through the Adtalem Global Education Foundation and 
our additional corporate giving eﬀorts, Adtalem's total FY19 community investment equaled $910,750.
EDUCATION: As a global education provider, the Foundation supports organizations that strive to improve 
education quality, access and student resources. This includes support of non-proﬁt organizations that work to 
improve K-12 education, increase access to higher education for underserved populations, and strengthen the 
transition from high school to college.
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT: The Foundation works to promote economic and workforce development by 
supporting workforce initiatives that advance career opportunities for diverse students and improve the 
economic health of local communities.
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING: As an organization with a growing presence in health education, the Foundation 
supports organizations that improve community health and well-being, in particular for underserved 
populations in the U.S. and abroad who do not traditionally have access to quality and aﬀordable healthcare.
VETERANS: In appreciation of the sacriﬁces made by military service members and their families, the 
Foundation supports organizations that honor our nation’s veterans, those currently enlisted, and military 
families.The Adtalem Global Education Foundation supports non-proﬁt organizations that reﬂect Adtalem's mission and vision of 
an equitable, healthy and economically productive society. The Foundation is pleased to provide support with grants to 
partners and programs in four key areas that align with the corporate mission of Adtalem Global Education.The Adtalem Global Education Foundation
FINANCIALS FOR FY19 ENDING JUNE 30, 2019
Beginning Cash Balance
Revenue
Contribution Received from ATGE
Interest Income
Expenses
Grants to Public Charities
Operating Expenses
Ending Cash Balance$738,230
$500,000
$2,875
$431,500
$322
$809,283BOARD MEMBERS
Lisa Sodeika
PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR
Pamela Murphy
VICE PRESIDENT AND 
DIRECTOR
Susan Groenwald
DIRECTOR
OFFICERS
Patrick Unzicker
TREASURERRichard Gunst
DIRECTOR
Fernando Lau
DIRECTOR
Mehul Patel
DIRECTOR
Lauren Rengel
SECRETARY 
Corporate Giving
In addition to the grants provided by the Adtalem Global Education Foundation, we utilize corporate giving as a means to 
further support the global communities in which our institutions and businesses are located. In FY19, Adtalem provided 
$479,250 in corporate community support to 94 charitable and civic organizations in the United States and the Caribbean.OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
In the Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis, RUSVM has been a long-standing community 
partner with organizations fostering education, healthcare and security and safety. This 
year, RUSVM again donated computers and other equipment to enhance the learning of 
young students. In partnership with the government and other civic-minded individuals, 
RUSVM refurbished information technology laboratories at ten primary schools to create 
positive and productive learning spaces for youth.
“The Ministry of Education is pleased to collaborate with the Ross University School of 
Veterinary Medicine in the upgrade of primary school information technology spaces. 
This partnership aligns well with the Ministry’s strategies to integrate information and 
communication technologies in teaching and learning to enhance student success and 
equip learners with key 21st century competencies.”
- Honourable Shawn Richards, Minister of Education
13Community
Engagement
Adtalem Global Education and its family of institutions and companies are committed to serving as responsible community 
citizens. Our team is passionate about giving back to the communities in which we work, live and teach, and to helping 
those in need. Around the world this year we collectively used our skills, volunteered our time and contributed ﬁnancial 
support in fulﬁllment of our values.
In the second year of the Adtalem Month of Service , Chicagoland employees stepped out of the oﬃce and volunteered 
more than 1,000 hours at various community organizations, including Chicago Public Schools, Dress for Success and local 
food pantries. 
The Adtalem Legal team volunteers at Share Our Spare,
a nonproﬁt that collects and distributes clothing and
essentials for children in Chicago, during Month of Service.
In collaboration with the Positive Foundation and the Sint Maarten Ministry of Public Health, Social Development and 
Labour, AUC School of Medicine oﬀered free health screenings to members of the community. The screenings included a 
clinical breast examination by Dr. Naira Chobanyan, with the support of AUC School of Medicine medical students and 
clinical research fellows. AUC School of Medicine students also engaged in another women’s health initiative by creating 
the Danbury, Conn. and Miami, Fla. chapters of #HappyPeriod, which provides menstrual products to women who are 
homeless or living in poverty. 
OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
“Adtalem is a vital partner to the Children First Fund, and to the students of Chicago 
Public Schools (CPS).  This year alone, their partnership has yielded profound, tangible 
results in a variety of areas, including support for new classroom libraries stocked with 
multicultural books, as well as the new Children First Fund website, which has allowed us 
to attract and work with new partners who can complement and expand on the great 
work Adtalem has done for CPS.”
- Francie Richards, Executive Director, Children First Fund
Image provided by Chicago Public Schools. 
14Human traﬃcking is a devastating, illegal enterprise, and is of special importance to the members of the ﬁnancial crime 
prevention community who are committed to detecting and disrupting money laundering related to this practice. To create 
a focused eﬀort against human traﬃcking, ACAMS colleagues formed the Fight Against Human Traﬃcking Committee to 
partner with organizations like Kristi House, a haven and support group for young survivors between 11 and 17. The mission 
of this organization is to empower these young victims to become whole again. ACAMS, with the support of Adtalem, 
sponsored a Host Table at the 2019 Kristi House Breaking the Silence Luncheon, joining more than 400 members of the 
Miami community who stand united in the quest to eradicate human traﬃcking.
In addition to participating in Adtalem's Month of Service, Becker colleagues also support the People’s Resource Center 
(PRC), which provides food, clothing and rent assistance to people in need, and also oﬀers skill-building resources, such as 
literacy classes, job assistance, computer training and art classes. This year, Adtalem Global Education provided a grant to 
support approximately 30 students in PRC’s Adult Learning and Literacy Program, which equips people with the skills they 
need to communicate well and ﬁnd better jobs. Classes include English as a Second Language (ESL), General Education 
Development (GED) prep, computer training classes and job coaching for soft skill development. Becker also supported 
PRC supply drives, including a back-to-school drive to collect backpacks and supplies, as well as a birthday drive to collect 
cake mixes and candles for families in need.
Community service is a signiﬁcant initiative in Brazil. Students and faculty volunteered more than 41,000 hours in FY19, 
impacting more than 135,000 members of the community. As an example, individuals from the Dentistry Program at Wyden 
worked proactively to provide preventative dental care to families, schools and the community at large. This important 
service took place at free dental clinics on campus and in partnership with local public health care facilities. In FY19, 
Dentistry Program volunteers assisted more than 850 members of the community in the city of Imperatriz in Brazil. 
Wyden students provide free dental
care to local families in Brazil.
Across its campuses, Chamberlain hosted a series of nursing experience programs for high school students, including 
hands-on skill stations, simulation lab tours and panels with faculty and students. Through the Ochsner STAR program, a 
competitive four-week program focused on educating Louisiana high school seniors about various jobs within the 
healthcare system, Chamberlain provided students with valuable information about nursing careers. Each summer, the 
STAR program provides 15 to 20 qualiﬁed students with limited means and access with a cost-free opportunity to explore 
careers in healthcare through a hands-on course focused on science, technology, academics and research. 
High school students observe
a simulation lab at Chamberlain
University.OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
“Adtalem’s grant enabled several high-achieving, low income students to attend the 
Economics for Leaders program. The support gave these students a critical morale 
boost:  they left the program with the knowledge they were just as prepared 
academically as students from more privileged backgrounds.” 
- Ted Tucker, Executive Director of the Foundation for Teaching Economics
15RUSVM partnered closely with One Love Pets in St. Kitts. One Love Pets educates community members about animal 
welfare, and assists with funding for parasite prevention to dogs and cats in need. In FY19, the Adtalem Global Education 
Foundation provided a grant to One Love Pets in support of the Basseterre Animal Rescue Center (BARC), the ﬁrst of its 
kind in St. Kitts. RUSVM students will complete a rotation at BARC and provide care to the shelter animals.
One Love Pets volunteers at the grand
opening of the Basseterre Animal
Rescue Center in St. Kitts.In India, EduPristine taught English to employees who wanted to speak and write the language better, developing their 
conﬁdence with customers and in their social settings. Taught by faculty for Business Communications, the program also 
includes soft skills. 
RUSM oﬀered a "Mini Med School" in Barbados, for local high school students with an interest in medicine. These students, 
primarily from lower resource backgrounds, were provided with a brief, immersive introduction to the medical profession. 
The Student National Medical Association delivered the program, which included suture and anatomy labs among other 
clinical experiences.
High school students in Barbados gain
hands-on experience with suturing
during "Mini Med School".
“Thanks to Adtalem’s generous support, American Humane will be able to train more
service dogs for veterans with post-traumatic stress or traumatic brain injury. This means
more deserving veterans can get help, at no cost to them, and both the veteran and the
dog get a new ‘leash’ on life.”
- DR. AMY MCCULLOUGH, SENIOR RESEARCH ADVISOR AND NATIONAL DIRECTOR,
PUPS4PATRIOTS PROGRAM, AMERICAN HUMANE
“We are continually grateful for our partnership with Adtalem Global Education. Their dedicated 
support of our WINGS Metro Safe House improves the health and well-being of families and 
individuals ﬂeeing the trauma of domestic violence. Working to holistically empower clients, 
since Adtalem’s support, 95% of survivors reported not returning to their abuser.”
- REBECCA DARR, CEO, WINGS PROGRAM, INC.
“Mentoring is the critical component of any eﬀective high school program; however, its 
importance among at-risk youth is much more magniﬁed. In this vein, eﬀective mentoring is the 
foundation upon which successful outcomes must be built. From realizing basic needs to 
providing a path to the future, the mentoring program at Association House High School is a 
holistic approach that is key to the school’s mission of supporting under-served students. 
Adtalem’s support is essential in providing the resources needed, allowing mentors at AHHS to 
provide needed services.”
- DAVID PIEPER, PRINCIPAL, ASSOCIATION HOUSE HIGH SCHOOL
“Collaborating with AUC School of Medicine is not only valuable, but, in fact, the success of our 
mission is dependent on the fantastic relationship we have built over the past 23 years. AUC 
School of Medicine's expertise with our research, monitoring and evaluation eﬀorts are highly 
appreciated. As we always stress to the students at the ending of our HIV test days, we can only 
be successful thanks to their enormous support. We thank AUC School of Medicine and Adtalem 
Global Education for donating the funds which will secure our testing eﬀorts for another year.”
- GERARD VAN OSCH, M.D., PRESIDENT, SINT MAARTEN AIDS FOUNDATION
"Support from Adtalem plays a key role in our eﬀorts to equip transformational school leaders 
with the skills they need to drive breakthrough results for our nation's children. Thanks to 
generous partners like Adtalem, we were able to support over 50 instructional leaders in Chicago 
and New York City this year. Collectively, they are having a positive impact on thousands of 
underserved students."
- JEAN DESRAVINES, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, NEW LEADERSOUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
16
Community
Partners 
THE ADTALEM GLOBAL EDUCATION FOUNDATION PARTNERS
• American Humane Association
• American Red Cross
• Association House of Chicago
• Brent Sopel Foundation
• The Chicago Debate Commission
• Communities in Schools of Chicago
• Facets Multimedia, Inc.
• The Fund for American Studies
• Giant Steps Illinois, Inc.
• Golden Apple Foundation for Excellence in Teaching
• Junior Achievement of Chicago
• NAMI of DuPage County, IL
• New Leaders Inc.
• One Goal
• One Love Pets
• One Love Pets – Basseterre Animal Rescue Center
• Polaris Project
• WINGS Program, Inc.
U.S. COMMUNITY AND CIVIC PARTNERS
• After School Matters
• Almost Home Kids 
• American Cancer Society
• American Heart Association
• American Lung Association 
• American Red Cross 
• AMVETS
• Anti-Defamation League of Philadelphia
• Association House of Chicago
• Aurora Area Interfaith Food Pantry
• Barn on Baseline
• Berkeley Neighborhood Watch, Inc. 
• Congregation Ohav Shalom
• Care for Friends 
• Changing Worlds
• Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
• Chicago Public Schools - Children First Fund
• Chicago United
• Cradles to Crayons
• Dade County Medical Association
• DuPage Children's Museum 
• Fair Trade USA
• The Field Museum
• GiGi’s Playhouse Chicago LLC 
• Girls in the Game
• Girls on the Run
• Habitat for Humanity
• Harding University
• Junior Achievement
• Kenan-Flagler Center for of Business Health
• Kristi House
• Ladder Up
• Leadership Institute for Women of Color Attorneys
• The Make-a-Wish Foundation
• Mercy Home
• Muscular Dystrophy Association 
• Naperville Area Humane Society
• National Association of Corporate Directors
• Northern Illinois Food Bank
• Oak Park River Forest Food Pantry
• People's Resource Center
• Project C.U.R.E.• River Fund New York
• Sharing Connections, Inc. 
• Share Our Spare
• Summer Search of New York City
• Teach for America
• Thurgood Marshall College Fund
• WINGS Program, Inc.
• Women Employed
• World Wildlife Foundation
• Year Up, National Capital Region
CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY AND CIVIC PARTNERS
• American Chamber of Commerce for Barbados and the Eastern 
Caribbean
• ArtCraftCafe Foundation
• Barbados Cancer Society
• Barbados Diabetes Foundation - Type 1 Diabetes Registry
• Caribbean Ophthalmology Research Center Alliance
• CFBC-Jenkins Ltd Leadership Course
• Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College
• Community Outreach Mentorship & Empowerment (C.O.M.E.) 
International Foundation
• Deane-Glasford Primary School 
• Diabetes Foundation of Barbados
• Diabetes Foundation of St. Maarten
• Dr. William Connor Primary School 
• Eden Lodge Youth Charitable Trust
• Edgar T. Morris Primary School 
• Essence of Hope Breast Cancer Foundation
• Estridge Primary School 
• Foundation for the Management and Conservation of Nature on 
St. Maarten
• The Heart and Stroke Foundation of Barbados Inc.
• I CAN Foundation
• Irishtown Primary School
• Joshua Obadiah Williams Primary School 
• K1 Britannia Foundation
• K9 Friends 
• Mental Health Foundation
• MolPhil Explorers
• The Myeloma, Lymphoma and Leukemia Foundation of 
Barbados
• Newton Ground Primary School 
• Positive Foundation 
• Precious Touch Foundation Inc.
• The Royal St. Christopher & Nevis Police Force
• Rotary Club of Barbados South Charitable Trust - Step by Step 
Diabetes Foot Care Programme
• Saddlers Primary School 
• Safe Haven
• Sandy Point Primary School 
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Agriculture 
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Education
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Health
• St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of National Security 
• St. Maarten AIDS Foundation
• St. Paul’s Primary School
• Tyrell Williams Primary School 
• Violet Petty Primary School
• Windward Island Emergency Medical Services
17500 W. Monroe Street • Chicago, IL 60661 • Phone: 312-651-1400 • adtalem.com
©2019 Adtalem Global Education. All rights reserved. 