2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       at our     heart at our     heart:At our heart is the deeply held belief that everyone 
should have the opportunity to thrive no matter  
their circumstances.
It takes heartfelt commitment to: 
Empower communities and individuals.
Ensure that we operate in a sustainable, ethical manner.
Work every day to make the world a better place for our 
students and members, our communities and our colleagues. 
CONTENTS
1 About This Report
3 Letter from the Chairman and CEO
4 Company Overview
7 Our Approach to Sustainability
8 Operating with Purpose and Responsibility 
18 Safeguarding Global Health and the Environment
26 Empowering Individuals, Impacting Global Communities
40 AppendixABOUT OUR THEME
REPORT CONTRIBUTORS:
Pamela Murphy, Vice President, Government Relations and Sustainability
Lauren Rengel, Director, Sustainability and Government External RelationsADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       1ABOUT THIS REPORT
Thank you for your interest in Adtalem Global Education’s  Thank you for your interest in Adtalem Global Education’s  
2021 Sustainability Report.2021 Sustainability Report.    
We are pleased to share our progress to date and aspirations on topics that 
matter most to our family of institutions and companies as well as our 
stakeholders. The reporting period covers our recently completed 2021 
fiscal year (FY), which began July 1, 2020, and concluded June 30, 2021.   
Our Mission: 
We provide global access to knowledge that transforms 
lives and enables careers.
Our Vision:
To create a dynamic global community of lifelong 
learners who improve the world.
Our Purpose: 
We empower students and members to achieve  
their goals, find success and make inspiring 
contributions to our global community.In preparing this report, we are guided by established sustainability and environment,  
social and governance (ESG) reporting frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Taskforce on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Over time, we expect to further align our reporting 
with the standards and frameworks that we determine to be appropriate for our business. 
We hope you enjoy learning about our ongoing efforts and welcome your feedback at 
sustainability@adtalem.com .
Everything we do is rooted in  
creating a better future for all.”  Lisa W. Wardell   
  Chairman and CEO1“
1  On August 4, 2021, Adtalem announced Stephen Beard's 
succession of Lisa Wardell as chief executive officer and 
Lisa Wardell's transition to executive chairman of the board 
of directors, effective September 8, 2021.     Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy     
  Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability      Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart      Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       2Our TEACH  values shape how we work together to 
fulfill our promise to our students, our members and 
each other.
Teamwork
We put the team first, appreciate diverse points 
of view, assume positive intent, collaborate and 
communicate openly.
Energy
We move quickly, learn from mistakes, build  
positive spirit and always look for a better way.
Accountability
We take ownership and initiative, demonstrate 
courage as we speak up and act with integrity  
in all that we do.
Community
We operate with a shared sense of responsibility  
and purpose, and enrich colleagues, students  
and the broader community we serve.
Heart
We serve students and each other with  
passion, respect and care.ABOUT THIS REPORT
We bring our mission, vision and purpose to life and support our commitments to We bring our mission, vision and purpose to life and support our commitments to 
sustainability and ESG through our TEACH values. sustainability and ESG through our TEACH values. 
Company-wide sustainability results take Tea mworkTea mwork . These tangible, positive results 
create EnergyEnergy  that infuses our efforts with even more enthusiasm and momentum. We 
hold ourselves Accountable Accountable to our goals and outcomes. CommunityCommunity  is at our core; we are 
committed to making lasting change in the communities we serve, including our student, 
member and alumni communities. All our work is grounded in HeartfeltHeartfelt  commitment to 
create lasting change in lives and in communities across the globe.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       3LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO
At Adtalem, our unwavering vision of 
creating a dynamic global community of life-
long learners, empowering them to achieve 
their goals, find success and make inspiring 
contributions to the global community is the 
driving force behind our work. Aligning our 
vision with our environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) initiatives provides us  
with a meaningful and highly intentional  
path forward.
As a leading global workforce solutions provider, we 
are committed to empowering career development and 
proactively addressing critical workforce needs across 
the healthcare and financial services industries. These 
industries are vital to our global economies and can 
fundamentally shape societal outcomes for decades  
to come. It’s through this deep understanding that  
we take an oath to our ESG commitments: to operate 
with purpose and responsibility, to safeguard global 
health and the environment and to empower our  
global communities. 
Of the many challenges we faced as a collective this past 
year, I am proud of our organization for persevering with 
integrity and staying focused on our mission. Together, 
we forged an even richer culture that continues to 
harness resiliency, responsiveness and act with care. 
And in doing so, we are even better positioned – and 
motivated – to drive continuity and positive change in 
the lives of our members, colleagues, students and the 
communities in which we serve. 
When the global pandemic hit – putting a pause on in-
person learning – we quickly shifted 15,000 students  
to online education, providing much-needed continuity 
for our students’ educational journeys and their future 
career readiness.
When hurricanes swept our island nations, we stepped in 
to establish the Caribbean Center for Disaster Medicine, 
which serves as a critical education and healthcare 
resource center for the local communities impacted by 
the deepening threat of natural disasters.
When social injustice unraveled across our communities, 
we stood in solidarity – eager to be part of the solution 
– because DE&I is part of our DNA. Through years 
of intentional planning and nurturing, we’ve built an 
organization that is more diverse, inclusive and equitable 
than ever before. We used our honed reflexes to support the betterment of our communities and people at a 
critical time of need.
And through all these challenges, we operated with a 
deep sense of humility and took care to support our 
students and members with intentional, inclusive and 
open programming designed to support the mental and 
physical well-being of us all. 
It’s through all of these efforts and many more, our 
responsiveness to change and challenges, and our 
unwavering dedication to our ESG commitments, that  
we were ready for the call. And by doing so, year-after-
year, we are proud to be recognized by Newsweek  as 
one of America’s Most Responsible Companies for 2021 
and by Forbes  as one of America’s Best Employers for 
Diversity 2021. 
Sustainability – and the importance of creating more 
equitable, healthy communities and planet – is deeply 
ingrained in our mission. We understand that our work 
can perpetuate a purpose and impact that will inspire 
generations to come. With this understanding and by 
creating open environments in which our workforces 
can learn from one another and contribute to corporate 
action for the betterment of society as a whole – we can 
all grow and prosper. 
I am proud to work with such passionate and driven 
people. It is through our collective efforts – both big and 
small – that we will help create a more equitable future 
for all. 
This work is truly  At Our Heart.
Lisa W. Wardell  
Chairman and CEO
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       4
• Investors –  We engage regularly with our investors 
through quarterly conference calls, direct inquiries 
and other investor-specific outreach, making sure 
we address their main areas of interest, including 
financial performance, corporate governance and 
diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I).
• Students –  We communicate regularly with current 
and prospective students through one-on-one 
counseling, institution-specific events and website/
social media content, making sure we maintain 
ongoing and transparent communications informed 
by our Student Commitments, and encourage 
community engagement and impact.
• Members –  We interact regularly with current 
and prospective members through tailored 
communications, surveys and website/social media 
content. External communication and programming 
address topics such as workforce shortages and 
upskilling demands, social impact and DE&I.• Colleagues –  Our communication with current 
colleagues is delivered through town halls and other 
meetings, the company-wide employee portal, 
e-newsletters, regular trainings and engagement 
surveys. Prospective colleagues are engaged through 
our career-specific website and social media content, 
among other forms of outreach. We address primary 
areas of interest, including workforce diversity, 
data privacy and security as well as community 
engagement and giving.
• Community –  We communicate regularly with 
the communities we serve through enterprise and 
institution-specific communications and events, 
philanthropy and volunteerism, making sure we 
address main areas of interest, including access 
and equity in education and workforce training, 
environmental sustainability and social impact.COMPANY OVERVIEW
Adtalem’s Global ReachAdtalem’s Global Reach
Engaging Our Key StakeholdersEngaging Our Key Stakeholders
We aim to create value for all stakeholders and engage with them in a variety of ways to communicate our ESG 
priorities and share our progress on topics of interest.
Following is a broad overview of how we interact with our key stakeholders and the sustainability topics of 
greatest importance to each audience.institutions and  
companies with  
a presence in88206206territories and 
countriesMORE THAN6,9006,900
employeesIncluding  
MORE THAN  3,1003,100
professorsoperating 
campuses  
and2727
administrative 
offices1515   Countries with Adtalem presence
As of June 2021. Presence indicates employees, students, members or offices.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       5COMPANY OVERVIEW
Reporting SegmentsReporting Segments
Adtalem operates within two reportable segments:1,2 
Medical & Healthcare and Financial Services .
• Our Medical & Healthcare segment offers degree 
and non-degree programs in the medical and 
healthcare post-secondary education industry.
 »Segment includes the operations of 
Chamberlain University, American University of 
the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross 
University School of Medicine (RUSM)  
and Ross University School of Veterinary 
Medicine (RUSVM).
• Our Financial Services  segment offers test 
preparation, certifications, conferences, seminars, 
memberships and subscriptions to business 
professionals in the areas of accounting, anti-
money laundering and financial crimes, banking 
and mortgage lending.
 »Segment includes the operations of ACAMS®, 
Becker Professional Education, EduPristine and 
OnCourse Learning.
Our Institutions and CompaniesOur Institutions and Companies
Aligned by our purpose-driven, education mission, 
Adtalem’s eight institutions and companies work in 
tandem to advance our collective vision to create a 
dynamic global community of lifelong learners who 
improve the world.
AUC School of Medicine
• Founded in 1978 and acquired by Adtalem in 2011, 
AUC has more than 7,500 medical graduates and is 
one of the oldest medical schools in the Caribbean.
• AUC collaborates with the St. Maarten government 
and the country’s community organizations to extend our educational mission to benefit the 
health and well-being of the local community 
as well as enhance student learning. Programs 
emphasize social accountability and engagement. 
Through international learning experiences and 
a diverse educational community, we prepare 
tomorrow’s physicians to serve their respective 
communities and patients. 
ACAMS
• Founded in 2001 and acquired by Adtalem in July 
2016, ACAMS, with more than 83,000 members, is 
the largest international membership organization 
dedicated to enhancing the knowledge, skills 
and expertise of anti-money laundering (AML) 
and financial crime detection and prevention 
professionals. CAMS (Certified Anti-Money 
Laundering Specialist) is the global gold standard 
in AML certifications, and ACAMS has more than 
43,000 certified members.
• As part of our commitment to supporting 
environmental and humanitarian efforts, ACAMS 
offers free, public certification programs in ending 
illegal wildlife trade and fighting modern slavery 
and human trafficking.
Becker
• Founded in 1957 as Becker CPA Review and 
acquired by Adtalem in 1996, Becker is a 
global leader in professional education in areas 
including accounting, tax and finance. Becker has 
prepared people for greatness from more than 
2,900 accounting firms, alliances, corporations, 
government agencies and universities. 
• Driven to empower people around the world  
to advance their careers through a lifelong 
partnership of superior professional education, 
Becker features a robust library of continuing 
education opportunities.
1 Adtalem announced the completion of our acquisition of Walden University, a leading online healthcare and behavioral 
sciences education provider, from Laureate Education, Inc. on August 12, 2021. 
2 Adtalem announced the exploration of strategic alternatives for our Financial Services segment on August 12, 2021. Who We Are   Who We Are   Adtalem Global Education Inc. (NYSE: ATGE) is a leading provider of 
professional talent to the healthcare industry and a premier provider of continuing professional 
education to the financial services industry. Adtalem expands access to high-quality education 
at scale and is the parent organization of several degree and certification providers within the 
healthcare and financial services sectors. We partner with organizations to proactively address 
future workforce needs and empower career development with access to world-class academic 
curriculums, certifications and training programs.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       6COMPANY OVERVIEW
Our Institutions and Companies Our Institutions and Companies continued
Chamberlain University
• Chamberlain was founded in 1889 as Deaconess 
College of Nursing and was acquired by Adtalem  
in 2005. Today, with a College of Nursing and a  
College of Health Professions, a growing network 
of 23 campuses and robust online educational 
offerings, Chamberlain continues to raise the 
standard of nursing and healthcare education and 
advance healthcare outcomes in communities 
across the US and around the world.
• Our teachings are underpinned by the belief that 
if we take extraordinary care of our students, we 
will graduate extraordinary nurses and healthcare 
professionals who can have a significant and 
positive impact on healthcare around the world. 
There are over 90,000 Chamberlain alumni 
available to help combat nursing shortages across 
the country today, and the university is the leading 
grantor of Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) 
degrees to underrepresented minority students  
in the US.1
EduPristine
• EduPristine was founded in 2008, and Adtalem 
completed the acquisition of our majority interest 
in February 2018. Based in Mumbai, India, it is a 
financial services provider that offers self-paced, 
online and classroom learning in the areas of 
finance, accounting and analytics. 
• With 10-plus years of expertise, we have refined  
our training methodology to create a powerful 
impact through customized classroom and online 
learning solutions.
OnCourse Learning
• Acquired by Adtalem in May 2019, OnCourse 
Learning has delivered pre-licensing, continuing 
education, professional development and 
compliance training to financial institutions and 
over 200,000 individuals for more than 40 years.
• In November 2020, OnCourse Learning grew our 
partnership with Timea’s Cause, a Toronto-based 
advocacy organization focused on the fight against 
human trafficking. The online initiative, powered by OnCourse Learning technology, provides an 
array of educational resources aimed at helping 
more than 50,000 career professionals, parents, 
youth and other allies in their efforts to identify and 
prevent modern slavery and rehabilitate those who 
have survived it.
RUSM
• Founded in 1978 and acquired by Adtalem in 2003, 
RUSM has graduated more than 15,000 physicians.
• We believe accessible medicine starts with 
accessible medical education. Our Access and 
Inclusion in Medicine (AIM) Scholars Program 
promotes equitable educational access for highly 
qualified Black and Latinx students to complete 
their medical degree through partnerships with 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs) and Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs). 
Aligned with RUSM’s school credo to strive for 
equity in healthcare through diversity and inclusion, 
the AIM pathway program seeks to directly impact 
underserved communities by working toward 
decreasing health disparities in the US.
RUSVM
• Founded in 1982 and acquired by Adtalem in 2003, 
RUSVM students and faculty draw connections 
between animals, people and the planet – 
advancing a One Health mindset through research, 
innovation and veterinary practice. RUSVM has 
nearly 6,000 alumni. 
• As the only American Veterinary Medical 
Association-accredited2 Doctor of Veterinary 
Medicine Program offering three flexible start dates 
per year, RUSVM attracts hard-working, passionate 
future veterinarians from around the world. In 2019, 
RUSVM graduates accounted for roughly 9% of 
doctors of veterinary medicine who are US citizens 
graduating from US and internationally-based 
colleges of veterinary medicine. 
1 IPEDS data as reported by Title IV eligible institutions. Underrepresented minority students include Native American or Alaska Native,  
Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander or two or more races. 
2 Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine confers a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree, which is accredited by the  
American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA COE), 1931 N. Meacham Road, Suite 100, Schaumburg, IL 60173,  
Tel: 800.248.2862. For more information, please visit https://www.avma.org/education/accreditation-veterinary-colleges . The AVMA COE  
uses defined standards to evaluate veterinary medical education programs, including facilities, clinical resources, curriculum, faculty, 
student outcomes and research programs. The standards are interpreted and applied by the AVMA COE-accredited veterinary medical 
education programs in relation to its mission.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       7OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Adta lem’s  
Sustainability 
Commitment
Safeguarding 
Global Health 
and the 
Environment Adtalem Global Education operates in a sustainable, ethical and 
responsible manner as we increase access and equity in education 
and workforce training. Our solutions empower our students and 
members to help address workforce needs in the healthcare and 
financial services industries. Adtalem is committed to protecting 
the environment, confronting the challenge of climate change, 
continuously enhancing our diverse and inclusive culture, and 
investing in the well-being of the communities where we teach, 
learn and work, globally.
Our PillarsOur Pillars
There are three core sustainability pillars At Our Heart. Each pillar is vital to our 
journey and to the embodiment of our TEACH values. Our three pillars are: 
Operating with 
Purpose and 
ResponsibilityEmpowering 
Individuals, 
Impacting  
Global 
CommunitiesADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       8Operating with  
Purpose and Responsibility
Our Student CommitmentsOur Student Commitments
We continually strive to operate responsibly and to 
provide our students and members with excellent 
services so that they may reach their maximum 
potential. Our work extends outside of the classroom 
and off our campuses. We seek to guide students 
through their academic experiences and challenges, 
so they leave our institutions ready and empowered, 
knowing they are on a journey to excellence. This 
approach is captured in our Student Commitments , 
which enable us, as a company, to sustain and  
improve our practices so that they best benefit and 
support our students.
Our Student Commitments include 20 areas of 
Accountability , which fall under 6 topics.
• Informed Student Choice
• Responsible Recruitment and Enrollment
• Responsible Participation in the Federal  
Loan Process
• Financial Literacy and Academic Transparency
• Improving Student Satisfaction 
• Successful Student Outcomes and AccountabilityThese Student Commitments, which are a key 
component of Adtalem’s strategic vision, are actively 
implemented and monitored. A third party reviews our 
progress annually and provides oversight. Click here  to 
read our latest review.At Adtalem, we know that to effectively empower our students, members and communities 
we must first be empowered from within. Empowerment begins with our comprehensive 
approach to governance and operations. We rely on unwavering ethics, diverse leadership and a 
strong system of controls to ensure prosperity, security and integrity. With this comprehensive 
structure in place, we fulfill our mission across our global community while adhering to the 
highest standards of corporate conduct.
Adtalem has been named one of America’s Most Responsible Companies 2021   
by Newsweek , a premier news magazine, and Statista Inc., the world-leading 
statistics portal and industry ranking provider.
Our most recent third-party review 
published in January 2021 found that 
Adtalem has been in compliance with all 20 
of our voluntary Student Commitments.
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       9OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Empowered LeadersEmpowered Leaders
Power in Diversity
We serve as a leading workforce solutions provider, 
educating diverse healthcare and financial services 
professionals. Our focus on access and diversity 
requires that our executive and board leaders 
operate from a position of understanding, inclusivity 
and subject matter expertise. We make it a top 
priority to have a diverse set of backgrounds within 
our governance system. This is exemplified by 
our diverse group of board and executive leaders. 
Adtalem’s senior leadership is strong in its diversity; 
33.33% are ethnically diverse and 33.33% are female. 
Read further about DE&I within Empowering 
Individuals, Impacting Global Communities .
Independence
Adtalem's governance structure prioritizes the 
independence and integrity of our board of  
directors. This ensures the best interest of our 
stakeholders is always at the forefront.
While the majority of directors meet the  
independence requirements under New York Stock 
Exchange rules, we continuously administer internal 
checks, balances and annual procedures to maintain  
the integrity of the governing body and ensure there 
are no conflicts of interest. Read further about these 
procedures within our Governance Principles .44.44%44.44%Ethnically Diverse
44.44%44.44%Female
66.67%66.67%Gender or 
Ethnically Diverse
59.659.6Average Age »Compensation
 »Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
 »Financial Reporting
 »Financial Services
 »Global Markets
 »Governance
 »Healthcare and Medical
 »Human Capital Management
 »Mergers and Acquisitions
 »Strategy
 »SustainabilityCross-Disciplinary Expertise*
 As of June 30, 2021  
Age ranges from 47 to 70 * Reference to the diverse knowledge and interdisciplinary  
expertise of our board of directors 
Board of Directors Diversity
BOARD AND COMMITTEE INDEPENDENCE
Independence Members
Full Board 88.9% 9
Academic Quality 100% 3
Audit 100% 3
Compensation 100% 4
External Relations 100% 3
Nominating and Governance 100% 4
 As of June 30, 2021yearsADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       10OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Board OversightBoard Oversight
Adtalem’s Approach
Our board of directors takes a cross-functional and 
deliberate approach to governing Adtalem. This is 
applied through our Governance Principles , which were 
updated this year, and a system of committees that 
frequently assess different aspects of the company   
as well as provide guidance and oversight.
Sustainability Oversight
As our mission is intertwined with sustainable ideals, 
the integration of ESG issues and strategy at the board 
level is imperative to us. To progress as an enterprise 
in a sustainable and responsible manner and maintain 
Accountability , this year we updated our External 
Relations Committee Charter . Within the charter, 
we incorporated official functions and duties of 
sustainability and ESG oversight entailing the periodic 
review of Adtalem’s sustainability strategy (including 
initiatives and policies relating to environmental 
stewardship, corporate social responsibility and 
corporate culture).Each of the committees has its own charter. 
The charters set forth the purposes, goals and 
responsibilities of the committees as well as 
qualifications for membership. The charters also  
state that each committee will annually evaluate  
its performance.
External Relations 
CommitteeCompensation 
CommitteeAudit &  
Finance CommitteeAcademic Quality 
CommitteeNominating &  
Governance 
CommitteeBoard of Directors
Board Level 
CommitteesBoard Structure
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       11OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Enterprise Risk ManagementEnterprise Risk Management
Our Enterprise Risk Management Program
Our duty to our stakeholders is to ensure the highest 
degree of safety, security and stability. As a result, 
throughout our many years of operations, we have 
crafted a robust system of enterprise risk management 
that identifies, organizes, evaluates and responds to 
risks at an expert level. We see this as an essential 
component of operational efficiency and as a manifestation of our stakeholder-centered culture and 
mission. At the enterprise level, our risk management 
structure is ultimately steered by Board leadership and 
the Executive Team. This oversight is provided by the 
senior management-level Enterprise Risk Committee 
(ERC), which can elevate material risks identified by our 
independent, specialized risk-targeted committees.
Vetting Committee Members
Our ERC serves a vital function within the company, 
and we ensure that the committee is seated with 
interdisciplinary experts from the vice president 
and director levels who can provide broad, cross-
functional oversight. To guarantee this, we actively 
monitor the composition of the ERC. This results in 
a committee that expresses the diversity of thought 
that is necessary for constructive and collaborative 
Teamwork . The committee’s current composition 
includes representation from a broad range of teams 
and department leaders.
 »Accounting
 »Compliance
 »Corporate Development and Strategy
 »Enterprise Safety & Security
 »Finance
 »Government Relations
 »Human Resources
 »Information Security
 »Information Technology
 »Internal Audit
 »Legal
 »Marketing
 »Regulatory Affairs
 »Sustainability
 »TreasuryERC Make-upEnterprise Risk Governance Structure
Enterprise Security 
& Safety Risk 
CommitteePrivacy CommitteeCybersecurity & IT 
Risk CommitteeIntegrity & 
Compliance 
CommitteeRegulatory 
Compliance & 
Quality Assurance 
Working GroupThird-Party Risk 
Management 
Working GroupEnterprise Risk 
Committee (ERC)
ESG Core Group
 As of June 2021 and may change over timeADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       12OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Annual Risk Review
Our network of committees and subcommittees 
engage in a wide series of risk management 
procedures throughout the year. Enterprise Risk 
Management's annual risk review is a robust and thorough cycle that entails high-level analysis, the 
identification of the company’s top-tier risks and a 
regular reporting cadence with the Board Audit and 
Finance Committee.Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management continued
Risk  Risk  
Review Review 
CycleCycle1. Risk Identification.   
Identify and prioritize key 
enterprise risks using our  
risk tiering methodology  
and our risk heat map.2. Risk Evaluation.   
Evaluate each enterprise risk 
and perform deep dive analysis 
of the drivers and root causes 
of the highest tier risks. 
3. Risk Mitigation.  
Develop appropriate responses 
to mitigate each key driver of 
the enterprise risk.4. Risk Monitoring.  
Create and monitor metrics 
to stay aware of emerging 
risks before they materialize.Risk  
IdentificationRisk  
Evaluation
Risk  
MitigationRisk  
MonitoringADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       13
Enterprise Safety and SecurityEnterprise Safety and Security
A vital component within our enterprise risk 
management network is our Enterprise Safety and 
Security (ESS) group. Serving tens of thousands 
of stakeholders across the globe, we take the 
maintenance of a safe and secure environment across 
our institutions and facilities as imperative. This is 
driven by our responsibility to our Community  and 
our purpose to effectively serve. Therefore, we have 
developed an extensive approach toward safety and 
security that is focused on continuous improvement. 
It is our duty to not only serve our global community, 
but to provide community members a safe and secure 
environment that will allow them to flourish. Our work within this division covers a  
wide range of focus areas:
• Business Continuity
• Clery Act & Title IX Compliance
• Colleague and Student Awareness & Training
• Crisis Management
• Emergency Response
• Enterprise Security Risk Management Security 
Investigations
• Environment, Health and Safety
• Executive Protection
• Governance, Risk & Compliance
• Site Security
• Special Event Security
• Travel Risk Management
The ESS team is narrowing the gender and diversity gaps 
prevalent in the Security industry. Currently 36% female 
and 37% ethnically diverse, ESS is organized with best 
practices in mind, including the compartmentalization of 
safety and security issues across US and internationally 
focused operations; Environment, Health and Safety; 
and the Center of Excellence. Each division has clearly 
defined responsibilities and an ESS director that exhibits 
the necessary skills and experience.OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Our standard of care has to be higher 
than other companies'. We are responsible 
for the safety and security of tens of 
thousands of students, faculty and 
employees at a global scale. Their safety  
is of the highest concern.”  Bob Soderberg   
  Vice President, Enterprise Safety & Security
ESS Leadership Structure: A shared service providing enterprise-wide support
Director –  
Center of Excellence
Senior Manager –  
Enterprise Safety  
& SecurityManager –  
Enterprise Safety  
& SecurityDirector –  
Environment,  
Health & SafetyDirector – Safety  
& Security  
Field Operations  
& North AmericaDirector – Safety 
& Security 
International
Manager – Global 
Security  
Operations CenterVice President – 
Enterprise Safety  
& Security“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       14OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Security Improvement Plan:  
Our Roadmap for Increased Capability  
and Corporate Resiliency
A critical achievement this year was the  
formulation of our Security Improvement Plan.  
The development of this plan allowed us to  
diagnose our current state with regard to safety  
and security. The creation of our Security 
Improvement Plan entailed a gap analysis of the 
entire enterprise safety and security program  
and the solidification of our program’s mission  
and vision for the future to operate as a more 
responsible and resilient enterprise.Enterprise Safety and Security Enterprise Safety and Security continued
Launch of Crisis Management Program
COVID-19, along with the increasing vulnerability of company 
assets to climatic threats and crises drove us to prioritize our crisis 
response and management procedures. This resulted in the official 
launch of our Adtalem Crisis Management Program, which includes 
an eLearning program and table top exercises, this year.
Support of Return-to-Work and Campus
Throughout COVID-19, we have actively strategized and developed 
management and response tactics that prioritize the safety and 
well-being of our community members. Our Enterprise Safety and 
Security leaders headed our Return-to-Campus and Return-to-Work 
working groups, creating guidelines to ensure standardization as 
well as publishing weekly readiness prognosis reports and vaccine 
dashboard reports. 
Development of Campus Risk Report Tool
To further prioritize the well-being of our campuses and institutions, 
this year we developed our Campus Risk Report tool. This tool 
allows us to track and monitor our campuses in a highly detailed 
manner, allowing us to quickly respond to high risks and identify 
which campuses require Security & Safety Risk Assessments, more 
frequent inspection and support .
Enhancement of Training and Awareness
This year, we further embraced technology-based training 
opportunities on a broad range of issues. A particular standout was 
the launch of our smartphone awareness app, Adtalem Safe, which 
provides mass notifications as well as awareness regarding potential 
campus, facility and individual risks. In particular, the app has been 
pivotal in facilitating return-to-work procedures, COVID-19 tracking 
and awareness and hurricane and crisis management.2021 Milestones
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       15With many of our community members located in areas that are 
vulnerable to extreme weather events, we strive to provide the 
best regionally appropriate services, support and response. It is 
our goal to remain resilient in the face of environmental risks by 
having a strong system of communication and response tactics 
in place. 
A particularly important addition to our Hurricane Playbook 
this year was the alignment of our recently launched Crisis 
Management Program and our Adtalem Safe App. Use of the 
Adtalem Safe App allows us to connect immediately with 
our students, faculty and employees in response to potential 
environmental dangers or security concerns. 
As part of our Hurricane Playbook, the app allows us to better 
prepare individuals for incoming storms or natural disasters as 
well as share key details on storm protocols and procedures. 
The Adtalem Safe App supplies other vital safety information 
throughout the year across all our institutions and facilities. OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Enterprise Safety and Security Enterprise Safety and Security continued
Our Hurricane Playbook
99%
 Adtalem1 RUSM RUSVM Chamberlain AUC99% 99% 99% 99%Safe App Downloads by Organization  
June 2021
1 Includes Adtalem corporate, ACAMS, Becker and OnCourse Learning colleagues.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       16CybersecurityCybersecurity
Cross-Functional Oversight
At Adtalem, cybersecurity is recognized as an 
enterprise-wide risk and is positioned within our 
organizational structure accordingly. Our Chief 
Information Security Officer provides governance 
and strategy to all business units, reports directly to 
our Chief Financial Officer and provides quarterly 
updates to the Board of Director’s Audit and Finance 
Committee (AFC). 
Oversight of our cybersecurity program was formally 
added to the AFC charter during the fiscal year, and 
the Chair of the AFC has completed a certificate 
program offered by Carnegie Mellon University in 
partnership with the National Association of Corporate 
Directors (NACD). This NACD Cyber-Risk Oversight 
Program , the premier cybersecurity oversight  
program for corporate directors, provides critical 
content focused on cyber-risk leadership and 
oversight responsibilities. 
Our Comprehensive Approach
We take the privacy and security of all constituents 
very seriously. Our cybersecurity program 
encompasses global information security, assessment, 
detection, remediation and compliance as well as 
defining the security controls for the protection of  
our infrastructure. The cybersecurity group is 
responsible for tracking incidents, threat mitigation 
and cyber-risk management.
Our policies and procedures align with all relevant 
industry frameworks, laws and regulations, including:
• National Institute of Standards  
and Technology (NIST)
• ISO27001 Standard
• Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act  
of 1974 (FERPA)
• Payment Card Industry Data Security  
Standard (PCI DSS)
• Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GBLA)
• Applicable local, state, national and international 
regulations governing information privacy and  
data security
Consistent with best practices, we employ layered 
security controls to identify, protect, detect, respond 
and recover from security threats and incidents. 
We fulfill our commitment to continuous improvement 
and hold ourselves to the highest standard by OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
benchmarking across verticals, conducting penetration 
tests and performing audits. Our cybersecurity team 
conducts quarterly maturity reviews of our environment 
aligned to the NIST 800-53 cybersecurity framework in 
which stakeholders and subject matter experts provide 
updates on the status of our cybersecurity initiatives 
and programs. Our systems undergo penetration testing 
on a regular basis to ensure that any vulnerabilities are 
identified and addressed, and that the infrastructure is 
adequately configured to reduce residual cyber-risk to 
an acceptable level. We ensure that the confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of student and enterprise data  
is maintained.
Education Is Pivotal to Our Defense
With the ever-shifting landscape of cybersecurity, an 
informed workforce is crucial to thwarting potential 
attacks and safeguarding the data and systems we’re 
entrusted to protect. Our workforce is truly our first  
line of defense, so we prioritize training to emphasize  
this importance.
Highlights of our year-round cybersecurity awareness 
program include the following efforts:
• Mandatory cybersecurity orientation and attestation 
for all new employees, and annual re-attestation 
included as part of our Code of Conduct program
• Mandatory, quarterly online training program for  
all colleagues
• Periodic phishing exercises
• Targeted cybersecurity awareness communication  
to high-profile targets, including our executive 
leadership team
• Small and large group lunch-and-learn sessions to 
reinforce the critical role that all employees play in our 
cybersecurity programIn the past year, the cybersecurity team 
has sponsored approximately 6,000 hours 
of training curriculum, covering topics 
ranging from malware, phishing, potential 
vulnerabilities specifically related to working 
remotely and general cybersecurity best 
practices. In addition, security awareness 
of our workforce is measured through the 
results of simulated phishing attacks.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       17OPERATING WITH PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Ethics and IntegrityEthics and Integrity
Respect for Human Rights
At Adtalem, we are committed to maintaining the 
highest level of respect for individuals’ human rights. 
Every person deserves to be treated with dignity. 
We strive to act as a trusted member of our global 
community in the upholding of human rights both 
within and outside of our areas of operations. Our 
Human Rights Statement  outlines our commitments 
to preventing underage labor, modern slavery and 
ensuring compliance with applicable labor laws.
Compliance with Integrity
Our Code of Conduct and Ethics  (the “Code”) outlines 
the standards and expectations At Our Heart  that 
drive our decision-making daily. The Code applies 
to all Adtalem colleagues including officers, Board 
of Directors and full- and part-time colleagues and 
faculty, and it is provided as a resource to colleagues 
during their hiring process. In addition, to reinforce 
awareness and compliance, our faculty and leaders 
receive annual training regarding the Code. We also 
offer additional training to select individuals on topics 
that may require further detail such as antibribery and 
anticorruption and Title IX compliance. For individuals 
involved with the marketing and advertising of our 
services, the Code expresses our expectations of 
maintaining informational integrity and honesty. In 
addition, we provide further detail in our Responsible 
Marketing and Communications Statement  as well  
as in a supplemental internal policy that colleagues 
must adhere to.It is through the Code, and our ongoing communication,  
that we produce the Energy  necessary to fulfill our 
commitments everywhere we operate. We also 
take care to account for incidents or situations that 
may occur out of the scope of the current Code by 
updating it frequently and encouraging individuals 
to speak up with questions, concerns or potential 
violations with the option to do so anonymously 
through our 24-hour reporting hotline. To read further 
about our whistleblower policy and practices, access 
our Code here.
A vital component of ethics and integrity is making 
sure that we work with those who also act and operate 
in a responsible manner. Our suppliers, vendors and 
other partners are an extension of our values and 
principles; therefore, we hold them accountable 
through our Supplier Code of Conduct .
Complying with international,  
federal, state and local regulations  
is only the beginning. We should –  
and do – go beyond what is  
legally required.” Lisa W. Wardell   
  Chairman and CEO
Our Code of Conduct and Ethics is not a static document; 
it evolves with the times. We frequently update the Code 
with the assistance of outside counsel and experts.
“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       18Safeguarding Global Health 
and the Environment
Protecting the health of our planet and its people is a vital component of our operations  
at Adtalem; it is foundational to how we inspire, empower and unite our professionals  
and global community. We educate and empower professionals to lead and provide  
critical services to safeguard the well-being of all life and the environment.
This approach is exemplified by our One Health framework  
– our interdisciplinary approach to education, innovation  
and impact. As global challenges continue to impact  
our global health, including the state of our environment  
and the impact of diseases across species and boundaries, 
we recognize that global health and public health  
are indistinguishable.
Through our operations and services, we address a wide 
range of converging environmental issues such as threats to 
biodiversity, inefficient resource use and the lack of access 
for underrepresented populations to critical healthcare 
resources within regions of high exposure to environmental 
threats such as climate change and natural disasters. 
In addition, we actively prioritize the mitigation of our 
environmental footprint by optimizing our operations and 
emphasizing effective solutions across our global locations. 
Greening Our Facilities  Greening Our Facilities  
and Operationsand Operations
A vital component of our environmental sustainability 
strategy is the mitigation of our environmental impact 
across our facilities and institutions. To accomplish this, we 
work toward our three strategic, multiyear goals launched in 
FY20 that drive efficient operations, resource use and waste 
management. These goals address a set of environmental 
issues that are important to Adtalem, including our impact 
on climate change and our effect on natural resources. The 
goals lay the foundation for our environmental vision and 
solidify our commitment to safeguard the environment.
1 Compared to 2019 calendar year levels. 
2 As of June 30, 2021, sites in the controllable waste portfolio include Addison, IL; Boise, ID; Long Beach, CA; Miramar, FL; Naperville, IL; 
North Brunswick, NJ; Sacramento, CA; and Tinley Park, IL. Goal 2 
From 2021 through 2024, aim 
to initiate an average of one 
renewable energy project per 
year at an owned location.
Goal 3 
By the end of 2024, implement 
an enhanced waste and recycling 
initiative  across Adtalem’s 
controllable waste portfolio.2Goal 1 
Achieve a 10% reduction1 of 
controllable energy use and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
levels  across Adtalem’s US 
properties by 2024.Our Multiyear 
Environmental 
GoalsADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       19SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
 2020 202162,715,615 ENERGY USAGE1, 2  
(kBtu)
51,645,663 
7,544 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS1, 3  
(mtCO2e)
6,142 
475NON-RECYCLABLE 
WASTE GENERATED1, 4  
(Tons)
379 
1 Fiscal year data covers the periods between July 2019 - June 2020 and July 2020 - June 2021. We recognize that COVID-19 restrictions 
and reduced occupancy impacted these metrics. 
2 Our facilities management partner, JLL, estimates that of this total YOY reduction, 9% reduction was the result of implemented ECMs and 
with the remaining 8.7% reduction due to COVID-related measures.
3 Our facilities management partner, JLL, has estimated that of this total YOY reduction, 657 mtCO2e was the result of implemented ECMs 
since the beginning of the program, 318 mtCO2e was from site closures and 427 mtCO2e was from COVID-19 operations reductions.
4 These measurements account for non-recycled waste across Adtalem’s controllable waste portfolio, including: Addison, IL; Boise, ID;  
Long Beach, CA; Miramar, FL; Naperville, IL; North Brunswick, NJ; Sacramento, CA; and Tinley Park, IL; our facilities supervisors have  
determined that part of the waste reduction is a result of reduced operations during COVID-19 restrictions.2021 Progress2021 Progress
This year, in accordance with Goal 1, we solidified a clearer picture of our carbon 
footprint and noted the impact of the Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs) 
implemented across our locations.
Throughout 2021, we made headway toward Goal 3 by strengthening our 
partnerships for advanced waste management in the recycling, refurbishment 
and diversion of waste from landfills. We also added to our growing pool of 
data used to assess risks and opportunities within our waste management 
system through audits, pilot initiatives and partnership research.
exemplifying a16,66116,661  kGal kGal1.7%1.7%decrease from  
FY20.1Within FY21 our water 
usage was
 2020 2021  2020 20212021 Environmental Impact
-17.7%-18.6% -20.2%
reduction is 
equivalent to 3,523,5643,523,564  miles miles
driven by an average 
passenger vehicle. 
This year’s1,4021,402  mtCO mtCO22eeADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       20Responsible Waste ManagementResponsible Waste Management
Reducing, Reusing, Refurbishing  
and Recycling
We prioritize reducing the amount of waste we 
generate. We approach this process by embracing the 
ideals of a circular waste system and prioritize reusing, 
refurbishing and recycling our items to extend their  
life cycle and divert them from landfills.  
Partnering to Impact 
Within this fiscal period, we sustained and further 
developed our partnerships with external parties to 
enhance our sustainable waste management practices. 
For example, our facilities partnership with JLL allowed 
us to continue recycling hazardous waste at 36 facilities 
where we partner with them. We also maintained 
our partnership with InstallNET to build upon our 
decommissioning efforts throughout the last few years 
and divert furniture, fixtures, equipment and other 
items we no longer need from landfills.  
In addition, in partnership with Rubicon, we conduct 
waste audits so that we can better identify and respond 
to inefficiencies within our current waste management 
system.  
Since 2017, in partnership with 
InstallNET, we diverted 230.2 tons 
of waste from landfills.
DIVERTING WASTE FROM LANDFILLS
ReSaleReSale  52,72152,721  lbs. lbs.ECONOMICALLY BENEFICIAL
ReUse ReUse 254,065254,065  lbs lbs.SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE
ReCycleReCycle107,177107,177  lbslbs. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY
ReLocate ReLocate 46,52446,524  lbs lbs. ASSET REUTILIZATION 
 This includes waste diversion practices from the period 
of July 1, 2017 – June 30, 2021.SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       21SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Innovating with our Employees,  
Students and Partners 
We consider our employees, students and external 
partners as vital stakeholders in our waste management 
system. It is through their Energy , passion and 
innovation that we drive a positive impact. We take care 
to involve our campuses in waste-related initiatives and 
we encourage our employees to be active participants. 
One notable innovation from this year resulted in our 
company taking a closer look at our waste disposal 
practices. As a result of research completed by our Responsible Waste Management Responsible Waste Management continued
No initiative is too small, as each  
can inspire a chain reaction across 
individuals and their communities.  
If I can implement a new initiative  
across our facilities, like our battery 
recycling program, and inspire even  
one individual to go home and say  
to their family ‘we should be doing  
more recycling,’ then I have amplified 
Adtalem’s impact and made a  
difference in a community. That is  
what environmental stewardship  
is about.”  Michael Mucha   
  Director, Real Estate Planning
facilities partner JLL, we installed cameras into 
dumpsters so we could monitor when waste was being 
improperly disposed. This aided in the prevention 
of potential cross-contamination with recyclable 
materials and reinforced the important role that 
individual awareness and effort play in reaching our 
waste mitigation goals. This idea is being piloted in one 
facility and, pending results, we are assessing applying 
it in other facilities to broaden our impact. 
Per our Supplier Code of Conduct , we expect 
our third-party partners to use environmentally 
responsible practices and production methods 
that meet well-established certification standards 
relating to environmental protection and 
compliance. Our third-party associates should 
strive to minimize waste products, use post-
consumer recycled materials in the production of 
finished products and enhance the recyclability, 
energy efficiency, durability, biodegradability and 
repairability of the products we purchase. This is 
one facet of our approach to sustainable supply 
chain management. Read more about Adtalem’s 
approach on our supplier webpage  and in our 
Supplier Diversity and Small Business Policy .Consciously Managing  
Our Supply Chain“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       22SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
One Health Approach 
At Adtalem, we value all life. This is exemplified by 
our collaborative, cross-functional approach among 
leaders in veterinary medicine, human medicine and 
the environment to address critical issues facing our 
collective health. 
This approach, One Health, is defined by the US 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as 
“a collaborative, multisectoral and transdisciplinary 
approach – working at the local, regional, national and 
global levels – with the goal of achieving optimal health 
outcomes recognizing the interconnection between 
people, animals, plants and their shared environment.” It relies on strengths that we value and  
cultivate within our students, members and 
educators. This includes their diversity of thought, 
their collaborative mentalities and the Heart and 
Energy  that they demonstrate to positively impact 
communities throughout the world. 
These strengths and the interdisciplinary knowledge 
of our professionals characterize our One Health 
approach. Globally, our professionals collaborate, 
teach and learn to provide expertise across a wide 
range of subjects and deliver the insight necessary to 
drive holistic problem-solving as they address highly 
complex issues, such as natural disaster management, 
the spread of infectious disease across species  
and food security.  
One One 
HealthHealthEnvironmental 
Health
Human 
HealthAnimal 
Health
 »Our work across the globe 
enhances health for all beings 
and the environment.Respecting Natural Ecosystems and All LifeRespecting Natural Ecosystems and All Life
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       23SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Leading Through Education and Research 
The interdisciplinary skill sets of our colleagues 
and faculty are exemplified by the groundbreaking 
research and education they provide across our 
institutions. In particular, RUSVM is a thought leader in 
the One Health approach. 
RUSVM opened a state-of-the-art research building, 
the first of its kind in the Caribbean, that seamlessly 
blends necropsy and tissue evaluation facilities 
under one roof, enabling multidisciplinary research 
collaborations and providing an academic platform  
for students and faculty to address pressing One 
Health issues. 
To further highlight its commitment, RUSVM offers 
an online-based Master of Science by Coursework in 
One Health (MSc One Health) degree program  that 
is carefully designed to equip veterinarians, animal 
scientists, medical and biological students with 
an in-depth understanding regarding One Health. 
RUSVM has gone a step further to launch a Graduate 
Certificate in One Health Program  in collaboration 
with Chamberlain University. The online Certificate in 
One Health program provides in-depth knowledge of 
One Health concepts that can be applied to enhance 
careers for veterinary and healthcare professionals. 
Upon completion of the program, students are 
prepared to lead and advocate for issues related to 
One Health on a global scale.
At RUSVM, we recognize the  
important role veterinarians play in 
the One Health approach addressing 
societal issues. Keeping humans, 
animals and ecosystems healthy always 
requires veterinarians as public health 
experts, food safety experts and 
monitors and detectors of emerging 
and re-emerging diseases, while also 
understanding the deep value of the 
human-animal bond.”         Dr. Sean Callanan   
         Dean, RUSVM
Cultivating One Health with  
the Caribbean Community
In support of our professionals and communities 
within the Caribbean, Adtalem is proud to partner 
with the Caribbean Community’s (CARICOM) 
collaborative stakeholder platform to advance 
its Public Diplomacy Engagement Program that 
was launched in June 2021. This program aligns 
with our strengths and priorities as a company 
as it is focused on enhancing US-Caribbean 
cooperation on cross-disciplinary issues and 
converging trends, such as those that are One 
Health-focused. 
As a company that contributes extensive 
research and services guided by the One 
Health approach, we apply our expertise in 
collaboration with the communities we serve, US 
policymakers and international leaders, including 
experts in academia, advocacy and the public 
sector. Participation in this platform is close 
to our Heart  as it is central to our mission to 
unite and empower communities to amplify our 
global impact. Strengthening global health is 
increasingly dependent on our interconnectivity, 
and we share a commitment to supporting  
multi-disciplinary approaches and  
solutions that facilitate healthy  
environments for all living beings  
and ecosystems.
Respecting Natural Ecosystems Respecting Natural Ecosystems 
and All Life and All Life continued
“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       24SAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
professionals on how to properly report, mitigate and 
remedy risks associated with each stage of the illegal 
wildlife supply chain, including guidance on how to 
uncover shell companies and import-export schemes 
associated with IWT. It is through this service and the 
expertise of our trained individuals that we hope to 
impact this illegal market, which serves as one of the 
world’s largest sources of illegal profit. 
Protecting Coral Reefs by Promoting  
Environmentally Friendly Sun Safety 
On AUC’s most recent virtual Community Action 
Day, AUC faculty and students partnered with the 
Nature Foundation of St. Maarten to raise public 
awareness about the risks of sunscreen use for coral 
reef destruction. The Oncology Interest Group raised 
awareness regarding how to protect skin from the sun 
in an environmentally conscious manner. 
Caring for Our Caregivers and Communities  
Throughout the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, our 
Chamberlain colleagues and students bravely stepped 
forward to administer the vaccine in their communities, 
demonstrating our Chamberlain Care® spirit in action. 
We are grateful for their 
efforts that include 
educating each other and 
our communities about 
the COVID-19 vaccine, 
getting vaccinated when 
eligible and encouraging 
vaccine participation so 
that we can come back 
stronger on the other 
side of this pandemic. 
We acknowledge the 
immense pressure they 
and other healthcare professionals face working 
around the clock and in vulnerable environments. 
Therefore, we also prioritized providing support to 
them through our Care for Caregivers initiative.  
This included hosting a live discussion series designed 
to uplift and support healthcare professionals in the 
field by covering ways to combat trauma and stress as 
a result of COVID-19.
Conducting Research on Invasive Species 
This year, several RUSVM faculty were selected to 
be principal investigators in the United Nations 
Environmental Program and Global Environmental 
Facility regional project, “Preventing COSTS of Invasive 
Alien Species in Barbados and the Organization of 
Eastern Caribbean States Countries.” In collaboration 
with the St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of the 
Environment and Cooperatives, several of our students 
studying veterinary medicine had the opportunity to 
participate with their professors in critical research 
functions like detecting viral and bacterial strains 
in green monkeys and conducting analysis on their 
impact to public health across the region. 
Raising Awareness  
of Sea Turtle Nesting Behaviors 
Our students in St. Kitts played a vital 
role in gathering critical information 
about the nesting behaviors of the 
region’s leatherback sea turtles. 
By reporting nesting sea turtles on 
St. Kitts beaches, their migratory 
patterns and nesting behaviors can 
be monitored, furthering awareness 
and helping to preserve the safety 
and health of this species.
Preserving Public Health  
Throughout COVID-19 
As our communities experienced immense medical 
and health-related challenges throughout the 
pandemic, the RUSM Student Government Association 
began the “RUSM Gives Back” program to provide  
vital aid and support. Through fundraising and 
collaborative outreach, our students raised more 
than $13,000 in the Spring 2021 semester for various 
charitable organizations, including food banks, mental 
health associations, children’s hospitals and medical 
relief funds. 
Combating the Illegal Wildlife Trade 
ACAMS, in collaboration with the World Wide Fund for 
Nature (WWF) and supported by the Basel Institute 
on Governance, the Royal Foundation of the Duke and 
Duchess of Cambridge and United for Wildlife curated 
a free training certificate  that equips individuals with 
the skills necessary to combat the illegal wildlife 
trade (IWT). This certificate is targeted at educating Across Our Enterprise: Advancing the Health and Vitality  Across Our Enterprise: Advancing the Health and Vitality  
of All Beings and the Environmentof All Beings and the Environment
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       25
Uniting Against Environmental Uniting Against Environmental 
Threats and DisastersThreats and Disasters
Operating at the Intersection of Access,  
Equity and Environmentalism
Consistent with our One Health approach, we 
recognize that human healthcare access and equity 
is deeply interconnected with environmental issues. 
Through our services, we provide professionals with 
the knowledge and resources they need to serve 
underrepresented communities. Many of these 
communities are significantly impacted by the threat 
that climate change poses, including intensifying 
hurricanes and resource shortages. These threats 
accentuate the need for stable and reliable  
healthcare access.
We continue to focus on disaster relief, hurricane 
preparedness and response through AUC and its 
Caribbean Center for Disaster Medicine (CCDM) . The 
CCDM was launched in 2019 and continues its critical 
function as an education and healthcare resource for 
communities impacted by the deepening threat of 
hurricanes. With the urgent need for comprehensive 
preparation and 
expertise, CCDM 
serves as a model 
of disaster medicine 
across the Caribbean and beyond, readily informing 
community members on emerging research and 
uniting professionals to innovate dynamic approaches 
to challenges such as climate resilience, disease 
control and healthcare accessibility. Every year, the 
CCDM hosts an annual conference  to unite community 
members with subject matter experts in disaster 
medicine; this year’s virtual conference included a One 
Health panel with representatives from several of our 
institutions, including AUC, RUSVM and Chamberlain.
Increasingly vulnerable populations need both 
access to healthcare and to professionals who can 
provide culturally competent care. This is not just 
an environmental issue; it is also a social issue. Read 
further about how we aim to expand educational  
access and address workforce shortages in the 
following section.
Adtalem brings together veterinarians and disaster 
management leaders to provide a One Health 
approach to contemporary disaster research 
through our RUSVM Disaster Research Working 
Group. Members from across the Caribbean region 
unite to address community needs and develop 
protocols so that our communities are supported 
during hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural 
disasters. This group, which took shape from 
early associations with AUC’s CCDM initiative, 
provides expertise in disaster management and 
disaster-related public health and epidemiology, 
livestock health and safety, small animal medicine 
and sheltering, infectious disease and veterinary 
education. The group is working to elevate 
the understanding, knowledge and capacity 
to prepare for and respond to disasters, both 
regionally and globally.The RUSVM Disaster 
Research Working Group
After the eruptions of La Soufriere Volcano in St. 
Vincent and the Grenadines in early April, our local 
community at RUSVM showed Heart in delivering 
quick relief and aid to the people of St. Vincent 
through the delivery of essential supplies such 
as water, personal hygiene products, pet food 
and cleaning products equating up to $18,900 
XCD. Adtalem made an additional corporate 
contribution to the Caribbean Disaster  
Emergency Management Agency’s  
(CDEMA) La Soufriere relief efforts  
in St. Vincent.
 
Providing Disaster ReliefSAFEGUARDING GLOBAL HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       26Empowering Individuals, 
Impacting Global Communities
The principles of access and equity underpin our efforts to empower diverse, vibrant 
communities across the globe. Guided by our social mission to address critical workforce 
shortages through the education of diverse student and member populations, we seek to 
create sustainable workforces that represent the communities they serve.
CREATING A DIVERSE PIPELINE THROUGH SCHOLASTIC PARTNERSHIPS
PARTNER LOCATION TYPE2AFFILIATED ADTALEM INSTITUTION(S)
Adelphi University New York AANAPISI RUSVM
California State University-Dominguez Hills California HSI RUSM
Charles R. Drew University California HBCU/HSI RUSM
Dillard University Louisiana HBCU RUSM, RUSVM
Fairleigh Dickinson University New Jersey HSI RUSM, RUSVM
Florida A&M University Florida HBCU RUSM
North Carolina A&T State University North Carolina HBCU RUSVM
Oakwood University Alabama HBCU RUSM
Prairie View A&M University Texas HBCU RUSVM
Saint Peter's University New Jersey HSI RUSM, RUSVM
Tennessee State University Tennessee HBCU RUSM
Tuskegee University Alabama HBCU RUSM
University of Maryland Eastern Shore Maryland HBCU RUSVM
University of Puerto Rico Puerto Rico HSI RUSMExpanding Educational Access Expanding Educational Access 
Throughout this section, we detail how we’re 
leading the charge to increase access to educational 
opportunities for underrepresented populations and, in 
turn, training professionals to serve as inclusive leaders 
within the healthcare and financial services industries.  
We recognize we can’t accomplish our ambitious 
mission alone. We collaborate with fellow educational 
institutions, governments and other partners to 
expand our reach and impact to further our mission.Our role in expanding educational access begins well 
before someone enrolls. By forging equitable, resilient 
partnerships, we’re working to create intentional pathways 
to increase educational opportunities for diverse, 
underserved populations.
We’ve created sustainable strategies to engage and 
support students from historically underrepresented 
groups and our intentional approach continues to yield 
industry-leading results. In FY21, 86.1% of the total student 
population of our four degree-conferring institutions 
identified as female and 45.4% identified as a minority1.
1 Minority group includes the following: Hispanic; American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific Islander; and Two or More Races.
2 AANAPISI - Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution
 HBCU – Historically Black College or University 
 HSI – Hispanic Serving Institution ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       27EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Diverse Talent Addresses  Diverse Talent Addresses  
Workforce ShortageWorkforce Shortage
Our mission is underpinned by our steadfast belief 
that a more inclusive and equitable workforce will 
strengthen economic frameworks and improve  
societal outcomes.
With a projected nursing shortage of more than 
500,000 registered nurses by 20304 and a physician 
shortage of up to 124,000 physicians by 20345,  
we’re actively working to address these critical 
workforce gaps by providing training, expanding 
access to education and establishing robust  
employer partnerships.
Our business model is designed to educate, train and 
prepare professionals at scale. For the healthcare 
industry, our focus is on creating a distributed 
healthcare workforce that addresses critical challenges, 
including primary care workforce shortages as well 
as serving underserved communities. The ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic laid bare deep inequalities related 
to adequate healthcare around the world, keeping the 
need for more healthcare professionals in sharp focus 
as a critical global public health issue. 
We remain focused on expanding access to 
healthcare education and offering robust professional 
development opportunities within the financial 
services industry to contribute trained professionals to 
the workforce.
1 Internal ATGE Data and AAMC: 2020 FACTS: Enrollment, Graduates, and MD-PhD Data. 
2 MIPEDS data as reported by Title IV eligible institutions. Underrepresented minority students are those who self-identified as Native  
American or Alaska Native, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, or two or more races.
3 https://www.aavmc.org/about-aavmc/public-data . DVM Student Diversity tab, page 9, URVM representation by percentage.
4 Pub Med – National Library of Medicine: United States Registered Nurse Workforce Report Card and Shortage Forecast: A Revisit
5 AAMC Report Reinforces Mounting Physician Shortage: https://www.aamc.org/news-insights/press-releases/aamc-report-reinforces-
mounting-physician-shortageCombined, Adtalem’s medical institutions 
graduate more Black physicians than any US 
school at more than 100 graduates per year. 
For comparison, in 2020, approximately 80% 
of all US medical schools graduated 10 or 
less Black physicians a year1. Additionally, 
Chamberlain University is the leading grantor 
of BSN degrees to underrepresented minority 
students in the country,2 and of all American 
Veterinary Medical Association accredited 
schools, RUSVM educates one of the most 
ethnically diverse student populations3.
PERCENTAGE OF BLACK/AFRICAN AMERICAN MEDICAL SCHOOL GRADUATES1
Institution(s) Number of Institutions included Black/African American
Adtalem (RUSM & AUC) 2 11.6%
US Medical Schools Private 57 7.7%
US Medical Schools Public 88 5.9%
US Medical Schools Total 145 6.6%
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       28EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Our veterinary school, medical schools and pre-
licensure BSN programs offer three enrollment periods 
per year, and Chamberlain University’s post-licensure 
programs offer six enrollments annually. This results 
in a substantial increase in the number of qualified 
graduates and an influx of healthcare professionals 
into the workforce year-round. 
Upon leaving the classroom, our alums often return 
to their respective communities, making a lasting, 
tangible impact. AUC and RUSM have graduated more 
than 22,000 students and graduate more physicians 
on an annual basis than any school in the US. Since  
its founding in 1978, AUC has graduated over  
7,500 physicians from over 78 countries. AUC 
graduates are currently serving in all 50 US states. 
RUSM has a network of more than 15,000 graduates 
practicing in 1,042 counties, in all US states and  
Puerto Rico. 
Over 90,000 Chamberlain alumni are available to 
help combat nursing shortages across the country, 
and Chamberlain offers several degree programs and 
specialty tracks designed to meet nurses wherever 
they are in their careers. The Chamberlain Care 
Student Success Model is a customized program of 
tools, resources and support. Nurses are provided with 
an education framework that prepares them to provide 
exceptional levels of care at the bedside, in healthcare 
leadership positions and in the education of  
future nurses.  
RUSVM’s network of nearly 6,000 alumni is serving 
in the US, Canada, Puerto Rico and abroad. RUSVM 
proudly partners with MANRRS (Minorities in 
Agriculture, Natural Resource and Related Sciences) 
to provide students from a wide range of backgrounds 
opportunities to follow their chosen career in 
veterinary medicine. Through the collaboration, we  
aim to strengthen visibility into the veterinary industry 
for minority, underrepresented and underserved 
student populations as well as expand inclusivity 
within the profession.Diverse Talent Addresses  Diverse Talent Addresses  
Workforce Shortage Workforce Shortage continued
Chamberlain and LCMC Health, a Louisiana-
based, not-for-profit hospital system serving 
the healthcare needs of the Gulf Coast region, 
announced an innovative partnership in May 2021 
to address the need for more nurses by expanding 
access to a forgivable loan education.
The Called-to-Care Scholars program provides 
forgivable financial assistance from LCMC Health 
to students who either fulfill a paid, eligible 
position at a designated LCMC Health facility or 
monetarily repay LCMC Health for the courses 
taken. Up to 100% of the tuition payments, 
including accrued interest, can be forgiven if the 
work commitment is completed.
The Called-to-Care Scholars Program aims to 
build a robust talent pipeline in support of LCMC 
Health’s efforts to establish a more sustainable, 
long-term healthcare ecosystem. With more 
practice-ready nurses available to serve the 
community, the region expects to benefit from 
quality healthcare that supports more equitable 
access to preventive disease measures and 
healthcare supports.Chamberlain and LCMC 
Health Launch Forgivable 
Loan Nursing Program
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       29EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
The credibility we’ve established by creating 
accessible pathways to meaningful educational 
opportunities for underserved populations, both 
in the US and around the globe, enabled us to 
continue to broaden and deepen our impact. 
For example, Chamberlain University’s innovative 
partnership with the National Institute of Health 
and Social Studies and Ministry of Health in 
Seychelles provided a blueprint that we can adapt 
and replicate to address the workforce shortages 
and critical care needs of other developing 
countries. 
Now in its third year, the collaboration produced 
more than 30 local Chamberlain nursing graduates 
– including Seychelles’ chief nursing officer 
who graduated in May 2021 – who are helping 
to improve the quality of patient care provided 
throughout the island nation. Seychelles made 
headlines this year for having one of the highest 
per capita vaccination rates, and Chamberlain 
graduates played a significant role in this  
lifesaving effort.  
In addition, students who have completed the 
nurse educator and nurse executive tracks from 
Chamberlain’s master’s program are helping 
improve nursing education, clinical teaching, 
mentoring and leadership in nursing as well as 
healthcare services across the island nation.A Blueprint in Educating 
Healthcare Workers  
in Real TimeACAMS is the largest financial crime prevention 
membership organization in the world with more 
than 83,000 members in 174 countries. Through a 
partnership announced in May 2021, ACAMS and 
the National Association of Black Compliance & Risk 
Management Professionals, Inc. (NABCRMP) strive 
to remove barriers to entry for Black compliance 
professionals while driving conversations that help 
foster a deeper understanding of how greater 
diversity in the anti-money laundering industry can 
strengthen safeguards against illicit financial activity.Diverse Talent Addresses  Diverse Talent Addresses  
Workforce Shortage Workforce Shortage continued
1 Robert Graham Center: American University of the Caribbean 
School of Medicine & Ross University School of Medicine 
Graduate Mapping Project Final Report; March 2020.
2 Primary care includes the following NRMP categories: Family 
Medicine, Pediatrics, Primary Care Internal Medicine and Primary 
Care Pediatrics.
the rate of their US 
medical school graduate 
counterparts in 2021.2 2x2xgraduatesgraduatesAUC and  RUSM
entered primary care residency programs 
at about44%44%
  
of Adtalem medical 
school graduates practice 
in medically underserved 
or health professional 
shortage areas.88%88%  
of Adtalem medical 
school graduates 
practice in low-income 
communities.
These rates are higher than US medical school graduates.1ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       30EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
As part of our holistic approach to student success, 
we continue to challenge ourselves to find ways to 
offer meaningful support in all aspects of the student 
journey. Providing resources related to financial 
management remains an intentional focus, as does 
academic support and the physical and mental well-
being of those we serve. We have removed admissions 
and academic department silos to foster increased 
collaboration, realize efficiencies and ensure all 
activities revolve around fostering the success of our 
students. Our operating principle in this regard is “no 
student left behind.” We recognize that many of our 
students are nontraditional and need integrated and 
ongoing support.
We continue to prioritize providing current and 
prospective students with a comprehensive and 
integrated support system designed to help them 
achieve their goals. 
We don’t just want to make the 
educational world a relevant place for 
our students. Supported by our active 
participation in the healthcare ecosystem, 
our goal is to improve the quality of 
healthcare overall through our graduates. 
 
Cycle of Support Encompasses Cycle of Support Encompasses 
Complete Student JourneyComplete Student Journey
At Adtalem, we form partnerships, not transactional 
relationships, with our students and members. From 
the moment someone first expresses interest in 
learning with us, we become invested in their future. 
Emblematic of our TEACH values, specific support 
teams are trained to provide personalized, real-time 
support at each milestone throughout the enrollment 
and student experience to help address potential 
obstacles to success. Our robust financial, admissions 
and academic advising services combine to  
provide comprehensive support throughout the 
student journey.
We hold ourselves Accountable  by codifying many 
of these policies and procedures in our Student 
Commitments, which address the following topics:
• Informed student choice 
• Responsible recruitment and enrollment
• Responsible participation in the federal  
loan process
• Financial literacy and academic transparency
• Improving student satisfaction
• Successful student outcomes and accountability
Ongoing engagement such as public disclosures,  
one-on-one counseling and regular surveys are central 
to how we strive to meet the needs of all students  
and members.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we review 
and refresh our Student Commitments annually. An 
independent third party measures our results and 
prepares a public report, the most recent of which was 
published in January 202 1.Melissa Robbins,
Vice President of Strategic Initiatives and Operations“
”  ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       31EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
I credit my background for giving me a unique 
perspective on caring for those without access to 
healthcare. Growing up, my mother and father did not 
have the best jobs due to their lack of education and 
inability to speak English. We did not have healthcare, 
leaving us to utilize the free clinics in our area. My 
personal experiences with underserved communities  
and others motivated me to one day be able to  
provide care to patients who need it the most.” 
  Delia Rios   
  Ross University School of Medicine Scholarship Recipient  
  (spring 2021)Leading by Example:  Leading by Example:  
Cultivating a Diverse WorkforceCultivating a Diverse Workforce
Our enterprise-wide practices, programs and policies 
support gender and ethnically diverse colleagues’ 
access to opportunities for career growth. This 
intentional focus on diversity and representation 
throughout our enterprise strengthens our 
organization and supports our students and members.  
Our diverse faculty and staff serve as role models and 
mentors, demonstrating possibility through their roles.
To help attract and retain colleagues, we implemented 
formal polices that embraced flexible work 
arrangements more than five years ago, and we 
continue to find meaningful ways to create supportive, 
collaborative work environments that celebrate 
diversity in all its forms. 
“
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       32EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Measuring Our OutcomesMeasuring Our Outcomes
Residency match rates, key licensing exam test scores 
and low cohort default rates are key performance 
indicators we use to measure program competitiveness 
and return on investment. In short, our success is 
directly tied to the success of those we serve.
Our medical students match into residency programs 
at comparable rates to US medical schools and match 
at substantially higher rates than most international 
medical graduates. When it comes to key licensing 
exams, Adtalem institutions perform well in preparing 
our students for success. Additionally, our graduates are 
less likely to default on their student loans compared to 
their counterparts at other universities.91%91%USMLE Step 1 First-
Time Pass Rate
93%93%USMLE Step 1 First-
Time Pass Rate
81%81%NAVLE First-Time 
Pass Rate
91%91%NCLEX® National 
Average First-Time 
Pass Rate*
 USMLE and NCLEX pass rates represent 2020  
calendar year; NAVLE pass rate represents  
2019-2020 academic year. All numbers rounded  
to the nearest whole number.
* For calendar year ending 2020, Chamberlain  
University’s average NCLEX® first–time pass rate  
for BSN graduates was 90.71%
Adtalem Overall 3.10%FY17 FINAL COHORT DEFAULT RATES
1.40%
3.40%
1.30%
0.90%AUC
Chamberlain
RUSM
RUSVM7.00%
6.50%
13.10%
7.80%14.70%
2.90%Public 4-year
Private non-profit 4-year
All 4-year
All for-profitPrivate for-profit 4-year
Foreign13.10%
FY2017 final cohort default are the most current metrics available.FIRST-TIME PASS RATES
RUSM 89%MATCH RATES AMONG FOURTH-YEAR MD  
AND DO STUDENTS 2020-2021
90%
93 %
89%
61.0%AUC
US MD
US DO
US IMGs
79%60%
NON-US IMGs
ALL55%
RUSM 92.4%
AUC92%
92%FIRST-TIME RESIDENCY RATE 2020-2021
AUC/RUSM first-time residency attainment rates include 
additional residencies obtained outside of the NRMP Main 
Match and SOAP, which differs from the US methodology.International Medical Graduates (IMGs). Data Source: 
National Resident Matching Program, Results and Data: 
2021 Main Residency Match. Adtalem data has been 
normalized for consistency with US methodology for 
comparison purposes and contains residencies attained 
through the NRMP Main Match and SOAP.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       33EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Our Commitment to Diversity, Our Commitment to Diversity, 
Equity and InclusionEquity and Inclusion
We pride ourselves in nurturing a culture that 
encourages everyone to bring their full, authentic 
selves to every aspect of life. We believe effectively 
fostering DE&I requires intentional action. We don’t 
just welcome differences; we actively celebrate them.
DE&I is the essence of our business and mission. 
There is a clear tie between our DE&I priorities and 
our efforts to provide underserved communities with 
access to education and services that will enable  
them to grow their careers and make an impact on  
the world.  
We intentionally do not centralize our DE&I efforts.  
We believe fostering an inclusive environment is a 
shared responsibility, guided by our commitment to 
one another and those we serve.
The following four pillars serve as the foundation of 
our DE&I framework.
• A Diverse Organization:  We are intentional in the 
ways we create, value and measure the diversity 
and inclusiveness of our culture and are guided by 
the commitment of our executive team, starting 
with our CEO.
• An Inclusive Environment:  We provide training and 
tools to increase awareness of differences and why 
they matter, so all colleagues can contribute to an 
engaging, high-performing workplace.• Equitable Access to Opportunities:  We expect 
leaders to be intentional about hiring, developing 
and retaining talent to promote diverse 
representation at all levels of our organization.
• Corporate and Social Responsibility:  We support 
our global communities through volunteerism, 
giving and scholarships to extend our impact on 
diversity, equity and inclusion.Diversity is part of our DNA. I am proud of the changes that I have  
seen individuals within our organization make in their own thinking as they 
challenge their own biases; and I am proud that individuals with every  
viewpoint speak up, to me personally and in open forums.  
To me, this is the only way to actually effect change.” Lisa W. Wardell   
  Chairman and CEO
“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       34EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Creating a Culture of InclusionCreating a Culture of Inclusion
We have notably increased female and ethnically diverse 
representation on our Board of Directors and executive 
team since 2016 under Chairman and CEO Lisa Wardell’s 
leadership. We believe diverse and independent 
directors create stronger practices and outcomes.
Our DE&I journey has evolved to include programmatic 
and organic elements to foster inclusion throughout  
our businesses.  
1 Data as of June 2021SENIOR LEADERSHIP
Female 33.33%
Ethnically Diverse 33.33%
Gender or Ethnically Diverse 55.56%
Senior Leadership Includes CEO, COO, Group Presidents and  
Senior Vice Presidents (who report directly to the CEO).
ALL GLOBAL EMPLOYEES
Female 76.22%
US EMPLOYEES
Female 79.44%
Ethnically Diverse 35.64%To continue building on conversations and put our 
commitment to DE&I into action, we introduced the 
IDEA (inclusion, diversity, equity and access) Learning 
Series in March 2021 to maintain awareness and 
build skills in a variety of areas. In addition to the live 
presentations, replays were made available on the 
company intranet.
Adtalem EDGE, which stands for 
Empowerment, Diversity, Growth and 
Excellence, is our active employee 
resource group that seeks to foster 
a culture of diversity and inclusion 
and accelerate the advancement of women. Across 
Adtalem, 23 global chapters host a variety of activities 
throughout the year, ranging from networking events to 
honest and open discussions about social justice issues.
Senior Leadership Diversity1
Gender Diversity of All Colleagues8
Gender and Ethnic Diversity of US Colleagues1Board 
Diversity844%44%  
female
44%44%ethnically  
diverse
67%67%gender and 
ethnically diverse
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       35EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
SELECT RESULTS FROM MAY 2021 ENGAGEMENT SURVEY1
CATEGORY PEOPLE OF COLOR WHITE FEMALE MALE
Engagement 71% 73% 72% 70%
Enablement 75% 76% 75% 75%
Psychological Safety 78% 81% 79% 78%Measuring Our ImpactMeasuring Our Impact
We are intentional in the ways we create, value and 
measure the diversity and inclusiveness of our culture. 
We value and seek diversity in all its forms and have 
processes in place to track our progress. 
The creation of diversity dashboards provides better 
visibility to business leaders as they evaluate and 
aspire to improve in target areas. Representation is  
a focus of our onboarding, engagement and exit 
surveys. All include quantitative questions that relate 
to DE&I efforts such as a sense of belonging and 
perceived fairness.
Engagement is a part of our listening culture, which 
thrives on communication and collaboration. We want 
to understand what is working well and where we have 
opportunities for improvement. Through semiannual 
engagement surveys, we’re able to solicit feedback 
that helps us measure and track our progress in the 
following areas:
• Engagement:  The “want to” of work, or more 
specifically, whether employees are committed to 
the organization and if they are willing to put in 
extra effort for the good of the organization.
• Enablement:  The “can do” of work, meaning 
employee skills and abilities are fully utilized in  
their roles and whether the organizational 
environment supports them in getting their  
work done. 
• Psychological Safety:  The shared belief that 
the team is safe for interpersonal risk-taking. 
Colleagues’ perceived ability to show and employ 
their authentic self without fear of negative 
consequences of self-image, status or career. In 
psychologically safe teams, members feel accepted 
and respected.During the past year, we have added dimensions to our 
engagement survey to gather feedback on our response 
to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the comfort level 
of colleagues to return to the workplace.
The engagement survey results are included in a 
semiannual talent management scorecard for each 
business and major corporate function, which include 
metrics tied to scores in our focus areas and metrics on 
diverse representation. Each functional leader reviews 
and discusses these outcomes regularly with the CEO. 
1 Where global benchmarks are available, we are typically 5-10% above the benchmark for overall Engagement and Enablement, 
illustrating our strong focus on the employee experience and eye toward continuous improvement.
We are encouraged to speak openly and 
express a different or even controversial 
view. That is part of the culture of our 
company. We don’t want to be an  
echo chamber.” Larry Bachman   
  Associate General Counsel
We are honored to have received the following 2021 awards  
in recognition of our ongoing efforts:
 »Newsweek : America’s Most Responsible Companies
 »Forbes : Best Employers for Diversity
 »DiversityJobs.com:  Top Employer in Higher Education
 »Inspiring Workplace Awards:  Gold Award for the 
Diversity and Inclusion Category“ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       36Commitment to Social JusticeCommitment to Social JusticeEMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Social justice has always been an important aspect of 
fostering equity. Since FY20 and continuing throughout 
FY21, that focus intensified. We believe racism is a public 
health crisis. Each of our healthcare institutions is taking 
steps to fulfill its commitments to addressing racism and 
fighting for social justice. 
Each school’s social justice commitments consist of a 
series of actions central to working toward the following 
two objectives:
• To educate ourselves, our faculty, our colleagues and 
our students as part of a continuous effort to grow, 
learn and change
• To advocate for social justice by confronting and 
addressing racism, implicit bias and injustice at our 
universities and in the communities we serve 
Our degree-conferring institutions have established 
internal diversity councils and task forces comprised 
of leadership, colleagues and students to advance 
initiatives and to serve as catalysts for continued 
communication and learning. Each task force 
surveys their respective communities and compiles 
recommendations of opportunities to strengthen efforts. 
During FY21, DE&I threads were woven into our 
healthcare institutions’ curriculums and activities. DE&I 
subcommittees were established within both AUC and 
RUSM’s curriculum committees, and AUC appointed its 
inaugural dean of DE&I in April 2021.
In summer 2020, RUSM faculty and students piloted 
an anti-racism reading program, a discussion series 
designed to help students better understand, critique 
and mitigate racist underpinnings in modern medicine. 
Following the successful pilot, the program is now  
being offered to all incoming RUSM students in a move 
that reiterates our commitment to address racism and 
fight for social justice through continuous education  
and reflection.
RUSVM’s task force provided its community with an 
initial survey and assembled recommendations of 
current opportunities and challenges to strengthen  
DE&I efforts in the coming year.Chamberlain’s significant milestones included the 
completion of an institution-wide DE&I framework as 
well as the development of an action plan that was 
finished in July 2021. In January 2021, the nursing  
school launched a monthly speaker series that 
celebrates diversity and seeks to foster continued 
dialogue around relevant topics. 
Our financial services companies fostered DE&I 
throughout the year as well:
• ACAMS launched internal and public Global Voices 
discussions to foster continued dialogue, and in May 
2021, partnered with the National Association of 
Black Compliance & Risk Management Professionals 
(NABCRMP) to create new speaking and training 
opportunities for Black professionals and subject 
matter experts involved in the fight against  
illicit finance.
• Becker created a diversity webinar series featuring 
a diverse panel with topics focused on resume-
building, careers in accounting and personal 
branding. Additionally, in July 2021, Becker 
announced a new Cultivating a Diverse and Inclusive 
Workplace Foundational Certificate. The five-course, 
12-credit continuing professional education program 
is designed to introduce the benefits of integrating 
true diversity, equity, belonging and inclusion into 
the workplace.
• OnCourse Learning hosted numerous activities  
to continue to raise awareness on a variety of  
DE&I topics, including Black History Month,  
women in finance and effective allyship to the 
LGBTQ+ community. 
We continuously review our education programs, 
systems and processes to ensure that we are addressing 
systemic bias within our enterprise.
While we are always advancing our efforts, we are 
proud of the inclusive culture that continues to flourish 
throughout the enterprise. We have been highly 
intentional with our practices, programs and policies  
to ensure that all colleagues are receiving equitable 
access to opportunities that can better position them 
for career growth.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       37EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Attracting, Supporting  Attracting, Supporting  
and Nurturing Top Talentand Nurturing Top Talent
We are committed to attracting and retaining 
top talent; individuals who are passionate about 
empowering students and members to achieve their 
goals, find success and make inspiring contributions 
to our global community. Our global colleagues are 
united behind this singular mission and are driven to 
make a difference each and every day.
Highlighting our commitment to DE&I is a pivotal 
element of our external strategy to attract diverse 
talent. We expect all leaders to be intentional about 
hiring, developing and retaining talent and aiming for 
diverse representation at all levels of our organization. 
Practices include recruiting diverse candidate slates, 
encouraging diverse interview teams and ensuring 
diverse representation in our career development and 
leadership training programs. In addition, we have 
processes in place to ensure our succession plans  
are inclusive. 
As within our classrooms, we strive to create dynamic 
work environments that embrace flexibility and value 
each colleague’s unique contributions and differences. 
Our inclusive culture seeks to inspire colleagues to 
achieve their potential while helping our students and 
members succeed.
A continuous improvement and learning mindset 
permeates our organization. Career development 
opportunities – both formal and informal – are 
a hallmark of the colleague experience. We 
are intentional about how we approach talent 
development, continuously evaluating how we can 
best support colleague growth while anticipating 
future business needs. Our support of our colleagues extends to our 
comprehensive, inclusive benefits package. We provide 
healthcare benefits to same-sex life partners of 
employees, medical coverage for gender reassignment 
surgery and benefits for adoption by same-sex partners. 
In addition, we offer access to on-demand mental health 
services and provide supplemental pay to support 
colleagues serving in the National Guard and reserves. 
By aiming to address the health and family, financial and 
work-life balance needs of each colleague, we believe 
that we can strengthen our ability to better serve our 
students, members and employer partners as well as 
make a greater social and economic impact in our 
global communities.
The work of building an inclusive 
culture never ends.” 
Nancy Johnson,
Vice President, Talent Acquisition and Development“
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       38EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
A 2020 Adtalem Global Education Foundation 
grant paved the way for an innovative partnership 
between AUC and BIO Ventures for Global Health 
(BVGH), a Seattle-based nonprofit working at 
the crossroads of the private and public sectors 
to advance research and improve health. The 
collaborative effort focused on building clinical 
oncology capacity to improve cancer patient 
outcomes in Africa. Without intervention, cancer 
mortality on the continent is expected to double 
by 2040.
BVGH partnered with AUC to develop learning 
objectives and course materials customized to 
address training and service gaps identified by 
local pathologists. Eight, 90-minute webinars  
were held during FY21. The first four-week course 
focused on the early detection and accurate 
diagnosis of breast cancers while  
the second covered the same with cervical 
cancers. Combined, 35 individual pathologists 
participated in the programs. Additionally, 84 AUC 
medical students joined at least one virtual session  
to share learnings across cultural and  
geographic boundaries.Addressing Training and 
Service Gaps in Africa
Thanks to Adtalem's donation, this 
multi-million-dollar initiative will scale 
innovations that support the whole child 
with a combination of educational and 
social-emotional assistance.” 
  Beth Swanson   
  CEO, A Better Chicago“
By the 
Numbers
FY21$893,316$893,316
$354,232$354,232Total Adtalem Global Education 
Foundation Grants
Total Adtalem Corporate Giving
92%92%of participants reported that they  
plan to apply the content and  
learning from each module into  
their daily work.1 $166,253$166,253US Corporate Giving
$187,979$187,979Caribbean Corporate Giving
1 African Access Initiative (AAI) Adtalem Global Education Foundation 
Final Report April 2021 provided by BIO Ventures for Global HealthEngaging and Supporting  Engaging and Supporting  
Our CommunitiesOur Communities
Driven by our core value of community, we are 
committed to serving others in and out of the 
classroom. As a responsible corporate citizen, we 
provide support to charitable and civic organizations 
across the globe that share our values and give 
back through both the Adtalem Global Education 
Foundation and through corporate philanthropy.
Founded in 2010, the Adtalem Global Education 
Foundation  is organized to support charitable, 
educational and research purposes. The nonprofit 
foundation’s activities reflect commitment to one or 
more of the following strategic areas:
• Investing to expand access to education, jobs  
and careers
• Supporting the development of the communities 
where we live and work
• Combating inequality and encouraging civic 
engagement
The Foundation’s continued support of A Better 
Chicago through the nonprofit’s Chicago Design 
Challenge is an example of its FY21 efforts. The 
challenge seeks to identify and invest in the city’s 
most promising innovations designed to accelerate 
learning recovery and well-being in communities 
disproportionately affected by the pandemic. A 
Better Chicago identifies high-potential, high-impact 
programs that serve young people from cradle to 
career and invests both unrestricted dollars and 
strategy support to empower them to grow.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       39
EMPOWERING INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTING GLOBAL COMMUNITIES
Engaging and Supporting  Engaging and Supporting  
Our Communities Our Communities continued
We understand the importance of volunteering and 
engaging with our local communities. Our educational 
institutions and financial services companies 
demonstrate their Heart  and passion for making a 
difference by supporting their communities in ways 
that deliver the most impact. 
The following is a snapshot of some of the many ways 
our colleagues, members and students came together 
to make a positive impact in communities across the 
globe during the year.
• ACAMS Joins 10,000 Black Interns Initiative:  
ACAMS has joined more than 700 companies in  
24 sectors in an effort that seeks to create 
additional career opportunities for Black students 
by offering a combined 10,000 internship 
opportunities over a five-year period.   
• AUC’s Virtual Community Action Day:  More than 
20 student-generated videos were livestreamed 
on the institution’s Facebook page on August 
1, 2020, to draw attention to local priorities in 
the Caribbean. The videos were developed in 
collaboration with 48 students and four St. Maarten 
community partners, with advising support from 
AUC faculty.
• Becker Provides Tax Guidance on the American 
Rescue Plan Act:  In March 2021, Becker hosted 
a webinar to help customers understand the tax 
implications of the American Rescue Plan Act that 
was attended by more than 900 participants.
• Chamberlain Commissions National Study on 
Nurses’ Well-Being During COVID-19:  The results 
of the study, which provide insight into stressors 
faced by nurses, were released by Forrester 
Consulting in June 2021 and served as the basis  
of an online Nurse Well-Being Assessment  
developed by Chamberlain. The fast, easy and 
insightful assessment helps respondents gauge 
their well-being and nurture self-care. 
• OnCourse Learning Offers Support to Local 
Community:  As an example of the company’s 
commitment to the communities in which it 
operates, OnCourse Learning made a financial 
contribution to Lad Lake, a nonprofit organization 
in Wisconsin that provides support to more than 
1,100 at-risk youth through individualized therapy 
and skill-building for self-reliance.• RUSM Enhances Care of Pregnant Women  
in Barbados:  In October 2020, RUSM students 
donated funds to the Barbados Family Planning 
Association to purchase a cardiotocography  
machine to monitor babies in the womb.
• RUSVM Increases Access to Affordable Veterinary 
Care with PetSmart Grant:  In partnership with the 
One Health Research Foundation (OHRF), funds 
from a PetSmart Charities grant awarded to OHRF 
supported the Basseterre Animal Rescue Center, a 
low-cost animal wellness clinic in the Federation of 
St. Kitts & Nevis, and exposed RUSVM students to 
the experiences of shelter and community medicine. 
The project helps RUSVM provide increased access 
to important veterinary care to pet owners while  
also increasing opportunities for real-life, hands-  
on care experience for Doctor of Veterinary  
Medicine students.
Scholarships Aid  Scholarships Aid  
Nontraditional Students Nontraditional Students 
Established in 2000, the Empower Scholarship Fund 
strives to help keep education within reach by providing 
financial support to qualifying current students. The 
selection criteria prioritizes applicants with the greatest 
need and who have established a successful academic 
record. In FY21, 111 of these scholarships, totaling 
$290,500, were awarded. The most recent class of 
recipients includes 32 first-generation college students 
and 14 single parents. The need for financial assistance 
continues to grow as the number of applications 
increased by 42% from the previous year.  
In addition, each of our degree-conferring institutions 
offer a variety of scholarships. While application criteria 
vary, the goal of each is to expand access to educational 
opportunities for qualifying students. In June 2021, 
ACAMS launched a scholarship program for applicants 
with diverse backgrounds seeking to become a Certified 
AML FinTech Compliance Associate (CAFCA). Under the 
CAFCA Scholarship Program, 30 candidates will be able 
to pursue the FinTech compliance certification with a full 
waiver of fees.ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       40APPENDIX
Foundation PartnersFoundation Partners
• A Better Chicago 
• After School Matters 
• American Humane 
• American Red Cross 
• Chicago Debates 
• Communities in Schools of Chicago
• Cures Within Reach 
• Global Health Corps 
• Golden Apple 
• New Leaders 
• Polaris Project 
• Project C.U.R.E. 
• Summer Search 
• Teach for America
• The Chicago Public Education Fund 
• WINGS Program
US Corporate and  US Corporate and  
   Civic Partners   Civic Partners
• A Better Chicago
• American Heart Association
• American Humane – Pups4Patriots
• American Nurses Foundation 
• American Red Cross
• Association House of Chicago
• Bata Sole
• Changing Worlds
• Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce Foundation• Chicago United
• Communities in Schools – Chicago
• Communities In Schools – Eastern Pennsylvania
• Community Support Services (CSS)
• Congressional Black Caucus Foundation
• Congressional Management Foundation
• DuPage Habitat for Humanity
• Fight2Feed 
• Foster Village
• Girls in the Game 
• Greater Chicago Food Depository
• Hispanic Unity of Florida
• Hope for Justice International
• Inter-American Dialogue
• Junior Achievement of Chicago
• Kennedy Center
• Melrose Wakefield Healthcare
• Metro Caring
• OneGoal
• Pecatonica Community Food Pantry
• People's Resource Center
• Prescott Center for the Arts 
• Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
• Project Linus
• Project Worthmore
• Share Our Spare 
• Smithsonian Institute Transcription Center
• Women Employed
• Year Up at our       heart: Our relationships with our external partners 
are core to our effort of creating lasting 
impact for our global communities and 
executing on our social mission.
ADTALEM 2021  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       41APPENDIX
Caribbean Corporate  Caribbean Corporate  
   and Civic Partners   and Civic Partners
• Barbados Cancer Society
• Barbados Diabetes Foundation
• Barbados National Vaccination Fund 
• Basseterre Animal Rescue Center
• Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management  
   Agency (CDEMA)
• Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College
• Community Outreach Mentorship & Empowerment  
   (C.O.M.E.) International Foundation
• Diabetes Foundation of St. Maarten
• Eden Lodge Youth Charitable Trust
• Elizabeth Pemberton Primary
• Explorers Youth Clubs
• FirstCaribbean International ComTrust  
   Foundation – CIBC Walk For The Cure
• Foundation for the Management & Conservation  
   of Nature
• K1 Britannia Foundation• Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Marine  
   Resources of St. Kitts
• Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing,  
   Co-operatives and Fisheries of the  
   Nevis Island Administration 
• Ministry of Education of St. Kitts and Nevis 
• Ocean View Nursing Services
• Operation School Bell
• Optimist International – Sunshine Optimist Club 
• Project C.U.R.E. 
• Rotary Club of Barbados South Charitable Trust
• St. Kitts Diabetes Association 
• St. Maarten AIDS Foundation
• St. Maarten Heart and Stroke Foundation
• Safe Haven
• Sils Dialysis Center
• Sint Maarten Ministry of Public Health,  
   Social Development and Labor
• The Hope Foundation
• The Myeloma, Lymphoma and Leukemia  
   Foundation of Barbados
• The Positive Foundation
     Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy     
  Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability      Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart      Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability 
Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy 
Accountability Community Heart Teamwork Energy Accountability Community Heart 
500 W. Monroe Street  
Chicago, IL 60661
Phone: 312.651.1400
adtalem.com
© 2021 Adtalem Global Education. All rights reserved.