Corporate Responsibility  
Summary Magazine
 BY YOUINSPIRED3 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 2 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
“  At AMD, we believe that enabling tomorrow 
means more than just delivering great products. ”
TABLE OF CONTENTS
05 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
06 ENGAGEMENT + COLLABORATION
08 CASE STUDIES
 1 2 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
 1 4 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
 1 6 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
 1 8 CASE STUDIES
22 AMD IN THE COMMUNITY
24 AMD CARES DAY OF SERVICE
26 POWERING OUR PEOPLE
28 GLOBAL OPERATIONS
30 LOOKING AHEAD
3 1 DATA TABLE
32 EXTERNAL RECOGNITIONCOMPUTE
AMD’s computing solutions include  high-performance APUs, Central  
Processing Units (CPUs), and chipsets 
designed for consumer and commercial 
devices like ultrathin notebooks, convertibles, all-in-ones, and desktops  and can be found in computers from  
every major PC manufacturer. EMBEDDED
AMD embedded solutions are everywhere — delivering immersive experiences,  
powering, protecting, automating, and 
delivering efficient solutions to industry 
clients. AMD’s embedded solutions offer innovative, graphically rich, scalable features designed to boost performance 
and capabilities while helping to reduce 
development time and total cost  
of operation.GRAPHICS
AMD continues its leadership in graphics architecture and products with award-winning AMD Radeon™ and AMD 
FirePro™ lines featuring the visionary 
Graphics Core Next (GCN) architecture. These graphics technologies are widely used in professional workstations, 
gaming PCs and consoles, servers  
and embedded designs.
his is an exciting time to be in the semiconductor 
industry, and an even more exciting time to be 
at AMD, as our talented global employees focus 
on delivering the high-performance graphics 
and computing technologies that are creating a better future. A future defined by the combination of billions of connected 
devices, expanding amounts of compute and storage 
capabilities delivered by cloud servers, and the widespread  
use of visually immersive technologies that seamlessly blend 
the physical and digital worlds. Together, these three trends will fundamentally improve how we use technology to  
interact with each other and the world around us.
At AMD, we believe that enabling tomorrow means more  
than just delivering great products. We must also remain  
true to the beliefs and practices that have made AMD a  
leader in corporate responsibility for more than 45 years. 
Success on both of these fronts requires that we further 
reduce our environmental impact while relentlessly pursuing the best ideas and unique perspectives through a diverse  
and inclusive workforce.
 This year’s corporate responsibility report highlights several 
examples of how AMD technologies are improving the world 
around us. From powering new medical breakthroughs 
using virtual reality to improving education by creating more 
engaging environments or providing the computational 
horsepower to more accurately map the universe, AMD is 
proud to be leading the way on so many different fronts. 
I am privileged to lead AMD’s thousands of employees 
around the world who are committed to acting as exemplary corporate citizens while remaining determined to deliver  
the innovations that will create a better world. 
 
Dr. Lisa Su
President and CEOTMESSAGE FROM OUR CEO AND PRESIDENT, DR. LISA SU
For more information on AMD and our corporate responsibility programs, including  
our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G4 Index and data tables, please visit our  
corporate responsibility website at www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility OF CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY  
REPORTING21
YEARS
FirePro™ S9300 x2 Server 
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)7th Generation A-Series  Accelerated Processing Unit (APU)
For more than  
46 years, AMD has 
driven innovation in 
high-performance 
computing, graphics, 
and visualization 
technologies — the 
building blocks for 
gaming, immersive 
platforms, and 
the data center. 
Hundreds of millions 
of consumers, 
leading Fortune 
500 businesses, 
and cutting-edge 
scientific research 
facilities around the 
world rely on AMD 
technology to help 
improve how they 
live, work, and play. 
AMD employees 
around the world are 
focused on building 
great products that 
push the boundaries 
of what is possible.WHO  
WE ARE:PRODUCT  
EXAMPLES
Embedded R-Series  System-on-a-Chip (SOC)
5 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 4 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
e are as committed to responsibility today as we were when we issued our  
first “environmental report” back in 1995. In that time, AMD has changed  
in some fundamental ways. Back then, AMD had manufacturing facilities  
around the globe. Today AMD is a leading semiconductor provider with a  
light operational footprint. 
With a reduced direct operational impact we are now more focused on the “upstream” and  
“downstream” parts of our value chain. Upstream, we are working with our suppliers on their 
social and environmental performance. Downstream, we are focused on the energy efficiency 
of AMD products. Our 2015 carbon footprint study showed that users who upgrade to AMD’s 
latest mobile processor can save up to 50% in electricity and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
Our work on energy efficiency led to the theme of this year’s report: “Inspired by You. ”  
It includes case studies that demonstrate the potential for AMD technologies to  
improve social and environmental conditions around the world. Lastly, we are continuing our journey toward simplification. After twenty one years of 
reports, we believe we can communicate our progress more effectively and efficiently.  
This year, AMD will discontinue our “full” sustainability report. Instead we are issuing  
this summary and publishing additional data on our website. 
We will continue to use the guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and other 
standards. And while we are honored to have been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the last 14 years, we have made the decision not to participate in this year’s survey 
in the interest of conserving resources. 
It is an exciting time at AMD, with new products, a motivated workforce, and new directions 
for corporate responsibility. I invite you to read about these changes in this summary report  
and at our website. And, as always, we welcome your feedback.
Tim Mohin 
Sr. Director, Corporate ResponsibilityOUR STATS
Established in 1969 and headquartered  
in Sunnyvale, California
More than 7 ,500 employees worldwide
Operating at 46 locations in  
25 countries, including R&D  
facilities, international sales offices, 
and joint ventures with assembly/test manufacturing facilities in Malaysia  and China
Publicly traded under NASDAQ: AMD 
2015 revenues of USD$4billion 
OUR OFFERINGS
APUs for notebook, desktop,  
professional workstation, game  console, and embedded markets
x86 microprocessors for consumer, 
embedded, and commercial markets, including data centers
Embedded microprocessors  
for industrial, commercial,  and consumer markets
Graphics, video, and multimedia 
products and technologies for desktop and notebook PCs, embedded systems, professional workstations, servers,  
and game consoles
AMD is the only company to offer an 
ambidextrous portfolio for the data center, and our x86, APU, and ARM 
technologies are targeted to meet  
the diverse needs of the modern enterprise — today and tomorrow.WCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT AMD: CHARTING THE ROAD AHEAD
5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
AMD technology powers the  
leading game consoles.
AMD technology powers virtual reality news  
and reports from the Associated Press.AMD technology powers the biggest  
Times Square Ultra HD display.
AMD technology powers the most  
immersive HTC Vive experiences. AMD technology powers education  
for tomorrow’s leaders.
AMD technology powers the  
ORION supercomputer.
The world’s top companies trust AMD. 
AMD powers everything from the world’s leading game consoles to powerful gaming PCs, 
Windows® 10-based laptops, the largest Ultra High Definition Times Square display,  
the ORION Supercomputer and beyond. 
Discover the leading products and businesses that run on AMD at AMD.com/everywhere
The AMD 2015 carbon footprint study is available at www.amd.com/Documents/carbon-footprint-study.pdf7 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 6 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Engagement: Ceres Stakeholder Panel
Working with Ceres, an award-winning, non-profit group focused on business and sustainability, AMD has  
established a stakeholder advisory panel consisting of experts from industry partners, advocacy groups and  
socially responsible investment firms. We typically meet with the panel once to twice a year to share our 
progress against goals and to gain insight on how we can improve our corporate responsibility strategies, 
communication and performance. 
In February of this year, we engaged Ceres and a team of external stakeholders to review plans for this  
year’s sustainability report. This independent group represents a range of constituencies with expertise in 
environmental, social and governance issues. In reviewing our reporting plan, the group considered whether  
AMD adequately reported on its sustainability performance and key impacts, including goals, targets, systems,  
data and initiatives. Through this review process, the Ceres stakeholder team provided extensive feedback to  
AMD, which was considered in the preparation of the final version of this report.
Collaboration: Punching above our weight 
AMD drives collaboration and innovation in the technology sector. Acting alone, even companies many times  
our size can only have limited influence. Meaningful improvement in corporate citizenship requires collaboration  
on a global scale. Collaboration between industry peers and competitors is difficult to achieve, but when it’s  
done well, it can be transformative. While we may not be the largest technology firm, our collaborative  
initiative and leadership helps benefit people and our planet well beyond our own reach.Timothy Smith 
Director of Environmental, Social, and Governance  
Shareowner Engagement, Walden Asset Management Natasha Scotnicki  
Senior Program Director,  
Corporate Program, CeresAMD has actively engaged stakeholders 
in its materiality assessment and is now 
using the results of the assessment 
to drive more robust sustainability reporting and goal-setting in key 
performance areas. Given where  
AMD sits in the value chain, it is  
critical that this report reflects its  
efforts to advance a sustainable  
global supply chain.
AMD is a long-term top performer in 
corporate responsibility, often ranked 
ahead of much larger companies. 
They serve as an example for mid-cap 
companies considering the benefits of 
corporate responsibility programs.ENGAGEMENT
COLLABORATION &A FEW EXAMPLES OF OUR INDUSTRY COLLABORATION EFFORTS:
9 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 8 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
How can we better engage students in math and science? Considering the technical challenges of the future, it’s an important question — one that inspired the founders of zSpace.
A staggering number of children report being bored in the classroom, especially when it comes to science, technology, engineering, and math — the so-called STEM skills.  
One study found that “only 16% of American high school seniors are proficient in mathematics and interested in a STEM career. ”1 To truly engage students requires an innovative  
approach. The zSpace system, powered by AMD technology, allows students to not only visualize complex topics, but interact with them in real time.From analyzing the human heart to deconstructing a piece of machinery, students simply put on a pair of zSpace glasses, pick up a stylus, and start exploring. Virtual holographic  
images can be “lifted” from the screen and manipulated with the stylus. According to zSpace Marketing Manager Amanda Austin, “zSpace changes the human/computer interface.  
Instead of leaving everything stuck behind the screen, you get to engage with it above the screen in your world. ”
Made possible by AMD FirePro™ graphics cards, zSpace is a technology borne of collaboration. With the only graphics card that could support the stereo imaging needs of the zSpace  
hardware, AMD was the obvious partner. Inspired by what zSpace was doing, AMD used the experience to improve their own products. According to Eric Tripp, Senior Quality Assurance  
Lead at zSpace, “ AMD said, ‘You know, we don’t really have any clients doing this the way you are … we don’t have anyone raising these issues. ’ So because of zSpace being sort of that  guinea pig and providing all this feedback, they’ve now built a world-class driver. ”
The AMD and zSpace joint effort is a testament to the power of collaboration and inspiration. Applying innovative technology to help students learn,  
the companies worked together to create a world-class educational solution.
I was working with a local district when a parent came rushing in and said, 
“My son came home from school today and said, ‘Dad, I finally get it now.  I get why people do this and I get how the heart works. ’”
– Elizabeth Lytle, Director of Education & Product Experience, zSpaceZSPACE AND AMD: COLLABORATING  
TO HELP STUDENTS LEARN SCIENCE  THOUGH VIRTUAL REALITY
1 Dr. Jackie Gerstein, Education Insider™, “STEM for Elementary School Students — How to Instill a Lifelong Love of Science, ” It’s About Time 08/13/2015INSPIRED,  
EVERY DAY 
We are inspired by how 
digital technology has improved our world.  
From helping students  
learn to innovative new therapies for veterans,  
to even mapping the universe we live in, AMD technology is opening new doors to a better world. 11 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 10 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
“MORE SMOG, MORE GUNFIRE,  
  MORE BACKGROUND NOISE… ” 
For Marine Corps veteran Chris Merkle, coping with the lingering stress of his deployment in Iraq has meant embracing new technology 
created for combat veterans like himself. 
It’s called Bravemind, and it’s a virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) simulation to help those suffering from post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD). Utilizing an immersive and realistic virtual environment enabled by AMD graphics technologies, Bravemind recreates 
unique interactive scenarios to help soldiers normalize the experiences they went through. The end result? A huge leap forward in 
their personal therapy. According to Merkle, “it allowed me to go back in time pretty much, and put me right back in that exact place ... and I’m able to process that instead of avoiding it. ” By providing his own input to make the scenario more life-like for his situation, 
Merkle was able to repeatedly experience and process what he went through — in his own words, fast-forwarding his therapy by  
two to three years.
Powered by AMD FirePro™ graphics, Bravemind is the brainchild of Skip Rizzo, PhD VR Research Director at the University of 
Southern California, who was inspired to explore the possibilities of clinical VR in the early 1990s. But his true inspiration for 
Bravemind came when he saw a video clip of Full Spectrum Warrior™, a real-time tactical video game. With realistic graphics that 
looked like Iraq and Afghanistan, the game made him think back to his time as a clinician at the Veteran’s Administration (VA),  
doing PTSD treatment with Vietnam vets. Concerned that U.S. soldiers currently on tour in the Middle East would soon be returning home with Vietnam-level trauma, he decided to use his VR knowledge to help. 
After receiving initial funding from the Office of Naval Research, Rizzo created his prototype with four scenarios: desert driving, 
mountain driving, U.S. driving, and a small Middle Eastern city. Within a few years, he received more funding to build out 14 different 
worlds, from an Afghan village to a remote mountain outpost, an industrial area, and more. 
While VR is becoming more and more recognized in the mainstream, it still has a long way to go. With the help of AMD, Rizzo is 
trying to spearhead a consortium to build enough systems for every VA facility. And there’s no denying the need. According to Merkle, 
“When we come back, we really need assistance transitioning. I think this is an amazing tool that really helps us catch up to our peers. ”11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Some people 
have tried many forms  of therapy  and this is  the only thing that works  for them.
–  Skip Rizzo, PhD  
VR Research Director, 
University of  
Southern California13 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 12 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
We take pride in designing technology that provides world-class performance as well as security and energy efficiency.
Energy Efficiency
We continue to accelerate energy efficiency gains that optimize the computing performance delivered per watt of energy consumed.  
This is a vital aspect of AMD’s business strategy and our cutting-edge chip architecture, design and power management features have 
resulted in significant leaps forward in processor energy efficiency. 
POLARIS  
ARCHITECTURE
Our groundbreaking Polaris 
architecture will power visually 
rich experiences ranging  
from gaming and virtual  
reality devices to medical 
imaging while expanding the 
horizons of energy efficiency. 
Polaris-based graphics 
promise as much as twice  
the performance per watt 
compared to our previous 
graphics processing units.1  
Our guiding light is to 
efficiently power every  
pixel on every device. ON TRACK FOR 25x 20 
In 2014, we announced a goal to accelerate the energy efficiency of  
our mobile APU processors by 25 times by 2020. The first two products 
launched under the goal — the 6th and 7th generation A-Series APUs — 
position AMD ahead of the trend line to meet 25x20.
ACCELERATING ENERGY EFFICIENCY
TYPICAL USE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
“Tigris”“Kaveri”6th Generation APU,
“Carrizo”7th Generation APU,
“Bristol Ridge”Required Trend
for 25x20
Energy Eﬃciency 
of AMD APUs
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
10xINCREASE IN ENERGYEFFICIENCY(2009–2014) 25xADDITIONAL ENERGYEFFICIENCY BY 2020(2014–2020)
Energy efﬁciency gains from “Bristol Ridge” puts AMD ahead of the trend line needed to achieve our 25x20 goal
For more information and substantiation please go to www.amd.com/en-us/innovations/software-technologies/25x20 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Security
With “always connected” computing devices and the increasing amount of sensitive  
data shared digitally, entire societies now depend on secure information technology (IT).  
A trusted computing environment is a fundamental necessity for any IT infrastructure  
to function properly. 
The AMD Secure Processor is our robust security solution that provides built-in security  
on our SOCs and APUs. These products feature ARM® TrustZone® technology, a system- 
wide approach to security that enables partner software to run on top of our hardware  
by partitioning the SOC/APU into two virtual “worlds. ” Sensitive tasks run on the AMD 
Secure Processor — in the “secure world” — while other tasks run in “normal operation. ”
We’ve been incorporating security features into our silicon and partnering with both 
independent hardware vendor (IHV) and independent software vendor (ISV) companies  
to create world class solutions for many years. We will continue working alongside 
customers, partners and public policy makers to bring innovative security measures  
to market. Providing security to users of our processors is a top priority for AMD.
Life Cycle Assessment
Our aim is to minimize environmental impact at every stage of the product life cycle.  
In 2015, we conducted a life cycle carbon footprint study of our 6th Generation A-Series APU, 
which was then reviewed by a third party. They confirmed that using the 6th Generation 
A-Series APU can result in up to 50% reduction in GHG emissions compared to the previous 
generation APU, while more than doubling battery life and performance per watt.  
 
The overall power and GHG savings can be significant for our enterprise customers.  
For example, upgrading 100,000 PCs to the 6th Generation AMD A-Series APU  
(from the previous generation) could save an estimated 4.9 million kilowatt hours  
of electricity — or roughly USD$495,000 (assuming U.S. pricing) and 3,350 metric  tons of GHG over a 3-year product service life. These savings are equivalent to the  
energy needed to power 461 U.S. homes for a year.Packaging
We’ve reduced the net weight of raw materials in our “processor in a box” (PIB) packaging  
by 71% since 2010. The smaller and lighter packaging also utilizes more recycled and  
reused materials. In the previous five years, the savings from these efficient designs  
have been remarkable:
Reduced 644 metric 
tons of raw materials, 
equivalent to the weight 
of 400 average cars  
Saved more than  
USD$3million
The AMD carbon footprint study is available at www.amd.com/Documents/carbon-footprint-study.pdf1 For more information please visit www.amd.com/en-us/innovations/software-technologies/25x201 For more information, please visit http://www.amd.com/
en-us/innovations/software-technologies/radeon-polaris80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
050% GHG drop 
in use phaseKgCO2-e / APU
“Kaveri”
Water Fabrication“Carrizo”
Assembly, Test & Pack Product UseCarbon Footprint Comparison of AMD A-Series APUs115 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 14 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Our goal is to deliver high-quality products while ensuring that working conditions 
throughout our supply chain are safe, that workers are treated with respect and  
dignity, and that manufacturing processes are environmentally responsible. 
On April 29, 2016, AMD and Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (TFME) announced a 
semiconductor joint venture that gave TFME operational control of AMD’s assembly, test, 
mark and pack (ATMP) manufacturing facilities in Penang, Malaysia and Suzhou, China, 
including approximately 1,700 employees and management team members. TFME has an 
85% ownership of each of the ATMP facilities, while AMD retains 15% ownership of both 
operations. TFME serves as the controlling shareholder for the new joint venture businesses. The transaction combines AMD’s high-volume ATMP facilities with TFME’s expertise to 
service a broad range of customers. This latest step in our strategic transformation further 
sharpens our focus and operations on designing high-performance products.
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) 
AMD is a long-standing member of the EICC. Our Senior Director of Corporate Responsibility is the immediate past-Chairman of the EICC Board of Directors. We have adopted the 
standards within the EICC Code of Conduct and expect our suppliers to conform to them  
as well. We annually assess conformance to the EICC Code of Conduct for ourselves and  
our manufacturing suppliers.
 
Conflict Minerals
We are taking steps to break the link between the trade in minerals and ongoing conflict  
and human rights abuses in Central Africa. To this end, we believe that an effective  
approach has three fundamental elements:1. A mineral certification program that enables the traceability and certification  of minerals mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining  
countries (the “DRC region”) 
2. A conflict-free smelter program that enables third-party validation of each smelter’s 
sourcing practices and a determination of whether its sources are conflict-free 
3. Due diligence to verify that tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold in AMD’s finished  
products can be traced to a certified conflict-free smelter.
Human Rights
Our long-standing commitment to upholding high standards of corporate responsibility includes respecting the human rights of individuals directly impacted by our global 
operations. We strictly forbid any forced labor practices or human trafficking in any  
AMD operations or our supply chain. 
AMD’s Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct outlines our expectations for ethical 
conduct and human rights commitments. All AMD employees, agents and contractors  
are required to be periodically trained on upholding these standards. 
In addition, we’ve adopted the EICC Code of Conduct in our own operations and as our 
Supplier Code of Conduct. We believe that these industry-wide standards are an efficient 
and effective means to integrate social, environmental, and ethical responsibilities into  
the global electronics industry supply chain. SUPPLY CHAIN
RESPONSIBILITY
CANADATa Sn Au W
Compliant: with Conﬂict Free Smelter Program (CFSP) audit protocols, includes LBMA Responsible Gold, and TI-CMC Member Companies (Tungsten)
Active: in process of completing CFSP audit
CFSP-eligible: conﬁrmed SOR eligible for CFSP , but not yet participating94%TANTALUM SMELTERS OR REFINERS (SOR) TIN TUNGSTEN GOLD
93% 100% 100%
100% of conﬂict mineral smelters or reﬁners identiﬁed in AMD’s supply chain have been independently 
audited or are active in CFSP audit process.2  AMD’s primary silicon wafer foundries are conﬂict-free.3Data Table1# %
Compliant
Active
CFSP-eligible
Total
1. Based on information provided to AMD by our manufacturing suppliers and the CFSI as of March 31, 2016.
2. Excludes legacy supplier data from SeaMicro, which AMD exited in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015. 
3. Based on silicon wafers received from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and TSMC as of March 31, 2016.100%0%4%96%
205091967% 6%
17 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 16 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Charting a Sustainable Path to 2020 
We’ve established new science-based climate protection goals for AMD operations and expanded our supply chain climate protection program.  
Climate science concludes the U.S. corporate sector needs to reduce absolute GHG emissions by an average of 3.2% per year through 2020 to avoid  
the worst effects of climate change.1
Following this “3% Solution, ” AMD’s science-based goal is a 20% reduction of our operational GHG emissions by 2020, from a 2014 baseline.2 We utilized  
input and models from climate experts to set this goal, and plan to achieve it by reducing energy use and increasing our usage of renewable energy. 
We achieved a 12% reduction in absolute energy use and 13% of our energy was derived from renewable sources in 2015. Other 2015 environmental  
results include a 10% reduction in global water use, and a 77% diversion of non-hazardous waste from landfills. In 2015, the savings from conservation  
efforts exceeded an estimated USD$4million.
Expanding Supply Chain Sustainability 
Silicon wafer manufacturing represents the bulk of AMD’s environmental footprint within 
our supply chain. Starting in 2014, we partnered with our semiconductor foundry partners to 
establish “best-in-class” environmental goals for AMD wafer production. These goals were 
designed to significantly outperform industry averages across environmental and safety 
performance metrics. AMD and our semiconductor foundry partners are on track for each  
goal as of the end of 2015. In 2016, we are expanding this partnership approach to other  
manufacturing suppliers. ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY
AMD joined 
the “ American 
Business Act on 
Climate Pledge” to 
support positive 
action-oriented 
outcomes from 
the 2015 United 
Nations climate 
summit in Paris. 
The negotiations 
resulted in nearly 
200 countries 
agreeing to a 
historic global  
climate accord.THE WHITE 
HOUSE’S 
AMERICAN 
BUSINESS ACT 
ON CLIMATE 
PLEDGE
1 www.cdp.net/CDPResults/3-percent-solution-report.pdf  
2  The 2014 baseline for 2020 GHG reduction goal does not include  
AMD’s ATMP operations due to transfer to a joint venture in 2016.1 Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) average is from 2015.  
2 MI = Manufacturing Index: (Sq. cm of silicon x masking layers x wafers per year)
Based on the US EPA ’s greenhouse gas equivalences calculatorAMD Green Teams: Grassroots Sustainability Action
Our award-winning Go Green program connects AMD 
employees and the environment. It aims to educate and 
inspire AMDers around the globe to conserve resources, 
save money, and improve the environment around them. 
In 2015, we launched a web portal to support and encourage 
AMD employees in their efforts to improve the environment.  
Called “My Sustainability, ” the site lists 60 specific actions 
that include eating local organic food, carpooling, and turning 
off office equipment each day. Employees can set goals,  earn badges, and see their “Eco-Ranking” compared to peers. 
In 2015, employees entered over 1,000 actions that resulted 
in measurable savings: Employee Eco Awards
Awarding Eco Excellence — In 2015,  
AMD held its 5th annual “Eco Awards”  
to recognize employees’ personal  
commitment to sustainability. Winners  received executive and peer recognition,  
along with a custom-engraved bamboo plaque.
1. Water Warden: COLBY RENFRO  Mile High Design Center: Saved 230,000 liters of water.
2. Energizer: JAMES DEPENNING  
Boston Design Center: Conserved 5,600 kilowatt  
hours of electricity.
3. Trash Talker: JOHANN PAIS  Austin: Avoided 400 kilograms of waste to landfill.
4. OVERALL WINNER: MELANIE GOMEZ  
Markham: Completed a total of 40 sustainability  
actions and achieved AMD’s top eco-ranking!
KPI
GHG emissions (direct) On track
On track
On track
On trackOn trackElectricity use
Water use
Hazardous waste recycle rate
Injury & illness rate30% below SIA avg. per MI 
1, 2
40% below SIA avg. per MI 1, 2
40% below SIA avg. per MI 1, 2
65% or higher
Reduce year over yearAMD GOAL STATUSWater saved 3,002,521 liters
87,782 kilograms
5,670 kilograms70,860 kilowatt hoursEmissions avoided
Energy saved
Waste reduction
IN 2015 ALONE   
THE EMISSION REDUCTIONS  
WERE EQUIVALENT TO  
REMOVING  
400 VEHICLES 
FROM U.S. ROADSGREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS FROM   
EMPLOYEE COMMUTES  
AND AIR TRAVEL   
HAVE DECREASEDSINCE 201023%
19 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 18 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
 HOW THE LARGEST COMPUTER LEARNING LAB IN THE U.S.  
BUILDS ONE-ON-ONE RELATIONSHIPS
For the staff at Austin Community College (ACC), everything they do is about helping students. Their mantra is “Start Here, Get There. ” And for many of the college’s 
roughly 50,000 enrollees, that means spending time in the ACCelerator. A high-tech learning lab, the ACCelerator is home to more than 600 Dell Wyse thin clients 
powered by AMD Embedded G-Series APUs. “Thin client” refers to desktop computers that are connected to a server for centralized management so there are fewer points of failure, less susceptibility to viruses or malware, better security, and greater energy efficiency. The ACCelerator uses thin clients for traditional learning and for 
delivery of a widely recognized and innovative math course called Assessment and Learning in Knowledge Spaces (ALEKS). An adaptive learning program, ALEKS uses 
artificial intelligence to assess proficiency and progress, creating a customized learning plan which allows students to reach college-level math at their own pace with 
the help of dedicated instructors who give one-on-one attention. 
The ACCelerator lab is very much in line with ACC’s mission of sustainability. As a signee of the Carbon Commitment (formerly known as the American College & University Presidents’ Climate Commitment), ACC has pledged to make their facility and operations carbon neutral by 2050. According to Andy Kim, Director of Environmental Stewardship, “We always look at the best value for the district — which means that we are looking at the value and sustainability attributes of the products or services 
we buy. ” When considering technology options, Mr. Kim believed that the Dell Wyse thin client computers powered by AMD processors would enable the ACC campus to 
reduce their energy consumption (compared with a traditional desktop environment). And he was right. AMD-powered Dell Wyse thin clients are estimated to reduce the 
lab’s energy consumption and GHG emissions by 82%.As a community college, we are there to help anybody 
—in any stage of their learning and formal education—  
get from where they are to where they want to go. 
– John Thomason, Professor, Austin Community CollegeCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 18 
THE USE OF  
THIN CLIENTS  
INSTEAD OF  
DESKTOPS 
RESULTED  
IN AN ESTIMATED  
82% SAVINGS  
IN ENERGY  
AND  
GREENHOUSE  
GASES
1
1 Based on ACC’s typical usage data and calculated using AMD’s Total Savings Estimator available at www.amd.com/en-us/solutions/embedded/thin-client/tco-calculatorCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 20 
THE POWER TO MAP THE UNIVERSE
The universe. A mysterious vastness with an unknown history, it has piqued the interest of scientists 
since the dawn of time. And now, thanks to the efforts of Professor Keith Vanderlinde of the Dunlap 
Institute at the University of Toronto and AMD technology, its farthest reaches are being explored.
The Canadian Hydrogen Intensity Mapping Experiment, or CHIME, is a massive radio telescope  
being built in British Columbia. Designed to map a larger volume of the universe than has ever been  
attempted before, the goal of CHIME is to trace a large part of the universe’s history, to map how  
it has expanded over time, and try to figure out the role dark energy plays in that expansion.
Historically, optical telescopes have been used to map the galaxies in the universe. The problem is,  
as you get farther and farther from Earth, things become fainter and harder to see, requiring ever  
more complex (and expensive) telescopes. To overcome this, CHIME measures the bulk emission  
of “radio light” — radio waves emitted from hydrogen gas — from many galaxies together.  
This increases the overall signal strength, helping them to more efficiently map the universe.
In the past, this type of measurement would have required many large, hundred-meter-class radio 
telescopes. The creators of CHIME realized that rather than building dozens of telescopes, they could 
build one “digital telescope” that would process all the light it received with a massive supercomputer 
powered by a series of the world’s fastest single-precision GPU accelerators, the AMD FirePro™ S9300  x2 GPU.
1 This supercomputer can continually focus in many directions simultaneously, making the 
instrument not only more sensitive, but faster.
While the possibilities were endless, due to the sheer computational power required, digital telescopes 
have until now been prohibitively expensive undertakings. Enter AMD. According to Vanderlinde,  
“ AMD has the fastest processor on the market and they can do these computations more efficiently 
than anybody else. Not only at a lower price and at lower power, but it was an easier development 
process to get from zero to here. We’re very appreciative of the supporting efforts from AMD in this 
project. ” The result? An ideal collaboration of scientific ingenuity and technological prowess — initiated 
on Earth and completed in the stars.21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
With the onset of  
previously unavailable technology and tools  such as the AMD FirePro™ S9300 x2 GPU, we now have the computational power, bandwidth, and efficiency to study the impact of dark energy  on our universe.
–  Keith Vanderlinde,  
Professor, University of Toronto 
1 AMD internal testing as of March 2016. System configurations may vary, yielding different results.  
 For more information please visit http://www.amd.com/en-us/products/graphics/server/s9300-x223 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 22 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINEAMD  IN THE 
   COMMUNITY“I want to be a doctor. ” “I want to be a computer programmer. ” “I want to be an engineer. ” These aren’t the declarations of incoming  
university freshmen, but career aspirations of students around the world that have participated in AMD Changing the Game, an initiative  
of the AMD Foundation to inspire youth to learn critical science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) skills. 
We know that young people are the key to solving the world’s most complex issues, and strong STEM skills are essential. AMD’s Changing  
the Game program fosters collaboration between schools, private industry, non-profit groups and others to advance STEM education  
in new and innovative ways. AMD Changing the Game has been implemented in eight regions around the world, including the  
United States, China, Malaysia, Canada, Europe, the United Arab Emirates, Brazil and India. 
In 2015, we collaborated with Quest Alliance to develop a hands-on program in schools in Bangalore and Hyderabad, India. 371 students  
(186 female and 185 male) participated in the pilot program designed to introduce students to STEM by designing simple games and  
coding projects using Scratch, a free programming language designed by the MIT Media Lab. AMD also equipped the schools with state  
of the art computer labs featuring HP desktop systems. In addition, AMD India employees contributed their time to serve as mentors  
to the students.
A globalized, technology-driven world means that students and teachers alike need to cultivate skills that can meet 21st century  
challenges. By working through the game design process from start to finish, both students and teachers develop problem solving  
and collaborative learning skills. AMD CHANGING THE GAME — BUILDING SCIENCE, 
TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATH SKILLS  
THROUGH GAME DESIGN FOR 
MORE  
THAN  
30 YEARS 
AMD has invested money, 
time, and technology in  
organizations that help 
strengthen communities 
worldwide. Additionally,  
our employees continue  
to make their communities  
a better place by donating  
their time, talent, and  
money to charitable causes. 
Since 1995, AMD employees  
have contributed  
$16.4 million and have 
performed more than  
188,000 hours  
of volunteer 
service.
AMD’s annual Fan Drive for Family Eldercare
AMD has a long-standing relationship with the Austin nonprofit Family Eldercare,  
which has the mission of providing essential services to seniors, adults with  
disabilities, and caregivers in the Central Texas area. Since 1998, through  
sponsorship, fundraising, and volunteer time dedicated to their Summer Fan Drive,  
AMD and its employees have contributed over $217 ,000 to the organization, thereby 
providing more than 15,000 fans to those in need during the hot summer months. 
Before this class  
we were not able  
to understand 
programming, but  
now that we have  
been working on the  computers we are able  
to understand coding  and have the skills to  do projects on our own. 
This has been the  
missing class at  
our school.
–  Yashawini and Deepika, 
Students in India
AMD Changing the Game provides an avenue for students in India 
to enhance their STEM skills and for teachers to further develop  
their skill set to help educate and motivate students. 
– Swetang Vin, Corporate VP , Finance25 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 24 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
        AMD  CARES  
 DAY OF SERVICE
Employees from Singapore to Sunnyvale and points in between came together to support their communities through volunteer projects. 
The goal was simple: mobilize teams of AMDers to make an impact in their communities on a coordinated day and to continue that 
spirit of service throughout the year.
What we accomplished
What we accomplished  
Volunteers in Texas, Colorado, California and Massachusetts participated in several open 
space beautification and maintenance projects to help create more sustainable parks. 
Employees from our Sunnyvale, California site spent a morning at the InnVision Shelter 
working on a number of improvement projects, including painting and lawn maintenance,  
to provide a safe and pleasant environment for the residents.
Through the Seminole Education, Restoration, and Volunteer Program, AMD employees  
in Orlando, Florida removed trash from the Econlockhatchee River to protect water quality, 
community health, and area wildlife.
Employees in Taiwan and Hong Kong removed over 30 bags of trash from riverbanks  
and shorelines, continuing their ongoing efforts to help protect the environment.
In support of education initiatives, our Singapore employees hosted a tech day event  
for students from the East Coast Primary School, while several other sites assembled  
learning kits, wrote notes of encouragement and mentored local school children.
In Malaysia, volunteers purchased, prepped, cooked, and distributed meals to homeless 
people. Austin, Texas employees also served meals to the homeless through Caritas 
Community Kitchen, and employees in Boxborough, Massachusetts packed 11,000 meals  
for Stop Hunger Now.What we learned
Keep it flexible: While many employees liked being out in the community, others appreciated the flexibility of onsite projects. Hosting volunteer events at the office was successful for 
many of our sites; in fact, the AMD office in Boxborough, Massachusetts more than doubled 
their expected participation rate. We also offered a variety of different causes that our 
employees could choose to support.
Make it personal: Email and social media are great tools for getting the word out, but our 
most effective communications were face-to-face meetings with site leaders who then 
became champions for the cause.
Plan early and share the load: An event of this scope takes a great deal of planning to 
execute properly. AMD’s global network of site champions were on the front line identifying 
volunteer opportunities, recruiting employees, and leading projects.
Recognize and reward: Recognition goes a long way and it’s critical to acknowledge and  
thank volunteer leaders and participants so they look forward to future activities.
Keep the spirit going: While one day can definitely make an impact, one of the biggest 
benefits of the Day of Service model is to raise awareness of the importance of volunteering 
in the community year-round. Nutritious meals  
packed & servedEducational student  
project kits assembled
Bags of trash from  
6 shoreline cleanupsTrees  
planted
Parks restored — lots of mulch 
spread, miles of trails clearedRaised for  
charities1,184
3,50217
48EMPLOYEE  
VOLUNTEERS
VOLUNTEER  
HOURS  GLOBAL  
SITES  
GLOBAL  
NON-PROFITS  
11K+
$20K+400+
200+1K+
725 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
We have an obligation to be good stewards in the communities where we operate.  
Yes, we are innovators and technologists — but AMD Cares Day of Service is a chance  
for our neighbors to see that we care about our communities.Mark Papermaster, 
Senior VP and CTOFOR 
MORE  
THAN  
30 YEARS 
AMD has encouraged our 
employees to volunteer in  
the communities where  
they live and work.  
To build on this history,  
AMD hosted its  
first annual 
AMD Cares Day 
of Service in 
September  
of 2015.
Mark Papermaster, Senior VP and Chief Technology 
Officer, and Devinder Kumar, Senior VP and Chief 
Financial Officer, distributing food at a volunteer event  
at the Columbia Neighborhood Center in Sunnyvale, CA.27 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 26 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINEGender Diversity Metrics
In 2015, we first reported the gender makeup of our engineering teams. Our 2015 data is  
nearly identical to our 2014 data, except for a 1% increase in women in senior management.  
We recognize the challenge of increasing representation of women in engineering and other  
roles and will continue our efforts to recruit diverse talent and foster an inclusive culture.
Employee Resource Groups
AMD launched a new policy in 2016 that aims to encourage employee engagement through  the creation of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). We’ve had affinity groups for years,  
notably the Women’s Forum. The introduction of a corporate ERG policy is intended to  
clarify the process and encourage other employee groups to form.
ERGs are an important facet of AMD’s culture. They augment our workplace culture as well as 
suggest improvements to policies and programs that help make AMD a great place to work.Current ERGs at AMD
AMD Future Leaders — This ERG was created to develop, unite and empower early career 
professionals through various learning opportunities that foster growth and success. 
AMD Green Teams — This ERG aims to educate and inspire AMDers around the globe to conserve 
resources, save money, and improve the environment.
AMD Pride — The mission of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) and Allies of AMD 
Pride is to promote a positive and inclusive environment for all employees, regardless of sexual 
orientation or gender identity, through education, networking, and workplace collaboration. 
AMD Women’s Forum (AWF) — The AWF strives to build a respected and innovative company 
through the collaboration and contributions of women.
Health & Wellness
Our Wellness@Work program helps our employees and family members get healthy and stay 
healthy. This program focuses on maintaining healthy weight, eating right, exercising more,  
and avoiding tobacco to improve quality of life and reduce healthcare costs.POWERING
OUR PEOPLEInnovation is AMD’s 
core value proposition and fuels our business. 
Innovation is at its  
best when creative minds and people  
with all kinds of 
backgrounds work 
together in an  
engaging and  open environment.
Ruth Cotter  
Senior VP and Chief Human Resources OfficerIf you believe you can change the world, you will. Ensuring that we are 
extraordinarily successful in what we do will make it easier for the next group. Really thinking about our how we enable the next generation of women leaders is critical.
Dr. Lisa Su 
President and CEO
From Dr. Su’s presentation at the Institute of Electrical and  
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Women in Engineering (WIE)  
conference Lead Beyond: Accelerating Innovative Women Who Can 
Change the World in April of 2015. Dr. Su delivered her thematic 
keynote: Believe – Success – Enable, in which she offered her  
inspiring guide for navigating careers into the future of technology.Total Workforce Senior Management Engineering
Every one of us can change the world because we are working in the most exciting technology field. Dr. Lisa Su, 
President and CEO87% 83% 71% Male Male Male
Female Female Female 13% 17% 29%Raffle winners from the AWF’s Fireside Chat  
with Dr. Lisa SuMembers of AMD’s newest ERG,  Pride2015 GLOBAL EMPLOYEE DATA29 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 28 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Istanbul, Turkey – SalesGrenoble, France – Sales
Tokyo, Japan – Sales
Sydney, Australia – SalesSeoul, South Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesPenang, Malaysia – Manufacturing1Penang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai, India – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – Sales
Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignFleet, UK – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing1
Bangalore, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChongqing, China – SalesMilan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany 
– Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate,
Business Services, R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, DesignMarkham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,
Business ServicesMARKHAM
Established: 1985; Acquired by AMD in 2006  
Operations:  AMD Canadian Headquarters 
and graphics R&D center
SUNNYVALE
Established: 1969  
Operations: AMD Corporate 
Headquarters, R&D, DesignBEIJING
Established:  2004  
Operations: Greater China 
Headquarters, R&D, Design
TAIPEI
Established: 1987  
Operations:  Business ServicesSUZHOU
Established: 2005  
Operations:  Assembly, test, mark, and pack facility1
HYDERABAD
Established:  2008  
Operations:  R&D, Design focusing on 
graphics and computing solutionsBANGALORE
Established:  2004  
Operations:  R&D, Design  
focusing on graphics  
and computing solutionsMALAYSIA
Penang Established:  1972  
Operations:  Assembly,  
test, mark, and pack facility1
AMD Cyberjaya Established: 2008  
Operations:  Business ServicesAUSTIN
Established:  1978  
Operations:  Corporate, R&D, Design
EUROPE & MIDDLE EAST
Operations:  R&D, Design, Business Services, 
Distribution Center, and Sales
AMD REGIONS
Europe, Middle East, & AfricaAsia-PacificGreater ChinaThe AmericasRESPONSIBILITY
ON A GLOBAL SCALE
Locations shown represent AMD owned or leased properties  
only. AMD-related R&D, design, sales, and other activities  
occur at numerous locations not included on the map.SHANGHAI
Established: 2006  
Operations: Shanghai Research  
and Development Center (SRDC); 
AMD’s largest system design hub 
outside of the United States
Manufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OﬃcesSales
1  TFME has operational control of assembly/test  
manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and ChinaBRAZIL & LATIN AMERICA
Operations:  Business Services and Sales
Offices in São Paulo, Mexico City, and  
Buenos Aires31 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE 30 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE
Year-end data Key performance indicator 2013 2014 2015
Employees Total number of employees 10,671 9,687 9,139
Percentage of female employees 28% 29% 29%
Worldwide injury and illness case rate (per 100 workers) 0.10 0.14 0.10
Employee volunteer hours 9,043 9,208 8,541
Economic Total revenue (in millions USD) $5,299 $5,506 $3,991
Net loss (in millions USD) ($83) ($403) ($660)
AMD Foundation giving (USD) $234,931 $17,5001$13,5001
Other cash and in-kind giving (USD) $234,931 $242,053 $117,048
Environment Energy use (gigawatt hours – GWh) 345 295 261
CO2 equivalent emissions (metric tons CO2e, scope 1&2) 219,590 204,595 203,451
Water use (million liters) 913 788 710
Waste water discharge (million liters) 228 1022662
Non-hazardous waste (metric tons) 2,049 1,671 1,008
Landfill diversion rate 78% 74% 77%
Supply chain Manufacturing supplier3 facilities that have completed the EICC’s Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) 100% 100% 100%
Number of “high-risk” manufacturing supplier facilities based on SAQ scores 0 0 0DATA TABLE
1  AMD Foundation giving was largely suspended in 2013 due to business conditions. We have increased emphasis 
on donating the time and talents of our employees to continue to support local communities. 
2 Waste water reduction was due to water recycling and reduction projects, and through improved measurement.3  “Manufacturing suppliers” includes suppliers who contribute materials that directly impact and become 
a part of AMD products.
Figures in italics are revised from previous year’s report due to data validation and updated calculation factors.Zen & Zen+
Our high performance x86 “Zen” architecture — scheduled to arrive in late 2016 — will  
create a new class of server and desktop processors. Some key performance highlights:
1. New, ground-up, high-performance x86 core design
2. Simultaneous Multithreading architecture (SMT) for high throughput
3. New high-bandwidth, low latency cache system
4. Energy-efficient FinFET design scales from client to enterprise-class products
5. 40% boost in performance (instructions per clock) expected1 
6. Our Zen+ product will follow-on and deliver another anticipated step-up in performance 
7. AMD’s all new CPU, “Summit Ridge, ” targeting the desktop computer market will use  
the same package as our “Bristol Ridge” APU, giving us a single platform for APU and  
CPU products. This presents a tremendous advantage for customers who may want  
to move systems between APU and CPU with a discrete GPU.LOOKING  
AHEAD
AMD AND THE  
ASSOCIATED PRESS  
COLLABORATE TO ENABLE 
NEXT-GENERATION  
VIRTUAL REALITY (VR)  
JOURNALISM
AMD collaborated with the  
Associated Press (AP) to form a new 
virtual reality experience news channel 
to fuel next-generation journalism. As 
part of the collaboration between the 
companies, AP leverages AMD Radeon™ 
graphics technology to render lifelike VR 
environments built around news and 
documentary content, and AMD 
provides the hardware platforms, 
software technology and VR expertise 
to support AP’s journalism in  
VR and 360˚ video.
1 Based on internal AMD estimates for “Zen” x86 CPU core compared to “Excavator” x86 CPU coreCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
SUMMARY MAGAZINE32 RECOGNITION
Finalist in PR News’ 2016 CSR Awards 
for Sustainability/CSR Report.
The Environmental Leader Product & Project Awards recognize 
excellence in products, services, or projects that provide  companies with energy and environmental benefits.
Awarded to those companies which according to the oekom  
Corporate Rating are among the leaders in their industry and  which meet industry-specific minimum requirements.Listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America  Index in 2015. AMD has been listed since 2002.
Listed on the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes. 
AMD FirePro™ S9150 GPUs powered the L -CSC cluster at the GSI 
research facility which ranked #3 in The Green 500’s November  2015 list of the most energy efficient supercomputers in the world.
For the fourth consecutive year, Thomson Reuters  
recognized AMD as one of the 100 top global innovators.
AMD ranked No. 13 in Forbes’ list of The 25  
Happiest Companies To Work For In 2015.  AMD ranked No. 14 in Business Insider’s 2015 list of  The 25 Best Tech Companies To Work For In America.©2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD logo,  
FirePro, Radeon and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other trade names are used for identification purposes only and  may be the property or trademarks of their respective owners.
The inclusion of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names 
herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. by MSCI or any of its affiliates.  
The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of  
MSCI or its affiliates.TO LEARN MORE,  
VISIT WWW.AMD.COM/ CORPORATERESPONSIBILITYTO LEARN MORE,  
VISIT WWW.AMD.COM/ CORPORATERESPONSIBILITY
