coreCORP ORate 
ReSPONSIBILI tY 
Summa RYit’s at ourOur offerings:
•	accelerated Processing u nits	(APUs)	for	consumer	
and	commercial	notebook,	desktop,	tablet	and	
embedded 	markets
•	x86 microprocessors 	for	commercial	and	consumer	
markets
•	embedded microprocessors 	for	commercial,	
commercial	client	and	consumer	markets
•	Chipsets 	for	desktop	and	notebook	PCs,	embedded	
systems,	professional	workstations	and	servers
•	Graphics, video and multimedia products 	and	
technologies	for	desktop	and	notebook	PCs,	embedded	systems,	professional	workstations,		servers	and	game	consoles
 *www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility Our stats:
•	Established	in	1969	and	headquartered	in	Sunnyvale,	
California
•	Employees:	more	than	10,000	worldwide
•	More	than	50	locations	worldwide,	including	more	than	
a	dozen	R&D	facilities,	nearly	two	dozen	international	
sales	offices,	and	assembly/test	manufacturing	facilities	in	Malaysia	and	China
•	Publicly	traded	(NYSE:	AMD)
•	Fortune	500	firm•	2012	revenues	of	$5.42	billionProduct Highlights:
The next generation of 
Accelerated Processors (APUs) from AMD, code named “Kabini”, designed for desktop and notebook solutions
AMD FirePro™ S10000 high 
density, high performance server graphics for Compute, Professional Graphics and VDI AMD Radeon™ HD 7900 Series, code named “Tahiti”. The world’s most advanced and versatile GPUs, taking gaming to a new level
SeaMicro technology offers the 
highest density and most energy efficient servers on the market.  Each server cluster (10 rack-unit with 64 servers) uses a fraction of the power and space as traditional servers, at up to 12X the throughput4 Global Presence
6 AMD Changing the Game
10 Employee Engagement
12 Technology
14 Supply Chain
16 Environment
18 Health & Safety
20 Stakeholder Engagement
22 Data Tables
Rory Read
AMD CEO and PresidentMESSAGE
FROM
THE CEO
3 2AMD	has	great	people,	and	working	
together	we	empower	our	customers	with	differentiated,	innovative	computing	and	graphics	solutions.		
We	also	have	an	unwavering	commitment	
to	corporate	responsibility.	While	AMD	and	other	companies	in	our	industry	adapt	to	fundamental	shifts	in	the	technology	market,	our	culture,	our	people	and	our	indomitable	drive	to	win	remain	rock	solid.		
Corporate	responsibility	is	at	the	core	of	
AMD’s	culture.	We	care	deeply	about	people	and	our	planet,	and	this	caring	attitude	is	woven	into	everything	we	do.	We	call	this	“The	AMD	Way.”		
This	approach	isn’t	just	a	moral	imperative	for	
AMD;	it’s	also	a	key	business	differentiator.	We	know	that	how	we	run	our	business	is	just	as	important	to	our	customers,	shareholders	and	stakeholders	as	the	innovative	products	we	deliver.	We	also	know	that	our	employees	are	motivated	and	inspired	by	contributing	to	social	and	environmental	causes.	For	these	reasons	and	more,	we	have	been	leaders	in	the	responsibility	arena	for	many	years	now.		
In	2012,	AMD	experienced	the	beginning	
of	a	fundamental	shift	that	is	redefining	the	landscape	of	our	industry.	While	these	sweeping	changes	present	AMD	with	a	range	of	exciting	growth	opportunities,	our	financial	results	were	impacted.	In	2012	and	early	2013,	we	had	to	take	the	tough	but	necessary	step	of	reducing	our	global	workforce	as	part	of	a	restructuring	plan	designed	to	reduce	AMD’s	operating	costs	and	return	the	business	to	profitability.	We	will	never	get	accustomed	to	seeing	valued	co-workers	leave	the	company	–	nor	should	we	want	to	–	but	these	are	necessary	steps	to	return	our	business	to	profitable	growth.	AMD	offered	eligible	employees	severance	packages	and	made	every	reasonable	effort	to	reduce	the	hardships	on	impacted	employees,	such	as	providing	continued	health	care	coverage	and	career	transition	services.	
In	good	times	and	challenging	times,	AMD	
remains	committed	to	ethical	business	practices	and	to	cultivating	a	supportive,	productive	work	environment.	Externally,	we	will	continue	to	be	good	neighbors	in	our	communities,	engage	with	our	stakeholders	openly	and	honestly,	and	help	protect	the	environment	by	ensuring	that	our	suppliers	meet	the	same	high	level	of	expectations	we	hold	ourselves	accountable	to.	
I	am	pleased	to	share	our	18th	annual	
corporate	responsibility	report.	In	it,	you	will	find	numerous	examples	of	AMD	employees	who	go	above	and	beyond	to	help	others	and	to	preserve	our	environment.	As	always,	we	welcome	your	input	and	questions.Who We a re 
AMD’s	mission	is	to	be	the	leading	designer	and	integrator	
of	innovative,	tailored	technology	solutions	that	empower	
people	to	push	the	boundaries	of	what	is	possible.	We	do	
this	by	creating	natural,	intelligent	and	innovative	ways	for	people	to	interact	with	the	devices	they	love.	AMD’s	
graphics	cards	and	microprocessors	power	millions	of	the	
world’s	personal	computers,	tablets,	gaming	consoles,	embedded	devices	and	cloud	servers.	These	products	
continue	the	evolution	of	the	technology	that	makes	lives	
better	and	the	future	brighter.	Responsibility	is	an	essential	part	of	AMD’s	culture	and	our	10,000	employees	around	the	
world	bring	it	to	life.	Responsibility	is	at	our	core.
We communicate corporate responsibility 
information in four formats:
1  This summary magazine 
2  A comprehensive report with detailed information and data
3  A tablet application for iPad and Android devices  
 with interactive features
4  A corporate responsibility website* 
2012–2013
summary
contentsTokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai Research
& Development Center, China – R&D, Design, Sales
Taipei, Taiwan – Business Services,
R&D, DesignHsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,Business Services
Sydney, Australia – SalesJakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabaun, Malaysia – Business ServicesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore
– R&D, Design, SalesParis, France – SalesBeijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignAntwerp, Belgium – SalesFleet, UK – SalesAmsterdam, Netherlands 
– Distribution
Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milano, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA 
– Corporate,Business Services,R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design Markham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, DesignManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Mixed-Use Sites
Corporate OfficesSalesmarkham
established:  2006
Operations: 	AMD Canadian 
Headquarters and our largest 
graphics R&D center outside the United States.
Brazil & Latin a merica
In Brazil and Latin America, AMD’s focus is mainly on sales, marketing and engineering. AMD has offices in São Paulo, Brasília, Mexico City and Buenos Aires, and maintains a permanent presence in several other countries.Sunnyvale
established: 1969
Operations:  Corporate, 
R&D, DesignBeijing  
established: 2004
Operations:  Greater China 
Headquarters, R&D, Design
taipei
established: 1987
Operations: Business ServicesShanghai
established:  2006
Operations:  R&D, Design 
facility promoting innovation through increased technology partnerships  and customer collaboration.european u nion
AMD is at the very core of today’s digital lifestyle for millions of European consumers. We have a presence in 10 
countries in the EU, with the bulk of AMD 
processors manufactured by a foundry in 
Dresden, Germany.
Suzhou
established:  2005
Operations: Assembly, test, mark and 
pack facility for microprocessors in the Suzhou Industrial Park.
India
amD Bangalore e stablished: 2004
Operations: R&D, Design 
focusing on graphics and computing solutions.
amD Hyderabad established: 2008
Operations: R&D, Design 
focusing on graphics and computing solutions.malaysia
amD Penang e stablished: 1972
Operations: Microprocessor 
assembly, test and R&D. The first AMD facility outside North America to set up advanced C4 “flip chip” assembly.
amD Cyberjaya e stablished: 2008
Operations: Business Services.  
Serves and supports AMD’s internal global network in areas such as finance and accounting, IT, Human Resources, procurement and other  business services.austin
established: 1978. 
Lone Star campus (officially opened  in 2008)
Operations: Corporate, 
R&D, Design
Tokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai Research
& Development Center, China – R&D, Design, Sales
Taipei, Taiwan – Business Services,
R&D, DesignHsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,Business Services
Sydney, Australia – SalesJakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabaun, Malaysia – Business ServicesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore
– R&D, Design, SalesParis, France – SalesBeijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignAntwerp, Belgium – SalesFleet, UK – SalesAmsterdam, Netherlands 
– Distribution
Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milano, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA 
– Corporate,Business Services,R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design Markham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, DesignManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Mixed-Use Sites
Corporate OfficesSales
global scaleRESPONSIBILITY
on a
5 4Locations	shown	represent	AMD	owned	or	leased	properties	only.	AMD-related	R&D,	
design	and	other	activities	occur	at	numerous	locations	not	included	on	the	map.
the a mericas
 Greater China
 asia – Pacific
 europe, m iddle e ast & a frica AMD Regions:changingthe gameAMD
The	new	National	Research	Council	(NRC)	
report,	“Successful	K-12	STEM	Education:	Identifying	Effective	Approaches	in	Science,	Technology,	Engineering	and	Mathematics,”	asserts	that	science,	technology,	engineering	and	math	(STEM)	subjects	are	basic	aspects	of	our	lives	as	citizens,	consumers,	parents	and	workers.	Thus,	providing	today’s	students	with	access	to	high-quality	STEM	education	is	important	to	their	future	and	the	future	of	the	country.	
Based	on	this	conclusion,	it	is	important	
for	today’s	youth	to	improve	their	STEM	skills,	yet	the	data	show	that	there	just	aren’t	enough	students	taking	an	interest	in	STEM	learning.	Perhaps	this	would	change	if	they	understood	some	of	the	real-world	applications	of	STEM	subjects.	
That’s	where	AMD	Changing	the	Game	
comes	in:	our	signature	education	initiative	designed	to	inspire	kids	to	learn	by	creating	video	games	around	a	social	issue.	Here	are	some	telling	statistics.	In	its	latest		report,	Indiana	University’s	High	School	Survey	of	Student	Engagement	found	that	
65%	of	students	are	bored	“at	least	every		
day	in	class.”
Yet	those	same	students	who	are	tuning	
out	in	school	are	tuning	in	to	video	games,	
with	an	estimated	97%	of	U.S.	teens	playing	
online	games.	AMD	Changing	the	Game	
uses	this	passion	for	gaming	as	leverage	
for	learning.	But	instead	of	playing	video	
games,	our	program	teaches	kids	how	to	create	them.	Through	game	creation,	
SCAN	THE	QR	CODE	TO	WATCH	A	VIDEO	ON	AMD	CHANGING	THE	GAME.
 Shirley Freek  
York University Division of Advancement
213,000 MORE THAN
ALMOSTSTUDENTS REACHED
GAMES
CREATED
UNIQUE
PARTNERS
IN AMD FOUNDATION
DONATIONSMILLIONWORLDWIDE
30,000
31
$5.5Turning Today’s Teens  
Into Tomorrow’s Leaders
“The AMD Kids Game Development Camp 
provided students with an avenue to using 
computers that may not have previously been 
available, either at home or school. It was 
wonderful to witness the growth of confidence 
in the students as they explored creative 
options for problem solving.“
7 69 8“Developing strategic 
relationships has led to 
long-term benefits that 
will produce results for 
years to come.” 
 Anne Fertitta  
AMD Senior Manager,  
Global Community Affairs
Competitions
Game	DesignCurriculaAdvocacystudents	learn	STEM	skills,	as	well	as	
problem	solving,	critical	thinking, 	language 	
skills	and	teamwork.	By	using	age-	and	skill-appropriate	tools,	the	program	works	with	key	education	partners	to	guide	students	through	the	creative	process,	and	teaches	the	mechanics	of	game	design	and	production.	And	these	are	not	the	violent	games	that	can	worry	many	adults;	the	curriculum	focuses	on	developing	games	around	important	social	issues	–	such	as	energy	conservation,	healthcare,	and	reducing	poverty.	
award
AMD	Foundation	was	named	as	a	2012	and	2013	Laureate	of	the	International	Data	Group’s	(IDG)	Computerworld	Honors	Program	for	the	use	of	technology	to	promote	
and	advance	STEM	skills	of	youth	around	
the	world.	The	annual	award	program	
distinguishes	organizations	and	companies	
that	use	technology	to	support	and	create	
positive	social,	economic	and	educational	
change.	The	AMD	Foundation	does	this	
through	AMD	Changing	the	Game.
Next Generation e ngineer
AMD	partnered	 with	the	prestigious	 National	 Academy	 of	Engineering	 (NAE)	on	a	study	of	best	
practices	in	engineering	education	programs	across	the	United	States.	The	resulting	report,	
Infusing	Real	World	Experiences	into	Engineering	Education,	highlights	programs	that	better	prepare	students	for	a	globally	competitive	workforce,	and	provide	learning	for	educators	around	the	world.	The	report	is	designed	to	help	engineering	faculty	and	administrators		assess	these	successful	programs	for	potential	application	at	their	own	institutions.Turning Today’s Teens Into Tomorrow’s Leaders  (cont...)
 Mark Papermaster  
AMD Senior VP and CTO“Historically, engineers receive 
an excellent technical education, 
but young engineers need to be 
taught how to think independently, 
collaborate, communicate clearly 
and adapt to change to become 
leaders in the global marketplace.”
Providing educational 
technology is a critical part of AMD Changing the Game. Since 2008, AMD has funded more than 25 technology centers worldwide. The 
AMD Foundation has also 
awarded $5.5 million in grants to fund 70 related programs operated by 31 organizations around the world. Here are some of our global highlights.Making a 
World of Difference
toronto, ON – 
Canada
•	Boys	&	Girls	Clubs		
of	Canada
•	York	University
San Jose, C a – u .S.
•	Schmahl	Science	
Workshops
Carmel, C a – u .S.
•	Science	Buddies
Pasadena, C a – u .S.
•	Whyville.net
austin, t X – u .S.
•	East	Austin	College
	 Prep	Academy•	Game	On!	Texas•	Skillpoint	Alliance•	Girlstart•	Green	Ribbon	Schools
CO, ma , Ca, Wa, mD, 
FL, t X – u .S.
•	Boys	&	Girls	Clubs	of	
America
Washington, DC – u.S.
•	National	STEM	Video	
Game	Challenge
•	Institute	of	Urban		
Game	Design
•	Change	the	Equation:	
MemberNew York City – u .S.
•	Games	for	Change	
Festival
•	PetLab/Parsons•	Scholastic	Art	&	 Writing 	Awards
•	Global	Kids•	Gamestar 	Mechanic
Sao Paulo, Brazil
•	Games	for	Change		 Festival	Latin	America
abu Dhabi, uae
•	Abu	Dhabi	 Education	Council
Cyberjaya, m alaysia
•	Malaysia	Cybergames		 Festival
Beijing, China
•	Dandelion	Middle	
School
•	The	High	School	
Affiliated	to	Renmin	University	of	China	(RDFZ)
Dresden, Germany
•	Dresden	Media	and			 Culture	Center	(DMCC)Games	for	Change
Boys	&	Girls	Clubs	
of	America
Dresden	Media	
and	Culture	Center
Pflugerville 	
Independent 	
School	DistrictG4C
BGCA
DMCC
PISD
2009 2008 2010 2011 201252,140
Total	Youth	Reached
22,498
Total	Youth	Reached
65
Total	Youth	Reached 80
Total	Youth	Reached Skillpoint	Alliance	–	Travis	High	
SchoolEast	Austin	College	Prep	GlobaloriaMaking	Social	Games	ToolkitGlobal	KidsInstitute	for	Urban	Game	Design
Gamestar	Mechanic	Impact	ChallengesMalaysia 	Cybergames
Alliance	for	Artists	&	WritersNational	STEM	Video	Game	ChallengeWhyville 	Game	Challenge
BGCA	Digital	Arts	FestivalAlliance	for	Artists	&	WritersNational	STEM	Video	Game	ChallengeEA	Prep	Globey	AwardsGreen	Ribbon	Schools	–	Heathivores 	Contest
Alliance	for	Artists	&	WritersWhyvilleBGCA	Digital	Arts	FestivalNational	STEM	Video	Game	ChallengeEA	Prep	Globey	AwardsGreen	Ribbon	Schools	–	Heathivores 	Contest
East	Austin	College	Prep	GlobaloriaSchmahl	Science	WorkshopsDandelion 	Middle	School
BGCA	–	Ft.	Collins,	Boxborough,	San	Jose,	Bellevue, 	Germantown, 	OrlandoEast	Austin	College	Prep	GlobaloriaBGCA	–	Austin,	Houston,	
	
Menlo	Park,	Japan
Skillpoint	Alliance	–	PISDDMCCAbu	Dhabi	Education	CouncilBoys	&	Girls	Clubs	CanadaYork	University	FoundationGirlstartBGCASkillpoint	Alliance	–	PISDRDFZ	School	BeijingDandelion	School	BeijingDMCCPUC	RioAustin	Film	SocietyEast	Austin	College	Prep	GlobaloriaGirlstartBoys	&	Girls	Clubs	CanadaYork	University	FoundationETR	&	Whyville
Game	Tech
Science	BuddiesGame	TechParsons	–	Activate!
Parsons	–	Activate!Whyville	–	AMD	Game	ZoneLevel	Up!Gamestar 	Mechanic
Games	4	Change	(Educator	Workshop)Learning	Games	NetworkG4C	2008	(How	to	Make	
	
Social	Games)G4C	(Educator	Workshop)Game	On!	TexasFacebookTwitterG4C	(Workshop)Game	On!	TexasScience	Buddies
The	Atlantic	Tech	Ed	ForumSXSWeduInplay	InteractiveG4C	EuropeG4C	Latin	AmericaG4C	(Educator	Workshop)Game	On!	Texas	@SXSWeduThe	Atlantic	Tech	Ed	ForumG4C	Latin	AmericaLearning 	Games
Network/Microsoft139,280
Total	Youth	Reached11 10$16.3 m
amD employee 
contributions and 
matching funds  
since 1995at am D, we live our 
core values through 
our actions. t hat 
helps drive our business.  
Being	a	socially	and	environmentally	
responsible	business	is	an	important	part	of	AMD’s	culture	–	The	AMD	Way.	Studies	have	shown	that	there	is	a	strong	correlation	between	employee	engagement	and	socially	and	environmentally	responsible	organizations,	and	that	highly	engaged	employees	are	good	for	business.	Our	employees	are	more	motivated	to	work	hard	and	innovate	when	they	see	their	job	as	their	cause.	And	there	are	ample	opportunities	for	our	people	to	work	for	their	causes	while	working	for	AMD:
Volunteering and Giving
For	more	than	30	years,	AMD	has	invested	money,	time	and	technology	in	organizations	that	help	strengthen	the	communities	where	we	live	and	work.	Our	volunteerism	program	–	AMD	Community	Corps	–	is	designed	to	encourage	employees	to	volunteer	while	developing	their	own	professional	abilities.	The	program	connects	employees	with	volunteer	opportunities	in	their	local	communities	and	encourages 	participation 	in	
company-sponsored	volunteer	events.		AMD	Community	Corps	Connect	is	an	interactive	website	that	facilitates	volunteerism	and	giving.	Through	this	website,	employees	can	network	with	fellow	employees	to	organize	volunteer	events,	make	charitable	donations	and	encourage	others	to	do	the	same.	In	2012,	more	than	1,200	AMD	employees	volunteered	more	than	7,700	hours	in	their	communities.	Employees	donated	more	than	$710,000	to	charitable	organizations.	With	matching	contributions	from	AMD,	this	amounted	to	contributions	of	more	than	$1.6	million.	
employee a wards
AMD	annually	recognizes	employees	who	go	above	and	beyond	to	make	a	difference.	Volunteer	Excellence	Awards	and	Volunteer	of	the	Year	Awards	are	given	to	employees	who	make	outstanding	contributions	to	their	local	communities.	Global	Employee	ECO	Awards	recognize	personal	environmental	excellence,	like	installing	solar	power	or	rainwater	collection	at	home,	or	leading	green	projects	at	work	and	in	the	community.
Go Green
Our	award-winning	and	global	conservation	program,	“Go	Green,”	engages	and	inspires	AMD	employees	to	reduce	environmental	impacts	and	improve	their	quality	of	life	through	a	“lifestyle”	approach	to	sustainability.	
Employee	registration	in	AMD’s	Go	
Green	program	has	increased	by	75%	since	2009,	and	included	1,669	participants	around	the	globe	in	2012.	The	program	targets	three	areas	where	employees	potentially	impact	the	environment:	at	home	and	in	the	community,	while	commuting,	and	at		the	workplace.
“my volunteer 
experience has most 
definitely helped 
with my professional 
development. 
Volunteering with a 
diverse set of people, 
including various 
age ranges, abilities, 
technical aptitudes 
and backgrounds, 
outside of the office 
has really influenced 
how I approach 
situations at the 
office.”
– Diane Stapley, AMD 
Senior Manager and 
Winner of AMD’s Volunteer 
of the Year AwardAMD Penang employees plant mangrove 
trees along the shoreline to aid in environmental protection. The trees serve as a buffer against strong winds and waves.mobilizing a Green a rmy
The	idea	that	participants	at	a	
sustainability	event	could	contribute	to	the	local	environment	seemed	like	a	win-win	approach.	So,	in	2012	AMD	partnered	with	the	South	by	Southwest	(SXSW)	ECO	conference	and	several	local	non-profit	groups	to	mobilize	a	“Green	Army”	of	conference	participants,	local	citizens	and	employees	of	Austin-based	businesses.
The	results	were	outstanding:	More	than	
150	volunteers	cleaned	up	an	urban	waterway,	made	seed	balls	to	restore	areas	burned	in	Texas	wildfires,	identified	invasive	species,	and	planted	trees	on	the	University	of	Texas	campus.
But	that’s	not	the	end	of	the	story.	To	
help	other	conference	planners	stage	similar	events,	AMD	issued	a	white	paper	titled	“Bringing	Action	into	the	Agenda:	Crowd-Sourcing	Volunteerism	at	Corporate	Events.”	By	sharing	the	lessons	we	learned	in	this	white	paper,	we	hope	that	others	will	have	similar	experiences	and,	hopefully,	launch	a	“Green	Army”	movement.
To download, go to www.amd.com/
CorporateResponsibility
employeeengagement The AMD Way
– Harry Wolin,
AMD Senior Vice 
President, General 
Counsel and  
Corporate Secretary“amD has a longstand -
ing commitment to  
fairness and equal  
opportunity.”
“I was glad to see 
major companies 
organizing such a 
great event for an 
even greater cause.” 
–Volunteer and 
Conference participant
amD Supports m arriage 
equality 
In	March	2013,	AMD	joined	dozens	of	
American	corporations	in	endorsing	an	“amicus	brief”	–	a	friend	of	the	court	opinion	for	the	U.S.	Supreme	Court	–	to	support	marriage	equality.	
There	is	a	strong	business	imperative	
for	this	position,	as	AMD	competes	globally	for	a	talented	and	diverse	workforce.	A	core	belief	embodied	in	AMD’s	Worldwide	Standards	of	Business	Conduct	is	respect	for	people.	We	honor	diversity	and	treat	each	other	fairly.	These	are	the	cornerstones	of	our	culture.1	Jonathan	Koomey.	2011.	Growth	in	Data	center	electricity	
use	2005	to	2010.	Oakland,	CA:	Analytics	Press.	August	1.	
http://www.analyticspress.com/datacenters.html. 	
AMD	and	BARCO	have	worked	together	for	more	than	ten	
years	on	improving	medical	imaging	using	AMD’s	graphics	technologies. 	High-resolution imaging and detection 
technologies 	enable	more	precise,	swift	and	timely	
diagnoses	of	life-threatening	diseases,	limit	the	number	of	invasive	and	unnecessary	medical	procedures,	and	support	preventive	care.	The	latest	advance	in	mammography	technology,	breast	tomosynthesis,	provides	clearer,	more	accurate	views,	and	allows	physicians	to	more	effectively	pinpoint	the	size,	shape	and	location	of	any	abnormalities.	DNA	analysis	is	an	important	tool	for	accurate	diagnosis	and	treatment	selection.	The	BJS	Biotechnologies	xxpress
®	
DNA	replication	machine	with	AMD	embedded	processors	
speeds up DNA replication from days or hours to 
as little as 10 minutes .	By	reducing	the	time	it	takes	for	
the	analysis,	medical	professionals	can	get	the	information	
they	need	more	quickly	and	make	treatment	decisions	faster	
and	more	accurately.		eHealth	Nigeria	set	out	to	create	a	medical IT cloud	that	could	meet	the	challenges	of	the	
developing	region	by	designing	a	small,	yet	fully	
functional	data	center	powered	by	a	combination	of	
gasoline-	and	diesel-powered	generators.	They	chose	
AMD-based	compute	solutions	because	of	their	high	
performance	per	watt	of	power	consumed.	AMD-
powered	servers	are	enabling	them	to	scale	their	
operations	quickly	and	improve	the	medical	services	
they	deliver	to	impoverished		people	of	Nigeria.
AMD’s	latest	ultra-dense	server	solutions	use	as	little	as	1/4 
the power and 1/6 the space of traditional servers ,	
slashing	energy	consumption	and	the	associated	costs	and	environmental	impact.	Go	to	our	website	to	read	the	case	
study	http://community.amd.com/docs/DOC-1031 on	how	the	
University	of	Texas	at	San	Antonio	benefitted	by	incorporating	
AMD	SeaMicro	15000	servers	into	its	cutting-edge	research	
and	development	cloud.AMD	operates	one of the largest private clouds for engineering design in the world ,	
helping	our	engineers	create	our	next	generation	products.	Using	AMD’s	energy	efficient	processors,	
	
a	heavily	virtualized	environment,	and	green	buildings	such	as	our	new	LEED	certified	data	center	near	Atlanta,	Georgia,	we	are	working	on	making	
	
our	cloud	one	of	the	greenest.The	more	data	technology	users	generate,	the	more	
electricity	is	used.	AMD	has	teamed	up	with	Clarkson	
University	and	the	New	York	State	Energy	Research	
and	Development	Authority	(NYSERDA)	on	research	to	help	build	distributed networks of highly-
efficient data centers that rely solely on co-located renewable energy sources .	The	
project	aims	to	improve	the	economic,	performance	and	environmental	benefits	for	both	computing	and	renewable	energy	industries.	Initial	results	of	the	study	will	be	published	in	2013.AMD	technology	is	used	in	the	most	powerful	commercially	available	
computer	system	–	Oak	Ridge	National	Laboratory’s	Titan 
supercomputer, ranked #1 on the TOP500 supercomputer 
List (Nov. 2012) .	Titan	and	world-class		systems	in	Saudi	Arabia	and	
Switzerland	are	also	in	the	top	5	of	the	Green500	List	(Nov.	2012),	
	
a	ranking	of	the	most	energy	efficient	supercomputers	in	the	world.	
Early	Detection	and	Treatment	
of	Breast	Cancer	with	Advanced 	Medical	ImagingImproving	Medical	Treatment	with	
Faster	DNA	ReplicationHealth	Management	in	Nigeria
Radically 	Changing 	the	Data	CenterAMD’s	Private	Cloud:	Using	the	
Cloud	to	Design	the	FutureRunning	the	Cloud	on	
Renewable	Energy	–	AMD’s	Evergreen	Cloud	ProjectEnergy	Efficiency	in	High	Performance	Computing
AMD’s	cloud	technology	innovations	are	being	used	to	help	
address	some	of	the	world’s	most	pressing	challenges.	From	
making	data	centers	more	efficient	and	sustainable,	to	AMD’s	
work	on	innovative	data	centers	powered	by	renewable	energy,	
to	advancing	health	care	technologies,	AMD	employees	and	
the	technology	we	produce	benefit	the	world	in	important	and	
meaningful	ways.	
Building	on	our	history	of	innovation,	AMD	is	focused	on	
radically	changing	the	data	center	and	accelerating	the	
expansion	of	cloud	computing	and	the	benefits	it	provides.	We	are	launching	technologies	that	dramatically	reduce	energy	and	space	requirements,	while	enabling	highly	specialized	
optimizations	that	are	transforming	the	capabilities,	design	
and	economics	of	the	cloud.	Our	energy	efficient	technologies	
help	our	customers	–	and	their	customers	–	make	their	
data	cleaner	and	greener	by	reducing	the	carbon	footprint	
associated	with	computing	operations	and	data	management.	
AMD	is	also	actively	engaged	with	cloud	users,	governments	
and	stakeholders	around	the	world	to	develop	effective	public	
policies	and	best	practices	that	promote	interoperability,	open	
standards,	and	competition	and	market	access	to	help	ensure	sustainable	markets	for	cloud	computing.	And	we	are	leading	
the	way	with	our	own	global	cloud	network	–	one	of	the	world’s	
largest	–	to	help	engineer	the	next	generation	of	AMD	cloud	
technologies.	Through	these	efforts	and	many	others,	AMD	is	
helping	to	change	the	world	through	cloud	computing.Helping tochange the world.
German	cloud	services	company	Intergenia,	a	leading	provider	of	web	hosting	and	server	solutions	across	Europe	and	the	U.S.,	operates	the	“datadock,”	which	the	company	considers	to	be	Europe’s greenest data center .	Intergenia	relies	
on	AMD	processors	to	reduce	energy	consumption	and	carbon	emissions.Helping	Cloud	Companies	Reduce	Their	Carbon	Footprint
welcome to the AMD cloud.
13 12
“We envision the computing cloud 
built on am D’s Sea micro servers and 
powered by OpenStack to change the 
paradigm of research at ut Sa.”
–	Jeff	Prevost,	Cloud	Technology	Institute
15 14Standards
AMD	is	a	long-standing	member	of		
the	Electronics	Industry	Citizenship	Coalition	(EICC).	We	operate	according	to	the	EICC	Code	of	Conduct,	and	also	follow	the	Principles	of	Social	Responsibility	issued	by	the	Institute		for	Supply	Management	(ISM).	We	expect	our	suppliers	to	live	up	to		these	same	standards,	and	every		year	we	communicate	these	expectations	to	them.
Conformance
AMD	regularly	conducts	supplier	business	reviews	(SBRs)	with	key	suppliers	to	assess	corporate	responsibility	expectations	and	performance.	Using	the	SBR	forum	ensures	that	supplier	responsibility	is		a	central	feature	of	our	business	relationships.	We	identify	high	risk	suppliers	using	EICC-defined	programs,	and	require	these	suppliers	to	undergo	independent 	third-party 	audits	
conducted	by	EICC-approved	auditors.	In	2012,	89%	of	AMD’s	major	supplier	facilities	completed	EICC	self-assessment	questionnaires	(SAQs)		with	no	high	risk	facilities	identified.	
Wafer foundries
Wafer	foundries	are	a	significant	part	of	our	supply	chain.	We	conduct	quarterly	reviews	with	both	Taiwan	Semiconductor	Manufacturing	Corporation	(TSMC)	and	GLOBALFOUNDRIES	to	verify	their	performance	across	a	broad	range	of	issues,	including	the	environment,	worker	safety,	labor	standards,	greenhouse	gas	emissions,	energy	use,	water	consumption	and	work	hours.Capacity Building
Through	the	EICC,	AMD	suppliers	have	access	to	a	broad	array	of	training	on		the	best	practices	to	improve	their		social	and	environmental	programs		and	performance. 	
With	nearly	80	members	(as	of	April,	2013)	representing	combined	annual	revenues	in	excess	of	$1.7	trillion	(USD),	the	EICC	embodies	a	large	portion	of		the	global	IT	industry.	AMD	has	long	supported	the	EICC	because	of	our	strong	belief	that	collaboration	on	social	responsibility	issues	is	the	most		efficient	and	effective	means	to	drive	real	improvement	in	the	electronics	supply	chain.	
As	the	EICC	has	grown	and	matured,		
the	membership	approved	a	new	governance	model	in	late	2012.	A	major	thrust	of	the	new	model	was	to	hire	dedicated	professional	staff	to	manage	the	organization.	In	addition	to	hiring	a	new	executive	director	–	Mr.	Rob	Lederer	–	the	EICC	voted	on	new	board	members	and	board	officers.	Early	in	2013,	AMD’s	director	of	corporate	responsibility,	Tim	Mohin,	was	elected	Chairman	of	the	Board	for	the	EICC. Sourcing conflict-free minerals
The	Democratic	Republic	of	Congo	(DRC)	is	the	scene	of		massive	human	tragedy	–	profits	from	mining	and	trading	of	tin,	tantalum,	tungsten	and	gold	in	this	area	have	fueled	deadly	conflicts,	causing	millions	of	deaths	and	widespread	human	rights	abuses.	There	
have	been	several	efforts	to	mitigate	this	
ongoing	humanitarian	crisis	–	ranging	
from	security	to	diplomacy	and	foreign	
aid.	Most	recently,	stakeholders	from	government,	industry,	investors	and	activists	have	worked	together	on	a	new	
approach	–	to	trace	the	origin	of	the	
minerals	in	everyday	products	(like	
electronics)	back	to	their	source.		In	2010,	a	new	law	was	enacted	in	the	United	States	requiring	companies	
traded	on	U.S.	stock	exchanges	to	
disclose	the	measures	they	have	taken	
to	identify	these	“conflict	minerals”	in	their	products.	The	final	implementing	
rule	was	issued	on	August	22,	2012.		AMD	is	taking	steps	to	break	the	link	
between	the	trade	in	minerals	and	ongoing	conflict	and	human	rights	abuses	in	Central	Africa.	On	the	policy	side,	we	have	worked	with	a	range	of	stakeholders	including	the	Enough	Project,	The	Responsible	Sourcing	Coalition	and	socially	responsible	investors	to	develop	consensus	policies	to	implement	the	law.	AMD	believes	effective	implementation	policies	must	involve	three	fundamental	elements:
•	A	system	that	enables	conflict-free	
certification	of	minerals	from	the		
DRC	region.	
•	A	smelter	audit	program	capable		
of	verifying	that	raw	materials	are	conflict-free.
•	A	standardized	due-diligence		
process	to	verify	that	metals	in		finished	products	can	be	traced	to		a	certified	conflict-free	smelter.Within	our	supply	chain,	AMD	has	developed	processes	to	identify	the	smelters	of	origin	for	metals	contained	in	our	products	utilizing	the	standardized	tracing	processes	developed	by	EICC/GeSI.	Using	this	method,	we	have	surveyed	44%	of	our	supply	base	(as	of	February	2013)	and	identified	more	than	100	smelters.	We	continually	update	this	information	with	new	and	existing	suppliers	and	plan	to	publicly	report		our	findings.
“We	know	that	tracking	minerals	is	only	one	facet	to	ending	suffering	in	the	DRC.	To	effect	change,	deeply	rooted	socioeconomic	factors	must	be	addressed	by	governments,	the	private	sector	and	civil	society.	Additionally,	if	implementation	of	the	new	law	is	not	carefully	managed,	it	may	have	the	unintended	consequence	of	banning	or	significantly	reducing	mineral	exports	from	the	DRC	region,	which	could	lead	to	even	more	suffering.”	–	Tim	Mohin,	AMD	Corporate 	Responsibility 	Director“amD has been a leader 
in the movement to 
weed out conflict 
minerals from our 
consumer supply chains 
and transform the trade 
to a clean, responsible 
trade in eastern Congo.  
In our a ugust 2012 
company rankings, 
amD ranked in the top 
5, ahead of much larger 
companies.”
– Sasha Lezhnev, Senior Policy 
Analyst, Enough ProjectSupplier 
Responsibility
“through creativity, 
perseverance and 
commitment, amD has developed an efficient 
and effective supplier 
responsibility program. 
We have found that 
working with our 
suppliers on social 
and environmental 
performance enhances 
our overall business 
relationships.”
– Alex Brown, AMD 
Corporate Vice President, 
Global Supply Management
15
PHOTOS:	SASHA	LEZHNEV	/	ENOUGH	PROJECT17 16AMD	is	proud	to	announce	that	in	
January	2013,	our	new	data	center	near	Atlanta,	Georgia,	was	granted	LEED	
certification	(Commercial	Interiors)	from	
the	U.S.	Green	Building	Council	(USGBC). 	
The	certification	followed	an	extensive	commissioning	process	to	ensure	that	all	mechanical	and	electrical	systems	were	running	efficiently	and	per	the	design	
criteria.The	new	data	center	project:
• Utilized the shell of an existing 
building rather than building a new 
structure from the ground up.
• Recycled over 90% of construction 
waste, and used 30% recycled materials on the project.
• Reduces water use by 40% by using 
low flow faucets, toilets and urinals.
• Sourced over 50% of project 
materials from manufacturers within 
a 500-mile radius.AMD’s	new	LEED	certified	data	center	is	part	of	an	overall	strategy	to	make	AMD’s	data	center	operations	in	North	America	
more	efficient	by	consolidating	server	
equipment	from	several	sites	into	one	
location,	which	in	turn	conserves	energy,	
improves	performance	and	reduces	operational 	costs.	
“amD has a long history of environmental 
stewardship and transparency, extending 
back to our first corporate responsibility 
report 18 years ago. We made strong 
progress in 2012 on various fronts of our 
sustainability efforts, ranging from green 
building certifications to green team 
celebrations. am D’s conservation efforts 
yielded over $2.7 million in savings in 
2012, reflecting our commitment to pursue 
economic and environmental benefits.”
– Justin m urrill, am D Global Sustainability m anagerData
Highlights of AMD’s new 
LEED certified data center 
near Atlanta, Georgia 
90 metric tons 	of	organic	 	
waste	composted	in	2012,	up	from	 	
34	metric	tons	in	2011	
64%	of	all	non-hazardous	waste	
diverted	from	the	landfill	in	2012,	up	
from	40%	in	2009	and	approaching	
AMD’s	2014	goal	of	70%*• In addition to AMD’s new LEED data center, 
our largest corporate facility – the Lone Star 
campus in Austin, Texas – is LEED Gold 
certified for New Construction.
• Green design practices, such as solar 
window tinting and lighting retrofits, are 
also incorporated into existing facilities.
• From 2009 to 2012, AMD achieved a 13% 
absolute reduction in global energy use. Over 30 energy conservation projects, such 
as process improvements and equipment 
upgrades, were implemented.
• In 2012, AMD facility conservation efforts 
saved ~8 million kWh of electricity, 120,000 therms of natural gas and 6,360 metric tons of CO
2, equivalent to offsetting electricity 
emissions from 950 U.S. homes for a year.
• AMD sourced 62.5 million kWh of 
renewable electricity in 2012, enough to power 6,600 U.S. homes for a year.
• 100% renewable electricity powered AMD’s 
Lone Star campus, Atlanta Data Center, and Mile High Data Center in Ft. Collins, 
CO, in 2012.Prevent pollution 
through green building and design practices.1.
2.
3.Conserve 
energy through efficiency efforts and continuous improvement.
Procure renewable 
energy to further 
reduce our 
footprint.achieving a high 
“performance per watt” is 
integral to am D products, 
and we also apply it to 
our buildings and data 
centers. t he following 
three-step process 
summarizes am D’s 
approach to conserving 
energy and reducing GHG 
emissions at our facilities.
LEEDing
5.3%	absolute	reduction	of	“direct”	
greenhouse	gas	emissions	(scope	 	
1	&	2)	from	non-manufacturing	 	
facilities	-	ahead	of	AMD’s	2014	
reduction	goal	of	5%*
25%	absolute	reduction	of	“indirect”	
GHG	emissions	(scope	3)	from	
business	air	travel,	product	shipping	
and	employee	commuting*
AMD’s	Lone	Star	campus	uses	 	
100%	renewable 	electricity
50 million 	liters	of	water	
conserved	in	2012,	more	than	
half	from	reclaimed	rainwater	
26%	reduction	in	water	use	per	
employee	for	non-manufacturing	
sites	–	ahead	of	AMD’s	2014	
reduction	goal	of	20%*
WasteWaterAir
A World We All Must Share.
AMD’s commitment to the environment.
AMD Lone Star’s 4.5 million liter 
rainwater collection system 
allowed the reuse of over 29 
million liters of water in 2012 
(24.5 million used in site cooling 
towers and 4.6 million for 
irrigation). No municipal 
water was used for 
irrigation.
*Comparison	between	2009	and	2012.5.3%
50m
90mt25%
26%
64%100%19 18Our	goal	is	to	continuously	reduce	
occupational	injury	and	illness	case	rates.	From	2011	to	2012,	our	worldwide	injury	case	rate	decreased	by	44%	from	0.32	to	0.18	cases	per	100	workers,	and	remained	well	below	2011	industry	averages.The	decrease	is	a	result	of	a	campaign	to	build	employee	awareness	of	ergonomic	injuries,	launched	after	AMD	detected	a	rise	in	this	type	of	injury	in	2011.		 Injury and Illness Prevention
0.35
0.3
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Worldwide Case Rate (per 100 workers)AMD Worldwide Injury and Illness
Case Rate
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0U.S. OSHA Injury and Illness Case Rates
(cases per 100 workers)
Private Industry
(2011)Computer/Electronic
Product Mfg.
(2011)Tech./Engineering
Services
(2011)AMD-US
(2012)amD’s Wellness 
Program strives to 
help our employees stay healthy. Our efforts include:
a.Free	annual	flu	
immunizations	in	North	America	and	discounted	immunizations	in	Asia.B.Wellness	expos	that	provide	services	such	as	biometric	testing,	information	on	health-related 	
products	and	services, 	and	
discussions	on	health	and	safety	topics.D.AMD	cafeterias	that	offer	a	wide	variety	of	healthy	options	and	promote	healthy	eating	at	home	through	discounted	home	delivery	of	fresh	fruit	and	vegetables	at	some	locations.	We	also	provide	nutrition	awareness	through	wellness	information	delivered		on	our	intranet.
In	February	2012,	AMD	launched	an	enhanced	Wellness@Work	program	in	the	U.S.	AMD	has	partnered	with	WebMD	Health	Services,	a	division	of	WebMD,	to	offer	free	health	management	services	to	U.S.	employees	utilizing	WebMD’s	Health	Manager
SM.	Employees	were	offered	an	
incentive	of	$100	to	take	advantage	of	WebMD	Health	Manager.	In	2013,	U.S.	employees	and	their	spouse/domestic	partner	who	complete	WebMD’s	health	questionnaire	will	be	eligible	to	receive	$50.	In	addition,	starting	January	1,	2013,	AMD	is	offering	a	healthcare	premium	credit	to	U.S.	employees	and	their	spouse/domestic	partner	who	do	not	use	tobacco,	or	who	participate	in	the	free	tobacco	cessation 	program.e.Free	fitness	centers	at	many	locations,	with	personal	training	options.	We	also	sponsor	weight	reduction	programs	like	“Get	Your	Move	On”	and	“Biggest	Winner”,	as	well	as	run/walk	events.C.Support	of	World	No	Tobacco	Day	in	2012,	which	educated 	employees 	
on	tobacco-related	risks	and	offered	a	tobacco-free	campus	day.	We	also	offer	tobacco	cessation 	
programs.a company is only 
as healthy as its people. am D takes 
a holistic approach, with health and 
safety standards 
that apply to all of our operations worldwide, 
 
including:
•	Injury	and	illness	prevention
•	Employee 	well-being
•	Emergency	preparedness		
	 and	response		
•	Electrical	and	chemical	safety
•	Equipment 	safety
•	Ergonomics
In	2012,	AMD	Austin	won	an	Austin	
Chamber	of	Commerce	Business	Award	in	the	category	of	wellness.	AMD	was	recognized	for	its	commitment	to	help	employees	and	their	families	live	healthier	lifestyles	through	a	variety	of	resources	that	empower	healthy	decisions	and	prevent	chronic	conditions.	ReturnsHealthy
REWARDS
Newsweek Green Rankings:
Ranked 39 of Top 500 
Greenest U.S. CompaniesTrust Across America  
(listed January 2012):
Top 10 Most Trustworthy 
Companies in America 2011
Corporate Knights (listed February 2012):
Top 20 S&P 500 Clean Capitalism ListHanover Stock Exchange/ 
Oekom Research:
Global Challenge Index
Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Bloomberg New Energy Finance:
Corporate Renewable 
Energy Index (CREX)
Selected for investment by Triodos 
Bank based on environmental, social 
and governance criteria:
Ranked 3 of 24 on 
Sustainability Performance  
(based on sector)Additional 
2012 Awards & Sustainability Index Listings:
21 20We	engage	a	wide	range	of	
stakeholders,	including	employees,	customers,	stockholders,	social	investment	analysts,	our	communities,	suppliers,	NGOs	and	more.	These	groups	monitor	our	corporate	responsibility	efforts,	and	we	communicate	with	them	in	various	ways	to	get	input	on	how	we	are	doing,	and	how	we	can	improve.	
Stakeholder  
engagement Panel
Working	with	Ceres,	an	award-winning	non-profit	group	focused	on	business	and	sustainability,	AMD	has	established	a	stakeholder	advisory	panel.	Interactions	with	this	panel	typically	occur	twice	per	year	and	provide	AMD	with	valuable	insights	and	perspective	on	how	to	improve	our	corporate 	responsibility 	strategies, 	
communications	and	performance.	AMD	believes	that	long-term	engagement	helps	build	a	deep	understanding	of	our	company	and	our	industry.	Similarly,	AMD	gains	meaningful	knowledge	about	the	expectations	of	stakeholder	groups	outside	of	our	company.	
In	2012,	we	invited	our	Ceres	
stakeholder	panel	to	meet	with	AMD’s	Corporate	Responsibility	Council	made	up	of	leaders	from	major	business	functions	across	AMD.	At	this	meeting,	each	of	the	AMD	leaders	presented	on	progress	and	plans	in	their	particular	functional	area	and	received	feedback	directly	from	the	stakeholders	on	the	panel.	We	strongly	believe	that	direct	communication	between	stakeholders	and	business	function	leaders	increases	the	level	of	understanding	and	engagement.	At	this	meeting,	stakeholders	commented	on	each	aspect	of	AMD’s	corporate	responsibility	performance	“dashboard”	and	provided	feedback	on	topics	ranging	from	environmental	goals	to	employee	health	programs.	The	AMD	function	leaders	consider	all	of	this	feedback	as	they	review	and	revise	their	programs.	
Stakeholder
Engagement
– Dow Jones Sustainability  
Index (North America) 2012
– Ranked 18th of Best 100 in 
climate protection 2012
– Included in the FTSE4Good 
Index Series in 2012
– AMD Foundation named a 2012 
Computerworld Honors Laureate 
for innovative STEM education
– MSCI KLD 400 ESG IndexHonorsAnd Awards for 
AMD in 2012
“It is clear that am D’s executive 
team has made a deep commitment 
to sustainability and is looking 
for ways to extend the company’s 
leadership in this area. t his 
commitment runs deep because it 
makes good business sense. We 
look forward to am D capturing 
and highlighting the strong ROI 
from your sustainability efforts for 
investors and other companies. 
Your leadership is impressive.”
— Mindy Lubber – Chief  
Executive Officer, Ceres– CR magazine’s 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens 2013
Employees Economic Environment Supplier Responsibility3.7 years
of am D employee
Volunteer t ime in 20121Scope 1
(Direct Emissions)
Scope 2
(Indirect Emissions)
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
2009 2010 2011USD in MillionsAMD Foundation Giving
2012amD Greenhouse Gas 
emissionsamD Foundation Givingdata tables data tables 20122012
6%
24%
the data behind our corporate 
responsibility storySCAN THE CODE TO LEARN MORE  
ON OUR WEBSITE, OR VISIT:
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
1	Total	of	7,735	AMD	volunteer	hours	divided	by	2,088	work	hours	in	2012A	Volunteer	hours	decreased	in	2012	due	to	reduction	in	our	global	workforce.
B	Other	Cash	and	In-Kind	Giving	decreased	significantly	in	2012.	AMD	awarded	the	last	
in	a	series	of	open	space	preservation	grants	in	2011	and	decreased	spending	on	the	
Next	Generation	Engineer	(NGE)	program.	C	CO2	equivalent	emissions	rose	in	2012	despite	an	absolute	decrease	in	energy	use,	
mainly	due	to	less	renewable	energy	sourced	in	2012.
D	Increase	in	hazardous	waste	generation	largely	due	to	new	assembly	operations	at	our	
Suzhou	facility,	which	resulted	in	an	increase	in	chemicals	used	and	treated	off-site.Scope 3
(Includes contract 
manufacturing, business travel, employee commutes, and product logistics and shipping)70%
amD’s full 2012/2013 Corporate 
Responsibility Report fulfills 
the requirements for GRI’s 
application Level a .
Did You Know?
Key Performance Indicator    
total Number of e mployees 11,068 11,093 10,340
Percentage of Female e mployees 31% 29% 28%
Worldwide Injury and Illness Case Rate
	(per 100 workers)  0.17 0.32 0.18
employee Volunteer Hoursa 12,000  12,693  7,735
total Revenue  (In millions USD)  $6,494  $6,568  $5,422
Net Income  (In millions USD)  $471  $491  ($1,183)
amD Foundation Giving  (USD)  $1,675,809  $2,649,564  $2,646,333
Other Cash and In-Kind Giving   (USD)B $1,525,152  $1,561,711  $560,245
energy u se  (Gigawatt hours – GWh)  473 473  436
CO2 equivalent e missionsC 
 (Metric Tons CO2e, Scope 1 & 2)  167,012 191,637 199,979
Water u se  (Million liters)  877 890 868
 Waste	Water	Discharge		 (Million liters)  320 364 391
Non-Hazardous Waste Generated  (Metric tons)  2,070 2,126 1,730
 Landfill	Diversion	Rate 51% 57% 64%
Hazardous Waste Generated  (Metric tons)D 49 96 151
 Hazardous	Waste	Recycled/Reused	Rate 94% 97% 68%
environmental Health or Safety 
Violations & Fines  (USD)  0 ($0)  1 ($360)  0 ($0)
major Supplier Facilities that have completed
eICC Self- assessment Questionnaires (S aQs)  54% 89%
EICC = Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition   
Number of High Risk m ajor Supplier Facilities
Based on S aQ Scores  9% 0%
 
23 22  2010  2011  2012
©2013 a dvanced m icro Devices, Inc. a ll rights reserved. am D, the am D arrow logo, am D 
FirePro, am D Radeon and combinations thereof are trademarks of a dvanced m icro Devices, 
Inc. Other trade names are used for identification purposes only and may be the property or 
trademarks of their respective owners.
earthaware paper 
is carbon neutral, 
elementally chlorine-
free, and 10% Recycled.
SCAN THE CODE TO LEARN MORE  
ON OUR WEBSITE, OR VISIT:
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility