Corporate Citizenship 
SummaryGREATER TECHNOLOGY  
GREATER GOOD
At AMD, we are at our best when bringing great products 
to market. We create high-performance semiconductor 
solutions that are designed to help solve some of the 
world’s toughest challenges. This is our driving motivation 
— to enable the world’s creators, researchers, inventors, 
and explorers to transform the lives of those around them 
through immersive and instinctive computing. 
With this purpose comes great responsibility to our 
employees, our community, and our planet. Since 1995,  
AMD employees have contributed more than 196,000 
hours of volunteer service and millions of dollars to the 
communities where we live and work. We earned a score  
of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index, and 100% of our direct suppliers 
completed their self-assessment questionnaires covering 
social, environmental, and ethical risk. Our 25x20 Energy 
Efficiency Initiative — designed to deliver at least 25 
times more energy efficiency with our mobile Accelerated 
Processing Units (APU) by 2020 over a 2014 baseline —  
is ahead of schedule and was recognized with Edison  
and Environmental Leader awards. Our products drive  
an immense sense of pride among our global employees  
and provide a lasting difference for our world.
As a company, we are extremely proud to create high-
performance computing and graphics products that lead  
the industry, and to do that in a manner that leaves the 
world a better place.
Dr. Lisa Su
President and CEOMESSAGE FROM 
OUR PRESIDENT 
AND CEOGRAPHICS
AMD combines breakthrough graphics architecture with cutting-edge software to power 
platforms that can handle the most challenging, important, and graphics-intensive applications 
today, including gaming, machine intelligence, and virtual and augmented reality.
COMPUTE  
AMD’s high-performance microprocessors and chipsets deliver powerful, efficient performance 
for consumer and commercial devices like desktops, notebooks, and servers.
SOLUTIONS  
AMD has leadership high-performance graphics and compute design capabilities, uniquely 
enabling us to differentiate solutions for customers and partners. From embedded products that 
power medical imaging devices and digital signage to semi-custom processors for leading game 
consoles and beyond, AMD technology is everywhere.WHAT WE MAKE
WHO  
WE ARE
Since our founding in 1969, AMD has 
driven innovation in high-performance 
computing, graphics, and visualization 
technologies — the building blocks 
for gaming, immersive platforms, 
and the datacenter. Hundreds of 
millions of consumers, leading Fortune 
500 businesses, and cutting-edge 
scientific research facilities rely on AMD 
technology daily to improve how they 
live, work, and play. AMD employees 
around the world are focused on 
building great products that push  
the boundaries of what is possible.Gaming Machine  
IntelligenceVirtual &  
Augmented Reality
Client 
SystemsInfrastructure  
& Cloud
Semi-Custom Vertical  
PlatformsPartnerships
Learn more at AMD.comWe work to ensure that working conditions throughout our supply chain are safe, and that everyone involved in delivering  
AMD products — from the design lab to the manufacturing line — is treated with dignity and respect. 
We nurture an inclusive work environment where employees bring their unique perspectives and passions to work every day.We are committed to operations that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and electricity use. We focus on developing energy-
efficient processors, and our 2020 climate goals are verified by the Science Based Targets initiative.
We contribute to our local communities through the time and talent of our workforce in company-sponsored volunteer events. We believe that immersive and instinctive computing will transform our lives, and we are inspired by how digital technology 
has improved our world. From helping students learn to creating innovative new therapies for veterans to mapping the 
universe we live in — AMD technology powering the systems that are opening new doors to a better world. CORE  
ISSUESCorporate responsibility issue 
prioritization helps us refine  
our strategic focus and resource 
allocation, build a foundation 
for a forward-looking strategy, 
and communicate effectively 
with key stakeholders.
DATA PRIVACY & SECURITY  
Cybersecurity is a top priority at AMD. This focus  
extends across all tiers and work groups within our 
company — including policies that govern our corporate 
operations, practices that help keep our intellectual 
property and the information we hold safe, and product 
innovations that support strong protections for our 
customers.
HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR ISSUES  
We strive to ensure that our materials are sourced 
ethically and that our supply chain is managed 
responsibly. Our goal is to deliver high-quality products 
while ensuring working conditions throughout our  
supply chain are safe and workers are treated with dignity 
and respect.ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CLIMATE CHANGE  
Our climate goals for the year 2020 span AMD’s business 
operations and have been verified by the Science Based 
Targets initiative. We are steadfast in our goals for 
environmental stewardship — whether sourcing  
renewable energy for our offices, demonstrating  
world-class manufacturing with wafer suppliers, or 
efficiently powering millions of AMD-equipped devices.ROLE OF IT IN SOCIETY  
We believe that our technology should promote  
and enable a more equitable, safe, and healthy world.  
At the same time, we make conscious efforts to prevent  
or minimize negative impacts from the manufacturing  
or use of our products.Studies show technology increases student 
engagement and makes certain tasks easier.  
Proving that learning improves with such tools,  
on the other hand, is more difficult. However, there 
is potential in VR technology — due to its immersive, 
3D nature with the combination of visual, auditory, 
and kinesthetic learning models — to better engage 
students and help them to retain key concepts.
To test this theory, AMD and Hunters Lane  
High School in Nashville, Tennessee, launched a  
six-week experiment to determine student and 
teacher perceptions of VR-based learning and 
evaluate the potential for integrating VR  
effectively into the classroom.
“Our preliminary information indicates students have 
better retention of the information because instead  
of learning it one dimensionally, they experience the 
content on multiple levels, ” said Dr. Susan Kessler, 
Hunters Lane principal. “The more experience-based 
content you have, the more likely kids are going to 
feel connected to it. ”
Perhaps most importantly, the VR experiment  
made students at Hunters Lane High School curious, 
and that can go a long way in helping develop  
student agency.
“Virtual reality is going to change everything for 
them, ” predicted Todd Duncan, Hunters Lane librarian. 
“It’s going to get them excited and engaged. Students 
are going to want to come to classes where VR is 
utilized as part of the lesson, and teachers can use  
it in just about every subject. What you can do with 
VR is truly limitless. ”
STUDENT 
ENGAGEMENT 
THROUGH 
VIRTUAL REALITYFounded in 1999, UNETE is the largest organization 
in Mexico supporting public education (K–12) by 
introducing technology to classrooms nationwide. 
Their non-profit mission is to improve the quality  
and equity of education by developing digital skills.
As UNETE CEO Alejandro Almazán Zimerman  
explains, “The schools in Mexico are completely  
underserved. Currently there are more than 30,000 
schools that do not have access to technology. ”
“ AMD products offer a very good cost-benefit 
relationship. They offer proper performance for our 
educational aims, and the affordable cost allows us 
to reach more children. What AMD allows us, in a 
nutshell, is to do more with less, ” says José Rubén 
Martínez, UNETE’s CTO and COO.
Since its founding, UNETE has purchased more than 
30,000 AMD-based products. 
Each school year, more than 2.6 million students and 
over 100,000 teachers benefit from UNETE support. 
To date, the organization has equipped more than 
8,500 schools with computers, servers, and other 
technological resources across all of Mexico’s 32  
states — with a special focus on regions where  
poverty and marginalization rates are highest. 
Zimerman emphasized, “The important thing is that 
those computers are not just thrown into the class -
room with the expectation of a magical effect. There  
is a lot of work behind the scenes that we have been 
improving upon school year after school year. We feel 
very fortunate to be working with AMD in this pursuit. ”
Learn more at unete.org/english
DIGITAL 
INCLUSION 
ACROSS MEXICOCOMMUNITY  
AFFAIRS
For more than 35 years, AMD has 
invested time, money, and technology 
in organizations that help strengthen 
communities worldwide. Our 
employees also continue to make their 
communities a better place through 
volunteerism and donations to local 
organizations. Since 1995, AMD’s 
workforce has performed more than 
196,000 hours of volunteer service 
and contributed $16.4 million USD to 
charitable causes.
Parks Restored8
Trees, Seedlings
Planted1,050 Meals Packed, 
Cooked, Served44,000
Bags of
Litter Collected290Educational Packets 
Assembled2,000
Raised 
for Charity$115K+Volunteers1,600+
Volunteer Hours6,400
Global Sites 
Participated20
Service Projects67
AMD CARES
DAY OF SERVICE 2017
STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITIES WORLDWIDE
AMD has always believed that workplace volunteering strengthens 
our communities, our employees, and our company. Every year 
we amplify this message through our annual AMD Cares Day of 
Service, encouraging our global workforce to volunteer in social and 
environmental projects, reinforcing our longstanding commitment  
to our communities.AMD REGIONS
Europe, Middle East, & AfricaAsia-PacificGreater ChinaThe AmericasRESPONSIBILITY ON  
A GLOBAL SCALE
Penang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignIstanbul, Turkey – SalesGrenoble, France – Sales
Tokyo, Japan – Sales
Sydney, Australia – Sales
Melbourne, Australia – SalesSeoul, South Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan, China – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai, India – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – Sales
Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, Design
Brussels, Belgium
- Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – Sales
Bengaluru, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Chongqing, China – SalesMilan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany 
– Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesSan Diego, CA - SalesLos Angeles, CA - Sales
Austin, TX – Corporate, 
R&D, DesignSanta Clara, CA – Corporate,
Business Services, R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, DesignMarkham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan, China – R&D, 
Design,Business ServicesSuzhou, China – Business ServicesFleet, UK – SalesMARKHAM
Established: 1985; Acquired  
by AMD in 2006  
Operations:  AMD Canadian  
Headquarters and graphics R&D center
AUSTIN
Established:  1978  
Operations:  Corporate, R&D, Design
BRAZIL & LATIN AMERICA
Operations:  Business Services and Sales
Offices in São Paulo, Mexico City, and Buenos Aires
R&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OfficesSalesSANTA CLARA
Established: 2017; Original HQ  
in Sunnyvale, 1969  
Operations: AMD Corporate 
Headquarters, R&D, Design
Penang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignIstanbul, Turkey – SalesGrenoble, France – Sales
Tokyo, Japan – Sales
Sydney, Australia – Sales
Melbourne, Australia – SalesSeoul, South Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan, China – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai, India – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – Sales
Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, Design
Brussels, Belgium
- Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – Sales
Bengaluru, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Chongqing, China – SalesMilan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany 
– Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesSan Diego, CA - SalesLos Angeles, CA - Sales
Austin, TX – Corporate, 
R&D, DesignSanta Clara, CA – Corporate,
Business Services, R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, DesignMarkham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan, China – R&D, 
Design,Business ServicesSuzhou, China – Business ServicesFleet, UK – SalesBEIJING
Established:  2004  
Operations: Greater China 
Headquarters, R&D, DesignTAIPEI
Established: 1987  
Operations:  Business Services
HYDERABAD
Established:  2008  
Operations:  R&D, Design focusing on 
graphics and computing solutionsBENGALURU
Established:  2004  
Operations:  R&D, Design  
focusing on graphics  
and computing solutions
MALAYSIA
Penang Established:  1972  
Operations:  Business Services  
Cyberjaya Established:  2008  
Operations:  Business Services
EUROPE & MIDDLE EAST
Operations:  Business Services, Sales
SHANGHAI
Established: 2006  
Operations: Shanghai Research  
and Development Center (SRDC); 
AMD’s largest system design hub 
outside of the United States
SINGAPORE 
Established: 1984  
Operations: Singapore Product Development 
Center (SPDC) and APJ Sales & Marketing  ENERGY  
EFFICIENCYWe design energy-efficient processors while continuing to meet users’ 
performance expectations. Through AMD’s award-winning 25x20 Energy 
Efficiency Initiative, we remain on track to reach an ambitious goal,  
and third parties are taking notice of our achievements.
2015
“Carrizo ”2016
“Bristol Ridge”2014
“Kaveri”2018 20192 020 2017
“Raven Ridge”RELA TIVE ENER GY EFFICIENC Y
(log scale)25xADDITIONAL ENERGY
EFFICIENCY BY  2020
(2014– 2020 )
Required Trend
for 25x2 0
of AMD APUs
For more information and substantiation  
please go to  www.amd.com/25x20 
energ y usage (variable “E ”) as deﬁned by: ET EC (Typical Ener gy Consumption f or notebook computers), Ener gy Star Program Requir ements Rev 6. 1 10/201 4. AMD “K averi” represents the baseline of 1.0X for CPU,  GPU,  and ETEC. 
“Carrizo” 27 7/2709 (123 %), “Bristol Ridge” 27 9/3234 (136% ), “Raven Ridge” 66 7/4425 (247% ). Results may va ry with conﬁguration and driver versions. RVM-53 
• AMD Re ference Platf orm“K averi” AMD FX -7600P 2x4GB DDR3L- 1600Crucial CT256M4SSD2Windows 8. 1 x64 9600Graphics Driver 13.350.0.0 1366x768  
• AMD Re ference Platf orm“ Carrizo” AMD FX -8800P2x2GB DDR3- 1866Crucial CT256M550SSD1Windows 10 x64 10586Graphics Driver 21 .19.137.5141366x768  
• AMD Re ference Platf orm“Bristol Ridge” AMD FX -9830P2x4GB DDR4- 2133Crucial CT256M4SSD2Windows 10 x64 10586Graphics Driver 21. 19.137.5141366x7 68 
• AMD Re ference Platf orm“Raven Ridge” AMD R yzen™ 7 2700U2x4GB DDR4 -2400Samsung 850 Pro SSDWindows 10 x64 16299 .64Graphics Drive r: 23.20.768.01920x108 0ACCELERATING ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Additional energy efficiency gains from the AMD Ryzen™ Processor with Radeon™ Vega Graphics  
keep AMD ahead of the trend line needed to achieve our 25x20 goal.           CALIFORNIA
    GOVERNOR’S ENVIRONMENTAL & ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP AWARD AMD  
CORPORATE  
CITIZENSHIP  
IN ACTIONWe are proud to bring AMD technology to market through the lens of people, 
planet, and purpose. Today, more than ever, it is important that we work together 
across all levels of community to focus on creating meaningful impact. At AMD, 
we use our collective knowledge and passion to attack challenges and pursue 
innovative ideas that help solve global problems. This approach is not an “add  
on, ” but a “how to” that resides within our DNA. Through AMD’s products and 
presence, we strive to positively impact the people touched by our technology  
on the planet we share each and every day.
We thank our workforce, technology partners, and communities around the world 
for joining with AMD as we continue to deliver technology designed to help solve 
some of the world’s toughest challenges.
Follow us on Twitter @AMDInitiatives
 
Susan Moore  
Corporate Vice President,  
Public Affairs
ENABLING TODAY ,  
INSPIRING TOMORROW
Art is inspired by life, much in the same way as AMD 
innovations are inspired by life — by people and what 
they can accomplish with the right technology.
AMD is a company that dares to imagine a better 
world and takes inspiration from our customers 
to deliver innovative solutions to the challenges 
and possibilities of our digital age. We don’t create 
technology for technology’s sake; we innovate for 
you and what you can achieve.
Learn more about how AMD is powering better 
lives at AMD.com/CorporateResponsibility
©2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD logo, 
Ryzen, Radeon, Vega, EPYC, and combinations thereof are trademarks of  
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other trade names are used for identification 
purposes only and may be the property or trademarks of their respective owners. 