Past Issues    
 
Become a Subscriber  | Give Us Your Feedback       
 
  Presen ting AMD's 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report  
On behalf of the employees and management of AMD, we are pleased to present our corporate 
responsibility report for 2010.   In this, our 16th consecutive report, we outline our goals, performance, 
and plans for continuously improving our record on corporate responsibility.    
This year's report covers some major changes for AMD, and sets our future direction for corporate 
responsibility.   Some of our 2010 highlights include:  
 Increased our reporting under the G lobal Reporting Initiative and improved our score from a "B" to 
an "A" (self -declared) in 2010.  
 Established new strategies to manage corporate responsibility that are in line with our current 
business model.  
 Expanded our Foundation's signature initiative " AMD Changing the Game " – a program that 
teaches youth science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) skills through the 
creation of video games – to 3,000 young people in 3 countries.   
 Developed a set of aggressive environmental goals based on our current business model.  
 Demonstrated that our new Accelerated Processing Unit, the E -350 APU (a new technology that 
combines a microprocessor and graphics processor) has a carbon footprint that is up to 40% 
smaller than previous technology generations. Read the full study here.    
 Aligned our employee volunteerism program with professional development branded AMD 
Community Corps ., and increased the number of employee volunteers by 30 percent in the 
process. Read more about AMD in the Community here.  
To read even more, plea se download our 2010 report . 
While corporate responsibility reporting has become increasingly common and these reports are lengthy, 
we continue to find value in the process and result.   Not only is this report a window for you – our valued   
stakeholders – to view and comment on our performance, for us it is a reflection of our progress.   In 
other words, corporate responsibility reporting is a management tool at AMD that helps us to identif y the 
areas of strength in our corporate responsibility programs, as well as those that need extra focus.  
We hope that you will find this report informative, thought provoking, and valuable.   We are interested in 
your feedback.   Please contact us  with your comments and input on how we can improve our programs 
and reporting going forward.  
 
 
    
   
© 2011 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof are 
trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their 
respective owners.  
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., One AMD Place, P.O. Box 3453, Sunnyvale, California 94088 -3453 
Tel: 408 -749-4000 
AMD Business Solutions  | Copyright 2010  | Privacy  | Trademark Info    
 
