AMD 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Summary
4 14 228 12 16 20
10 18employee 
engagementsupply chain health 
and safetyglobal  
presence
AMD changing  
the gametechnology environment stakeholder
engagementdata tables 2011When I became CEO and 
President of AMD this past 
year, I became part of a company and team with a strong legacy of corporate responsibility, 
brought to life by more than 11,000 
dedicated AMDers across the 
planet. Our employees not only 
work hard every day to deliver leading computing and graphics 
solutions, they contribute their 
own time, money and passion to 
make the world a better place. This 
is ingrained as part of our culture, which we call “The AMD Way.” 
I am pleased to share our 2011 
corporate responsibility summary.  
In it, you will find examples of AMD employees who go above 
and beyond to help others and to 
preserve our environment.  As AMD works throughout 2012 to refocus and reposition 
the company to capture the 
opportunities in front of us, we will be unwavering in our 
commitment to people and the 
planet. Internally, we will remain 
committed to our work on diversity 
and inclusion, ethical business practices, and cultivating a 
supportive, productive work 
environment. Externally, we will 
continue to be good neighbors 
in our communities, protect the environment and ensure that 
our suppliers meet the same 
expectations we hold ourselves 
accountable for, while engaging 
with our stakeholders openly  
and honestly. Each year, society’s expectations for corporate responsibility and 
transparency increase. While 
AMD has consistently met and exceeded these expectations, 
we are motivated by more than 
external influences. We know 
that corporate responsibility 
strengthens our business, enriches our culture and helps 
AMD win.
I hope that you find our corporate 
responsibility summary informative and valuable. As 
always, we welcome your input 
and questions.
2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary       03
AMD is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of 
digital experiences. AMD technologies power game consoles, PCs, 
servers and supercomputers. That’s what  we are, but the more 
important question is who  we are. AMD is more than 11,000 dedicated 
people, working to make the world a better place. We don’t just talk 
about corporate responsibility; as you’ll see in this issue, we live it.who we are
from our CEO
contentswelcome
Our stats:
Our offerings:
Some of our 
2011–2012 awards and recognition:• Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) for  
consumer and commercial notebook, desktop  
and embedded markets
• x86 microprocessors for commercial and  consumer markets
• Embedded microprocessors for commercial, 
commercial client and consumer markets
• Chipsets for desktop and notebook PCs, embedded 
systems, professional workstations and servers
• Graphics, video and multimedia products and 
technologies for desktop and notebook PCs, embedded systems, professional workstations, servers, and game consoles
• Top 10 Most Trustworthy Companies in 
America: Trust Across America
• Top 20 S&P 500 Clean Capitalism List: 
Corporate Knights
• Dow Jones Sustainability North American 
Index for 7
th consecutive year
• Top 500 Green Companies in the U.S.: Newsweek Magazine
• Top 100 Climate Innovation Indexes  Leaders: Maplecroft• Established in 1969 and headquartered in 
Sunnyvale, California
• Employees: 11,705 (worldwide as of February 2012)
• 50 locations worldwide, including more than a dozen 
R&D facilities, nearly two dozen international sales offices, and assembly/test manufacturing facilities in Malaysia, China and Singapore
• Publicly traded under NYSE: AMD
• 2011 revenues of $6.57 billion
Rory Read
AMD President and CEO
Corporate Headquarters in Sunnyvale, CA
The next generation Accelerated 
Processor from AMD codenamed 
“Trinity” designed for both desktop 
and notebook solutions (desktop 
processor shown)AMD FirePro™ Multifunctional 
Server Solution for Compute, 
Professional Graphics and VDIThis summary provides a high-level view of AMD’s corporate responsibility programs, 
performance and goals detailed in our 2011 annual Corporate Responsibility report. It highlights activities from 2011 along with ongoing initiatives. You can download the full report from our website at www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility.
4
 14
 22
8
 12
 16
 20
10
 18
employee 
engagementsupply chain health 
and safetyglobal  
presence
AMD changing  
the gametechnology environment stakeholder
engagementdata tables Today’s students aren’t lacking the 
desire to learn, they’re just not going for the usual educational approaches. That’s where AMD Changing the Game comes in: our signature education initiative designed to inspire kids to learn by teaching them to create video games. Here are some telling statistics. Two-
thirds of American high school students 
report being bored in class every day.
1 
Yet those same students who are tuning 
out in school are tuning in to video games, with an estimated 97% of U.S. teens playing online games.
2
AMD Changing the Game uses this passion as leverage for learning. But instead of playing video games, our program teaches kids how to create them. Through game creation, students learn science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) skills, as well as problem solving, critical thinking, language skills and teamwork. By using age- and skill-appropriate tools, the program works with key education partners to guide students through the creative process, and teaches 
the mechanics of game design and 
production. And these are not the violent 
games that can worry parents; the curriculum focuses on developing games around important social issues – such as energy conservation, healthcare, and reducing poverty.
04       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        051 Yazzie-Mintz, E. (2010). Charting the path from engagement to achievement: A report on the 2009 High 
School Survey of Student Engagement. Bloomington, IN: Center for Evaluation & Education Policy.
2 Amanda Lenhart, Joseph Kahne, Ellen Middaugh, Alexandra Macgill, Chris Evans, Jessica Vitak. New 
Pew Internet/MacArthur Report on Teens, Video games and Civics. Pew Internet & American Life Project, 
September 16, 2008.Turning today’s teens into tomorrow’s leadersAMD changing 
the gameBy 2020, we plan to reach 
more than one million students around the world with opportunities to create video games in our groundbreaking 
education program.
• More than 74,000 students 
reached worldwide
• More than 7,000 games created
• 26 unique partners• $3.9 million in AMD  
Foundation donations
Education
“Our goal is to inspire students to embrace 
learning, get excited about school, and 
possibly even discover a new passion  
for a future career in technology.” 
– Ward Tisdale, AMD Director, Global Community Affairs
SCAN THE CODE TO LEARN MORE 
ON OUR WEBSITE, OR VISIT:
http://www.amd.com/changingthegame
AMD 
changing the gameour report card
Every year we graduate to a higher level of involvement, and our student body is increasing exponentially in size 
and inspiration.Providing educational technology is 
a critical part of AMD Changing the Game. Since 2008, AMD has funded more than 20 technology centers worldwide. The AMD Foundation has also awarded $3.9 million in grants to fund 40 related programs operated by 26 organizations around the world. Here are some of our global highlights.
Competitions
Game DesignCurriculaAdvocacyGames for Change
Boys & Girls Clubs 
of America
Dresden Media 
and Culture Center
Pflugerville 
Independent School District
2008 2009 2010 201122,353
Total Youth Reached
Malaysia CybergamesAlliance for Artists & WritersNational STEM Video Game Challenge
Dandelion Middle School
BGCA – Ft. Collins
Boxborough
BGCA – S. Jose, Bellevue, 
Germantown, Orlando
G4C 2010 (Educator 
Workshop)Game On! Texas 2010
Facebook
TwitterActivate!65
Total Youth Reached
Game On! – Travis High School
Globaloria – East Austin College Prep Academy
G4C 2009 (How to Make  
Social Games)
Making Social Games ToolkitBGCA – Game Tech80
Total Youth Reached
Global Kids
Institute for Urban Game Design
G4C 2008 (How to Make  
Social Games)Science Buddies52,140
Total Youth Reached
BGCA – Austin, Houston, 
Menlo Park, JapanPISD Greenbuilding gameDMCC – Dresden, GermanyAbu Dhabi Education CouncilBoys & Girls Clubs CanadaYork FoundationW. Seneca, NY with E-Line
Level Up!
Gamestar MechanicWhyvilleBGCA Game ChannelWhyville
BGCA Digital Arts FestivalNational STEM Video GameChallenge 2011
G4C 2011 (Educator 
Workshop)
Game On! Texas 2011
The Atlantic Gaming ForumSXSWedu 2011Inplay InteractiveG4C EuropeG4C Latin America
New York City – U.S.
• Games for Change Festival
• PetLab/Parsons
• Scholastic Art &
 Writing Awards
• Global Kids
• Gamestar MechanicAustin, TX – U.S.
• East Austin College
 Prep Academy
• Game On! Texas
• Skillpoint Alliance
• Girlstart
• Green Ribbon SchoolsSan Jose, CA – U.S.
• Schmahl Science Workshops
Carmel, CA – U.S.
• Science Buddies
Pasadena, CA – U.S.
• Whyville.netMalaysia
• Malaysia Cybergames 
 FestivalToronto, ON – Canada
• Boys & Girls Clubs of Canada
• York UniversityDresden, Germany
• Dresden Media and Culture 
Center (DMCC) Beijing, China
• Dandelion Middle School
Sao Paulo, Brazil
• Games for Change 
• Festival Latin AmericaAbu Dhabi, UAE
• Abu Dhabi
 Education Councilmaking a 
world of 
difference
Education
G4C
BGCA
DMCC
PISD
Washington, DC – U.S.
• National STEM Video 
 Game Challenge
• Institute of Urban Game
 Design
• Change the Equation: 
 Member
06       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        07CO, MA, CA, WA, MD, FL, 
TX – U.S.
• Boys & Girls Clubs of America$14.7 M
AMD employee 
contributions and 
matching funds  
since 1995AMD Foundation:
improving lives, 
protecting the planet, helping 
those in need
Doing good for good’s 
sake is noble unto itself. At AMD, it also drives our business.
Research shows that companies with 
engaged employees have almost four times higher earnings-per-share growth rates over companies with lower engagement in the same industry.
1 
Studies have also shown that there is a strong correlation between engagement and socially and environmentally responsible organizations.
2 This is why 
responsibility is an essential part of our culture – The AMD Way. The AMD Way is focused on three core beliefs: Ownership and Commitment; Customer Focus; and Innovation Leadership. Doing good is natural for AMD employees, but we also must succeed in business. The good news is, the two are correlated.
At AMD we live our core beliefs through 
our actions. Our employees are more motivated to work hard and innovate when they see their job as their cause. And there are ample opportunities for our people to work for their causes while working for AMD:
Go Green
Our award-winning conservation program, Go Green, encourages AMD employees to reduce environmental impacts in several aspects of life: at home, commuting and at work. Since 2007, our employees have avoided more than 5 million km of driving, preventing 1,286 metric tons of CO
2 from being 
released into the air – an amount that would take approximately 33,000 trees and 10 years to sequester.
“It has had a very positive impact on 
me. I spend more time thinking about my actions and making sustainable choices whenever I can. I carpool, compost, garden, recycle, and many other things in large part because of the Go Green Program.” – Pam Horn, AMD Paralegal Specialist
Volunteering
We encourage our employees to volunteer in a variety of ways. In 2011, more than 1,500 AMD employees volunteered more than 12,600 hours in their communities. Through our AMD Community Corps program, we help employees develop professionally through volunteerism.
Contribution Matching
We don’t just encourage volunteerism – we back our employees with cash. AMD contributes $15 for each hour that our U.S. and Canada employees and their spouses spend volunteering for eligible organizations. We also match up to $3,000 in yearly contributions made to eligible organizations by each employee. Since 1995, our employees have given more than $7.2 million, and AMD matching has increased the total to $14.7 million in support of hundreds of non-profit organizations and schools.
The AMD Foundation invests in several important causes, such as the educational program AMD Changing the Game and our employee matching funds. We also support efforts to preserve nature at its best – and help victims when nature is at its worst.
Japan Earthquake and 
Tsunami
Employee donations and matching funds 
raised more than $270,000 to support the victims of this tragedy. AMD also shipped more than 1,600 lbs. of food, medical supplies and critical items like flashlights, hard hats, masks and emergency radios to victims.
Central Texas Wildfires 
When wildfires broke out near our largest site in Austin, Texas, we sprang into action to account for every employee in the area and help our community. More than 200 AMD employees were adversely affected by the fires, and three tragically lost their homes. These fires destroyed the most homes for a single fire event in Texas history. AMD provided more than $116,000 in employee contributions, matching funds and a special donation of $50,000 to the American Red Cross of Central Texas. Plus our employees turned out in force to help the relief effort, distributing bulk items and cleanup supplies, and taking phone donations at a local TV station.
Since 2004, AMD and its employees 
have contributed more than $2.8 million to provide disaster relief around the world, including the responses to the South Asian tsunami, Hurricane Katrina, and earthquakes in China, Haiti and Japan. Of that amount, $817,000 came directly from AMD employees.
“People have always 
come first at AMD, so 
when our employees, 
customers or 
communities are 
affected by disasters, 
the AMD family steps 
up to help. The Japan 
disaster was a call 
for us to help our 
Japanese colleagues 
and their community. 
And we all came 
together to answer the call. Thank you!” 
– Allyson Peerman, AMD 
Foundation Presidentthe AMD 
wayEmployee Engagement
1 Gallup Management Journal – “The Next Generation of Leadership.”
2 2010 Hewitt and Associates – “2010 Best Employers in Canada Study.”AMD provided more than $116K to help 
victims of the 2011 Central TX wildfires.
PHOTO: DANIEL LEHMAN
Protecting Open Spaces
AMD provided a series of grants totaling $3 
million to preserve open space near our LEED® 
Gold certified Lone Star campus in Central Texas. AMD partnered with Hill Country Conservancy, a non-profit land trust that works with landowners and government agencies to preserve open space through conservation easements that limit development rights.
“AMD’s generous 
support of Hill Country Conservancy’s ‘Vast Open Spaces’ mission has made it possible to preserve these sensitive lands and 
conservation values in 
perpetuity. The citizens of Central Texas are ultimately the beneficiaries of this extraordinary contribution.”
– George Cofer,  
HCC Executive Director
08       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        09Technology
Advancing Healthcare  
in Nigeria 
eHealth Nigeria is an NGO dedicated  
to improving its country’s healthcare. Due to a lack of consistent reliable energy to enable network and server access, the Nigerian healthcare system was critically limited. eHealth addressed the problem by designing a small, yet fully functional data center with a dedicated power source. They determined that servers with multi-core AMD Opteron™ processors would deliver the optimum combination of energy efficiency and processing  power for this rugged environment. Making Personalized  
Medicine Affordable
Personalized medicine has the potential to revolutionize healthcare  by tailoring treatment and prevention based on the patient’s genes – a process requiring complex DNA sequencing. Using the Ranger supercomputer driven by AMD Opteron™ processors, Dr. Aleksei Aksimentiev at the University of Illinois is developing a process that increases the speed and efficiency  of DNA sequencing, which could  reduce costs from $50,000 to less  than $1,000 per individual.“We are using supercomputers to 
discover new ways to 
sequence DNA to make 
this procedure faster and less 
expensive so it can be used as a routine medical procedure. It’s really the ultimate diagnostic tool to determine all kinds of genetic disorders.” – Dr. Aksimentiev
Increasing Wind Energy 
Efficiency
In a 100-megawatt wind farm, a small 
drop in output can result in the loss of hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue. A supercomputer built by 
AMD technology  
powers computers  
and servers that  
enable a better world – 
from helping scientists advance healthcare and climate change research to optimizing 
clean energy and 
“greening” cloud computing data centers. “We know cloud computing is 
the future. The Evergreen Cloud 
effort is designed to accelerate 
the cost and operational 
efficiencies associated with 
cloud computing and make computing greener and 
environmentally sustainable.”  
– Dr. Dave Mayhew, Chief Technologist, 
AMD External Research Office
CloudComputingNor-Tech featuring AMD Opteron™ 
processors is helping engineers  optimize turbine efficiency and output. The system computes highly complex fluid dynamics to fine-tune turbine placement and positioning, which reduces wake turbulence and allows maximum power output. 
Understanding and  
Preparing for Climate Change
The Kraken computer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory was the first academic “petascale” supercomputer (a system that can perform more than one-thousand-trillion operations per second). Using AMD Opteron™ processors, Kraken allows scientists to develop complex weather simulation models to predict and understand the effects of climate change. Using these models, researchers can forecast climate-related impacts on coastal flooding, food-crop production, biodiversity and many other factors, which will help in developing effective ways to both combat and  adapt to climate change.  
Making Computing More 
Energy Efficient 
AMD is dedicated to innovating low 
power and energy efficient computing. As one example, we are a founder and board member of the Green Grid
®, 
a global organization dedicated to energy efficiency and sustainability for computing and all aspects of data center operations. Green Grid brings private industry, government and other organizations together, and is widely recognized as a global authority on resource-efficient business computing.
AMD also works with organizations 
on standards for environmentally sustainable technology. One of these is EPEAT
® (Electronic Product 
Environmental Assessment Tool), a ratings organization developed through a collaboration of business, government, non-profit organizations and academic institutions, which helps purchasers evaluate electronic products based on sustainability guidelines. AMD also actively contributes to government energy efficiency standards, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Energy Star
® program and related 
programs around the world.
Greening Data Centers  
and the Cloud
Reducing data center energy use is a priority for AMD and others in our industry. We have partnered with Clarkson University, the New York  State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA),  HP and other organizations to address the challenge of powering data centers with clean, renewable energy. The project, known as the Evergreen Cloud, seeks to build a distributed computing network that runs on renewables.  The goal is to co-locate containerized data centers such as HP’s Performance Optimized Datacenter (POD) with dynamic energy sources like wind and solar, which do not rely on traditional large-scale grid-tied systems. Instead of transmitting energy to a centralized data center, the arrangement moves data using fiber optic lines to locations where alternative energy is being generated. Using fiber optics is an economical substitute for costly electrical transmission lines, not to mention that it eliminates carbon emissions from traditional energy generation. 
enabling a 
better world
10       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        11Standards
AMD is a long-standing member of  
the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). We operate according to the EICC Code of Conduct and  also follow the Principles of Social Responsibility issued by the Institute  for Supply Management (ISM). We expect our suppliers to live up to  these same standards, and every  year we communicate these expectations to them. 
Conformance
AMD regularly conducts supplier business reviews (SBRs) with all of our key suppliers to assess corporate responsibility expectations and performance. Using the SBR forum ensures that supplier responsibility is a central feature of our business relationships. We verify supplier performance through independent third-party audits conducted by EICC approved auditors. In 2011, 54% of AMD’s major supplier facilities completed EICC self-assessment questionnaires (SAQs) and 26% completed EICC audits.
Wafer foundries
Wafer foundries are a significant part of our supply chain. We conduct quarterly reviews with both Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (TSMC) and G LOBALFOUNDRIES  to verify 
their performance across a broad range of issues, including the environment, worker safety, labor standards, greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, water consumption and work hours. Capacity Building
Through the EICC, AMD suppliers  have access to a broad array of training on the best practices to improve their social and environmental programs  and performance. 
Sourcing conflict-free minerals 
One of the worst human crises in world history is taking place in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Profits from mining and trading of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in this area have fueled deadly conflicts and human  rights abuses. In 2010, a new law was enacted in the United States requiring companies traded on U.S. stock exchanges to disclose the measures they have taken to identify these  “conflict minerals” in their products.
As co-chair of a multi-stakeholder 
coalition with the Enough Project,  AMD works with other companies in the electronics supply chain, as well as NGOs and socially responsible investor groups to develop consensus policies toimplement the law. We believe effective implementation must involve three fundamental elements:
• A system that enables conflict-free 
certification of minerals from the  DRC region.
• A smelter audit program capable 
of verifying that raw materials are conflict-free.
• A standardized due-diligence  
process to verify that metals in finished products can be traced to  a certified conflict-free smelter.AMD has developed processes in its own supply chain to identify conflict minerals. While mapping our supply back to the smelter is complex, we  have had some early success and are committed to the process. We will continue to work with both our customers and suppliers to develop a workable  and efficient tracking system.
We know that tracking minerals is 
only one facet to ending suffering in the DRC. To affect change, deeply rooted socioeconomic factors must be addressed by governments, the private sector and civil society. Additionally, if implementation of the new law is not carefully managed, it may have the unintended consequence of banning or significantly reducing mineral exports from the DRC region, which could lead to even more suffering.
Supplier Responsibility
every link in the  
chain must hold true
“AMD has been a leader in 
the public discussion on 
conflict minerals, co-chairing 
a multi-stakeholder coalition 
that submitted comments to 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) as well as 
being one of a select few 
companies that testified at 
the SEC roundtable on what 
industry can do about conflict 
minerals. On the public 
discussion around conflict 
minerals, AMD has stepped 
up rather than hiding behind 
excuses about why supply 
chain action is impossible.”  
– Sasha Lezhnev, Policy 
Consultant, Enough Project
12       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary
PHOTO: SASHA LEZHNEV / ENOUGH PROJECT
2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        13“We strive to deliver high-quality products 
while ensuring that working conditions 
throughout our supply chain are safe, that 
workers are treated with respect and dignity, 
and that manufacturing processes are 
environmentally responsible.”
– John Docherty, Senior Vice President, 
Global OperationsIn 2011, we achieved an 8.1% absolute 
GHG reduction at our non-manufacturing sites since 2009, due to a 9.6% decrease in energy use and purchasing a cleaner  mix of electricity generating sources in some regions. This is ahead of our 5% reduction target. While we are off track with our target for our manufacturing sites, absolute GHG emissions have actually decreased by 3.6% since 2009 primarily due to a 50% reduction in electricity use at our Singapore facility. Normalized GHG emissions increased by 1.6%, largely due to decreased production at these facilities. In 2011, several factors contributed to AMD achieving 57% waste diversion and making continued progress toward our 70% goal. At our manufacturing facilities, waste diversion has increased from 32% in 2009 to 49% in 2011, due in part to our Singapore facility reaching 100% diversion as a result of a government “waste-to-energy” incineration initiative. Recycle rates at our non-manufacturing sites have increased from 46% in 2009 to 61% in 2011, partially due to expanded organic waste composting.In 2011, water use per employee decreased at our non-manufacturing sites, largely due to consolidating operations into our more water-efficient Lone Star facility. Normalized water use at our manufacturing sites has increased, largely due to a process change in Malaysia and construction and startup of a new assembly building in China. We are working to reduce water usage at these facilities.
AMD is committed to protecting our 
planet on all fronts, from reducing emissions to conserving precious natural resources. We measure our environmental performance in a number of categories and hold ourselves to high standards. Here are some of our 2011 results.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
Emissions Reduction
Baseline Year = 2009 / Goal Year = 20145%
reductionGoal Scope & Measure 2011 Status
Non-Manufacturing:
Absolute Reduction
Manufacturing:
Normalized byProduction Index (PI)
10.90
0.800.700.600.500.40
0.30
0.200.10
–
2009 2010 2011GHG Emissions ( MtCO2e)/
Production Index51,000
50,000
49,000
48,00047,00046,000
45,000
44,000
2009 2010 2011GHG Emissions (MtCO2e)
GOAL
GOALAHEAD
of Target
8.1%
reduction
OFFTRACK
1.6%
increase/PI
Water Use Reduction
Baseline Year = 2009 / Goal Year = 201420%
reductionGoal Scope & Measure 2011 Status
Non-Manufacturing:
Normalized byEmployee Count
Manufacturing:
Normalized byProduction Index (PI)14.9% reduction
per employee
OFFTRACKONTRACK
32.8%
increase/PI3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.00.5
0.0
2009 2010 2011Water Use Liters/
Production Index60,000
50,00040,00030,000
20,000
10,000
0
2009 2010 2011Water Use Liters/EmployeeGOAL
GOALNon-Hazardous Waste
Diversion
Baseline Year = 2009 / Goal Year = 201470%
diversionGoal Scope & Measure 2011 Status
Percentage of Waste
Kept Out of theLandfillGOAL
57% waste
diversionONTRACK100%
80%
60%
40%20%
0%
2009 2010 2011Diversion %
Recycled Landfilled Goal
Environment
a world we all 
must share
1 PI is derived by multiplying the number of units by the average cycle time (duration of test and assembly) of a product.“Despite a historic drought in 2011, our Lone Star 
campus did not use any municipal water to irrigate 
landscaping during the year. The native vegetation 
was minimally watered using 1.2 million liters of 
condensate from our cooling systems and captured 
rainwater. An additional 3 million liters of captured 
water was used in the site’s chillers.”
– Craig Garcia, AMD Director,  
Global Corporate Services
14       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        15A. B.
D. E.C.Wellness Program
AMD’s Wellness 
Program strives to help our employees stay healthy. Our efforts include:
Our goal is to continuously reduce 
occupational injury and illness case rates. From 2010 to 2011, our worldwide case rate increased from 0.17 to 0.32 cases per 100 workers, but remained well below 2010 industry averages. The primary cause is attributed to ergonomic-related injuries. We are disappointed with the increase, and have launched a campaign to increase employee awareness of how to prevent ergonomic injuries.
Injury and Illness ReductionA company is only 
as healthy as its people. AMD takes a holistic approach, with health and safety standards that apply to all of our operations 
worldwide,  
including:
• Injury and illness prevention
• Employee well-being
• Emergency preparedness  
 and response  
• Electrical and chemical safety
• Equipment safety
• Ergonomics
0.45
0.40
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.100.05
0.00
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011Worldwide Case Rate (per 100 workers)AMD Worldwide Injury and Illness
Case Rate
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0Industry Averages
(cases per 100 workers)
Private Industry
(2010)Computer/Electronic
Product Mfg.
(2010)Tech./Engineering
Services
(2010)AMD-US
(2011)Free annual flu 
immunizations in North America and discounted immunizations in Asia.Wellness expos that provide services such as biometric testing, information on health-related products and services, and discussions on health and safety topics.
AMD cafeterias that offer a wide variety of healthy options and promote healthy eating at home through discounted home delivery of fresh fruit and vegetables at some locations. We also provide nutrition awareness through wellness information  delivered on our intranet.Free fitness centers at many locations with personal training options. We also sponsor weight reduction programs like “Get Your Move On” and “Biggest Winner” as well as run/walk events.Support of World No Tobacco Day, which educated employees on tobacco-related risks  and offered a tobacco-free campus day. We  also offer tobacco cessation programs.
Employee Health & Safety
being smart  
about wellness  
is contagious
16       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        1786%
We serve a wide range of stakeholders, 
including employees, customers, stockholders, social investment analysts, our communities, suppliers, NGOs and more. These groups monitor our corporate responsibility efforts, and  we engage with them in various ways  to evaluate how we are doing, and  how we can improve.
Stakeholder  
Engagement Panel
In 2011, we established a stakeholder panel with the help of Ceres, an award-winning non-profit organization focused on business and sustainability. We will continue to work with the panel over the long term to gain a deep understanding of our stakeholders’ expectations, which helps us build a world-class corporate responsibility program. The panel has already met twice and provided us with valuable insights and perspectives on how to improve our corporate responsibility strategies, communications and performance.
Employee Satisfaction 
In 2011, we surveyed our employees worldwide to understand their overall satisfaction and their impressions of our corporate responsibility programs. We found that AMD employees are highly satisfied with our programs, with an 86% favorable rating. This is 13% higher than the global norm for employee satisfaction and 4% higher than the  norm for high-performing companies.Global Inclusion
   
AMD fully recognizes the importance of leveraging 
its diverse workforce to fuel ultimate creativity 
and innovation. AMD’s Global Inclusion team 
works to create awareness of the business 
case surrounding diversity and inclusion, drive 
an inclusive culture with emphasis on specific employee groups, and integrate and align with 
other AMD functions to create holistic programs.  
The value of this initiative will be evident by the 
innovation stemming from diversity of thought and 
perspectives, coupled with an inclusive culture.
As an initial step, we conducted a cultural 
assessment to uncover the greatest opportunities 
for making AMD an employer of choice. The 
findings are being used to fuel global inclusion in 
two important ways: 
1. The creation of The AMD Way – a cultural 
foundation that outlines the expectations we 
have of ourselves and of every AMD employee. 
2. The creation of the Global Inclusion strategy, 
with focus on three initial priority areas:  
Global Empowerment, Gender Inclusion  
and Generations.
“At AMD we are fortunate 
to have a workforce 
comprised of creative 
minds and diverse 
perspectives drawn from 
all over the world. We are 
committed to fostering 
an inclusive environment, 
because it drives a 
culture of collaboration, 
information sharing,  
and the rapid adoption  
of new ideas.”
“And this inclusive culture 
will foster innovation and 
business success.”
– Dr. Lisa Su, Senior Vice 
President & General Manager, 
Global Business UnitsEmployee
Favorable
RatingStakeholder Engagement
do well, then 
strive to do 
even better
“AMD has clearly been a 
leader on both sustainable 
business strategy and 
reporting out on their 
17 years of progress. I 
would like them now to 
take the lead on effective 
CSR communications: 
simplifying their 
messaging and making 
their sustainability 
successes and 
communications  
more accessible to  
the masses.”
– Kellie A. McElhaney,  
Center for Responsible 
Business, Haas School 
of Business, University of 
California, Berkeley
18       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        19Tokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai Research
& Development Center, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – Business Services
Hsinchu, Taiwan – Business Services
Kaohsiung, Taiwan – Business Services
Sydney, Australia – SalesJakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabaun, Malaysia – SalesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore
– Manufacturing, SalesParis, France – Sales
Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignAntwerp, Belgium – Sales
Istanbul, Turkey – SalesBromma, Sweden – Sales
Shenzhen, China – Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – SalesSt. Petersburg, Russia – R&D, Design
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milano, Italy – SalesDresden, Germany– R&D, Design
Munich, Germany – Business Operations & SalesCamberley, UK– Business Operations & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, Design
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasilia, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate HeadquartersPortland, OR – R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design Markham, ON
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, DesignNashua, NH – R&D, Design
CorporateR&D, Design
Business Services
ManufacturingSales
Markham
Established:  2006
Operations:  AMD Canadian 
Headquarters and our largest 
graphics R&D center outside the United States.
Brazil & Latin America
AMD is experiencing rapid market growth in Brazil and Latin America, where we focus mainly on sales, marketing and engineering. With a presence in São Paulo and Brasília, our Brazil sales grew 25% in 2011 over 2010. In Latin America, AMD has offices in Mexico City and Buenos Aires and maintains a permanent presence in several other countries.Sunnyvale
Established: 1969
Operations:  Corporate 
HeadquartersBeijing  
Established: 2004
Operations:  Greater China 
Headquarters
Singapore
Established:  1984
Operations: Test, mark 
and pack for AMD microprocessors.Taipei
Established: 1987
Operations: Business ServicesShanghai
Established:  2006
Operations:  R&D, Design 
facility promoting innovation through increased technology partnerships  and customer collaboration.European Union
AMD and others are working with the European Commission Information Society and Media Directorate General on The Cool Silicon Project, 
which aims to build consensus on a common 
framework for measuring energy consumption 
and carbon emissions arising from the production, transport and selling of technology goods and services. Establishing this framework is an 
important priority of the Digital Agenda for Europe. 
Suzhou
Established:  2005
Operations: Test, mark and pack 
facility for microprocessors in the 
Suzhou Industrial Park. Our new Suzhou assembly manufacturing facility begins operations in 2012.
India
AMD Bangalore Established:  2004
Operations:  Research and 
development and design  focusing on graphics and computing solutions.
AMD Hyderabad Established: 2008
Operations:  Research and 
development and design  focusing on graphics and computing solutions.Malaysia
AMD Penang Established: 1972
Operations:  Assembly and 
manufacturing process development for AMD microprocessors.
AMD Cyberjaya Established:  2008
Operations:  Business ServicesAustin
Established: 1978. 
Lone Star campus  built in 2009.
Operations: Corporate 
offices, R&D, Design
The Americas Greater China Asia – Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africaresponsibility on a global scale
AMD locations
Tokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai Research
& Development Center, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – Business Services
Hsinchu, Taiwan – Business Services
Kaohsiung, Taiwan – Business Services
Sydney, Australia – SalesJakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabaun, Malaysia – SalesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India – R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore
– Manufacturing, SalesParis, France – Sales
Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignAntwerp, Belgium – Sales
Istanbul, Turkey – SalesBromma, Sweden – Sales
Shenzhen, China – Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – SalesSt. Petersburg, Russia – R&D, Design
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milano, Italy – SalesDresden, Germany– R&D, Design
Munich, Germany – Business Operations & SalesCamberley, UK– Business Operations & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, Design
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Brazil – SalesBrasilia, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate HeadquartersPortland, OR – R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design Markham, ON– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO
– R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, DesignNashua, NH – R&D, Design
CorporateR&D, Design
Business Services
ManufacturingSales
20       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        21Supplier 
ResponsibilityEmployees Economic Environment
6.3 years
of AMD Employee
Volunteer Time in 20111Scope 1
(Direct Emissions)
Scope 2
(Indirect Emissions)
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
2009 2010 2011USD in MillionsAMD Foundation GivingAMD GHG Emissions AMD Foundation Givingdata tables 12
7%
24%
the data behind our corporate 
responsibility storySCAN THE CODE TO LEARN MORE 
ON OUR WEBSITE, OR VISIT:
http://www.amd.com/us/aboutamd/corporate-information/corporate-responsibility/Pages/information.aspx
  2009  2010  2011     2011data tables 12
1 Total of 12,600 hours volunteer time in 2011Scope 3
(Includes contract manufacturing, business travel, employee commutes, and product logistics and shipping)69%
22       2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary 2011 AMD Corporate Responsibility Summary        23Key Performance Indicator    
Major Supplier Facilities which have completed
EICC Self-AssessmentQuestionnaires (SAQs)    54%
Major Supplier Facilities which have completed 
EICC Validated Audit Program (VAP) Audits   26%
EICC = Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
AMD’s full 2011 Corporate 
Responsibility Report fulfills 
the requirements for GRI’s 
Application Level A.
Did You Know?
Key Performance Indicator    
Total Number of Employees 10,352 11,068 11,093
Percentage of Female Employees 31% 31% 29%
Employee Age Groups
 Generation Y (born 1980 – 2000) 26% 28% 33%
 Generation X (born 1965 – 1979) 51% 50% 48%
 Baby Boomers (born 1946 – 1964) 22% 21% 18%
 Traditionalists (born 1927 – 1945) <1% <1% <1%
Employee Turnover 11% 9% 12%
Worldwide Injury and Illness Case Rate
 (per 100 workers)  0.28 0.17  0.32
Employee Volunteer Hours 10,677 12,000 12,693
Total Revenue  (In millions USD)  $5,403  $6,494  $6,568
Net Income  (In millions USD)  $293 $471 $491
AMD Foundation Giving  (USD)  $660,895  $1,675,809  $2,649,564
Other Cash and In-Kind Giving   (USD)  $1,564,393  $1,525,152  $1,561,711
Energy Use  (Gigawatt hours – GWh)  421 368 380
CO2 Equivalent Emissions 
 (Metric Tons CO2e, Scope 1 & 2)  201,212  167,012  191,637
Water Use  (Million liters)  776 877 890
 Waste Water Discharge  (Million liters)  284 320 364
Non-Hazardous Waste Generated  (Metric tons)  1,953 2,070 2,126
 Landfill Diversion Rate 40% 51% 57%
Hazardous Waste Generated  (Metric tons)  48 49 96
 Hazardous Waste Recycled/Reused Rate 92% 94% 98%
Environmental Health or Safety 
Violations & Fines   (USD)  0 ($0)  2 ($0)  1 ($360)©2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD FirePro, 
AMD Opteron, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other 
names are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
EarthAware paper 
is carbon neutral, 
elementally chlorine-
free, and 10% Recycled