Pioneering
A Better World
Enabling toda y. 
Inspiring tomorrow .
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY
1 This summary magazine
2  A detailed report conforming to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines
3  Our corporate responsibility website www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT 
AND CEO, RORY READ
3Over the past few years AMD has been undergoing a 
complete transformation of our business. I’m proud 
to share that in 2013, we made significant progress 
in bringing AMD closer to our mission of becoming 
the leading designer and integrator of innovative, 
tailored technology solutions that empower people  
to push the boundaries of what is possible. 
Throughout our transformation, AMD’s commitment to corporate 
responsibility has remained unwavering. We care deeply about our people  
and our planet, and these values are woven into everything we do. We call  
this “The AMD Way,” and it is the catalyst driving our approach. 
This approach isn’t just a moral imperative for AMD; it’s a key business 
differentiator. We know that: 
   How we run our business is just as important as the innovative products  
we deliver;
   Our employees are motivated and inspired by contributing to social and 
environmental causes; and
   Our AMD investors are deeply committed to these issues as well.
Corporate responsibility is at the core of AMD’s culture. I am proud that 
AMD has been a leader in this area for many years now, and we continue that 
tradition with the accomplishments you will find in this report. 
AMD is a different company today. We are stronger and are building a 
business model to carry us into the future. We will continue to take steps to 
transform into a more predictable and balanced business. I am confident that 
we will deliver. In this report you can read about how our responsibility efforts 
are evolving and supporting our mission.our offerings:
•  Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) for tablet, notebook, 
desktop, professional workstation, game console, server 
and embedded markets
•  x86 microprocessors for consumer, embedded and  
commercial markets, including data centers
•  Embedded microprocessors for industrial, commercial  
and consumer markets  
•  Graphics, video and multimedia products and technologies 
for desktop and notebook PCs, embedded systems, 
professional workstations, servers, and game consolesour stats:
•  Established in 1969 and headquartered  
in Sunnyvale, California
• Employees: more than 10,000 worldwide 
•  More than 40 locations worldwide, including more than  
a dozen R &D facilities, two dozen international sales  
offices and two assembly/test manufacturing facilities
• Publicly traded under NYSE: AMD
• Fortune 500 firm
• 2013 revenues of $5.3 billionexamples of our products:
AMD is bringing the revolutionary 
heterogeneous system architecture 
(HSA) design to market this year with 
our latest and most advanced APUs. 
These products uniquely combine  
CPU and GPU for equal memory 
access and process scheduling to  
substantially improve both 
performance and energy efficiency. 
AMD continues to extend its leadership in graphics architecture and products 
with award winning AMD Radeon™ and AMD FirePro™ lines featuring the visionary 
Graphics Core Next (GCN) architecture. Incorporating a radically new approach to 
the design of a GPU, GCN enables an unmatched level of hardware optimization, 
revolutionary performance and image quality. These are in widespread use with 
professional workstations such as the Apple Mac Pro, gaming PCs and consoles, 
servers and embedded designs.
AMD recently announced the “Seattle” processor for servers, based on ARM  
64-bit architecture. This will be the first of numerous 64-bit ARM instruction  
set processors from AMD for server and embedded markets.SeaMicro Technology offers one of 
the highest density and most energy 
efficient servers on the market. Each 
server cluster (10 rack-unit with 64 
servers) uses a fraction of the power 
and space as traditional servers, at up 
to 12X the throughput.who we are 
AMD designs and integrates technology that 
powers millions of intelligent devices, including 
personal computers, tablets, game consoles and 
cloud servers that define the new era of surround 
computing. And our workforce is a force within 
itself. Over 10,000 people all across the world, who 
consider being responsible citizens an important 
part of the AMD culture. We pioneer technology 
that frees people to push the limits of what is 
possible, enabling today and inspiring tomorrow.We communicate corporate 
responsibility information 
in three formats:
4 Global Presence
6 AMD Technology
8 AMD Changing the Game
10 Employee Engagement
12 Energy Efficiency
14 Supplier Responsibility
16 Environment
18 Health and Safety
20 Stakeholder Engagement
22 Data Tables and Awardscontents
Rory Read
AMD President and CEO
2
Tokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabuan, Malaysia – Business ServicesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India – R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai, India – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – SalesBeijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignFleet, UK – SalesAmsterdam, Netherlands – Distribution
Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India – R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – 
Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City, Mexico – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate,
Business Services,R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design
Markham, Ontario – Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO – R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,
Business ServicesManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OﬃcesSales
Markham
Established: 2006
Operations: AMD Canadian 
Headquarters and graphics  
R&D center
Brazil & Latin America
Operations: Business Services and Sales. 
Offices in São Paulo, Brasilia, Mexico City  
and Buenos Aires.Sunnyvale
Established: 1969
Operations: AMD Corporate 
Headquarters, R&D, DesignBeijing  
Established: 2004
Operations: Greater China 
Headquarters, R&D, Design
Taipei  
Established: 1987  
Operations: Business ServicesShanghai
Established: 2006
Operations: Shanghai Research  
and Development Center (SRDC). 
AMD’s largest system design hub 
outside of the United StatesEurope & Middle East
Operations: R&D, Design, Business Services, 
Distribution Center and Sales. Offices in over 
10 countries, with the bulk of AMD processors 
manufactured by a foundry in Dresden, Germany
Suzhou
Established: 2005
Operations: Assembly, test, mark and pack 
facility for microprocessors in the Suzhou 
Industrial Park
India
AMD Bangalore Established: 2004
AMD Hyderabad Established: 2008
Operations: R&D, Design focusing on 
graphics and computing solutionsMalaysia
AMD Penang Established: 1972
Operations: Microprocessor assembly, 
test and R&D. The first AMD facility 
outside North America to set up  
advanced C4 “flip chip” assembly
AMD Cyberjaya Established: 2008
Operations: Business ServicesAustin
Established: 1978  
Lone Star campus (officially opened in 2008)
Operations: Corporate, R&D, Design
global scale RESPONSIBILITY
on a
Locations shown represent AMD owned or leased properties only. AMD-related R&D, 
design, sales and other activities occur at numerous locations not included on the map.
Tokyo, Japan – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabuan, Malaysia – Business ServicesPenang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India – R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai, India – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – SalesBeijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignFleet, UK – SalesAmsterdam, Netherlands – Distribution
Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India – R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Kiev, Ukraine – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – 
Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City, Mexico – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate,
Business Services,R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, Design
Markham, Ontario – Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO – R&D, Design
Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,
Business ServicesManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OﬃcesSalesThe Americas Greater China Asia – Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africa AMD Regions:
5 46The Environmental School ProjectENERGY
HEALTH CAREPC ownership can have a significant 
socio-economic impact on a country 
and its people.  In India, only 10% of 
households are equipped with PCs.1  
To help reduce the digital divide, the 
Uttar Pradesh (UP) state government 
is providing 1.5 million HP notebooks 
powered by AMD APU technology to 
eligible students in the region.
Distribution began in 2013 and the 
project has led to HP supporting 1,400 
jobs and investments in the set-up and management of over 300 service centers 
in the state.
“We consider the Uttar Pradesh 
government’s distribution of 1.5 million 
APU-powered HP notebooks to students 
a model case study on digital inclusion 
and youth empowerment and one of the 
largest IT projects being undertaken in 
this space on a global basis.”
AMD’s SeaMicro servers aided 
researchers at The Gene Center of 
the University of Munich (Ludwig 
Maximilians University, or LMU) in 
creating the world’s first 3D image of 
the human ribosome by combining 
more than 800,000 images. The 
findings advance the understanding of how bacteria ribosomes can be 
broken down without harming human 
ribosomes, similar to the operation of 
some antibiotics. This could lead to the 
discovery of new drugs that are more 
effective and personalized to a person’s 
genetic profile.The Environmental School Project 
in British Columbia, Canada has a 
revolutionary approach to teaching—
one that doesn’t rely on desks, chairs, 
blackboards or even a classroom.  
The concept is called place-based 
education in which learning is 
experiential and happens in context. 
Computers have to provide rugged 
performance and power efficiency with 
long battery life per charge, features 
critical for an outdoor environment and 
limited access to power outlets.  
The school’s choice was the HP 3115m notebook featuring an AMD 
Dual-Core 4 E-3005 APU and an 
AMD Radeon™ HD 6310M GPU. 
“With HP and AMD, all the kids from 
grades 2-7 have the opportunity to 
use computers from the school. As 
soon as they come up with a question, 
they have the opportunity to get the 
computer out of their pack and use it 
for that purpose. It’s a huge difference 
having them available for these kids.”Walking the Walk – AMD’s private cloud
In 2013, AMD completed one of the 
world’s largest private clouds for 
R&D. By deploying the latest in cloud, 
open-source software and hardware 
updates, we were able to reduce the 
number of data centers the company 
utilized by 75%. The project reduced 
electricity use by over 10 gigawatt 
hours resulting in an estimated annual 
savings of $730K. In addition to the 
electricity savings, the consolidated systems increased productivity and 
efficiencies for AMD engineers creating 
the next generation products.
AMD and Verizon Co-Develop A 
Revolutionary Public Cloud Platform
Understanding that better enterprise 
adoption of public cloud services 
demands improved performance, 
reliability and security, Verizon 
collaborated with AMD to develop a 
public cloud service with unmatched capabilities. The innovations in 
compute performance, storage 
flexibility and networking are 
some of the most significant 
advancements in cloud computing. 
“We were able to develop a cloud that is 
faster, lower cost, more secure and more 
reliable than anything that is available  
in the market today.”2 
 
     John Considine  
CTO, Verizon Teremark
Dental Assistance Devices – 3D VirtualizationDental practices are transitioning from 
conventional 2D X-ray film to sleek, 
chair-side monitors that provide 360 
degree visualization and other advanced 
graphics-driven capabilities at the 
touch of a screen. These devices can 
enhance care and streamline processes 
at every stage of a patient visit, with 
procedural prompts for dental assistants, 
intraoral cameras for detailed images 
and access to patient data in real time.  “Dental assistant devices equipped 
for multimedia and 3D visualization 
provide new levels of visual details to 
help patients understand diagnosis 
and treatment recommendations. 
As would be expected, these 
capabilities require a very high level 
of processing performance. AMD’s 
embedded APUs with a single chip 
combination of CPU and GPU provide 
an optimal platform for high-speed 
and high quality visualization.”
World’s First 3D Structural View of the Human Ribosome
Technology Enabling  
a Better World
7 (1) http://mait.com/uploads/file/MAIT-KPMG%20Report%20-%20Executive%20Summary.pdf (2) http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OA0WiwPBP6sImage from the RCSB PDB (www.pdb.org) of PDB ID 3J38  
(Anger AM, Armache JP, Berninghausen O, Habeck M,  
Subklewe M, Wilson DN, Beckmann R. (2013) Structures of the  
human and Drosophila 80S ribosome Nature 497: 80-85).     Dipl.-Phys. Richard Freitag  
White Lion Technologies
     Clayton Maitland  
Principal of The Environmental School Project
     Vinay Awasthi  
Vice President, APJ Business PC Systems, HP
AMD’s thousands of engineers and 
professionals around the world are 
passionate about the technology 
we create. From enabling cloud 
computing and a new generation of 
interconnected devices, to helping 
scientists advance research in 
healthcare, to providing new ways to engage students and teachers in 
learning, our technology is making a 
positive difference in people’s lives 
and in the world around us.
EDUCATIONThe National Research Council 
(NRC) report, “Successful K-12 STEM 
Education: Identifying Effective 
Approaches in Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics,” asserts 
that science, technology, engineering 
and math (STEM) subjects are basic 
aspects of our lives as citizens, 
consumers, parents and workers.
Based on this assertion, it is important 
for today’s youth to improve their  
STEM skills, yet the data show that 
there just aren’t enough students 
taking an interest in STEM learning. 
Perhaps this would change if they 
understood some of the real-world 
applications of STEM subjects. Here are some telling statistics: In its 
latest report, Indiana University’s High 
School Survey of Student Engagement 
found that 65% of students are bored 
“at least every day in class.” Yet 
those same students who are tuning 
out in school are tuning in to video 
games, with an estimated 97% of 
U.S. teens playing online games. 
That’s where AMD Changing the Game 
comes in: our signature education 
initiative designed to inspire kids to 
learn by creating video games around 
social issues. AMD Changing the Game 
uses this passion for gaming as leverage 
for learning. But instead of playing 
video games, our program teaches kids how to create them. Through game 
creation, students learn STEM skills, 
as well as problem solving, critical 
thinking, language skills and teamwork. 
By using age and skill appropriate 
tools, the program helps educators 
guide students through the creative 
process and teaches the mechanics 
of game design and production. And 
these are not the violent games 
that can worry many adults; the 
curriculum focuses on developing 
games around important social 
issues – such as energy conservation, 
healthcare and reducing poverty.
National STEM  
Video Game Challenge
Recognizing the need to make learning 
both more engaging and productive, 
AMD teamed up with the Joan Ganz 
Cooney Center for the 3rd consecutive 
year to co-sponsor the U.S. National 
STEM Video Game Challenge with 
Microsoft and the Entertainment 
Software Association. Inspired by President Barack Obama’s “Educate to 
Innovate Campaign,” the National STEM 
Video Game Challenge aims to motivate 
interest in STEM among students 
in grades 5-12 by tapping into their 
enthusiasm for playing and making  
video games.
In 2013, nearly 4,000 middle school  
and high school students submitted 
video games to the Challenge, many of 
which were more complex, challenging 
and creative than in previous years.
The competition provides a creative and 
innovative approach to STEM learning 
that parallels our signature education 
initiative, AMD Changing the Game. 
Both enable youth to develop their 
own games focused on social issues 
and make STEM learning engaging. 
Each winner received an AMD-based 
notebook computer with game design 
and educational software, and a cash 
prize was awarded to the individual’s 
or team’s sponsor organization. 
AMD Foundation was named as a 2012 and 2013 Laureate of the International Data Group’s 
(IDG) Computerworld Honors Program for the use of technology to promote and advance 
STEM skills of youth around the world. The annual award program distinguishes organizations 
and companies that use technology to support and create positive social, economic and 
educational change. The AMD Foundation does this through AMD Changing the Game.INSPIRING TOMORROW’S INNOVATORS 
9 8
Since 2008:  
 
More Than 265,000 Students 
Reached Worldwide
Over 40,000 Games Created
31 Unique Partners
Over $5 Million  
in AMD Foundation DonationsAMD Changing the Game
STEM Education Investments
“AMD has been a real pioneer 
in empowering youth through 
game design. We are very 
pleased to have partnered 
with them on the STEM 
Challenge and support their 
mission of harnessing the 
power of game design to 
inspire youth to tackle critical 
social issues that will affect 
their lives while enhancing 
STEM skills.” 
  Michael H. Levine  
 Executive Director,  
Joan Ganz Cooney CenterAMD joined forces with seven high tech 
companies and Habitat for Humanity 
to complete the “House that High 
Tech Built” in Austin, Texas. Hundreds 
of volunteers worked on the project, 
and it was a gratifying team building 
opportunity for peers from different 
companies to come together and work 
on a common goal. The event also 
helped educate people in our industry 
about the need for affordable housing.For more than 30 years,  
AMD has invested money, 
time and technology in 
organizations that help 
strengthen communities 
worldwide. Additionally, our 
employees continue to make 
their communities a better 
place to live and work by 
donating their time, talents and 
money to charitable causes. 
Our volunteer program, AMD 
Community Corps, is designed 
to connect employees with 
volunteer opportunities in 
their local communities and 
encourage participation in 
company-sponsored volunteer 
events. Since 1995, AMD 
employees have contributed 
over $16.4 million and have 
performed more than 170,000 
hours of volunteer service. 
In 2013, global volunteer activities 
included partnering with several 
high tech companies and Habitat 
for Humanity to build homes for low 
income families. In addition, AMD 
volunteers picked up hundreds of pounds of trash, packed and distributed 
over 40,000 pounds of food to feed 
the hungry, donated hundreds of 
pints of blood, and enriched the lives 
of orphans, at-risk youth and the 
elderly through education mentoring 
and personal care programs. In total, 
AMD employee volunteer efforts 
benefitted more than 90 nonprofit 
organizations around the world.HOUSE THAT HIGH TECH BUILT VOLUNTEERING
10
 
“It is always a joy and such a pleasure to see the smiling 
faces of the people that we are able to help. I have been 
told by many people that we can’t save the world, but I 
truly believe that even one small gesture does mean a lot 
to the lives of the folks that we are able to touch. So let’s 
continue to give, to communicate and finally to connect.”
AMD employees are committed 
to supporting our communities 
and improving the lives of the 
people we touch.
AMD has actively encouraged 
that commitment with 
volunteer opportunities,  
Green Teams and philanthropic 
giving. Through various awards 
and recognitions, we also 
reward those employees who 
make substantial contributions 
to a cause.
$16.4 MILLION
170,935 7.8 MILLION KMAMD employee contributions  
and matching funds since 1995 
Employee Volunteer  
hours logged since 1995of driving avoided by employees using 
our commuting alternative options since 
2007. This is equivalent to 1,890 metric 
tons of CO2 emissions avoided, which is 
as much CO2 sequestered by 48,450 tree 
saplings over 10 years.2013 AMD GLOBAL VOLUNTEER  
EXCELLENCE AWARD WINNERS
WINNERS & FINALISTS OF AMD’S 
GLOBAL EMPLOYEE ECO AWARDS  Boon Somchit
AMD Corporate Vice President, Malaysia
Individuals have the power to 
affect remarkable change in our 
communities around the world.  
AMD proudly supports the dedication 
of these volunteers who share their 
talents and go above and beyond in 
the area of volunteerism to give back 
to their local communities. Left to Right:  Bobby Young, Callan McInally, 
David Walshak, Helen Wu, Jane Wang, Karen 
Tan, Nydia Nunez, Rohan Karkhanis, Sue Yee 
Lim, Jagannadham Duddu, Shri Varadarajulu
AMD held its 3rd annual Employee 
“Eco” awards ceremony in 2013 to 
recognize individuals who make 
significant efforts to conserve natural 
resources at work, in the community, 
while commuting and at home. 
Winners received custom-engraved 
bamboo plaques from their site leader.
ENERGIZER
(SAVED ENERGY)
Eddie Chang - Taiwan
TRASH TALKER
(REDUCED WASTE)
Christopher D’Cruz - Singapore
COMMUTE CHAMPION
(REDUCED DRIVING)
Julien Beasley - United States
ALL-AROUND
GREEN LEADER
Regina Lin - TaiwanREWARDING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF OTHERS
Employees want to know that what  
they do everyday matters. To that end, 
AMD offers a variety of formal and 
informal ways to recognize employees 
for a job well done.The AMD Way Award  is the highest level 
of recognition for individuals or teams who 
exemplify The AMD Way
AMD Peer Cards  are peer-to-peer e-card 
recognition
Spotlight Awards  recognize individuals  
or teams for extraordinary achievements
The Corporate Technical Achievement 
Award  is the highest technical award
11
Employee EngagementENABLES SURROUND COMPUTING
INTELLIGENT, CONNECTED COMPUTINGDRIVES INNOVATION
FASTER CALCULATIONS, BETTER SIMULATIONS, LESS ENERGY
Reducing the environmental impact 
of a product requires examination 
of every aspect of its lifecycle: 
design, manufacturing, distribution, 
operation and ultimately end-
of-life. The operation phase is 
particularly important because it 
offers a major opportunity to reduce 
power consumption and associated 
greenhouse gas emissions.AMD’s APUs are a technology 
breakthrough that utilize the 
capabilities of the CPU and GPU on 
a single chip. This heterogeneous 
approach accelerates processing  
and delivers dramatic improvements 
in energy efficiency.
The U.S. Department of Energy and AMD are working together to develop the 
next generation of energy efficient supercomputers to fuel scientific discoveries 
in medicine, alternative energy, climate science and other areas of innovation.The era of Surround Computing is 
bringing more intelligent, connected 
devices to our daily lives that anticipate 
our needs and enable realistic, natural 
experiences. As an increasing number 
of these devices are plugged in and 
connected to the Internet, more data is being generated, which in turn increases 
power consumption to process and store 
the data. AMD is helping to address this 
issue by curbing power consumption at 
multiple points, from the data center  
to a wide range of embedded and mobile 
client devices.Supercomputers are being used by 
scientists to help advance research in 
healthcare and climate change, and 
to optimize clean energy technologies 
around the world. In the past, 
supercomputers were all about being fast, not energy efficient. Today, 
AMD and our partners are making 
supercomputers that are not only 
being used for advanced research on 
important environmental issues; but are 
being recognized as energy-efficient.
Close to 70% of the power used in 
servers can come from components 
beyond the microprocessor.  AMD’s 
Freedom FabricTM eliminates tiers of 
networking equipment and thousands 
of cables, resulting in energy and 
cost savings in the data center. 
For example, Livestream allows 
more than 30 million people to watch thousands of online events each 
month. To implement an infrastructure 
that would scale with its business 
while staying within constraints on 
available power that limit the number 
of servers in their data center, the 
company selected AMD’s SeaMicro 
SM15000TM high density servers.
13
AMD’s Mullins APU for notebooks  
and tablets uses 50% less power  
than our previous generation APU. The Green500 ranks the most  
energy-efficient supercomputers in 
the world. In 2013, a supercomputer 
(SANAM), using the AMD FirePro™ 
S10000 GPU accelerators, was ranked 
4th in the world on the Green500 list. 
“SeaMicro technology … allows [Livestream] 
to reduce power consumption and the 
resulting cost savings go straight to our 
bottom line. The SeaMicro SM15000 
server also allowed us to double our 
computing capacity while at the same time 
retire our energy inefficient servers.”3
   Thomas Bonnin  
Chief Architect, Livestream
(2) http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/2636073
(3) http://web.amd.com/assets/CustomerReferenceProgramPackage2012/53214A_Livestream_CaseStudy_FINAL.pdf(1) http://www.amd.com/en-us/press-releases/Pages/amd-us-government-computing-2012jul11.aspxAn AMD SeaMicro SM15000 installation can reduce power 
consumption up to 75 percent versus a traditional server 
implementation with similar compute capabilities.Energy efficiency is a fundamental design principle for AMD. 
Energy efficient products extend the battery life for mobile 
devices, reduce the costs of operating data centers and help 
lessen our collective carbon footprint. As electricity demand 
increases with the demand for digital technology, AMD is 
relentlessly focused on designing energy efficient products. 
“The development of high performance, energy-efficient 
processor and memory technologies are critical to 
achieving the Department’s goals and AMD is initiating 
innovative designs for these components.”1 
 
    Dr. William J. Harrod  
Director of Research, U.S. DOE Advanced Scientific Computing ResearchBETTER, LOWER COST CLOUD
MORE CONNECTIVITY, MORE AFFORDABLE DATA 42
3
12
Gartner2 reports there will be 30 billion 
connected devices by 2020. AMD is 
helping to improve energy efficiency of 
connected devices and data centers.
REDUCES  
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
SMALLER CARBON FOOTPRINT 1
Why Focus  
on Energy Efficiency?Supplier Responsibility
The Democratic Republic of the 
Congo (DRC) has been the site of one 
of the world’s worst humanitarian 
crises throughout the last decade. 
An estimated five million people 
have died as a result of violent 
conflict in the region. Illegal armed 
groups and some Congolese national 
military units regularly commit 
human rights abuses while being 
supported by the trade of minerals1. 
The link between the minerals trade and 
conflict in the DRC has spotlighted the 
use of minerals in everyday products such 
as mobile phones, computers and other 
electronics. In an effort to break this link, 
a provision of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act requires companies using any of 
four minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten 
and gold) to track it back to its mine of 
origin. The goal of the law is to reduce or 
eliminate funding to the armed groups 
creating conflict in the DRC.  
 
AMD is an active participant in the EICC/
Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) 
Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). Utilizing this collaborative approach, 
we attempt to track these four metals 
that are in our products to the smelter 
or refiner that produced them. Once we 
have identified the smelters or refiners 
in our supply chain, we rely upon the 
CFSI Conflict-Free Smelter Program 
to determine whether these materials 
are associated with the conflict.
In addition to these efforts, AMD is a 
founder and supporter of the Public-
Private Alliance (PPA) for Responsible 
Minerals Trade. We have also engaged 
with U.S. State Department Special 
Envoy Russ Feingold on helping the DRC 
and other governments in the region 
reduce conflict and improve security. 
These efforts, combined with tracking 
materials through our supply chain, are 
aimed at helping to bring lasting peace 
and prosperity to this troubled region. We posted the results of our conflict 
minerals tracking program on our 
public website in 2013 and regularly 
update this disclosure with the most 
recent results. Our conflict minerals 
disclosures are available for download 
at www.amd.com/conflictminerals.
14 15“It is very helpful in the 
overall solution to conflict 
minerals to have companies 
like AMD step forward 
to raise awareness about 
and help drive solutions 
to the tragic human rights 
abuses in the DRC.”  STANDARD
AMD is a long-standing member of 
the Electronics Industry Citizenship 
Coalition (EICC). We operate according 
to the EICC Code of Conduct, and 
also follow the Principles of Social 
Responsibility issued by the Institute 
for Supply Management (ISM). We 
expect our suppliers to live up to these 
same standards, and we communicate 
these expectations in an annual letter.
  CONFORMANCE
AMD regularly conducts supplier 
business reviews (SBRs) with 
key suppliers to assess corporate 
responsibility expectations and 
performance. Using the SBR forum 
ensures that supplier responsibility 
is a central feature of our business 
relationships. We screen supplier 
facilities using EICC-defined risk 
assessment tools and require any 
identified as high risk to undergo 
independent third-party audits 
conducted by EICC-approved auditors. 
In 2013, 100% of AMD’s major supplier 
facilities completed EICC self-
assessment questionnaires (SAQs) 
with no high-risk facilities identified.  COLLABORATION
With more than 90 members (as of 
February 2014) representing combined 
annual revenues in excess of $1.7 
trillion, the EICC represents a large 
portion of the global IT industry. AMD 
has long supported the EICC because 
of our strong belief that collaboration 
on social responsibility issues is 
the most efficient and effective 
means to drive real improvement 
in the electronics supply chain.
AMD’s Director of Corporate 
Responsibility, Tim Mohin, was elected 
Chairman of the Board for the EICC in 
2013 and re-elected in 2014. As the 
level of maturity increases across our 
industry, workers and environmental 
conditions around the globe will benefit.  WAFER FOUNDRIES
Wafer foundries are a significant 
part of our supply chain from both 
a financial perspective as well as an 
environmental perspective. For these 
reasons, we have prioritized wafer 
foundries for additional scrutiny in 
our supplier responsibility program. 
We conduct quarterly reviews  
with Taiwan Semiconductor  
Manufacturing Corporation (TSMC)  
and GLOBALFOUNDRIES (AMD’s two 
wafer foundry partners) to verify their 
performance across a broad range of 
issues, including environmental pro -
tection, worker safety, labor standards, 
greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, 
water consumption and work hours.
  CAPACITY BUILDING
While supplier audits and reviews are 
effective tools for driving conformance 
to the EICC Code, experience has shown 
that training (or capacity building) can 
enhance the results. Through the EICC, 
AMD suppliers have access to a broad 
array of training on the best practices to 
improve their social and environmental 
programs and performance.SOURCING CONFLICT-FREE MINERALS
(1) General Accounting Office. The Democratic Republic of the Congo: US agencies should take further actions to contribute to the effective regulation and control of the mineral trade 
in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. GAO 10-1030 report (September 2010).PHOTO: SASHA LEZHNEV / ENOUGH PROJECTPHOTO: SASHA LEZHNEV / ENOUGH PROJECT
“ EICC represents the 
epitome of collaboration.  
Our growing membership 
works to implement  
a common code of 
conduct to improve 
conditions throughout 
the global electronics 
supply chain.”
Tim Mohin  
Director, Corporate Responsibility, AMD,
Chairman of the Board,  
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
John Prendergast  
Co-founder of the Enough Project, 
human rights activist, best-selling author
16 17 16 17
AMD’s “Green Army” is an innovative 
concept that leverages large gatherings 
- like conferences and networking 
socials - as venues for expanded 
volunteer events engaging local 
businesses, non-profits and city 
operations.  The Green Army model 
gained national recognition as a 
Finalist in the PR News’ CSR Awards 
under the “Green Event” Category. 
AMD is planning its 3rd annual 
event at the 2014 Austin SXSW Eco 
Conference in Austin TX. A white paper 
outlining this model of crowd-sourced 
volunteerism is available at www.
amd.com/CorporateResponsibility.Environmentally
Sound
AMD’S “GREEN ARMY” GAINS MOMENTUM
“Setting the standard for place-based conferences just got 
higher through AMD’s integration of volunteerism into the 
SXSW Eco conference… which is connecting conference 
attendees to the local community and establishing a model  
for other events to replicate.” 
Since 2010, AMD has provided electric 
vehicle (EV) charging stations at 
our campuses in Austin, TX and 
Sunnyvale, CA. Participants have 
enjoyed approximately 10,000 charging 
sessions, saving 30,000 liters of 
fuel and 27,000 kg of associated 
emissions. In 2014, we are increasing 
our EV infrastructure by 40%, including 
installing EV charging stations at 
our Markham, Ontario campus.
In March 2014, AMD expanded our 
commitment to electric vehicle 
deployment by becoming a partner 
in the US Department of Energy’s 
Workplace Charging Challenge.AMD’s LEED certified data center 
near Atlanta, GA is more than a green 
building; not only does it use 100% 
renewable energy, it’s a demonstration 
of how AMD utilizes cloud computing 
and IT strategies to minimize power and 
space requirements for data centers. 
AMD’s data center consolidation 
project compressed rack space by 
45% and virtualized servers. The 
corresponding result was a reduction 
from a 2.8 megawatt data center in 
Austin, TX to a 1.2 megawatt facility 
in Atlanta, GA thereby avoiding 10 
gigawatt hours in electricity, 4,700 
metric tons in CO2 emissions and 
$730K in electricity costs annually.
CHARGING-UP  
OUR EMPLOYEESAMD’S LEAN AND  
GREEN DATA CENTER AMD’S
MANUFACTURING SITESNote: Percentage changes compare  
2013 values to the 2009 baseline.
Rodney Ahart  
Executive Director, Keep Austin Beautiful2013 Environmental Results:
Finalist – Green Event CategoryAMD operates manufacturing sites in 
Penang, Malaysia and Suzhou, China and 
has established specific environmental 
goals for these sites within the context 
of their operations. These goals are 
set for accomplishment in 2017 and 
we are on track to meet these goals. In 
2013, these sites collectively  avoided 
2.4%  of total water use, 8.5%  of 
total air emissions and diverted 72%  
of non-hazardous waste and 100% 
of hazardous waste from landfills.
13% absolute reduction of 
greenhouse gas emissions  (scope 
1 & 2) from non-manufacturing 
facilities, ahead of AMD’s 
2014 goal of 5% reduction 
25%  absolute reduction of 
greenhouse gas emissions  (scope 
3) from business air travel, product 
shipping, and employee commuting25%  reduction in water use 
for non-manufacturing sites 
(normalized to employees), ahead  
of AMD’s 2014 goal of 20% reduction
33 million liters  of 
water conserved in 2013,  enough  
to fill 13 Olympic-sized pools 78%  of waste from our global 
operations was diverted from 
landfills in 2013, up from 40% in 
2009 and ahead of AMD’s 2014 goal 
of 70% diversion from landfills
Over 1,000 metric tons of 
waste was diverted from landfills in 
2013 , including 440 metric tons from 
recycled e-waste and 80 metric tons 
from expanded composting programsAIR WATER WASTE
2013
The LEED® Certification trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and is used with permission.
AMD is proud to be on track or ahead of schedule 
to achieve all of our environmental goals. 
Employees from around the glotbe - spanning 
Green Team volunteers to environmental 
professionals - implemented nearly 180 
conservation projects in 2013, collectively saving 
AMD $4.4 million while delivering outstanding 
results for the planet.Health & Safety
1919 1818AMD’s goal is to continuously reduce 
occupational injury and illness case rates.
From 2012 to 2013, our worldwide injury 
case rate decreased 44% from 0.18 to 
0.10 cases per 100 workers. This injury 
rate is well below industry averages. The 
decrease is a result of an improved process 
to investigate and address root causes 
of injuries and increased communication 
to employees on injury prevention.A company is only as healthy as 
its people. AMD takes a holistic 
approach, with health and safety 
standards that apply to all of our 
operations worldwide, including: Injury and illness prevention
 Employee well-being
 Emergency preparedness and response
 Electrical and chemical safety
 Equipment safety
 ErgonomicsPOSITIVELY HEALTHYINJURY AND ILLNESS PREVENTIONAMD’s Wellness Program focuses on 5 key elements  for 
employees to maintain a healthy, well-balanced lifestyle:
AMD holds numerous events to promote 
employee wellness such as wellness expos,  
tobacco cessation programs, annual flu  
shots, on-site blood drives and free health  
management services to U.S. employees  
through WebMD Health Services.
AMD provides free on-site fitness centers at 
many locations with personal training options, 
weight reduction programs like “Get Your Move 
On” and “Biggest Winner,” and events such as 
Bike to Work Week, National Fitness Day and 
World Health Day.
Career progression is as important as health 
and wellness to a meaningful and rewarding 
work experience. AMD offers a wide variety 
of resources through our Learning and 
Development Department to assist with 
personal and professional development. AMD’s global Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 
counsels employees on life challenges, such as relationship 
issues, change and stress management, substance abuse, 
depression, parenting and eldercare concerns, as well 
as simply finding a balance between work and home.AMD’s on-site cafeterias offer a wide variety of 
healthy options and promote healthy eating at 
home through discounted home delivery of fresh 
fruit and vegetables at some locations.
HEALTH
FITNESS
CAREEREMOTIONAL WELLBEINGNUTRITION1
2
3 4
5
“We are proud to offer tools and resources to enable AMDers  
across the globe to manage work-life balance, their physical  
health and mental wellbeing. AMD Wellness@Work  
further supports a culture of health and productivity 
for our employees and their families. ”
Courtney Holcomb  
Manager, AMD Benefits
AMD Worldwide Injury & Illness (cases/100 workers)
0.35  
0.30  
0.25  
0.20  
0.15 
0.10  
0.05  
0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
U.S. OSHA Injury & Illness Case Rates (cases/100 workers)
COMPUTER / ELECTRONIC
PRODUCT MFG. (2012)SCIENTIFIC/
TECHNICAL 
SERVICES(2012)AMD U.S. (2013)4.0 
3.5 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.0
PRIVATE  
INDUSTRY (2012)
2020AMD believes that long-term 
engagement with our stakeholders  
helps build a deep understanding of  
our company and our industry. Similarly, 
AMD gains meaningful knowledge  
about the expectations of stakeholder  
groups outside of our company.  
Working with Ceres, an award-
winning, non-profit group focused on 
business and sustainability, AMD has 
established a stakeholder advisory 
panel. Interactions with this panel 
typically occur twice per year and 
provide AMD with valuable insights 
and perspective on how to improve 
our corporate responsibility strategies, 
communications and performance. 
AMD employees are our most 
important stakeholder group. We 
know that employees – especially 
younger employees and job seekers – 
are increasingly seeking employers 
with values matching their own. We 
periodically survey our employees 
worldwide to understand their overall 
satisfaction, specifically asking them 
about their impressions of our corporate 
responsibility programs. Our last survey 
was completed in 2013. We invited  
100% of our employees to participate 
and 82% responded.  
 Among other positive results, it was 
gratifying to learn our employees 
have a very high level of satisfaction 
with AMD corporate responsibility 
programs: an average of 81% favorable 
for all employees surveyed. This was 
the second highest approval rating of 
any question asked in the survey and 
had the least negative responses. Even 
with this high level of satisfaction, we 
are striving to further improve. We 
have set a goal to increase the approval 
rating for our corporate responsibility 
programs to well above the norm 
for high-performing companies 
(+6 percentage points) by 2015.AMD actively engages with its  
shareholders, the investment 
community and third-party ranking and 
ratings organizations. In 2013, AMD held 
an online webcast engagement session 
focused on our corporate responsibility 
programs. In February 2014, AMD met 
with leading environmental, social and 
governance research firms and socially 
responsible investors. In these meetings, 
we discussed AMD’s policies, priorities, 
and progress and gathered feedback.
Stakeholder Engagement
21STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PANELINVESTOR ENGAGEMENT
EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION“AMD has a long history of commitment to 
corporate responsibility and actively engages 
stakeholders to help improve the company’s 
performance. Going forward, AMD should work 
with its customers to understand, prioritize  
and improve the full sustainability impacts of  
its products.”  
     Natasha Scotnicki  
Director Corporate Program, Ceres“AMD has actively sought feedback and dialogue  
with the social investment community through Ceres  
and through its “roadshow” visits. The company  
has demonstrated a commitment to engage in candid, 
constructive dialogue as a means to stay current  
and improve their performance on a variety of 
sustainability issues.”  
     Adam M. Kanzer, Esq.  
Managing Director & General Counsel, Domini Social Investments LLC.
“AMD has demonstrated leadership by assessing their policies and practices 
against the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Given the 
evolving applications of digital technology, AMD and the whole high-tech 
industry has an opportunity to increase transparency and integrate human 
rights considerations into their operations. ”  
      Aditi Mohapatra  
Associate Director, ICT Practice, BSR
In 2014, AMD asked Business for 
Social Responsibility (BSR) to conduct 
an assessment of our policies and 
practices in comparison to the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights. We plan to use 
the key risks and opportunities 
identified by this review to guide 
our programs going forward. HUMAN RIGHTS
81%
EMPLOYEE FAVORABLE RATING
Key Performance Indicator     
Total Number of Employees 11,093 10,340 10,671
Percentage of Female Employees 29% 28% 28%
Worldwide Injury and Illness Case Rate
 (per 100 workers)  0.32  0.18  0.10
Employee Volunteer HoursA 12,693 7,735 9,043
Total Revenue (In millions USD)  $6,568  $5,422  $5,299
Net Income (In millions USD)  $491  ($1,183)  ($83)
AMD Foundation Giving (USD)B $2,649,564  $2,646,333  $234,931
Other Cash and In-Kind Giving  (USD)  $1,561,711  $560,245  $586,470
Energy Use (Gigawatt hours – GWh)  473 436 387
CO2 Equivalent EmissionsC 
 (Metric Tons CO2e, Scope 1 & 2)  191,637  199,979  206,477
Water Use (Million liters)  890 868 910
 Waste Water Discharge (Million liters)  364 391 235
Non-Hazardous Waste Generated (Metric tons)  2,126 1,730 2,049
 Landfill Diversion Rate  57%  64%  78%
Major Supplier Facilities that have completed
EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs) 54% 89% 100%
EICC = Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition   
Number of High Risk Major Supplier Facilities
Based on SAQ Scores 9% 0% 0%
   2011  2012  2013Supplier Responsibility Environment Economic Employees
The data behind our  
corporate responsibility story. RECOGNITION2013
DATA TABLES
22 232323
Other 2013 Awards  
& Listings:  
Listed In Calvert Social Index,  
Calvert Investments
Listed in the Global Challenge Index, 
Hanover Stock Exchange/Oekom 
Research
Partner in the Workplace Charging 
Challenge, US Department of Energy
Finalist for CSR award,  
PR News Magazine
Singapore: Commendation Award for 
Excellence in Safety and Security, 
National Safety and Security Watch 
Group (SSWG)
China: Outstanding Member,  
China Electronics Standardization 
Association CSR Committee
Boston Design Center: 2013 Pacesetter 
- Excellence in Commuter Options (ECO) 
Award, MassRIDES
Austin: Environmental Leadership 
Award (large business), Chamber of 
Commerce
Austin: Austin Green 
Business Leaders 
Program (Platinum 
Certification),  
City of Austin
Fort Collins: 
ClimateWise “Gold 
Level” Partner,  
City of Fort Collins
Sunnyvale, Fort Collins and Austin: 
Bicycle Friendly Business (Bronze), 
League of American Bicyclists(Maplecroft) Ranked 18th of  
Best 100 in climate protection
Prime Status from Oekom Research
AMD Foundation named a 2013 
Computerworld Honors Laureate 
for innovative STEM education
MSCI 2013 Intangible Asset Rating: A
Member of the US EPA’s Green Power 
Leadership Club and ranked in  
Top 30 Tech-Telecom listCR magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens 2013 and 2014Dow Jones Sustainability Index  
(North America) 2013
23
A  2013 hours included volunteer time at both company sponsored and non-company sponsored 
events. Prior years included only company-sponsored events.
B  AMD Foundation Giving was suspended in 2013 as a result of AMD’s efforts to reduce 
operating costs and return the business to profitability.C  Global CO2 equivalent emissions increased in 2013 despite an absolute decrease in  
energy use, mainly due to increased use of test equipment with higher emissions at AMD 
manufacturing sites.©2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD FirePro, AMD Radeon, 
Freedom Fabric, SeaMicro and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other trade 
names are used for identification purposes only and may be the property or trademarks of their respective owners.
SCAN THE CODE TO LEARN MORE  
ON OUR WEBSITE, OR VISIT:
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
