Enabling  
today.
Inspiring  
tomorrow.
Corporate Responsibility  
Summary MagazineOF CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY  
REPORTING
3
COMPUTE
6th Generation A-Series APU (Accelerated 
Processing Unit) features our very best 
intelligent and aware power management, 
which reacts to the operating environment 
and user needs, enabling the processor to 
operate at peak efficiency. These processors 
are designed to deliver significant leaps 
in performance and energy efficiency.Who We Are  
AMD designs and integrates technology that powers millions of 
intelligent devices, including personal computers, game consoles, and 
cloud servers that define the new era of immersive computing. And 
our workforce is a force within itself of almost 10,000 people all across 
the world who consider being responsible citizens an important part of 
the AMD culture. We pioneer technology that frees people to push the 
limits of what is possible, enabling today and inspiring tomorrow.
OUR OFFERINGS:
• APUs for notebook, desktop, professional 
workstation, game console, server, and 
embedded markets
• x86 microprocessors for consumer, 
embedded, and commercial markets, 
including data centers
• Embedded microprocessors for industrial, 
commercial, and consumer markets
• Graphics, video, and multimedia 
products and technologies for desktop 
and notebook PCs, embedded systems, 
professional workstations, servers, and 
game consoles
• AMD: the only company capable of 
providing 64-bit ARM® and x86 CPU  
cores paired with world-class graphicsOUR STATS:  
• Established in 1969 and headquartered in 
Sunnyvale, California
• Employees: approximately 10,000 
worldwide
• More than 40 locations worldwide, 
including more than a dozen R &D facilities, 
two dozen international sales offices, 
and two assembly/test manufacturing 
facilities
• Publicly traded under NASDAQ: AMD
• Fortune 500 firm
• 2014 revenues of $5.51 billionWe communicate corporate 
responsibility information 
in three formats:
1 This summary magazine
2 A detailed report conforming to the Global  
 Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines
3  Our corporate responsibility website:  
www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility 
Product Examples
6th Generation 
A-Series APUFirePro™ S9150 Server GPU
GRAPHICS
AMD continues to extend its leadership in 
graphics architecture and products with 
award-winning AMD Radeon™ and AMD 
FirePro™ lines featuring the visionary 
Graphics Core Next (GCN) architecture. 
These graphics processors are widely used in 
professional workstations, gaming PCs and 
consoles, servers, and embedded designs.
EMBEDDED
AMD embedded solutions 
are everywhere – powering, 
protecting, automating, 
and simplifying industry. 
AMD’s embedded solutions 
offer innovative, advanced, 
scalable features designed 
to boost performance 
and capabilities while 
helping to reduce 
development, solution, 
and operating costs.
Embedded Radeon™
E8860 GPU
2MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO
A bright new world of possibilities is forming right in 
front of our eyes. By 2020 there are expected to be more 
than 50 billion connected devices, far outnumbering 
the global population. This explosion of interconnected 
devices will create an invisible fabric of computing 
with the power to improve daily life in ways we have 
yet to imagine. The accelerating use of interconnected 
devices represents a fundamental change in how we 
interact with each other and the world around us. 
At AMD, we are helping to power this new world. However, at the 
same time we are also making sure we stay true to the beliefs and 
practices that have defined the company for nearly five decades.
When we issued our first version of this report in 1995, it was 
titled the “AMD Environmental Report.” Now our corporate 
responsibility report covers a broad range of issues from diversity 
to labor rights, ethics, and yes, environmental stewardship. 
One of the biggest changes over the past 20 years is how corporate 
responsibility has become a key facet of our business strategy. 
A great example is our commitment to improve the energy 
efficiency of our APUs by a factor of 25 by 2020. Innovative 
processor designs that deliver improved energy efficiency are 
critical in a world increasingly defined by harnessing the power 
of billions of connected devices to deliver breakthroughs in areas 
as diverse as healthcare, manufacturing, and transportation.
Lastly, it is also important to recognize how our commitment to corporate 
responsibility affects our employees. As a technology company, AMD 
believes that employee innovations are our lifeblood. AMD employees 
around the world are motivated by working for a responsible company 
and designing products that change the world. Therefore, by helping 
others, we are inspired to push the boundaries of what is possible. 
I’m extremely proud to be a part of the team building on 
the culture of caring and innovation that has made AMD 
an extraordinary company for the past 46 years.4 20th Anniversary Report Retrospective
6 Turning the Page on Reporting
7 25x20 Energy-Efficiency Goal
8 AMD Value Chain 
12 Technology Enabling a Better World 
14 Environmental Stewardship 
16 AMD in the Community 
18 Powering Our People 
20 Global Operations Map 
22 The Future: Immersive Computing
23 Data Table
24 Recognitioncontents
DR. LISA SU
President and CEO1997 
Introduces the AMD-K6®  
microprocessor: helps drive PC prices 
below $1,000 for the first time, making 
PCs affordable to more consumers
1995
Releases first Environmental 
Report, a precursor to our Corporate 
Responsibility Report2000
First to break the historic 1GHz barrier 
(one billion clock cycles per second) 
with the AMD Athlon™ processor 2001
Publishes first “Global  
Climate Protection Plan”A Legacy of Responsibility  
and Innovation 
“People first, products  
and profit will follow!”
Jerry Sanders
Co-founder AMD“AMD is a company with a rich 46-year history of 
being at the leading edge of technology. I joined 
AMD because I believe that we have an extraordinary 
combination of technology assets, engineering talent, and 
intellectual property to lead the next wave of innovation. My 
conviction in that belief grows stronger every day.” 
Dr. Lisa Su
President and CEO, AMDCompany Milestone Product Milestone Corporate Responsibility Milestone
This report marks the 20th anniversary of AMD’s first  
“corporate responsibility” report, released in 1995. As we look  
at the next 20 years, we strive to continually push the boundaries 
and further the dialogue on how innovative technology can 
make the world a more efficient and sustainable place.2005
Spins off flash memory business  
and manufacturing to Spansion Inc. 
2008
Forms the AMD Foundation  
and launches its signature  
education initiative,  
AMD Changing the Game
Receives the EPA’s Climate  
Protection Award2015
Releases 20th Anniversary  
Corporate Responsibility Report
AMD transfers its stock 
exchange to The Nasdaq Stock 
Market (NASDAQ: AMD)2010
Releases Corporate 
Responsibility Report in 
accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Establishes the Corporate  
Responsibility Council, a  
cross-functional internal 
leadership team2003
Launches the world's first x86-based 
64-bit processor – AMD Opteron™ 
and AMD Athlon™ processors1996
Acquires NexGen, a  
microprocessor company1998 
Voluntarily reports greenhouse 
gas reduction projects to the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Climate 
Wise Program
2002
Listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the first time (and every  
year since)
Recognized with a Green Power 
Leadership award by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency  
(EPA) and Department of Energy (DOE) 
for our Green Power Purchase Program
Joins the U.S. EPA’s Climate  
Leaders Program2004
Demonstrates the world’s first x86  
dual-core processor
Announces the 50x15 Initiative  
with the goal of accelerating 
affordable Internet access and  
basic computing to 50% of the 
world’s population by 20152006
Demonstrates the industry’s first  
native quad-core x86 server processor 
Acquires ATI Technologies Inc.
Joins the Electronic Industry Citizenship 
Coalition (EICC)
Helps to found The Green Grid, a 
collaboration committed to improving  
the resource efficiency of data centers  
and business computing ecosystems
Demonstrates an Accelerated Computing 
platform that breaks the teraflop 
performance barrier 2009
Spins off wafer fabrication business  
into GLOBALFOUNDRIES
Introduces the ATI Radeon™ HD 5970, the  
fastest graphics card in the world to date
Lone Star campus in Austin, Texas, achieves 
a gold certification under the U.S. Green 
Building Council Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED)
Completes the shipment of its 500  
millionth x86 processor since the  
company’s founding in 1969
2011 
Launches the fastest discrete 
graphics card in the world to date, 
the AMD Radeon™ HD 6990 
Introduces the world's first APU –  
a CPU and GPU on a single die
2012
Unveils the industry’s first 
quad-core x86 SoCs
Becomes the first company 
to announce plans to design 
and offer both 64-bit
ARM® technology-based 
and x86 processors for  
multiple markets2013
AMD’s technology is featured inside 
every major next-generation gaming 
console: Microsoft® Xbox One™,  
Sony PS4™, and Nintendo Wii U™
AMD’s Director of Corporate 
Responsibility chairs the Electronic 
Industry Citizenship Coalition's 
Board of Directors2014
Launches 25x20 Energy  
Efficiency Initiative, which sets  
a goal to deliver at least 25 times 
more energy efficiency from its 
APUs by 2020
Introduces the world’s most 
powerful server GPU to date:  
the AMD FirePro™ S9150
4INTRODUCTION BY OUR DIRECTOR  
OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
After reporting on our corporate responsibility  
(CR) performance for 20 years, we asked, “What’s next?”Enabling an Energy-  
Efficient Future 
AMD’S 25X20 ENERGY-EFFICIENCY GOAL
Worldwide, three billion personal 
computers use more than 1% of all 
energy consumed annually, and 30 million 
computer servers use an additional 1.5% 
of all electricity consumed, at an annual 
cost of $14 billion to $18 billion.1 Creating 
energy-efficient products is a key element 
of AMD innovation and will help stem 
the growth in IT energy consumption.
In the past six years (2009-2014),  
AMD achieved a 10-times improvement  
in the typical-use energy efficiency of  
our mobile processors with a combination 
of power-efficient APUs, heterogeneous 
computing features with energy-efficient 
accelerators, smart power management, 
and integration and miniaturization. AMD 
announced a goal in June 2014 to deliver 
a 25-times improvement in the energy 
efficiency of our APUs by 2020, or 25x20. 
If AMD achieves our goal, our products 
will outpace historical efficiency trend 
predictions by at least 70% from 2014 
to 2020. That means that in 2020, an AMD-powered computer could 
accomplish a task in one-fifth of the 
time as today’s PC, while consuming on 
average less than one-fifth the power. 
Using a car analogy, this 
rate of improvement 
would be like turning a 
100-horsepower car that 
gets 30 miles per gallon 
(about 13km per liter) into 
a 500-horsepower car 
that gets 150 miles per 
gallon (about 64km per 
liter) in only six years. 
The energy-efficiency projections 
from our new 6th Generation 
A-Series APUs achieve 28% of AMD’s 
25x20 energy-efficiency goal!
Corporate Responsibility 
Reporting: Turning the Page 
AMD APU TYPICAL-USE ENERGY EFFICIENCYTYPICAL -USE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
YEAR OF PRODUCT INTRODUCTION“Tigris”“Danube”“Trinity”“Richland”“Kaveri”“Carrizo”
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015“Llano”
25x20
“The thing that makes me most proud of my 20 years at AMD 
is the work we do in R &D to reduce the energy consumed by 
computing. It is extremely satisfying to me when I see our new 
products, like the 6th Generation A-Series APU, going out with 
step function increases in battery  
life and energy efficiency.” 
Tim Mohin, Director, Corporate Responsibility
Anytime you do something for that long, it can become routine  
and has the chance of becoming disconnected from its core purpose. 
And there is nothing like a big anniversary to push ourselves to 
reconsider the fundamental reasons why we issue this report 
each year.  Revisiting these objectives can help us assess whether 
we are on track or need to make some course corrections. 
Much of how we report is dictated by two international standards: 
the Global Reporting Initiative and the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index. These standards are lengthy and we have found that the 
audience for this level of information is quite small, yet influential. 
A key learning for us came a few years ago when we published 
our first CR summary. This condensed version was very well 
received, and because it was more accessible, it opened a broader 
conversation with our stakeholders. 
We don’t have all the answers, but after two decades of experience, 
we believe there is room to improve CR reporting. We had a hunch 
we were not alone in this conclusion, so we reached out to Business 
for Social Responsibility (BSR) to see how other companies in our 
industry viewed CR reporting. At the time of this writing, about a 
dozen technology firms have held one meeting and are planning the 
next. While it is too soon to say what may come from this dialogue, 
there is a lot of energy among these companies to explore ways to 
make CR reporting more efficient and effective.
Please visit our website to keep up with our progress.
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility“AMD’s focus on improving 
typical-use power efficiency  
will likely yield significant 
consumer benefits,  
substantially improving  
real-world battery life  
and performance for 
mobile devices.”
Dr. Jonathan Koomey, Research Fellow, 
Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy 
and Finance at Stanford UniversityPhil Rogers, Corporate Fellow,  
Technology & Engineering
6(1) https://mitei.mit.edu/news/energy-efficient-computing 
7AMD Value ChainFor more information on these Corporate Responsibility focus 
areas or to see an interactive version of our Value Chain Map, please go to our website at http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
MAPPING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS TO STEPS IN OUR VALUE CHAIN
SILICON MANUFACTURING ASSEMBLY & TEST
 DESIGN
* AMD 2015 Material Issue
Product Stewardship Foundry Partner Goals
Conﬂict MineralsEnvironment
AMD follows the highest standards for labor and human rights and expects the same from our suppliers.Labor and Human RightsHealth & Safety
* *
AMD’s Director of Corporate Responsibility was named one of the Top 15 Conﬂict Mineral Inﬂuence Leaders by Assent Compliance in 2015.AMD works to minimize the environmental 
impacts and health risks of our products throughout their lifecycle.In 2014, AMD and our Foundry suppliers established “best-in-class” environmental, health and safety (EHS) goals associated with the manufacturing of AMD products. 
AMD is taking steps to break the link between the trade in minerals and ongoing conﬂict and human rights abuses in Central Africa. AMD aims to reduce the environmental impacts from our own facilities and works with outsourced suppliers to reduce their impacts.AMD is committed to a safe and healthy workplace for both our employees and those at our supply chain partners.
Global Inclusion
Innovation is at AMD's core, and occurs when creative minds 
and diverse perspectives are drawn from all over the world. Governance & Ethics
AMD is committed to achieving the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all aspects of our business. Community Engagement
AMD was founded on the principle of putting people ﬁrst - our employees, our customers, our shareholders and our neighbors in the communities around the world where we live and work. “AMD’s leadership of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) helped convene a dialogue between industry and key stakeholders which 
made progress on the policy protecting workers rights to Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. We are hopeful this policy will translate into concrete beneﬁts for workers in the electronics supply chain.” – David M. Schilling, Senior Program Director, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR)GOVERNANCE & ETHICS
AMD is committed to achieving the highest standards 
of ethics and integrity in all aspects of our business.GLOBAL INCLUSION
Innovation is at AMD’s core and occurs when creative minds 
and diverse perspectives are drawn from all over the world. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AMD was founded on the principle of putting people first — our 
employees, our customers, our shareholders, and our neighbors 
in the communities around the world where we live and work.DESIGN SILICON MANUFACTURING ASSEMBLY & TEST
*2015 Material Issues: areas of enhanced focus as determined through 
AMD’s corporate responsibility management review process.AMD Value Chain
MAPPING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
FOCUS AREAS TO STEPS IN OUR VALUE CHAIN“AMD’s leadership of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) 
helped convene a dialogue between industry and key stakeholders, which 
made progress on the policy protecting worker’s rights to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining. We are hopeful this policy will translate into concrete 
benefits for workers in the electronics supply chain.” 
David M. Schilling, Senior Program Director, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR)For more information on these Corporate  
Responsibility focus areas or to see an  
interactive version of our Value Chain Map, 
please go to our website at 
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
AMD works to minimize the environmental impacts and 
health risks of our products throughout their lifecycle.
CONFLICT MINERALS*
AMD is taking steps to break the link between the trade in 
minerals and ongoing conflict and human rights abuses in 
Central Africa.
AMD’s Director of Corporate Responsibility was named one of the  
Top 15 Conflict Mineral Influence Leaders by Assent Compliance in 2015.FOUNDRY PARTNER GOALS
In 2014, AMD and our Foundry suppliers established  
“best in class” environmental, health, and safety (EHS)  
goals associated with the manufacturing of AMD products.ENVIRONMENT
AMD aims to reduce the 
environmental impacts from our own 
facilities and works with outsourced 
suppliers to reduce their impacts.LABOR &  
HUMAN RIGHTS*
AMD follows the EICC standards for 
labor and human rights and expects 
the same from our suppliers.HEALTH & SAFETY
AMD is committed to a safe 
and healthy workplace for both 
our employees and those at 
our supply chain partners.
9 8AMD Value ChainFor more information on these Corporate Responsibility focus 
areas or to see an interactive version of our Value Chain Map, please go to our website at http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
CUSTOMER USE END OF LIFEMAPPING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS TO STEPS IN OUR VALUE CHAIN
25x20AMD works to reduce, reuse, and recycle the materials 
involved in packing and shipping our products. Packaging & Transport
AMD has established policies and practices to mitigate the introduction of suspect parts into the legitimate marketplace.Anti-CounterfeitSecurity & Data Privacy
AMD’s technology enables security features at all levels of IT systems—from the processor, to hardware and software applications.
Industry Collaboration 
AMD works with our customers, suppliers, peers, governments and civil society groups around the world to align on leading environment, health, safety and labor standards
* AMD 2015 Material IssueAMD products help extend the life of computing platforms, thus reducing electronic waste. In many cases, AMD chips are “backwards compatible” with previous generation AMD chips.Lifecycle Management Carbon Footprint
AMD aims to reduce customer carbon emissions and energy use by improving the energy efﬁciency of our products, while also helping develop industry tools that evaluate the carbon footprint of computer products. 
In 2014, AMD announced our goal to deliver at least 25 times more energy efﬁciency from our accelerated processing units (APUs) by the year 2020. This goal demonstrates AMD’s commitment to future innovations that help reduce power consumption – while dramatically accelerating performance.Energy Efﬁciency *
2014 202025X
PRODUCT SHIPPING END PRODUCT MANUFACTURING
Global Inclusion Governance & Ethics Community Engagement
“AMD’s leadership of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) has been instrumental in advancing corporate social responsibility throughout the global electronics supply chain.”– Rob Lederer, Executive Director, EICCAMD Value Chain
MAPPING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
FOCUS AREAS TO STEPS IN OUR VALUE CHAIN“AMD’s leadership of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) has  
been instrumental in advancing corporate social responsibility throughout the  
global electronics supply chain.”
Rob Lederer, Executive Director, EICCFor more information on these Corporate  
Responsibility focus areas or to see an  
interactive version of our Value Chain Map, 
please go to our website at 
http://www.amd.com/corporateresponsibility
PRODUCT SHIPPING END-PRODUCT MANUFACTURING CUSTOMER USE END OF LIFE
PACKAGING & TRANSPORT
AMD works to reduce, reuse, and recycle  
the materials involved in packing and shipping  
our products.
ANTI-COUNTERFEIT
AMD has established policies and practices to 
mitigate the introduction of suspect parts into  
the legitimate marketplace.SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY
AMD’s technology enables security features at all levels of 
IT systems — from the processor to hardware and software 
applications.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION
AMD works with our customers, suppliers, peers, governments, 
and civil society groups around the world to align on leading 
environment, health, safety, and labor standards.CARBON FOOTPRINT
AMD aims to reduce customer carbon emissions and energy 
use by improving the energy efficiency of our products, while 
also helping develop industry tools that evaluate the carbon 
footprint of computer products.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY*
In 2014, AMD announced our goal to deliver at least 25 times 
more energy efficiency from our APUs by the year 2020. This 
goal demonstrates AMD’s commitment to future innovations 
that help reduce power consumption while dramatically 
accelerating performance.LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
AMD products help extend the life of computing 
platforms, thus reducing electronic waste. In many 
cases, AMD chips are “backwards compatible” with 
previous generation AMD chips.
*2015 Material Issues: areas of enhanced focus as determined through 
AMD’s corporate responsibility management review process.GOVERNANCE & ETHICS
AMD is committed to achieving the highest standards 
of ethics and integrity in all aspects of our business.GLOBAL INCLUSION
Innovation is at AMD’s core and occurs when creative minds 
and diverse perspectives are drawn from all over the world. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AMD was founded on the principle of putting people first — our 
employees, our customers, our shareholders, and our neighbors 
in the communities around the world where we live and work.
11 10Technology Enabling  
a Better World
12ACCELERATING MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY
AMD technology is enabling significant improvements in the 
quality and clarity of scanning technologies through our high-
performance graphics systems, which allow greater resolution, 
higher levels of magnification, and other improvements. For 
example, AMD Embedded Radeon™ graphics technology is the 
engine behind the new bk3000 Ultra High Resolution Ultrasound 
System by Analogic, which delivers a new level of imaging and 
system performance to provide highly detailed medical imaging 
capabilities and other advanced graphics capabilities.POWERING PIONEERING RESEARCH
AMD-POWERED SUPERCOMPUTER 
NAMED MOST ENERGY-EFFICIENT 
SUPERCOMPUTER IN THE WORLD 
To reduce costs and the overall carbon footprint of 
supercomputer facilities, companies are seeking to reduce 
energy consumption while maintaining or improving 
performance. In November 2014, the Green500™ list ranked 
the AMD FirePro™ graphics-powered L-CSC cluster at the GSI 
Helmholtz Center research facility in Darmstadt, Germany, as the 
most energy-efficient supercomputer in the world. In addition  
to claiming the top spot on the Green500 list, the AMD  
Opteron™ server CPU achieved the number two spot on the 
latest TOP500 List, a ranking of the 500 most powerful 
supercomputers in the world. 
ENHANCING DATA SECURITY
 
Security breaches for consumer data stored in 
digital networks around the world have become all 
too commonplace. In 2014, AMD proudly announced 
the AMD Secure Processor based on the ARM® 
Cortex®-A5, featuring ARM TrustZone® technology 
for enhanced data security. This is the first and 
only x86 processor available to integrate an ARM® 
core for security. With the AMD Secure Processor 
and ARM TrustZone® technology, consumer 
data is better protected and more secure.ENABLING TECHNOLOGICAL 
INNOVATION
The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) has set a goal 
of reaching the next generation of supercomputing, 
which is called “exascale,” or one quintillion operations 
per second, by the year 2022. In 2014, the DOE 
awarded AMD $32 million to expand research efforts 
on exascale applications for AMD APUs based on the 
open-standard Heterogeneous System Architecture 
(HSA), as well as future memory systems to power 
a generation of exascale supercomputers capable 
of delivering 30-60 times more performance 
than today’s fastest supercomputers. AMD leadership in heterogeneous high- 
performance computing (HPC) is delivering 
more than three petaFLOPS (a measure 
of a computer’s processing speed) of AMD 
FirePro™ S9150 server GPU performance for 
the GSI Helmholtz Center in support of physics 
research related to heavy ion studies. GSI, 
located in Darmstadt, Germany, is a research 
facility for heavy ion research, including cancer 
therapy. The compute cluster was designed 
and built in conjunction with the Frankfurt 
Institute for Advanced Studies (FIAS), a 
research institute for physics, neuroscience, 
life science, and computer science.
13Water AvoidanceWATER REDUCTION EMISSIONS REDUCTION WASTE DIVERSION
Goal: 20%
Achieved: 55%Goal: 5%
Achieved: 24%Goal: 70%
Achieved: 74%
Non-manufacturing sites
Normalized by employeesNon-manufacturing sitesAbsolute scope 1 and 2 emissionsGlobal sitesWeight kept from landﬁll
10%
Goal
5.5%
Achieved (On track)Emissions Avoidance
10%
Goal
8.6%
Achieved (On track)
358 MILLION
kWh of renewable energy procured 
since 2009, equal to powering more 
than 100,000 homes for a year
31% REDUCTION
In global energy use from 2013 –2014
MANUFACTURING GOALS UPDATE FOR THE YEARS 2013 –2017
AMD is proud to have exceeded  
our five-year environmental goals  
(2009–2014). Employees from  
around the globe — spanning “Green 
Team” volunteers to environmental 
professionals — implemented hundreds 
of conservation projects that delivered 
outstanding results for the planet and 
saved AMD $6.5 million in 2014 alone.
AMD ranked in the top 1% of  
U.S. Companies on Environmental  
Management as reported by 2014  
GEMS Benchmarking Analysis of U.S. 
Corporate Environmental Practices.PEOPLE & PLANET
8.5 million kilometers  (5.3 million miles) of 
alternative commuting logged by employees since 
2007, avoiding CO2 pollution equal to consuming 
876,000 liters of fuel (231,000 gallons) and saving 
employees $1.1 million in fuel costs
40% more electric vehicle (EV) charging stations  
added in 2014 at North American sites to support 
over 100 employee EV drivers
Launched My Sustainability website  to track and 
recognize employee efforts in environmental  
stewardship
Employee solar program  offers discounts on home 
installations
Environmental  
StewardshipAMD Exceeds 5-Year Environmental Goals
2009-2014
“EPA applauds AMD, a long-standing partner 
of the Green Power Partnership and Leadership 
Club member, for sourcing renewable energy 
since 2000 and powering approximately half 
of its U.S. operations with clean energy. The 
company’s green power commitment helps 
to reduce its climate impacts and provides an 
excellent example for other organizations.”
Jean Lupinacci
Acting Director of U.S. EPA’s Climate Protection Partnerships Division
Water AvoidanceWATER REDUCTION EMISSIONS REDUCTION WASTE DIVERSION
Goal: 20%
Achieved: 55%Goal: 5%
Achieved: 24%Goal: 70%
Achieved: 74%
Non-manufacturing sitesNormalized by employeesNon-manufacturing sitesAbsolute scope 1 and 2 emissionsGlobal sitesWeight kept from landﬁll
10%
Goal
5.5%
Achieved (On track)Emissions Avoidance
10%
Goal
8.6%
Achieved (On track)
15 14 Avoidance is calculated as “total project reductions” divided by “total projected use.”  
“Total projected use” is the amount of water use or GHG emissions that would have occurred had no projects been implemented.Michael Ott  
Senior Program Manager,  
Semi-Custom Business Unit  
AMD solar program participant
15AMD in the Community
For more than 30 years, AMD 
has invested money, time, and 
technology in organizations that 
help strengthen communities 
worldwide. Additionally, our 
employees continue to make 
their communities a better place 
by donating their time, talent, 
and money to charitable causes. 
Since 1995, AMD employees 
have contributed $16.4 million 
and have performed more than 
180,000 hours of volunteer 
service.
2014 marked the five-year anniversary 
of AMD Global Volunteer Month. This 
month-long campaign encourages AMD 
employees to support their communities 
through company-sponsored volunteer 
activities. During this month, more 
than 600 employees from 15 sites 
recorded 1,798 hours of volunteer service beautifying streets, planting trees, 
building homes, mentoring students, 
providing meals to the elderly and 
homeless, visiting orphanages, and 
donating food, clothing, and money 
to organizations across the globe.
“Since joining AMD in 1995, I’ve been 
impressed with AMD’s commitment 
to local charities. This has inspired 
me over the years to volunteer for 
charity events that benefit my local 
animal shelter, food bank, and 
women’s homeless shelter, as well 
as contribute to my local hospital’s 
foundation fund. I’m proud to have 
been an AMD employee for 20 years, 
as I know we are well-respected in  
our communities.“VOLUNTEERING
$16.4 Million
AMD employee contributions  
and matching funds since 1995 180,000
Employee volunteer  
hours logged since 1995
In Toronto, Canada, AMD collaborated with E-Line 
Media to conduct a professional development workshop 
about making socially responsible games and teaching 
game design using Gamestar Mechanic, an online game 
development platform. AMD also provided a state-of-the-
art mobile lab equipped with HP ProBook notebook PCs.Sabrina Horat
Section Manager,
Finance“Working with the kids was amazing. You see 
firsthand the synapses firing in their young 
brains, connections being made, and the sense 
of accomplishment when they realize they just 
created this world of their own vision within 
the Project Spark environment.”
Hector Lanza, Sr. Engineer,
Global Infrastructure & IT Services
Ruth Cotter, Vice President Communications and 
Investor Relations, and Devinder Kumar,  
Senior VP and Chief Financial Officer
Darrell Ford, 
Senior VP & Chief Human Resources Officer
David Chen, “Zen” Core Project Manager, Cores Austin
17 16AMD Changing the Game, funded by the AMD Foundation, fosters 
collaboration between schools, private industry, NGOs, and other 
organizations to advance science, technology, engineering, and math 
(STEM) education in new and innovative ways. The program inspires 
youth to learn STEM skills and experience STEM careers through 
the creation of socially responsible video games. Through  
the process of making games, students learn problem  
solving, critical thinking, language skills, and teamwork.  
AMD Changing the Game has been implemented  
in seven regions around the world, including the  
United States, China, Malaysia, Canada, 
Europe, United Arab Emirates, and Brazil, 
and has reached over 227,000 students.CHANGING THE GAME
In 2014, AMD collaborated with Microsoft® Studios 
and Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Canada to host 
summer game design workshops designed to teach 
youth how to create games about environmental 
protection. The students were guided through a 
hands-on tutorial where they learned the basics 
of game design and computer programming. AMD 
employees provided training and served as mentors, 
facilitators, and testers by providing valuable feedback 
on ways to improve the games. Forty-three employees 
volunteered over 350 hours in these events.Powering  
Our People
Innovation is at AMD’s core and occurs when 
creative minds and diverse perspectives are drawn 
from all over the world. Diverse teams, when managed 
in a culture of inclusion, are more creative, more productive, 
better at problem solving, and ultimately more profitable.
“My hope is that 20 years from 
now we won’t be talking about 
how many [female] CEOs are in the 
Fortune 500 because it won’t matter. It 
will be natural for the corporate leadership 
to reflect the most talented individuals.” 
Dr. Lisa Su
Pictured at the event with (from left) Nely Galan, founder of The Adelante Movement, and Melinda Gates, 
Co-chair, Bill & Melinda Gates FoundationIn April 2015, AMD signed the 
Texas Competes pledge to  
signify our commitment to 
a Texas that is economically 
vibrant and welcoming of all, 
including lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
and transgender (LGBT) people.
We believe in a workplace 
where all employees have the 
opportunity to contribute based 
on their skills and interests. 
This commitment applies 
everywhere we do business.
AMD is committed to fostering a culture of 
inclusiveness and innovation where the best  
ideas “win,” regardless of the individual’s identity.  
In an effort to increase transparency on the subject, 
AMD is publishing (for the first time) the gender 
composition of our engineering and management 
teams. We are not satisfied with the data, and  
we are working with other industry leaders to 
address gender and other diversity issues across  
the technology sector. 
Some of our initiatives shaping  
the diversity and inclusion  
agenda include the following:
Executive Mentoring Program for  
top and emerging women leaders
Sales & Marketing Women  
Talent Forum
Diversity and Inclusion e-Learning
The AMD Women’s ForumDR. LISA SU WAS  
APPOINTED AS AMD’S 
FIRST FEMALE CEO 
(AND THE ONLY FEMALE 
CEO AMONG THE TOP 
20 SEMICONDUCTOR 
COMPANIES2) IN  
OCTOBER 2014AMD encourages our employees to make positive 
contributions to the world, which in turn strengthens our 
workplace culture. Global programs foster volunteering 
in our communities, protecting natural resources, and 
improving personal wellness.
AMD Community Corps  is designed to encourage employees to volunteer 
while developing their own professional abilities. The program connects 
employees with volunteer opportunities in their local communities and 
encourages participation in company-sponsored volunteer events as well 
as skill-based volunteering. 
Go Green educates and inspires AMDers about sustainability and  
actions they can take to conserve resources, save money, and improve the 
environment. Programs span commuter benefits, Green Teams, and home 
conservation.
Wellness@Work  helps our employees and family members get and  
stay healthy. Programs focus on maintaining healthy weight, eating right,  
exercising more, and avoiding tobacco to improve quality of life  
and reduce healthcare costs.
Total Workforce
71%
Male
29%
FemaleSenior Management
88%
Male
12%
FemaleEngineering
83%
Male
17%
FemaleGLOBAL EMPLOYEE DATA
In March 2015, Dr. Lisa Su joined former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary 
Rodham Clinton, Gates Foundation Co-chair Melinda Gates, and other 
leaders at the “No Ceilings: The Full Participation Project” event.
18(2) http://www.eetimes.com/document.asp?doc_id=1324236AMD employees give their time and 
talents to support important causes 
in their communities.
19Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Grenoble, France – Sales
Tokyo, Japan – Sales
Sydney, Australia  – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabuan, Malaysia – Business Services Penang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India 
– R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – Sales Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignFleet, UK – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – Sales
Chongqing, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate,
Business Services, R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, DesignMarkham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,
Business ServicesManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OﬃcesSales
MARKHAM
Established: 2006  
Operations:  AMD Canadian 
Headquarters and graphics  
R&D center
BRAZIL & LATIN AMERICA
Operations:  Business Services and Sales. 
Offices in São Paulo, Bras Ília, Mexico City,  
and Buenos AiresSUNNYVALE
Established: 1969  
Operations: AMD Corporate 
Headquarters, R&D, DesignBEIJING
Established:  2004  
Operations: Greater China 
Headquarters, R&D, Design
TAIPEI
Established: 1987  
Operations:  Business ServicesSHANGHAI
Established: 2006  
Operations: Shanghai Research  
and Development Center (SRDC). 
AMD’s largest system design hub 
outside of the United States
SUZHOU
Established: 2005  
Operations:  Assembly, test, mark, 
and pack facility for microprocessors 
in the Suzhou Industrial Park
HYDERABAD
Established:  2008  
Operations:  R&D, Design focusing on 
graphics and computing solutionsBANGALORE
Established:  2004  
Operations:  R&D, Design focusing on 
graphics and computing solutionsMALAYSIA
AMD Penang Established:  1972  
Operations:  Microprocessor  
assembly, test, and R&D. The  
first AMD facility outside North 
America to set up advanced 
C4 “flip chip” assembly
AMD Cyberjaya Established:  2008  
Operations:  Business ServicesAUSTIN
Established:  1978  
Lone Star campus (officially opened in 2008)  
Operations:  Corporate, R&D, Design
EUROPE & MIDDLE EAST
Operations:  R&D, Design, Business Services, 
Distribution Center, and Sales. Offices in over 
10 countries, with the bulk of AMD processors 
manufactured by a foundry in Dresden, Germany
Responsibility 
 on a Global Scale
Locations shown represent AMD owned or leased properties only. AMD-related R&D, 
design, sales, and other activities occur at numerous locations not included on the map.
Istanbul, Turkey – Sales
Grenoble, France – Sales
Tokyo, Japan – Sales
Sydney, Australia  – SalesSeoul, Korea – Sales
Shanghai, China – R&D, Design
Taipei, Taiwan – R&D, Design
Jakarta, Indonesia – SalesBangkok, Thailand – Sales
Cyberjaya, Malaysia – Business ServicesLabuan, Malaysia – Business Services Penang, Malaysia – ManufacturingPenang, Malaysia – Business ServicesHyderabad, India – R&D, DesignNew Delhi, India – Sales
Mumbai – Sales
Singapore – R&D, DesignParis, France – Sales Beijing, China – Corporate, R&D, DesignFleet, UK – Sales
Shenzhen, China – R&D, Design, Business Services, Sales
Hong Kong, China – SalesSuzhou, China – Manufacturing
Bangalore, India
– R&D, DesignDubai, UAE – SalesMoscow, Russia – Sales
Tel Aviv, Israel – R&D, DesignChengdu, China – Sales
Chongqing, China – SalesWarsaw, Poland – Sales
Milan, Italy – Sales
Munich, Germany – Business Services & Sales
Orlando, FL – R&D, DesignAtlanta, GA – Business Services
Mexico City – Sales
São Paulo, Brazil – Sales
Buenos Aires, Argentina – SalesBrasília, Brazil – Business ServicesAustin, TX – Corporate, R&D, Design
Houston, TX – SalesSunnyvale, CA – Corporate,
Business Services, R&D, DesignBellevue, WA – R&D, DesignMarkham, Ontario
– Business Services, R&D, Design
Fort Collins, CO– R&D, Design Boxborough, MA – R&D, Design
Hsinchu, Taiwan – R&D, Design,
Business ServicesManufacturing, DistributionR&D, Design
Business Services
Corporate OﬃcesSalesThe Americas Greater China Asia – Pacific Europe, Middle East, & Africa AMD REGIONS
21 20AMD looks beyond today’s 
conventional technology product 
categories to power smart, 
intuitive immersive computing 
from computers, servers, 
embedded devices, and the 
cloud. We’re designing for the 
computational future, in great 
detail and at scale for immersive 
human computing experiences. 
From natural UIs like gesture 
control and facial recognition to 
ever-increasing visual and audio 
realism, AMD is making the future 
of immersive computing a reality. 
AMD is investing in innovation to 
deliver the promise of immersive 
computing and a smarter, more 
connected world in an efficient and 
environmentally responsible manner. Advances in energy efficiency are 
designed to enable great performance 
while responsibly using power.
Our innovative technologies enable 
smarter, more intuitive immersive 
computing, whether it’s audio, video, 
multiplatform, immersive interaction, 
or managing data from the cloud.
The era of immersive computing is at  
our doorstep, enabling incredibly 
captivating user experiences. Virtual 
Reality (VR) is poised to dramatically 
transform an array of applications, 
including gaming, entertainment, 
education, social media, travel, 
medicine, real estate, e-commerce, 
and more. Initiatives like AMD’s 
LiquidVR™ are ushering in a new 
realm of smart VR technologies 
designed to empower developers 
and fuel better VR experiences. 
Looking Ahead: Immersive Computing
Enabling today.  
Inspiring tomorrow.TRENDS
50 billion devices — everything from 
wearable computers to industrial 
sensors — could be connected to the 
Internet by 2020.3 
These devices will generate an estimated 
40 zetabytes of data, whereas all of the 
information in the world today equals 
less than 1 zetabyte.4
By 2025, these devices will consume an 
estimated 6% of all electricity generated 
in the world.5
The amount of space dedicated to 
housing this data will increase by almost 
25% from 2013 to 2018.6
The use of “smart”-enabled information 
technology in consumer and business 
applications could cut the projected 
2020 global greenhouse gas emissions 
by 16.5%, amounting to $1.9 trillion 
in gross energy and fuel savings and 
a reduction of 9.1 gigatonnes carbon 
dioxide equivalent of greenhouse gases.7
The best is yet to come and the AMD team is making it possible.
(3) http://www.oecd.org/sti/ieconomy/internet-economy-outlook-2012-highlights.pdf
(4) http://www.siemens.com/innovation/en/home/pictures-of-the-future/digitalization-and-software/internet-of-things-facts-and-forecasts.html
(5) http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/archives/2014/11/11/idc-amount-of-worlds-data-centers-to-start-declining-in-2017/
(6) http://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/MoreData_LessEnergy.pdf
(7) http://gesi.org/portfolio/report/72
22
 Key Performance Indicator  2012 2013 2014  
 Total number of employees 10,340 10,671 9,690
 Percentage of female employees 28% 28% 29%
 Worldwide injury and illness case rate  
   (per 100 workers) 0.18 0.10 0.14  
 Employee volunteer hours 7,735 9,043 9,208
 Total revenue (in millions USD) $5,422 $5,299 $5,506
 Net loss (in millions USD) ($1,183) ($83) ($403)
 AMD Foundation giving (USD)8 $2,646,333  $234,931  $17,500
 Other cash and in-kind (USD) $560,245 $234,931 $242,053 
 Energy use (gigawatt hours – GWh) 377 338 289 
 CO2 equivalent emissions  199,979 206,477 194,331  
   (metric tons CO2e, scope 1 & 2)  
 Water use (million liters) 868 910 790
 Wastewater discharge (million liters)9  391 235 92 
 Non-hazardous waste (metric tons) 1,730 2,049 1,670 
 Landfill diversion rate 64% 78% 74% 
 Major supplier facilities that have completed  
 the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s  
 Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) 89% 100% 100% 
 Number of high-risk major supplier  
 facilities based on SAQ scores 0 0 0Environment
Supply ChainEconomicEmployeesThe Data Behind  
Our Corporate 
Responsibility Story2014
DATA TABLES
(8) AMD Foundation giving was largely suspended in 2013 due to business conditions.   
We have increased emphasis on donating the time and talent of our employees to continue to support local community needs.
(9) Wastewater reduction due to water recycling and reduction projects, and through improved measurement.
23RECOGNITION
Ranked in the top 20 of 
Maplecroft’s ™ Climate 
Innovation Indexes
Listed on the Dow Jones 
Sustainability World  
Index since 2002
Prime Status from  
Oekom ResearchU.S. EPA Green Power Partner, 
Green Power Leadership Club 
member, ranked in the Program’s 
Top 30 Tech & Telecom
Ranked in the Top 1% of U.S. Companies on  
Environmental Management as reported  
by 2014 GEMS Benchmarking  
Analysis of U.S. Corporate  
Environmental Practices
Ranked #1 in Green500™ list 
(November 2014) for powering world’s 
most energy-efficient supercomputer 
with AMD FirePro™ Graphics
Included in CR Magazine’s 100 
Best Corporate Citizens List 
for the third consecutive yearListed on the MSCI Global 
Sustainability Indexes 
Partner in the Workplace 
Charging Challenge, U.S.  
Department of EnergyListed on the  
Calvert Social Index 
TO LEARN MORE, VISIT
WWW.AMD.COM/  
CORPORATERESPONSIBILITY
© 2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD FirePro, AMD Radeon, 
AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon, AMD-K6, LiquidVR, and 
combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro 
Devices, Inc. Other trade names are used for identification 
purposes only and may be the property or trademarks  
of their respective owners.