2020-21 CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY  
REPORT SUMMARY  WHO WE ARE
AMD IS A GLOBAL SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANY 
THAT DESIGNS AND DELIVERS:
> x86 MICROPROCESSORS for servers, notebooks,
workstations and desktop PCs ,
 and x86
microprocessors with integrated graphics for
notebook and desktop PCs;
> GRAPHICS PROCESSING UNITS (GPUs) for notebooks,
desktop PCs, workstations and the data center; and
> EMBEDDED 
AND SEMI-CUSTOM PROCESSORS for game
consoles, displays, thin clients, storage systems
 and
other products.WHAT WE POWER 
DATA CENTER, CLOUD +  
HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING
AMD EPYC™ processors and AMD Instinct™ accelerators 
power supercomputers as well as cloud services that enable today’s digital experiences for remote working  and learning, entertainment and communications.
CONSUMER AND  
COMMERCIAL PCS
AMD continues to drive innovation in today’s PCs with AMD Ryzen™ processors and AMD Radeon™ graphics, bringing performance, efficiency and modern security features to gamers, creators, consumers and enterprises. GAMING
High-performance AMD computing and graphics technologies and software power immersive gaming experiences for high-performance PCs, the latest game consoles and cloud gaming services.
EMBEDDED
AMD EPYC™ Embedded processors and AMD Ryzen™ Embedded processors serve a broad spectrum of markets, from industrial solutions, networking and communications to aerospace, medical imaging and digital signage.
2Founded in 1969 as a Silicon Valley start-up, the  
AMD journey began with dozens of employees 
focused on leading-edge semiconductor products. From those modest beginnings, AMD has grown  
into a global company achieving many important industry firsts along the way. We are proud of  
our culture of bold technology bets, ambitious product roadmaps, deep partnerships and  
excellence in execution.
We operate in over 35 locations worldwide  
including engineering facilities, sales and  
business service sites, and corporate offices.CEO MESSAGE
A MESSAGE FROM AMD PRESIDENT AND CORPORATE EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DR. LISA SU
In 2020 and into 2021, we significantly accelerated the 
growth of the AMD business and increased our strategic focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG). This included new priorities and goals spanning digital impact, environmental stewardship, supply chain responsibility, and diversity, belonging and inclusion. 
AMD in 2020 reached key environmental milestones set 
in 2014, including the bold “25x20” goal to deliver at least 25 times more energy efficiency by 2020 in our mobile processors. We also reduced our absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from AMD operations (scope 1 and 2) by 38 percent over the same timeframe – well ahead of our 20 percent goal. 
Early in 2020, AMD moved quickly to navigate the 
challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, implementing best practices to mitigate the spread of the virus, protect the health and safety of our employees, maintain business continuity for our customers, and support our communities by applying our essential technology and 
resources in the fight. 
To accelerate COVID-related research, we created the 
AMD C
OVID-19 High Performance Compute (HPC) Fund 
and donated high-performance systems powered by AMD 
EPYC™ CPUs and AMD Instinct™ GPUs to key research 
institutions in Canada, France, German y, India, Ital y, 
United Kingdom and the United States. With 12 petaflops 
of total supercomputing capacity donated, the combined 
compute capacity would rank among the fastest 
supercomputers in the world.
Through our combined COVID-19 response efforts, we 
provided more than $26 million USD to universities, 
r
esearch institutes and community organizations, including 
donations of t
echnolog y, personal protective equipment, 
and c
orporate and  employee giving (as of June 2021). 
The pandemic nec
essitated the rapid acceleration of 
digital transformation in businesses, governments, 
schools and the home. It is now clear high-performance 
computing is essential to our daily lives and how we work, 
how we learn and how we connect with each other. AMD 
high-performance computing products now power many 
of the most important cloud services enabling digital 
transformation, supporting billions of people around the 
world every da y.
In 2020 we also faced painful reminders of the work  
still ahead to create a more just and equitable societ y. 
AMD remains committed to helping increase the  number of women and underrepresented groups in  
the technology industry and to support efforts to effect 
lasting change. 
Looking ahead, AMD has set multiple new goals for 2025 
and beyond to drive meaningful impact across our value 
chain. These goals include 70 percent of our employees 
participating in AMD employee resource groups and/
or other AMD inclusion initiatives; increasing energy 
efficiency by 30x for AMD processors powering servers in  
AI-tr aining and high-performance c omputing applications; 
and pursuing science-based GHG emission reductions for 
AMD operations. And by 2025, through AMD and AMD 
Foundation philanthropy and partnerships that enable 
STEM education, scientific research and the workforce  
of the futur
e, we aim to benefit 100 million people.
Throughout this report, you can learn about our corporate 
responsibility programs and initiatives that are driving 
positive impacts for our society, environment, employees 
and customers. And as always, AMD will continue 
delivering the technology and products that are essential 
to solving our toughest challenges ahead, whatever  
they may be.
3
AMD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN ACTION 
A MESSAGE FROM SUSAN MOORE, CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY   
AND INTERNATIONAL GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS, AND PRESIDENT, AMD FOUNDATION  
The global challenges of 2020 shared lessons across 
the world, including the power of resiliency, hope and common vision. The year also reinforced the important role of businesses in contributing toward a more inclusive and sustainable world through environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts.
AMD recognizes our responsibility to help address global 
challenges in a way that drives value for our stakeholders. We recognize it is not just what our technology can do that matters, but also how we responsibly develop and deliver it. An important part of our approach includes conducting materiality assessments to evaluate ESG-related impacts on society and our business.  We engage our stakeholders to understand their views, clearly communicate our strategies and positions, and be responsive as issues evolve. 
Over the past year, in partnership with Ceres and a diverse 
set of stakeholders, we listened to input and reflected in refreshing our strategic focus areas in ESG. The process has been instrumental in informing our long-term strategic priorities as well as our goals, reporting and 
transparency efforts.  As a result, across our business 
we have new priorities in digital impact; environmental stewardship; supply chain responsibility; and diversity, belonging and inclusion. With impact-driven efforts in these areas, we can help create a better future for the people who design, make and use our products, and for the communities where we live and work.We continue to embed ESG performance and transparency into our business. For 2021, increased diversity representation is a component of our company’s strategic metrics and milestones to inform our incentive plan.And to accelerate internal coordination, we formalized an ESG Executive Steering Committee. Our next chapter includes welcoming Xilinx as part of the AMD team, upon final regulatory approvals and deal closing, and then reassessing our collective ESG opportunities and goals. 
I thank AMD employees for their resiliency and 
commitment last year. Through their can-do spirit, we delivered for our customers while supporting the well-being of our workforce, supply chain and local communities. I am inspired by the far-reaching potential of AMD technologies to power high-performance computing solutions that help solve global challenges today and in the future. 
4AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
Our work is recognized by organizations at the 
forefront of corporate responsibility, including: 
POWER TO FIGHT A  PANDEMICAMD HELPS POWER  
WORLD-CLASS  
RESEARCHSince early 2020, AMD has worked diligently to navigate 
the uncertainty seen in our world. We  continue  to  
assess  the unfolding  situation  taking necessary steps  
to maintain business continuity  while protecting the 
health and safety of our employees,  and supporting our 
customers,  supply chain workers  and communities.  We 
also actively  deploy  our technology and resources to fight 
the pandemic. 
OUR WORKFORCE 
Although certain offices remained open during 2020 
with limited capacity to perform essential business functions per local guidelines, most of our employees worked from home. To support them during this challenging time, AMD provided resources and benefits to help balance the demands of work, school, home and parental care. For example, as part of our global Employee Assistance Program, we offered free, confidential short-term counseling, personalized coaching, as well as wellness resources for caregiving, 
education and parenting.  We also engaged our Caregiver 
Employee Resource Group, a collaborative community 
of employees that are caring for children or  the elderly, 
to share useful tools, tips and perspectives in balancing work and family successfully.  
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
Our partnership with our suppliers is critical to the reliable delivery of our products and the protection 
of workers.  We continually monitor our supply 
chain  and work  closely with our suppliers to assess  
risks, enable training  and validate progress. For 
example,  our supply chain operations accommodated adjusted delivery dates and quantities, and they planned for extended lead times when reasonably possible. We also shifted production load from countries with COVID-19 outbreaks and collaborated with suppliers to reroute materials and finished goods to lanes and 
locations that best enabled delivery to customers.   
OUR GLOBAL COMMUNITIES 
Through our combined COVID-19 response efforts, we provided more than $26 million USD to universities, research institutes and community organizations, including donations of technology, personal protective equipment, and corporate and employee giving (as of June 2021). 
For example, AMD and employees donated money 
for COVID-19 medical support and humanitarian relief through grants and special matching gift programs for communities worldwide. We also prioritized and expedited product shipments for our medical customers, including AMD embedded processors used in ventilators and respirators. To accelerate COVID-related medical research, we established the AMD COVID-19 High Performance Compute (HPC) Fund to provide universities and research institutions with HPC technology and resources. We aim to help leading institutions not only deepen their understanding of COVID-19, but also improve their ability to respond to future potential threats to global health.   OUR COVID-19 RESPONSE
5NOTE: UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, DATA IS FROM DECEMBER 31, 2020. COMPLETE DATA TABLES AND FOOTNOTES CAN BE FOUND HERE237
MILLION kWh
OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCED 
REDUCTION IN GLOBAL  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
FROM OUR OPERATIONS   
(SCOPE 1 AND 2)CO 2e
38%REDUCTION IN 
WATER USE IN  
AMD OPERATIONS23%
REDUCTION IN  
WASTE GENERATED  
FROM AMD 
OPERATIONS58%AMD WAS ELECTED  
TO THE RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS ALLIANCE  
BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2021
PRODUCT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY
SERVER WORLD RECORDS33OUR PEOPLE
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
1212
PETAFLOPS OF  
DONATED COMPUTING POWER OUR COVID-19 
RESPONSE          OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AUDIT PROGRAM  
      REACHED MORE THAN 25,500 FACTORY 
WORKERS GLOBALLY25,500+
$26+  
MILLION  USD
IN DONATED TECHNOLOGY , 
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE 
EQUIPMENT, CORPORATE  
AND EMPLOYEE GIVING  RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
 THE AVERAGE SOCIAL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT  
SCORE  OF AMD SUPPLIERS IS 39% HIGHER THAN THE  
INDUSTRY AVERAGE3,110   
AMDERS VOLUNTEEREDIN 71 COMPANY-SPONSORED EVENTS
STUDENTS  
AND TEACHERS  
REACHED THROUGH  
AMD-POWERED 
LEARNING LABS700+  SUPPORTING OUR 
COMMUNITIES
7,050+ HOURS VOLUNTEEREDEMPLOYEE 
RESOURCE GROUPS76%
24%MALE EMPLOYEES
FEMALE EMPLOYEES12,600+ GLOBAL EMPLOYEESOF EMPLOYEES  
ARE PROUD TO  
WORK FOR AMD 95%1010
FOR MOBILE PROCESSORS (2014-2020)  
WE EXCEEDED OUR 25x 20 ENERGY  
EFFICIENCY GOAL, BY RELENTLESSLY  
IMPROVING THE PERFORMANCE PER  
 WATT OF OUR MICROPROCESSORS31.7x
INCREASE IN  
ENERGY EFFICIENCY  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
2020  
HIGHLIGHTS
(AS OF JUNE 2021)(2014-2020)
AMD HIGH  
PERFORMANCE 
COMPUTE FUND 
GRANTEES  2323OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS
> DIGITAL IMPACT –  We are passionate about designing
products that help improve people’s lives through
high-performance computing solutions spanninghealthcare, education, manufacturing, scientificresearch and other critical needs.
>  ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP –  We are steadfast in
our commitments to sustainability by sourcingrenewable energy, engaging our employees andsuppliers on environmental initiatives, and helpingend-users reduce energy use and emissions.
>  SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY –  We work with our
suppliers to deliver high-quality products whilealso helping ensure that working conditionsare safe, workers are treated with respect andmanufacturing processes are environmentallyresponsible.
>  DIVERSITY, BELONGING AND INCLUSION – Innovation is at
the core of our culture. We encourage and supportcreative minds from diverse backgrounds to worktogether in an engaging and open environment.
7PURPOSE DRIVEN  
HIGH-PERFORMANCE 
COMPUTINGAt AMD, we develop technology that helps to enable 
the future. Our high-performance processors power the 
servers for modern data centers, personal computers, 
game consoles, industrial devices and more. Our 
technologies help open possibiliti es for creators, 
researchers, inventors and explorers to tackle some 
of the world’s toughest challenges. 
That’s why we are focused on creating the next 
gen
eration of products that will positively benefit society 
and the planet. We aspire to embed environmental 
st
ewardship across our business, ensure safe and 
r
esponsible workplaces in our glob al supply chain and 
promote stronger communities where we live and work.Corporate responsibility (CR) represents an integral 
aspect of our business, which aims to generate shared value with our employees, customers, suppliers, investors and communities. We use materiality assessments to help us to prioritize ESG issues within our approach and goal setting, and to guide our engagement with key stakeholders. Taking into account our 2020 materiality results, we are elevating four strategic focus areas that are both important to stakeholders and critical to the success of our business. Our approach is grounded in business ethics, security and transparency.OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
DIGITAL 
IMPACT
SUPPLY CHAIN 
RESPONSIBILITYENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
DIVERSITY, 
BELONGING & 
INCLUSION8DIGITAL IMPACT
OUR 2025 GOAL:
100 million people will benefit from AMD and AMD Foundation philanthropy and 
partnerships that enable STEM education, scientific research and the workforce of the future (2020-2025)
1
1. For each year during the goal period, data includes a) students, faculty or researchers with direct access to AMD-donated 
technology, funding or volunteers; and b) individuals with a reasonable likelihood of receiving research data formulated through AMD-donated technology and potentially gaining useful insights or knowledge.We plan to achieve our goal by fostering strategic relationships with researchers, educators 
and students that are positioned to expand horizons and develop the groundbreaking innovations of tomorrow. Whether it is donating technology to help students’ sense of discovery or to help scientists responsibly push the boundaries of what is possible, we believe that when processing power meets brainpower, the future comes alive.WHY IT MATTERS  
Computing is  ubiquitous and  more powerful than ever. Every single day, whether 
it’s in the electronics we rely on at home and work, the advanced data centers and networks that connect us all, or the supercomputers used to drive research and 
innovation in numerous fields, computing makes the previously impossible possible.   
Semiconductor technology  creates the potential for new insights, experiences and 
solutions with the power to transform lives and communities for the better.  For 
example, our advances  in high-performance computing (HPC) help  society  unlock 
opportunities  around  scientific research;  science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM)  education;  energy and climate;  healthcare;  and other exciting fields.   
However, such advances also bring the potential for abuse and unintended consequences. The same technologies that promote equity and increase efficiency can also be deployed in ways that potentially disadvantage or exploit vulnerable communities or contribute to environmental degradation.
OUR APPROACH  
Understanding our  customers’ and industry  partners’ goals and sharing their 
visions are critical to how we operate.  With  these insights, we can  see the 
challenges and opportunities ahead, which  allows us to continue to develop 
groundbreaking innovations and  help  improve lives.  However, technology alone 
cannot  achieve  societal progress.  It’s the people  that put high-performance 
computing to work  and spark new ideas that benefit  society  as a whole.  That 
is why we  engage and collaborate with our customers, industry and other 
stakeholders to  design  world-class high-performance computing solutions 
to tackle  some of  the toughest  challenges  facing society  and mitigate  potential 
negative impacts of technology.   SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH  
Together with industry and research partners, AMD is 
helping to deliver a new generation of supercomputers2 
that cross the exascale performance barrier for the first time, with the ability to perform more than 10 to the 18th or more (or one quintillion) calculations per second. These pathbreaking machines will enable researchers to employ exponentially more powerful models and simulations with the potential to create breakthroughs in areas such as climate science, biomedical engineering and the development of new materials.
We are also helping to put the power of HPC solutions 
to work on advancing scientific research. Most recently, for example, our technology is being used to accelerate COVID-19 vaccine development and therapeutics. The AMD COVID-19 High Performance Compute Fund
3 launched in 
April 2020 provides universities and research institutions with computing resources to accelerate medical research on COVID-19 and other diseases. 
>Learn more about AMD COVID-19 HPC FundSTEM EDUCATION 
AMD  is passionate about enabling the imagination and 
creativity of the next generation.  Technology in their 
hands encourages exploration and learning that opens 
doors to new possibilities. That is why we partner with 
schools and local nonpr
ofit organizations to provide 
AMD-based equipment t
o outfit four AMD Learning 
L
abs to help inspire students to pursue STEM education. 
W
e currently have labs in Markham, Canada; Shanghai, 
China; as well as Austin, Texas and San Jose, California in 
the United States. These labs provide opportunities for 
underserved students to gain hands-on experience with 
c
omputer hardware and software. For some students, 
this may lay the groundwork for a future technical 
caree r , while for others it can support the development 
of reasoning and other skills they can use to thrive in a 
r
ange of pursuits.   
When local schools were closed due to the pandemic, the 
Boys & Girls Clubs’ Silicon Valley Alviso Club was open and 
supporting hundreds of kids. The AMD Learning Labs was 
essential in advancing STEM programming as members 
learned various technical skills such as 3D modeling,  
r
obotics and programming with Scratch and Python. 
A
ccess to computers helps to reduce the digital divide 
and improve Club members’ chances of graduating from 
high school, moving on to post-secondary education and 
discovering a career in STEM.  
>Learn more about AMD Learning Labs
9KEY ACTIVITIES AND INITIATIVES  
We see great potential for high-performance computing (HPC) to benefit society and the planet. Through our digital impact 
initiatives, strategic investments and partnerships, we aim to help others tackle important global challenges. 
2.  https://www.amd.com/en/products/exascale-era
3. https://www.amd.com/en/corporate/hpc-fundCASE STUDY: 
NIKHEF EMPOWERS SUBATOMIC PHYSICS 
RESEARCH WITH AMD TECHNOLOGIES 
Dutch National Institute, Nikhef, is at the forefront of 
delivering processing capabilities for subatomic physics research and concentrates on deepening our understanding of the universe. The Institute is using AMD EPYC™ CPUs to enhance its data throughput for the next generation of subatomic physics research workloads. It’s also deployed  
AMD Radeon Instinct™ GPUs to accelerate machine learning. 
>Read Case Study
CASE STUDY: 
MYCOMPUTERCAREER ENHANCES EDUCATION 
WITH AMD RYZEN MOBILE 
MyComputerCareer has a vision about how to improve 
education in information technology skills. And providing the best possible laptop for students is central to its core strategy. Through laptop provider Lenovo and service company vision21 solutions, MyComputerCareer found that AMD Ryzen™ Mobile Processors delivered exactly what was needed to give students the best possible opportunity to complete their studies successfully. 
>Read Case StudyAMD  TECHNOLOGY ENABLING A BETTER WORLD  
At AMD, we dare to imagine a better world and we take inspiration from our customers to deliver innovative solutions to the challenges and possibilities of our digital age. We do not 
create technology for technology’s sake;  we innovate for  our customers  and what  they  can achieve.  The following case studies provide examples of applications of our core technology 
that benefit society.   
10>Learn more about our Stakeholder EngagementENVIRONMEN TAL STE WARDSHIP
WHY IT M ATTERS 
According to the World Economic Forum’s 20 21 Global Risks Report, “climate action 
failur
e” is the most impactful, and second most likel y, long -term risk facing the world 
toda y.4  This is not only a future challenge – the related issues are already manifesting.  
Globally
, 2020 was the hottest year on record, effectively tying 2016, the previous record.5  
An immediate and me
aningful global response is required to address the climate crisis. 
The technology sector plays a critical role by maximizing product energy efficiency and 
enabling solutions that pr
ovide energy and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reduction 
opportunities for all sectors of societ y. Accelerating the transition to a sustainable 
low-carbon economy will produce multiple benefits for economic growth, public health, 
increasing resilience to natural disasters and the health of the glo bal environment.6  
OUR APPROACH 
As designers of microprocessors during a period of amazing growth in technolog y,   
we embrace the responsibility to protect our planet and the opportunity to help others 
save energy and reduce GHG emissions. Our environmental programs and initiatives 
extend across our value chain, including AMD operations, supply chain manufacturing 
and product st
ewardship. And we set ambitious goals and publicly report on our 
progress annuall y.
We also engage with industry peers, government regulators, civil society organizations 
and other gr
oups to advance environmental stewardship across our value chain. The 
collective eff
orts and innovations stemming from the technology sector exceed what 
any of us could do as individual or
ganizations.OUR 2025/2030 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS:
> AMD Operations (scope 1 and 2) –
• 50 percent reduction in GHG emissions from AMD operations from 20 20-2030
>   AMD Product Energy Efficiency (scope  3) –
•  30x increase in energy efficiency for AMD processors and acceler ators powering 
servers for artificial intelligence-training and high-performanc e computing from 
2020-2025
> AMD Supply Chain Manufacturing (scope 3) –
•
 100 percent of AMD manufacturing suppliers have public GHG emissio ns 
reduction goals by 2025
• 80 percent of AMD manufacturing suppliers source renewable energy by 2025
114.  https://reports.weforum.org/global-risks-report-2021/. Climate Action Failure is defined by WEF as “Failure of 
governments and businesses to enforce, enact or invest in effective climate-change adaptation and mitigation measures, 
preserve ecosystems, protect populations and transition to a carbon-neutral economy. ”
5. https://www.nasa.gov/press-release/2020-tied-for-warmest-year-on-record-nasa-analysis-shows
6. https://www.itic.org/policy/environment-sustainability12ENVIRONMEN TAL PERFORMANCE 
20
20 GOALS AND PROGRESS 
We are proud to state that than ks to the engagement and support of our employees and 
suppliers, we were able to achieve our 2020 operations and produ ct goals. In addition, 
three out of five of our supplier  goals were met and all performance metrics were well 
ahead of
 the industry average bas ed on a standard manufacturing ind ex (MI).7
OUR 2014-2020 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE:
AMD Oper
ations – 
> 38 percent reduction in our absolute GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2), exceeding our goal of
20 percent
Wafer Suppliers –  
> Direct GHG Emissions (scope 1): 73 percent below SIA average per MI, nearly achieving our
goal of 75 percent
> Electricity Use: 28 percent  below SIA average per MI, missing our goal of 40 percent
>  Water Use: 54 percent below SIA average per MI, exceeding our goal of 40 percent
> Hazardous Waste Recycling Rate: 80 percent below SIA average per MI, exceeding our goal
of 65 percent
> Injury and Illness Case Rate: 20 percent below 2019 rate, achieving our goal to reduce year
over year
 Product Use –  
> 31.7x increase in the energy efficiency of our mobile processors, exceeding our target of 25x
OPERATIONS  
AMD operates in over 35 locations worldwide, including engineering facilities, sales and 
business service sites, and corporate offices. Across our facilities and the local communities in which we operate, we strive to apply the highest level of integrity and stewardship for environmental performance.
2014-2020 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY:
17% 
REDUCTION 
IN ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION38% 
REDUCTION 
IN GHG 
EMISSIONS23% 
REDUCTION 
IN WATER 
USE58% 
REDUCTION 
IN WASTE  
GENERATED
>See ESG data tables for our complete data and footnotes.In 2020, performance against our 20 percent GHG emissions reduction goal (scope 1 and 2) was a 38 percent reduction from the 2014 goal baseline, and 20 percent below 2019. Our 2020 scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions underwent third-party review (limited assurance). We continued to procure renewable energy in 2020, sourcing 34 million kWh in renewable energy certificates (RECs) in the U.S. (Green-E certified wind) and China (iRECs wind), which represented 28 percent of our global energy use, enough to power approximately 4,420 homes in the U.S. for a year.
8
>Read about our environmental efforts across AMD operations
SUPPLY CHAIN 
We work with our manufacturing suppliers9  to advance environmental sustainability 
across a variety of metrics. Silicon wafer manufacturing represents the bulk of our environmental footprint within the company’s supply chain. Starting in 2014, we partnered with our wafer suppliers to establish “best-in-class” environmental, health and safety (EHS) goals for AMD wafer production through 2020. We report progress toward these goals annually, which as of 2020 resulted in 73 percent, 54 percent and 28 percent less direct GHG emissions, water use and electricity use, respectively, compared to the industry average.
10 In 2020, our foundry suppliers also achieved an 80 percent hazardous 
waste recycling rate and a 20 percent annual reduction in the injury and illness case rates. 
Looking ahead to 2025, we continue to work with our wafer foundry suppliers on several 
performance indicators and goals, and we are expanding goals to cover our full set of manufacturing suppliers.  
>Read about our environmental efforts with suppliers
7 .  A manufacturing inde x is an industry-standard measure of production calculated by square centimeters of silicon x masking layers x wafers per 
year. The AMD goals compare the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) average MI to AMD MI.
8. Based on entering 34 million kWh int o EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalency Calculator.
9.  Manufacturing suppliers are those suppliers who contribute materials and/or services that directly impact and become a part of AMD products. This 
includes wafer, outsourced assembly, and test (OSAT), direct materials (substrates, lids, capacitors, memory) and boards inclusive of components.
10.  A manufacturing inde x is an industry-standard measure of production calculated by square centimeters of silicon x masking layers x wafers per 
year. The AMD goals compare the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) average MI to AMD MI.13PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Maximizing the computing performance delivered 
per watt of energy consumed is a vital aspect of our business strategy. Our products’ cutting-edge chip architecture, design and power management features have resulted in significant energy efficiency gains. In 2020, in pursuit of our aggressive AMD 25x20 Energy Efficiency Initiative , we achieved a 31.7x improvement 
in energy efficiency for our mobile processors from 2014-2020.
11 The results of achieving this goal reflect 
a doubling of historical efficiency trends predicted by Koomey’s Law,
12 based on an 84 percent reduction in typical energy use and an 80 percent reduction in compute time for a given task from 2014-2020.
13 
Building on the momentum of 25x20, AMD is setting  a  
new bold goal  to increase the energy efficiency of  
AMD processors and accelerators powering servers for AI-training and high-performance computing by 30x from 2020-2025.
14 Furthermore, we have launched AMD EPYC™ 
processor total cost of ownership (TCO) calculator tools to 
illustrate how AMD powered servers can help reduce GHG emissions compared to the competition and may require fewer servers.
2015 2016 2014 2018 2019 2020 201731.7xADDITIONAL ENERGY
EFFICIENCY(2014–2020)
Energy Eﬃciency of AMD Mobile Processors
25x Energy Eﬃciency GoalRELATIVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
(log scale)
11.  Testing by AMD Performance Labs as of April 15, 2020. Processors tested: AMD FX-7600P , AMD FX-8800P , AMD FX-9830P , AMD Ryzen 7 2700U, AMD Ryzen 7 2800H, AMD Ryzen 7 3750H, and 
AMD Ryzen 7 4800H. 25x20 program tracked against ENERGY STAR Rev 6.1 8/12/2014 and 3DMark® 2011 P-Score and Cinebench R15 nT. Results may vary with drivers and BIOSes. RVM-108
12.  AMD achieved a 3 1.7x increase in typical use energy efficiency from 2014-2020, or ~2x compared to what would be the historical rate of increase (doubling every 1.57 years) during the same 
timeframe of 14.1x. RM3H-43
13.  Annual proc essor electricity use (kWh), based on ENERGY STAR typical use energy consumption (TEC), in 2020 equals 84% less than the 2014 amount. The normalized performance increase, 
based on a 50:50 weighted metric for Cinebench R15 and 3DMark11, is 5x higher from AMD’s 2014 notebook processor compared to the 2020 design. This equates to 80% less average compute 
time for a given task.
14.  Includes AMD high-perf ormance CPU and GPU accelerators used for AI training and High-Performance Computing in a 4P hosted configuration. Goal calculations based on performance scores as 
measured by standard performance metrics (HPC: Linpack DGEMM kernel FLOPS with 4k matrix size. AI training: lower precision floating point math GEMM kernels such as FP16 or BF16 FLOPS operating on 4k matrices) divided by the rated power consumption of a representative accelerated compute node including thee CPU host + memory, and 4 GPU accelerators.25X20 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
INITIATIVESUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY 
WHY IT M ATTERS 
Supply chains continue to be one of the most important levers for businesses to create a 
positive impact in the world. The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the interdependency of 
global supply chains across industries and magnified risks that can arise from the many 
inter
connected challenges. The link between ethical and sustainable supply chains, 
resilience and value to the business is clea r, now more than eve r. By working togethe r, 
companies and their suppliers can make a significant impact in advancing human rights, 
fair labor practices and environmental progress.   
With the growing number of electronic devices being used globally comes the 
responsibility to ensure that we are conducting our business ethicall y. We are committed 
to delivering high-quality products and to helping ensure that working conditions 
throughout our supply chain are safe, workers are treated with respect and dignit y, and 
the manufacturing processes of our products are environmentally responsible.  
OUR APPROACH 
As a fabless semiconductor compan y, our manufacturing operations are wholly outsourced 
to a carefully selected network of suppliers. The scope of the AMD Supply Chain 
Responsibility program encompasses the manufacturing of our products by suppliers 
located in Asia, Europe and the United States as well as the sourcing of raw materials.   
We aim to work with our manufacturing suppliers15 to advance supply chain resiliency, 
respect for human rights and environmental sustainabilit
y. We take a partnership 
approach with our supplier
s to promote continuous improvement and  
t
o drive positive change across our value chain.   
We shar
e our expectations with our manufacturing suppliers in our annual Supplier 
Acknowledge
ment Lette r. Our standard contractual terms and conditions for the 
procurement of goods and services require conformance to applicable laws and 
regulations, and r
einforce our expectations regarding responsible social, ethical and 
environmental conduct. Training is made available to suppliers through the e-Learning 
Academy of the Re
sponsible Business Alliance (RBA). Topics c over social and 
environmental issues and are assigned to suppliers based on identified knowledge gaps. 
14OUR 2025 GOALS: 
> 100 percent of AMD supplier manufacturing factories will have a Responsible
Business Alliance (RBA) audit or equivalent
> 80 percent of AMD manufacturing suppliers by spend will participate in a capacity
building activity 
15.  Manufacturing suppliers are those suppliers who contribute materials and or services that directly impact and become a part of AMD products. This 
includes wafer, outsourced assembly, and test (OSAT), direct materials (substrates, lids, capacitors, memory), and boards inclusive of components. Over the next five years, we plan to expand our work with suppliers to drive a positive 
impact for the people who work across our value chain and the planet which we all share. Our value chain  starts with  the design process at AMD. Our wafer foundry suppliers  source  raw materials  and create a silicon wafer.  The wafer is  fabricated  into  chips,  assembled into 
a package, tested and  shipped as a semiconductor ready to be used by our customers.  The majority – approximately  60 percent  – of our supplier spend is with two foundries that 
supply these wafers. Another  23 percent  of our spend is with approximately  70 factories that manufacture a range of inputs needed to create our products. This concentration of 
supplier spend allows us to take a long-term approach with key suppliers, which is paramount to our success.     
15
OUR SUPPLY  
CHAIN SPEND*
60%
OF OUR SPEND IS 
WITH 2 GLOBAL SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANIES  PRODUCING  WAFERS
FACTORY 
LOCATIONS:
• AMERICAS• ASIA• EUROPE
*  All percentages are 
approximate figures based 
on AMD’s total supply chain spend for 202023%
OF OUR SPEND IS WITH 
ABOUT 35 SUPPLIERS THAT PROVIDE DIRECT MATERIALS AND SERVICES
FACTORY 
LOCATIONS:
• 80 PERCENT ASIA• 15 PERCENT AMERICAS• 5 PERCENT EUROPE
17%
OF OUR SPEND IS WITH 
MORE THAN 2,950 COMPANIES THAT PROVIDE INDIRECT MATERIALS AND SERVICESALIGNING WITH INDUSTRY 
STANDARDS 
We hold ourselves to high ethical standards and expect 
our suppliers to do the same. AMD adopts the RBA 
Code of Conduct as our Supplier Code of Conduct (“The 
Code”). The Code is aligned with international norms 
and standards including the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). It outlines our 
standards for labor, health and safety, environment, 
ethics and management systems. The AMD Worldwide 
Standards of Business Conduct outline our expectations 
for our ethical conduct and extend to our business 
partners. We further expect that each supplier will, 
in turn, communicate to their suppliers the same 
expectations and implement reasonable mechanisms  
to monitor their compliance.  
>How we engage with Industry groups
SUPPLIER RISK ASSESSMENTS 
AND AUDITS
At AMD, we take a risk-based approach to managing 
our supply chain. We utilize third-party risk analytics to conduct an overall supply chain risk analysis. Through our annual analysis, we gain deeper insights into inherent geographical risks in our supply chain on labor, health and 
safety, environment, business ethics  and management 
systems. We use the results of the analysis to assign risk assessment tools and prioritize suppliers within our  
audit program.      
>See our 2020 Supplier Audit Summary ResultsRESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
At AMD, we respect human rights thr
oughout our compan y, 
operations and supply chain. W
e work to uphold the
relevant fundament
al rights and freedoms of all people
across our business and value chain. In 2021, we updated
our Human Rights Polic
y to reflect our commitment to the
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights (UNGPs
). The policy extends to our supply chain,
and the AMD Supplier Code of C
onduct further incorporates
human rights requirements set out in international norms 
and standards. We also are a signatory to the United 
Nations Global C
ompact, the world
’s largest corporate
sustainability initiative, affirming our c
ommitment to
aligning our strateg
y and operations to ten universally 
accepted principles in the ar
eas of human rights, labo r, 
environment and anti-c
orruption. 
>Read our Human Rights Policy
RESPONSIBLE MINERALS 
SOURCING  
We are committed to the responsible sourcing of minerals 
used in our products. Tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold 
(3TG), defined as conflict minerals  under U.S. law, are used 
in everyday consumer goods and are integral to electronic products. The mining, sale and use of minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (CAHRAs), including the Democratic Republic of Congo and its adjoining countries, have been associated with negative social and 
environmental impacts.  Although AMD does not directly 
purchase minerals from raw material providers, we support ethical, social and environmental sourcing through on-going multi-stakeholder programs and dialogue.  
>Learn about our Responsible Minerals Program
16
ADDITIONAL STEPS TO ACHIEVE OUR DB&I GOALS INCLUDE: 
>  Listening to our employees in our annual Employee Satisfaction Survey and curated groups;
> Deepening our relationships in the U .S. with historically Black colleges and universities
and Hispanic-serving institutions;
>  Working to reduce unconscious bias in the workplace by educating our global workforce
on the power of multiple voices in the interviewing and promotions processes;
> Evaluating employee compensation programs annually so that colleagues performing
similar work in the same geography at the same level have equitable compensation
opportunities;
> Ensuring that ever y AMDer  acr oss the globe  has the oppor tunity to  amplif y their unique
voice to contribute to our company’s success; and
> Offering mentors to new employees from our
employee resource groups.DIVERSIT Y, BELONGING AND INCLUSION
WHY IT M ATTERS 
Diversity and inclusion are key drivers that contribute to our ab ility to build great 
products that accelerate next-generation computing experiences. Research shows that 
businesses with d iverse teams are more innovative, make better decisions and achieve 
higher performance. And inclusion initiatives foster a work environment that enabl es 
all employees to participate and thrive, which in turn creates a sense of community and 
purpose – what we at AMD call “belonging . ”
As the technology industry and our role in society continue to grow, we must support 
the next generation of innovators whose diverse backgrounds can help create 
t
echnological solutions for some of the world’s toughest challenges. In particula r,  
Black and Hispanic workers remai n underrepresented in the science, technolog y , 
engineering and math (STEM) workforce compared with their share of all workers. 
W
omen are also significantly under represented in STEM occupations, making up a 
quar
ter or fewer  of workers in computing and engineering.16 While the tech sector  
has t
aken steps to make progress in recent years, it still has si gnificant work to do. 
A
t AMD, we see it as a welcome challenge and meaningful opportunity to create a more 
diver
se workforce bolstered by a flourishing culture of belonging and inclusion.
OUR APPR
OACH 
We are committed to growing diversit y, belonging and inclusion (DB&I) in our workforce to 
help embrace different viewpoints and experiences, foster innovation, challenge the status 
quo when needed and drive business performance. This includes increasing the percentage 
of global female hires in engineering roles and the percentage of underrepresented group 
hires within our U.S. workforce year over yea r. For 2021, we have made these efforts a 
component of our company’s strategic metrics and milestones to inform our incentive plan. 
Underpinning our aspirations is a strong inclusive culture that reaches across all aspects of 
our business.
17OUR 2025 GOAL: 
70 percent of our employees participate in AMD employee resource groups and/or 
other AMD inclusion initiatives by 202517
16. https://www.pewresearch.org/science/2021/04/01/stem-jobs-see-uneven-progress-in-increasing-gender-racial-and-ethnic-diversity
17.  These are voluntary initiatives in which an employee chooses to actively participate in one or more employee engagement programs that foster a 
culture of belonging, psychological safety
 and meaningful connection to AMD. OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE 
AMD publishes workforce diversity statistics as part of our annual corporate responsibility 
reporting. The diversity summary data below is based on calendar 2020 data and a total of 
12,600+ AMD employees.
18TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION 
There is currently intense competition for talent in the semiconductor industry, with 
companies vying to attract and retain skilled individuals who will help them achieve their 
long-term goals.  Our goal is to be an employer of choice, with passionate, innovative, fully 
engaged employees. AMD is proud to be an equal opportunity employer that is committed to creating an inclusive environment for employees across the globe. 
>
 Learn About Our Recruitment, Total Rewards and Employee Education
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
We know that AMDers do their best when they are fully engaged and able to bring their 
full selves to work. For example, our YouTube series  “I Am AMD” highlights our employees 
sharing their stories and why they feel they belong at AMD. This series features AMDers 
in various roles across the company bringing their passion for technology and their unique backgrounds together to create an amazing work environment and innovative products.
Our employee resource groups (ERGs)  encourage employee engagement and are an 
important part of our company’s culture. ERGs create a space for employees who share a common identity and their allies to meet and support one another in building their community and sense of belonging in the workplace. 
>Learn more about our Employee Resource Groups> See our complete gender, diversity
and other employee-related data
24%
76%TOT AL
EMPL OYEES
14%
86%SENIOR
MANA GEMENT
19%
81%ENGINEERINGFEMALE MALE43%
55%2%
EMPL OYEES
BY REGIO N
ASIA- PACIFIC/CHINA/JAPAN AMERICAS EUROPE /AFRICA53%<1%
IGEN BABY BOOMERS
GENERATION XTRADITIONALISTS37%9%
MILLENNIALS  
43%
50%U.S.
EMPL OYEES
BY
ETHNICIT Y
HISP ANIC/LA TINX
PACIFIC 
ISLANDERWHITEASIAN
BLACK/ AFRICAN
AMERICAN<1%5%
NATIVE AMERICAN
TWO OR MORE RA CESFEMALE MALE
FEMALE MALE1%
EMPL OYEES
BY AGE 
GROUP
1%
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES 
AMD employ
ees are our most important stakeholder 
gr
oup. We know that employees are increasingly seeking 
employ
ers with values matching their own. We periodically 
sur
vey our employees worldwide to understand their 
overall satisfaction, specifically asking them about their 
impressions of our corporate responsibility programs. Our 
most recent AMDer Survey was completed in 2020. We 
invited 100 percent of our employees to participate and 96 
percent responded.  
EMPLOYEE HEAL TH AND SAFETY  
For more than a decade, our Global Environmental, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Standards have established excellence as the benchmark for AMD sites around the world. In addition to requiring all of our facilities to meet applicable local, regional and national regulations, we set standards that go beyond legal requirements and establish premier practices to protect employee safety and health. Health and safety-related areas addressed under the Global EHS Standards include injury and illness prevention, employee well-being, ergonomics, emergency preparedness and response as well as electrical, equipment and chemical safety.95%of our employees 
are proud to work for AMD (2020).
1 9COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
STRENGTHENING AMD 
COMMUNITIES WORLDWIDE 
For nearly four decades, AMD has invested money, time 
and technology in organizations that help strengthen communities worldwide. Additionally, our employees continue to make their communities a better place by donating their time, talent and money to charitable causes. We work closely with community organizations to measure the shared value created through our work. We annually survey our employees worldwide to understand their overall satisfaction, specifically asking them about their impressions of our community engagement programs.  
Through our AMD Community Corps program, employee 
volunteers contribute to local communities through company-sponsored volunteerism and employee-directed donations. We provide grants to non-profit organizations in our global site communities based on recommendations from employee-led community affairs councils, local needs and strategic fit. Our corporate giving efforts focus on education, community development and environmental stewardship.  
2020 was a year of uncertainty and change as COVID-19 
impacted lives across the world. Amid the backdrop of the pandemic, AMD and employees increased philanthropic community support and donations for COVID-19 relief and other needs throughout our site communities worldwide. These donations included more than $318,000 USD for social justice programs in the United States addressing equity issues along with other funding for disaster relief and recovery related to wildfires in Colorado and California. Additionally, we offered matching gift programs to further amplify the generosity of our employees. Our efforts resulted in more than $2.5 million USD in combined corporate and employee donations in 2020.  
AMD 2020 COMMUNITY 
VOLUNTEERING
Despite unexpected stresses in their lives throughout 
2020, employees shifted to partici pating in the 
c
ompany’s virtual volunteer program. More than 
3
,100 employees volunteered over 7,050 hours in 
2020, including judging science fairs, participat ing in 
STEM activities, conducting online coding classes 
and raising money for local food banks. Employees 
also spe
arheaded item drives to stock community 
pantries, connected with seniors to reduce isolation 
and loneliness, and wrote notes o f encouragement to 
individuals experiencing hardships. 
>Read more about our volunteering efforts
207,050+
VOLUNTEER 
HOURS3,110
NUMBER OF 
VOLUNTEERS71
NUMBER OF  
AMD-SPONSORED  
EVENTS21CASE STUDY: 
P
ARTNERING WITH CENTR AL TEXAS FOOD B ANK TO 
HELP FEED OUR NEIGHBORS IN NEED  
AMD plac
es a high value on giving back with our time and 
r
esources. This not only strengthens the communities in 
which we live , but also strengthens our employees and teams, 
giving them w
ays t o c onnect outside the office and gain 
perspective. 
Together, AMD and o ur employees are helping to ensure that 
our communities are fed 
– whether rolling up sleeves to plant 
and harvest food-producing gardens, distributing food to 
families, or
 hosting food drives for local food banks. One 
meaningful example of this work and impact is thr ough the 
c
ompany’s long and enduring relationship with the Central 
T
exas Food Bank in Austin, Texas. 
In 2
020, we were r ec ognized by the Centr al Texas Food 
Bank with the Hunger Hero Awar d for more than 30 years of 
partnership in the fight against hunger. In 1994, the Central 
T
exas Food Bank broke ground on a visionary facili ty and AMD 
contributed $190, 000 USD to help make that vision a reality. 
T
wenty years later, we again stepped up with a capital 
campaign gift when the Centr al Texas Food Bank needed an 
e
ven bigger building to accommodate the continued growth 
of a booming t
ech t own.  
AMD corporate donations are only  one part of thi s stor y . 
The heart of this successful partnership is the AMD 
employ
ees who step up and mak e sure families ar e fed 
during the wor
st of times – hurricanes, recessions and 
most recentl y, a pandemic. In the last ten years, AMDers 
have volunteered more than 4,500 hours and they 
donated ne arly 419,000 pounds of food – enough to feed a 
f
amily of four three meals per d ay for nearly eighty years. 
With company-sponsored food drives and matching gift 
programs, AMD and our employ ees have contributed mor e 
than $2 million in financial support since 2004 to fund 
essential pr
ograms and help end hunger in Centr al Texas.  
©2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, Ryzen, EPYC, 
Radeon, Radeon Instinct, AMD Instinct
 and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro 
Devices, Inc. PID# 21724438-A