2012 Sustainability ReportGuide to page numbers for cover 
project photo descriptionsThis is an interactive PDF, to read 
more or watch a video click the 
icons throughout the report 
associated with the story.21 1026
1223
19
12 1321
119 8
2811AECOM
Color rings represent 
types of capital
Economic
Natural
Social 
HumanContents
About this report 1
Global reporting initiative sustainability  
reporting guidelines  1
Sustainability report management  1
Purpose and Core Values 1
Fiscal Year 2012 Highlights 2
A message from our Chairman and CEO 4
Perspectives from our chief sustainability ofﬁcer 5
Proﬁles Overview 6
Our approach to sustainability 6
Our product and social responsibility 7
People 14
Governance 14
Engaging the right people 15
Acting ethically and with integrity  16
Keeping people safe and maintaining  
the environment 17
Bringing diversity to the forefront 18
Environment 22
Greening our operations   22
Carbon footprint 24
Economy 27
Enhancing shareholder value 27
Social responsibility 29
Focusing on the outcomes 29
Sustainable development and social priorities 30
Awards 31
Our memberships  32
Strategy and analysis 33
Report parameters 33
Governance, Commitments and Engagement 33
Economic 33
Environmental 33
Human rights  33Projects
Olympic Games:  From London to Rio 8
Transforming the urban fabric of Singapore:   
Sustainable Development Framework, Planning &  
Design for Marina Bay and Greater Southern  
Waterfront in Singapore 10
Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest   10
Taizhou Bridge: Minimizing impact 11
Redeﬁning Luxury Retail Plaza 11
Making adaptation easier: Climate Resilient  
Masterplanning 12
Largest stormwater runoff recycling in the U.K.:  
North West Cambridge water recycling project 12
Development of major solar farms, U.K.  12
Creating connections: Pike and Allen Streets  
Center Malls 13
Going beyond reducing GHG emissions 13
Circle Interchange in Chicago  16
Sydney Park Stormwater Harvest 19
A new trend in development: Beijing Tongzhou  
Downtown Master Plan and Sustainability  
Guidelines 20
Masdar Siemens HQ Building 20
Tuvalu Renewable Energy and Energy Efﬁciency Unit 21
ECO-Asia 21
ADAPT Asia-Paciﬁc program 21
AECOM House, Auckland  
(Five Green Star Ofﬁce Design Rating) 23
Asia: Collaborate and transform 23
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) releases its  
2012 global cities report 25
Mitigating landslide risks in Hong Kong:  
Effect of change in rainfall 26
Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System 26
Innovation in India: The Leela Hotel,  
Eco Commercial Building, and 3M R&D Centre 28
Broadcasting House — a new era in media design 28
AECOM receives APEGBC’s Sustainability Award 32
1 2012 Sustainability Report
Purpose and Core Values
AECOM’s global team of experts is united by a common 
purpose: to create, enhance and sustain the world’s built, 
natural and social environments. Dedicated to this purpose, 
AECOM’s long legacy of excellence in engineering, design and 
program management is consistently driven forward by our 
set of Core Values, which deﬁne who we are, what we do and 
how we do it. Sustainability is a framework through which we 
integrate our values to beneﬁt our clients.
Integrity
We are honest and ethical in everything we do. We keep our 
commitments and treat others with mutual respect and trust.
Employees
Our employees are our most valuable and valued resource; 
they make our success possible. We respect and encourage 
our employees’ ideas, diversity and cultures. 
Clients
Our success is measured by the success of our clients. 
AECOM sets the industry standard for client service; We are 
passionate about solving clients’ problems and exploring new 
opportunities with them.
Excellence
We strive to achieve excellence in all areas of our business 
— technical, operational and administrative. We pride 
ourselves on bringing outstanding results to everything we do.
Innovation
Creativity, exploration and imagination are key to our business 
approach. We continually look for new, creative or better ways 
to provide our expertise in all dimensions of our work.
Agility
We embrace change, ﬂexibility and adaptation in a rapidly evolving 
world. We strive to anticipate changes in market drivers and 
work with our clients and employees to adapt to those changes.
Safety
We are committed to maintaining a safe, healthy workplace for 
our employees by preventing injuries to people and damage to 
facilities, property, equipment and the environment.
Growth
Living and executing these Core Values every day will result in 
growth, which drives our business and enables us to invest in 
and create opportunities for our employees.About this report
AECOM’s global sustainability report demonstrates how we 
manage the complex relationships of ﬁnancial, natural, 
human and social capital. A broad mix of project proﬁles 
features integrated solutions for some of the world’s most 
complex challenges in a variety of the company’s sectors. 
This report covers AECOM’s ﬁscal year ending September 30, 
2012. Our 2011 report was issued during May 2012. The 2012 
report does not replicate any previously used information. It 
includes details of AECOM’s direct operations, those we 
acquired, and others still in the process of integration.
Global reporting initiative sustainability 
reporting guidelines 
This is AECOM’s second sustainability report in which we 
reference the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines. A comprehensive GRI Index is included 
at the end of this report. We self-assess this review to GRI 
Application Level C.
Sustainability report management 
The report was developed by AECOM’s sustainability, legal 
and corporate communications teams. It is AECOM’s second 
companywide report, and while it is not considered to be an 
integrated report, in the coming years, we intend to review the 
future of our reporting standards to actively provide the most 
relevant information to AECOM’s growing stakeholder base. 
At AECOM, sustainability means 
helping clients, society and our 
enterprise address complex 
challenges by managing ﬁnancial, 
natural, social and human capital 
to work together to advance 
human progress with less risk.2 AECOM
Fiscal Year 2012 Highlights
Water For People awards AECOM 
global sponsor status
The designation recognizes companies 
that raise more than US$100,000 per 
year for the non-proﬁt organization. 
AECOM has raised more than 
US$480,000. The organization supports 
resources, sanitation facilities and hygiene-
education programs in developing countries.
AECOM makes Newsweek  magazine’s Green 
Rankings list for fourth-consecutive year
AECOM landed at number 162 on Newsweek  magazine’s Green 
Rankings list. The rankings include the top 500 U.S. 
companies and are based on environmental footprint; 
reporting practices; and management, including policies, 
programs, initiatives and targets. 
Australia New Zealand supports the Red Cross
The geography donated AU$50,000 (approximately US$50,850) 
to the Healthy Baby, Healthy Communities program in 
Australia.  The program provides peer support and education to 
pregnant women and mothers, as well as early childhood 
outreach support and education services. Australia New 
Zealand donated NZ$10,000 (approximately US$7,743) to 
Families and Schools Together. The program works with at-risk 
children and their families in New Zealand to strengthen family 
functioning and cohesion, build social 
connections and reduce social isolation. 
Both charities are associated with the 
Red Cross, which Australia New Zealand 
has supported for a number of years. 
During FY12, AECOM donated more than 
$1 million in community and disaster-
related initiatives.Society of American Military Engineers 
recognizes AECOM’s small business program
The Society of American Military Engineers recognized 
AECOM with the “Large Business Award” at the organization’s 
Small Business Conference in Maryland, United States. The 
award recognizes outstanding small business subcontracting 
performance in support of U.S. Department of Defense programs. 
AECOM Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Jane Chmielinski 
honored for contributions to transportation 
industry
Jane Chmielinski was honored by the Conference of Minority 
Transportation Ofﬁcials (COMTO) as one of the United States’ 
most inspirational women executives  who are advancing the 
country’s transportation industry. Jane is among 13 women 
executives from the public and private sectors who received 
the award at the COMTO event — Celebrating Women Who 
Move the Nation. 
AECOM’s safety leadership recognized in  
Hong Kong
The company was named Champion in the Architect-Consultant 
category in the 2012 Safety Leadership Awards  program. 
The awards were jointly presented by the Hong Kong 
Construction Industry Council and The Lighthouse Club. 
Judges described AECOM as being the most comprehensive 
with the strongest leadership they have seen since the 
awards program started three years ago.
3 2012 Sustainability Report
Partnering with the Carbon Disclosure Project
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent, 
not-for-proﬁt organization that works to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions and drive sustainable water use by 
business and cities. AECOM volunteers its 
expertise in data analysis, 
communications and visualization 
techniques to support the CDP in 
producing its 2012 cities report. The 
report will analyze the responses of 
more than 70 large cities to CDP’s annual 
reporting process. 
Australian government named AECOM 
Employer of Choice for Women
The Australian government’s Equal Opportunity for Women in 
the Workplace Agency (EOWA) has named AECOM in Australia 
an Employer of Choice for Women. AECOM is one of three 
professional technical consultancies and 125 overall 
employers selected to be recognized this year. AECOM wins master plan design contract for 
the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, launches worldwide sports group
AECOM’s master plan for the project focuses on 
approximately 300 acres of land in the district of Barra de 
Tijuca, southwest of Rio. It includes three phases: the Rio 
Olympic Park area during the 2016 Games, a transition plan 
and the ﬁnal position showcasing the site in legacy mode 
after 2016. After the Games, the facilities will be renamed as 
the “Olympic Training Center” and be used to discover and 
develop new sporting talents.
AECOM again named one of the “World’s Most 
Ethical Companies”
AECOM has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical 
Companies for 2012 by the Ethisphere Institute. 
4 AECOM
 - In New York City, a new World Trade Center is taking shape, 
and we are proud to be the construction manager for many 
aspects of the project, including One World Trade Center,  
3 World Trade Center, 4 World Trade Center and 7 World 
Trade Center, as well as the site’s transportation hub, 
vehicle security center and retail component. Additionally, 
we created the comprehensive site and streetscape design 
for the World Trade Center district.
 -In Asia, we are spearheading the largest new construction 
project in Beijing, which will be a new model for sustainable 
urban development in China. Coined as a low-carbon 
metropolis, the Tongzhou New City project will be home to 
one million residents and a thriving central business district.
 
 - In Australia, we developed an integrated design process for 
the Sydney Park Stormwater Harvesting Project. With the 
overall objective of integrating the human, environmental 
and engineering design requirements, AECOM provided a 
design that improves water quality and provides ﬂood 
mitigation for the city’s residents.
 - In the Middle East, AECOM is consulting on the world’s 
largest greenﬁeld port development project, in Doha, Qatar.  
The country is currently in the midst of a construction 
boom, fueled by a growing population and a government 
strategy for the long-term sustainability of its 
non-hydrocarbon sector, including a more efﬁcient seaport. 
There is no doubt that the world is rapidly evolving. This report 
demonstrates how we are helping communities and clients 
adapt to this change while improving our own operations.  
I thank you for your continued support of our great company 
as we provide best-in-class, integrated solutions for a 
sustainable future.
Best regards,
John M. Dionisio  
Chairman and CEOI am delighted to share with you our second global 
sustainability report, “Complex problems. Integrated 
solutions.”  At AECOM, our commitment to sustainability 
compels us to help clients, society and our enterprise to 
address complex challenges. We manage ﬁnancial, natural, 
social and human factors as we work together to advance 
human progress with reduced risk. As a global company with 
more than 45,000 employees, we are driven to create, 
enhance and sustain the world’s built, natural and social 
environments. 
We empower our people to make the right decisions.  
Therefore, we take great pride in being recognized as one of 
the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere 
Institute for three consecutive years.      
During 2012, much of the world continued to face little or no 
economic growth, along with increased natural disasters such 
as hurricanes, earthquakes and droughts, which presented 
challenges for many companies. However, AECOM continued 
to sustain our industry leadership and helped solve some of 
the world’s most complex challenges. As you read through 
this report, you’ll see some of these innovative solutions, as 
well as the progress that we’ve made in our own operations 
— along with areas where we will continue to improve. 
As a visionary company with an incredibly diverse set of skills, 
we have the opportunity to work on some of the world’s most 
exciting and challenging projects: 
 -In London, for example, we provided an integrated  
approach to delivering a sustainable legacy for the  
2012 Olympic Games. 
A message from our Chairman and CEO5 2012 Sustainability Report
Last year, in our ﬁrst global sustainability report, we 
highlighted some of the innovative and integrative measures 
that AECOM believes are necessary to meet the highly 
complex needs of our clients. Viewing sustainability as a 
framework for analysis and decision-making is as much about 
leveraging opportunities for our clients as it is about 
minimizing their risks. 
As we broaden our understanding of sustainability across all 
of our business lines and geographies, we are seeing deeper 
engagement among our employees with AECOM’s mission. Our 
people have always been concerned about the world’s big 
challenges: climate change, poverty, environmental damage 
and sustaining Earth’s natural resources. 2012 saw continued 
engagement in our communities around the world, and we 
shared many successes with our partners at The Red Cross, 
Habitat for Humanity, Engineers Without Borders, and Water 
for People to name but a few.
In addition to these great philanthropic outreach projects, our 
employees continue to see more possibilities for collaboration 
and innovation among our operations to meet clients’ needs. 
They are reaching out to colleagues from many disciplines, 
cultures and geographies, to address the issues they really 
care about, recognizing that these often are the same 
concerns that confront our clients around the world.
AECOM is more focused than ever on helping our clients be 
successful in the most sustainable ways possible. We engage 
with our clients about risk and reward, short-term investment 
versus long-term gain, and the opportunities to enhance 
social, environmental and human capital while adding to the 
bottom line. 
Internally, during 2012, we  found more efﬁcient ways to meet 
and communicate, consolidated ofﬁce space and implemented 
green purchasing policies across much of our business. 
Looking to the years ahead, major challenges are shaping our 
work and our clients’ operating contexts. These include:
 -Climate adaptation and greenhouse gas mitigation
 -Growing population and changing demographics
 - Availability of energy, water and food
 -Urbanization
I am happy to report that we have made progress on all of 
AECOM’s sustainability objectives during the last year. Our 
growth, both organic and through acquisition; development of 
broader and deeper skills; commitment to ethics, 
sustainability and safety; and movement into new markets 
are continuously being evaluated for improvement. Our 
leadership is building an enterprise that will be able to 
manage sustainability and improve conditions for human 
development around the world for our clients. 
The human purpose is not to prosper during the short term. It 
is to succeed for the long term. Sustainability is the essence 
of what we do, so that meeting short-term needs and 
achieving long-term success become possible. 
Regards,
Gary Lawrence
Vice President and Chief Sustainability OfﬁcerPerspectives from our chief sustainability ofﬁcer
Click to view more.6 AECOM
Proﬁles Overview
The projects featured in this report reﬂect our commitment to 
create, enhance, and sustain the world’s built, natural and 
social environments. From winning the master plan design 
contract for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics and Paralympic 
games to working on numerous aspects of New York City’s 
World Trade Center — AECOM projects continue to solve some 
of the world’s most complex problems. 
Our global network of more than 45,000 professionals work to 
lead AECOM as a sound corporate citizen and, through 
integrated solutions, we are able to achieve positive 
sustainablility outcomes. 
Our approach to sustainability
At AECOM, sustainability is deﬁned as helping clients, society 
and our enterprise address complex challenges by managing 
ﬁnancial, natural, social and human capital to work together 
to advance human progress with less risk.
Through this robust risk-management framework, AECOM 
recognizes that the actions we take today to address global 
climate, poverty, environmental and other issues shape the 
future of our planet. 
AECOM continues to build and support a culture that 
empowers and engages our employees to enthusiastically 
solve problems and accelerate our progress toward 
sustainable business innovation in a way that places us ahead 
of our competition. Rather than considering sustainability as 
a separate service, we provide our clients with integrated 
solutions in highly sustainable ways. Simply put, we help our 
clients and communities manage and reduce risk.We aim to better understand our clients’ needs in order to 
ensure that they have more enduring choices. At each stage of a 
project, we consider our obligation to helping our clients 
optimize the value returned on their investment by using scarce 
resources wisely and efﬁciently, and reducing waste.
In order to accomplish this goal, we are moving to broaden our 
sustainability analyses to include value creation and brand 
protection prior to making a decision. As we look forward to 
next year, four major imperatives are shaping our work and 
our clients’ operating contexts:
 - We continue to lead the way in urging governments and 
enterprises to consider the imperative of adapting to 
climate change and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. In 
this effort, we have designed a series of tools to help with 
analyses and have implemented successful adaptation 
plans in various countries around the globe. Commissioned 
by the World Bank, AECOM provides consultancy services 
for climate change adaptation for the water supply and 
sanitation sector in Vietnam and China. The Asian 
Development Bank also selected AECOM to provide 
technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic to cope with climate change. 
 - As the global population continues to increase, and to age, 
the design and transformation of urban places to better 
serve diverse populations is an increasingly urgent concern. 
AECOM is working to create livable urban places that will 
serve the world’s future needs — by delivering projects 
such as the sustainability action plan for Lee’s Summit, 
Missouri, United States, which was honored by the 
Mid-America Regional Council as one of its Sustainable 
Success Stories of 2012.7 2012 Sustainability Report
 - The energy-water-food nexus is the deﬁning challenge of 
our time. This is an area where AECOM’s integrated 
approach to analysis and problem solving is critical to 
sustaining economically viable cities and ensuring an 
adequate supply of power, water, food security and carbon 
reduction for a growing population. In this effort, AECOM 
developed a city-wide reduction assessment tool for the 
City of Ventura, California that allows combinations of 
various systems to be tested for the lowest cost pathway as 
well as city-wide carbon reduction targets. 
 -With recent developments in technology and the imperative 
to reduce energy consumption and waste, we are broadening 
our understanding of the notion of logistics to now include 
goods, services, information, ideas and populations 
collectively. Paciﬁc Gas & Electric, which serves most of 
Northern California, United States, is conducting an in-home 
monitoring pilot program to reduce energy consumption. 
With AECOM’s recommendations, this pilot program has 
demonstrated an average savings of 20 percent.
Our product and social responsibility
Closure
 - Review contracts to 
conﬁrm obligations 
fulﬁlled
 -Financial closure
 -Seek client feedback
 - Review team 
performance
 - Share lessons learnedPlanning
 - Mobilize project team
 - Establish project plan 
describing all details for 
delivery and assigning 
responsibilities
 - Meet with client 
and develop strong 
communication 
arrangements
 - Set up project in 
internal ﬁnancial 
systemExecution
 - Prepare method and 
approach
 - Project approach 
review
 - Implement project 
management elements,  
including SH&E
 - Quality check 
deliverables
 -Verify deliverables
 - Authorize for issueProposal
 - Consider project risks, 
including Safety, Health 
& Environment (SH&E) 
risks
 - Review and approve 
sub-contractors
 - Review contract terms 
and conditions
 -Prepare, verify, approve 
and submit proposal
 - Review and learn from 
selection outcomes— Gary Lawrence 
AECOM Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability OfﬁcerPG&E  
in-home monitoring 
pilot program  
average savings:
20%8 AECOM
Olympic Games:  
From London to Rio
AECOM’s involvement in the London 2012 Olympics project 
dates back to 2003. The preferred site emerged from studies 
looking at the potential for urban regeneration of the 1,500-
hectare area at the southern end of the Lea Valley, one of the 
U.K.’s poorest areas, and yet only ﬁve miles from central 
London. And after the games, the legacy for London serves as 
the creation of a well-served, well-connected urban district 
based around a new park.
AECOM designed a master plan that secured London’s bid for 
the games and placed long-term urban regeneration of the 
Lower Lea Valley as its primary driver. This master plan vision 
for the Olympic Park was created simultaneously with an idea 
of how the site would look in its post-games legacy as a new 
district for London designed around a park. The concept was 
to design in reverse order of future ﬁrst, with the staging of 
the games as an event on route to completion. For every £1 
spent on the London Olympic project, at least 70 pence (70 
percent) remains invested in the legacy. 
We are honored to be involved with the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games having helped the city transform the Lower 
Lea Valley, which has been one of the United Kingdom’s 
poorest areas, to a viable area that gives the valley 35,000 
new homes, 50,000 new jobs, schools, health care facilities, community centers, sporting amenities and mixed-use 
economic opportunities.
We also provided building services consultancy on the 
Olympic Park’s futuristic Basketball Arena (below), the 
world’s largest temporary sports venue. Approximately 
two-thirds of the building materials and internal features 
can be reused or recycled.PROJECTS
Click to view more.9 2012 Sustainability Report
PROJECTS
This successful sustainable plan in London led to AECOM 
winning the international competition to design the master 
plan for Rio’s Olympic Park.
“Having stood in the middle of the London Olympic site back 
in early 2004, looking down at a rubbish-littered river and 
desolate industrial landscape, it is incredible to stand on the 
same spot today and witness the transformation,” says 
AECOM’s Bill Hanway, an architect and one of the lead 
designers of London’s Olympic Park. 
Uniquely, Hanway is also leading the master plan design for 
Brazil’s 2016 Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro. AECOM is the 
only company to achieve this Olympic double — designing 
consecutive master plan visions for the games. The company 
has also provided a wide range of additional services, 
including cost, program and supply chain management. 
Click to view more.
Click to view more.10 AECOM
PROJECTS
Transforming the urban fabric of Singapore:  
Sustainable Development Framework, Planning 
& Design for Marina Bay and the Greater 
Southern Waterfront in Singapore
Singapore’s Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) 
commissioned AECOM for a sustainable development 
framework, planning and urban design for Marina Bay, the 
island’s new business and ﬁnancial district, as well as the 
adjacent Greater Southern Waterfront (GSW).
By presenting a series of options for carbon reduction, 
AECOM helped inform the client’s decision making process in 
cost-effective sustainable urban planning in addition to 
providing the client with the customized tool for future 
development. In addition, through the process of designing 
the framework, the client was able to engage with other 
government agencies with AECOM’s facilitation to arrive at 
calculated targets for individual energy, water, ecology, 
transport and waste targets that the whole Singapore 
government could strive towards.
This project puts AECOM in a strategic position as a thought 
leader in promoting sustainability development in Asia.
Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest  
As part of its long-term sustainability goals, the city and 
County of San Francisco (City) seeks to maintain and expand its 
urban forest for generations to come. However, San Francisco’s 
street trees face serious challenges, including a fragmented 
system in which the City maintains 40 percent of street trees, 
and property owners must maintain the remainder. In this 
study, AECOM explored various options for expanding 
resources to better maintain and augment street trees by 
shifting the care for all street trees to DPW.
Through thorough economic analysis of current and projected 
costs, AECOM determined that a municipal street tree program 
would provide net beneﬁts to San Francisco residents. If 
funded through a special assessment or parcel tax, a program 
that expands the urban forest by over 50 percent would result 
in annual savings to property owners when compared to 
current costs incurred for maintenance, sidewalk repair and 
claims for sidewalk falls. The study found that such a program 
would allow the City to reduce maintenance costs by as much 
as 50 percent through economies of scale and proactive care, 
while relieving property owners of any maintenance 
responsibility and liability. In the study, AECOM included a 
number of additional ﬁndings and recommendations to improve 
both the health and efﬁciency of a municipal street tree 
program, while maximizing savings to property owners. 
Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest recently won the 
Award of Merit for Focused Issue Planning from the American 
Planning Association, California Northern Section. Click to view more. Click to view more.11 2012 Sustainability Report
PROJECTS
Taizhou Bridge: Minimizing impact
Location: Jiangsu, China
Given AECOM’s contribution to the success of Sutong Bridge 
in Jiangsu Province, China, AECOM was commissioned by the 
Jiangsu Provincial Yangtze River Highway Bridge Construction 
Commanding Department, Taizhou, in Jiangsu, as the 
consultant for the design optimization of Taizhou Bridge. The 
state-of-the-art design aimed to minimize impact on river 
hydraulics and ecology through reducing the number of bridge 
supports in the water and providing two main navigation 
channels to facilitate ship movements.
Our role
AECOM worked on the project to help pioneer  world-ﬁrsts in 
bridge engineering:
 - To implement a management system with the three major 
international standards of quality, safety and the 
environment.
 - To use a patented centralized bridge deck drainage system 
to mitigate the risk of polluting the waterway.
 - To align and navigate clearances of the structure to 
minimize nearby water intakes and water source areas, 
from farmland, existing roadway networks and existing 
irrigation, drainage and ﬂood control systems.
Through its involvement in this prestigious project, AECOM 
has begun to shape current thinking and steer future trends of 
bridge engineering around the world.
Redeﬁning Luxury Retail Plaza
Location: Mumbai, India 
The Plaza Worli is a high-end luxury retail development 
promoted by the prestigious Bombay Realty group of Mumbai. 
The three-acre project is located in the heart of the upmarket 
district of Worli in Mumbai. The scheme is dynamic in its design 
response allowing Bombay Realty to deliver an innovative and 
sustainable, yet cost efﬁcient alternative to the typical covered 
mall approach with an air conditioned space. The courtyard 
creates a more distinctive and ﬂexible solution as part of the 
commercialization strategy for this space.
AECOM’s design brief was to provide an intimate and luxurious 
setting for this project which would set new standards for 
retail plazas in India and internationally. The design approach 
centers on a series of iconic canopies, their sculptural forms 
providing shade, and forming the signature style of this 
development. Water features, green walls, fascia and vibrant 
planting are crafted into a contemporary design redeﬁning the 
Plaza as a destination in itself. A minimal palette of 
complementary materials is proposed — dark local granites, 
reﬂective steel, and lush greenery — to create a classically 
European inﬂuenced space, but with an avant-garde and 
playful twist that responds to the local context.
Indicative render  
for illustrative  
purposes only.Click to view more.Click to view more.12 AECOM
PROJECTS
Making adaptation easier: Climate-resilient 
Master planning
Location: London
The materials used in building urban areas tend to absorb more 
heat radiation and as such, our city centers are considerably 
warmer than surrounding areas. This is known as the Urban 
Heat Island Effect and can pose a myriad of challenges for 
residents, businesses and visitors. For example, higher 
temperatures can cause essential infrastructure to overheat 
and breakdown. Similarly it can also have serious health 
consequences for vulnerable people. However, vegetation 
absorbs less heat, releases cool moisture through 
evapotranspiration and can also provide shade. Retroﬁtting 
urban green spaces, such as the AECOM-designed green roof 
on Whitworth Art Gallery, into our existing cities is, therefore, 
important to help reduce urban temperatures.
Additionally, AECOM has carried out ﬁve research projects for 
the UK government to examine how the master planning 
process can better include climate change adaptation 
measures by analyzing real projects with the client group. As 
part of the research, we modeled the effect of vegetation on 
local microclimate as well as the effect of future rainfall 
patterns on local ﬂooding and water quality. 
 Largest stormwater runoff recycling in the U.K.: 
North West Cambridge water recycling project
Location: Cambridge  
AECOM is working to deliver an innovative and note-worthy 
sustainable development for the University of Cambridge. The 
project uses AECOM’s international expertise to create a 
holistic approach to water management.
AECOM has provided masterplanning, landscape design, 
sustainability and planning services over the last 10 years for 
the University of Cambridge’s new development, which 
includes 3,000 new homes, 2,000 student beds, research 
facilities and retail and commercial areas. The homes on the 
site are aiming to meet the Code for Sustainable Homes Level 
5, requiring a reduction in potable water use to 80 liters per 
person, per day. Ultimately, this concept has never been 
achieved on a large scale before in the U.K.
Development of major solar farms, U.K. 
AECOM was involved in the development management and 
sourcing of investment for four of the largest solar 
photovoltaic (PV) farm installations in the U.K.:
 -Wilburton, Cambridgeshire
 - Chittering, Cambridgeshire
 - Marston, Lincolnshire 
 -Hawton, Nottinghamshire
In today’s society, solar farms continue to have a profound 
impact on innovation, proﬁtable growth, society, and wildlife. 
Through planning consenting, grid connection and source 
investment, services were provided to Abbey Renewables and 
Lark Energy. Funding was provided by Lightsource Renewable 
Energy and Octopus Investment. 
Click to view more.
Click to view more.
Click to view more.13 2012 Sustainability Report
PROJECTS
Creating connections: Pike and Allen Streets 
Center Malls
Location: New York City
The reconstruction of the Pike and Allen Streets Malls creates 
connections between the upland, the city and the East River 
Waterfront as a piece of the East River Waterfront Framework 
Plan. The malls are ﬂanked by bikeways with a central 
pedestrian path and greenway corridor. These linear parks, 
created for the City of New York Department of Parks and 
Recreation, include a continuous bikeway and walkway through 
an expansion of the center malls, by taking out two underused 
lanes of vehicular trafﬁc. Plazas and open space at certain 
strategic intersections provide rows of seating and planting in 
a neighborhood where such space is hard to come by. 
This project reduced impervious surface in four pilot blocks 
by 37,500 square feet, and a stormwater catchment area in 
ﬁltration beds, which accommodates 90 percent of the city’s 
annual storm events. The project considered material 
selection, treatment of stormwater and increased tree canopy 
coverage to reduce the impact of heat in the city.
Going beyond reducing GHG emissions
Location: New York City
Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s Ofﬁce of Long Term Planning and 
Sustainability would like to extend its green initiatives beyond 
the PlaNYC goal of a 30-percent reduction in greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by 2030 to an 80-percent reduction by 2050 
citywide.
AECOM provided technical expertise and local knowledge to 
ensure that the technologies being considered are 
appropriate to meet the ever changing needs of New York. 
AECOM also developed innovative policy mechanisms to help 
ensure that the technological “levers” proposed can be 
efﬁciently implemented. AECOM’s economic impact analysis 
of both the 30x30 and the 80x50 goals which analyzed 
construction, operations and maintenance, and long-term 
productivity beneﬁts accruing to the city’s economy including 
personal income and regional productivity helped the city 
better understand the long term beneﬁts of these policies.  Click to view more.14 AECOM
People
As a global ﬁrm operating in more than 140 countries around 
the world, AECOM’s business is about people: our people, 
clients, investors, suppliers and communities. 
That’s why our focus on people drives much of our success as 
we move toward being recognized as the true global leader of 
professional services by our clients, the place to grow 
professionally by employees, and a valuable investment by 
our shareholders.
And our commitment to integrity is part of the organizational 
DNA that has enabled AECOM to become an industry leader.  
While AECOM’s vision for a more sustainable future drives 
much of our work, including the foundation of how we operate 
as a company. These fundamental commitments are visible in 
the everyday practices of our people. Whether through the 
services we provide or our volunteer efforts in the community, 
we live AECOM’s Purpose: to create, enhance and sustain the 
world’s built, natural and social environments.
Governance
AECOM is a publicly listed (New York Stock Exchange: ACM) 
provider of professional technical and management support 
services for public and private sector clients in more than 140 
countries around the world. 
We are  governed by a 12-member Board of Directors, which 
ensures the company maintains its position and reputation as 
an ethical leader. There are eight members of the Board who 
are independent Directors. 
Click here  to learn more about AECOM’s governance.Architecture; Building Engineering; 
Construction Services;  
Design + Planning; Economics; Energy; 
Environment; Government; Mining;  
Oil + Gas; Program Management; 
Program, Cost, Consultancy; 
Transportation; WaterCapabilities
Architecture, Engineering + Planning, 
International Development, Logistics, 
Operations + Maintenance,  
National Security Programs,  
Program ManagementGovernment  
ServicesAfrica, Americas, Asia,  
Australia and New Zealand,  
Europe, Middle EastGeographies
Communications, Ethics + Compliance, 
Finance + Accounting, Human 
Resources, Information Technology, 
Integrated Management Systems, 
Legal, Risk Management, Safety, Health 
& Environment, Security, Sustainability, 
Training + DevelopmentCorporate  
ServicesChairman’s Advisory BoardPresident COOChairman and CEOBoard of Directors15 2012 Sustainability Report
PEOPLE
Engaging the right people
We realize that, through effective stakeholder engagement, 
AECOM also provides beneﬁts to society and creates shared 
value in areas such as efﬁcient use of resources, better living 
and more-satisfying working places. 
We are continuously evaluating our existing framework to ensure 
our economic, social and environmental efforts best serve our 
customers, employees and business partners. Our internal and 
external stakeholders see a strong sustainability strategy as 
signiﬁcant to our long-term business success. To help support 
our robust sustainability strategy, during 2013, AECOM created a 
strategic partner sustainability assessment agreement, which 
will survey our business partners on their sustainability efforts.  
The accompanying table outlines our key stakeholder groups, 
how we engaged with them and related key topics. 
In an effort to solicit internal feedback on our sustainability 
reporting, we worked to conduct a series of executive leadership 
interviews and a brief online employee survey. This process 
helped us to focus on the topics that are most important to 
issues of sustainability. AECOM’s employees are some of our 
most important stakeholders, and their voices are crucial to 
ensuring that sustainability is embedded throughout our 
organization. 
Employees also play a critical role in helping us meet our 
targets. Most recently, we unveiled the results of the 2012 
Global Employee Survey, in which 10,163 respondents offered 
constructive feedback. AECOM achieved a 78.8-percent 
participation rate for the Americas. According to the survey, 82 
percent of all respondents revealed that they believe AECOM   
 operates with a high level of integrity when dealing with clients 
and vendors. This intense commitment to integrity will help 
AECOM better sustain a high-performance culture. 
We realize that adapting to change is an essential part of our 
continued success. In today’s digital age, companies are judged 
in part by how they interact with their stakeholders on social 
media. In 2012, for example, we expanded our social media 
presence by launching three new Facebook pages  — AECOM 
Technology Corporation , AECOM and Corporate Social 
Responsibility  and AECOM and Sustainability  — to provide our 
employees, friends, family members, customers and vendors 
with a platform to engage and share news stories, photos, 
videos and ideas. 
AECOM also continually reaches out to its clients to obtain 
critical feedback in order to better understand their needs. It 
is clear in our minds that our clients’ success is the sole 
determinant of our success. More sustainable outcomes will 
make them more successful. In addition, our shareholders 
and investors are also engaged through our annual meeting of 
stockholders, quarterly earnings calls, analyst day and 
participation at investor and analyst conferences. As a global 
company, we understand the important work of many 
non-government organizations. AECOM has worked with NGOs 
such as the Carbon Disclosure Project on complex carbon 
issues facing the world today and gained their valuable 
feedback and knowledge on some of the issues and 
challenges facing our world today.
Throughout the year, we listen to our stakeholders, and 
actively respond to their concerns, which helps us evaluate 
our progress and brings us closer to achieving our goals. 
Stakeholder  
groupsMethods of  
engagementKey  
topics
Clients  Interviews  -Incorporating sustainability in project delivery
 -Measurable outcomes
 -Understanding stakeholder needs
Employees Surveys  -Environmental performance 
 -Ethical business practices
 -Implementing sustainability into our projects 
 -Sustainability in AECOM operations
Stockholders Annual Meeting of Stockholders, 
Quarterly earnings conference calls,  
Letters/communications to Board members and committees -Financial performance
 -Critical business practices
 -Corporate social responsibility
Government Workshop  
and interviews -Leading by example
 -Environmental performance
 -Addressing community needs
NGOs/Academia Interviews  -Ethical communications and business practices
 -Incorporating sustainability in project delivery
Partners (suppliers, 
joint ventures and 
subcontractors)Interviews  -Financial performance
 -AECOM’s sustainability policy
 -Ethical business practices
 -Corporate social responsibility16 AECOM
PEOPLE
Circle Interchange in Chicago  
AECOM has signed on to a two-year contract with the Illinois 
Department of Transportation (IDOT) for engineering studies 
as part of a planned major reconstruction project in the heart 
of Chicago.
Under the contract, the team will identify the scope of 
improvements, potential cost and construction schedule for 
the reconstruction of the city’s Circle Interchange. The 
interchange carries more than 400,000 vehicles per day. 
During 2010, the U.S. Federal Highway Administration and the 
American Transportation Research Institute identiﬁed the 
interchange as the No. 1 bottleneck among highways crucial 
to the nation’s freight transportation system.
Andrew, a civil engineer in Chicago, Illinois, United States, was 
named an honoree in the New Faces of Engineering program by 
the American Society of Civil Engineers. Throughout his career, 
Andrew has demonstrated his personal and professional 
commitment to improving lives through engineering.
Most recently, Andrew served as the lead for dynamic 
stormwater management modeling of approximately seven 
miles of trunkline storm sewers, ranging in size up to eight feet 
high, along with two pump stations with a total capacity of 
approximately 90,000 gallons per minute. Moreover, within an 
accelerated schedule, Andrew developed and analyzed various 
alternatives in close coordination with a large project team to 
work toward a proposed drainage design. Through the 
implementation of a detailed dynamic model, the project team 
was able to understand the existing deﬁciencies in the system 
and the impacts of alternatives to provide major drainage 
improvements at and around Chicago’s Circle Interchange.
From 2007 to 2009, he volunteered in a Peace Corps 
engineering program, living and working in rural Panama. He 
worked with locals, oversaw budgets, trained and managed 
project coordinators and facilitated the planning and 
construction of a community’s ﬁrst safe drinking water system.
Andrew holds a Masters degree from the University of 
Cambridge in Engineering for Sustainable Development. Andrew Hable
Civil EngineerActing ethically and with integrity 
At AECOM, we will not compromise our ethical principles or 
integrity to achieve success. In fact, we are driven by a 
strongly-held culture of integrity  that is built on mutual trust 
and respect between our people, clients and communities. 
This commitment is exempliﬁed by AECOM’s designation as 
one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by the 
Ethisphere Institute during 2013. This prestigious award 
reﬂects the leadership commitment that AECOM exhibits 
throughout our global operations.As a publicly listed (New York Stock Exchange: ACM) provider of 
professional technical and management support services for 
public and private sector clients in more than 140 countries 
around the world, AECOM is governed  by its 12-member Board 
of Directors, which ensures the company maintains its position 
and reputation as an ethical leader. There are eight members of 
the Board who are independent directors. 
 In 2013, AECOM’s compliance and ethics program was also 
awarded the coveted “Overall Governance, Compliance and 
Ethics (small to mid-cap)” award as part of Corporate Secretary  
magazine’s ﬁfth-annual Corporate Governance Awards 
Click to view more.
Click to view more.17 2012 Sustainability Report
PEOPLE
program, which recognized the work and contributions of our 
compliance and ethics programs during 2012.
Our foremost Core Value is “Integrity” because we believe that 
our ethical performance forms the foundation of our success. 
This is reﬂected in our Code of Conduct. Every AECOM 
employee, ofﬁcer and director is required to thoroughly read 
and understand AECOM’s Code of Conduct  and its application 
to our business responsibilities and to conﬁrm that 
commitment in writing. Essentially, our Code addresses 
AECOM’s professional, ethical, ﬁnancial and social values, 
and manifests our commitment to our clients, shareholders, 
partners, and the communities in which we live and work. 
Ultimately, our Code governs our daily conduct and protects 
our reputation. More information about the Code can be found 
on our website at www.aecom.com .
AECOM also has an established Global Ethical Business 
Conduct Policy , which was launched to formalize 
accountability and provide guidance to ensure ethical 
business conduct through compliance with applicable 
anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, the 
Prevention of Bribery Ordinance under Hong Kong’s 
Independent Commission Against Corruption, the Corruption 
of Foreign Public Ofﬁcials Act in Canada, the U.K. Anti-
bribery Act, and the Criminal Code Act in Australia. The 
policy addresses AECOM standards and compliance 
practices, and provides tools that can help detect and 
prevent suspected violations. Furthermore, AECOM provides 
a variety of training and development opportunities to 
employees to reinforce our Core Values, the Code of Conduct 
and other compliance requirements.
Keeping people safe and maintaining  
the environment
Safety is a fundamental part of our DNA. We see safety as a 
Core Value embedded in our culture — from how we work inside 
the ofﬁce to every decision we make on a project site. To us, it 
means maintaining a healthy, vibrant workplace and ensuring 
that we protect our people and preserve facilities, property, 
equipment, and the environment. 
We understand the foundation of creating a safe work 
environment. Our trained professionals are dedicated to 
operating, and maintaining, our projects in a safe and 
efﬁcient manner that is beneﬁcial to residents, the 
environment, and society at large. As a global company operating in more than 140 countries, we 
are constantly revising and updating our programs to adhere 
to ever-changing regulatory standards and requirements. Our 
Policy Statement establishes and maintains a framework for 
our overall SH&E program, which is founded on 12 guiding 
principles: risk management, resources, leadership, 
compliance, involvement, sustainability, training, industry 
leaders, working with others, performance, assessment and 
reporting. Our commitment to these principles drives us to 
proactively incorporate our safety standards into everything 
we do. At the same time, we focus on integrating innovative 
techniques throughout the numerous regions in which we 
operate, and our trained safety leaders ensure that this Core 
Value remains a priority everywhere we operate. 
Our safety and health performance is measured by two 
principal metrics: 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR):  The total number of 
work-related incidents that result in injury and or ill health 
requiring medical attention beyond ﬁrst-aid, restriction of 
work activities and/or absence from the workplace in order to 
recover. This number is then normalized to provide a rate of 
occurrence per 200,000 hours worked. Thereafter, the 
resultant rate is used to measure the frequency of all work-
related injuries/illnesses. 
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): The number of work-related 
incidents that result in injury and/or ill health and absence 
from work for one or more days. This number is then 
normalized to provide a rate of occurrence per 200,000 hours 
worked. The resultant rate is used to tabulate the relative 
severity of work-related injuries/illnesses.
As stated in our Safety Core Value, our ultimate goal is zero 
work-related injuries and incidents. We understand that it is 
important to provide our stakeholders with interim targets to 
assure we maintain constant and steady improvement and 
focus throughout our regions. While we did not achieve our 
ultimate goal during ﬁscal year 2012 (FY12), we did, however, 
continue to show strong improvement as compared to our 
baseline year of FY10 as shown below:
 -TRIR improvement of 24 percent
 -LTIR improvement of 50 percent
In the wake of sociopolitical unrest that has gripped many 
nations, AECOM has designed comprehensive travel 
management safety and security systems that are used to 
ensure that our employees remain in a safe zone, if needed, TRIR 
improvement
24%LTIR 
improvement
50%18 AECOM
PEOPLE
when they are travelling or working abroad. 
During 2012, we achieved many safety excellence awards and 
certiﬁcations from clients and credible industry organizations. I t 
is through our proactive SH&E teams that we have created a safe 
and sustainable setting for our people. These professionals are 
responsible for implementing robust SH&E programs and 
supporting the use of SH&E tools that both educate AECOM 
employees about safety, and equip them with the necessary 
safety prevention knowledge to help them make the right 
decisions. Some of these tools include the behavioral program 
titled “Safety for Life,” online training needs assessments, 
online training management systems, online Safe Work Method 
Statements (SWMS), and the positive incentive reward card, 
which recognizes and rewards proactive safety behavior.
Bringing diversity to the forefront
At AECOM, we realize that a diverse group of people can bring 
fresh ideas to help address many of the world’s most complex 
challenges. Over the years, we have built a solid workforce 
that consists of dedicated professionals who come from 
richly diverse backgrounds and who continue to contribute 
signiﬁcantly to AECOM’s business, innovation and growth.
We strive to have our organization reflect the overall 
internal talent pool, external labor market and communitie s 
that we serve. It not only supports our Core Values, but is 
central to a robust, collaborative work environment that 
enhances the overall AECOM experience for our employees, 
clients and stakeholders.
For us, diversity expresses itself in many different ways 
— age, gender, race, nationality, language, culture, marital 
status, sexual orientation, religion, belief or creed, education, 
disability and experiences. With employees in more than 140 
countries worldwide, we strive to maximize the potential of 
this diverse group by embracing uniqueness and creating an 
opportunistic and inclusive work environment where everyone 
feels respected and valued.
Our diversity initiatives have allowed us to continuously 
attract and retain top talent in our workforce. Through a 
myriad of educational and professional growth opportunities, 
performance-based incentives, and other competitive 
beneﬁts, we have managed to strengthen our human capital 
and build a solid workforce with a mosaic of professional and 
technical skills. One thing is certain, however, we are always listening to our 
employees. The thoughts and feelings of all our people are 
equally important and can help us create a better AECOM. 
Last year, we conducted a Global Employee Survey, which 
achieved a 82 percent participation rate. 
Some of our employee networks are: 
 - America’s Women’s Leadership Collaborative;
 - LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) + Allied 
Chatter Group; and 
 - ANZ Working Parents Group. 
In 2012, we received many accolades that represent our 
commitment to fostering a culture of inclusion: 
 - Top-ranked U.S. Engineering and Construction Company in 
the Human Rights Campaign’s 2013 Corporate Equality 
Index (CEI) for second straight year;
 - Paciﬁc Gas and Electric’s (PG&E) 2011 Supplier Diversity 
Leader of the Year;
 -Women’s Transportation Seminar International’s Employer 
of the Year;
 - Named “Best Diversity” company by readers of Diversity/
Careers in Engineering and Information Technology 
magazine; and
 - Received the Diversity Leadership Award at the annual 
Women’s Transportation Seminar — Los Angeles Chapter’s 
(WTS-LA) luncheon for our commitment to developing and 
sustaining Diversity and Inclusion programs in the 
workplace.
As an equal opportunity employer, AECOM maintains a work 
environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. Our 
Good Working Relationship policy prohibits any conduct that 
displays discrimination, sexual harassment, workplace 
harassment, victimization, bullying or viliﬁcation. Our ofﬁcers , 
management and supervisors at all levels are responsible for 
ensuring that the spirit and intent of this policy is embedded 
into everything we do. Each employee has the responsibility to 
treat every colleague or applicant for employment with respect 
and in a fair, non-discriminatory manner.Employee 
Survey 
participation rate
82%19 2012 Sustainability Report
PEOPLE
Felicity Briody
Water resources engineer
Felicity Briody, has been named one of the Australian 
Financial Review’ s (AFR) 100 Women of Inﬂuence, under the 
category of Young Leader. Felicity was recognized for the 
Power of Engineering (PoE) program, which she co-founded. 
It was initially a joint initiative by Women in Engineering 
Queensland and the Queensland Government Ofﬁce for 
Women, supported by AECOM and Queensland University of 
Technology, and is now a standalone not-for-proﬁt 
organization. “Engineering is not just about mathematics and 
hard hats — engineers have the power to shape the world 
they live in, and both innovation and creativity are imperative 
to creating solutions and ultimately changing the world,” said 
Felicity. “With 2012 having been Engineers Australia’s Year of 
the Regional Engineering Team, it remains ﬁtting that we 
educate as many students outside of metropolitan areas 
about the possibilities this career offers.”Sydney Park Stormwater Harvest
Client: City of Sydney, Australia
An integrated design process was adopted for the Sydney 
Park Stormwater Harvesting Project. The overall objective 
was to integrate the human, environmental and engineering 
design requirements to create a response that provides 
social, environmental and economic functions. In essence, to 
improve the water supply and health of the aquatic 
environments within Sydney Park’s wetlands, AECOM 
designed a stormwater harvesting and treatment system. The 
complexity of the storm water harvesting process has been 
seamlessly integrated with the adjacent existing wetland 
environment to improve water quality and provide ﬂood 
mitigation and amenity for users. 
Engineering interventions within the bioretention system have 
been dispersed and concealed within natural forms, creating 
a landscape setting instead of a hard-edged engineering 
response. The project demonstrates a high level of technical 
skill integrated with appropriate planting, the sensitive use of 
materials such as recycled brick to reﬂect the site’s history 
and the art interpretation of the “perch posts,” a safe rousting 
for water fowl. 
Click to view more.20 AECOM
PEOPLE
A new trend in development: Beijing Tongzhou  
Downtown Master Plan and Sustainability 
Guidelines
After years of rapid urbanization, Beijing is responding to 
community pressures caused by an increasing population, 
stressed infrastructure and change in climate, by 
implementing a monumental sustainable redevelopment 
program in the region’s Tongzhou District, shown at left.
Beijing’s government is developing 48 square kilometers of 
brownﬁeld land just southeast of the capital city. Described 
as the largest new construction project in Beijing — Tongzhou 
New City will be the home to one million residents and a 
central business district envisioned as a thriving center of 
commerce, hub of creative capital, and cultural exchange.
Through the use of the Sustainable Systems Integration 
ModelTM (SSIMTM) to guide the land planning process, 
Tongzhou New City is expected to achieve a 20-percent 
carbon footprint reduction from current conditions. AECOM’s 
proprietary model, SSIM, provides a quantiﬁcation 
methodology that integrates land use, infrastructure and 
building principles with cultural values, allowing the 
development team to evaluate and compare the cumulative 
impact of alternative design scenarios. In Tongzhou, the result 
is a low-carbon metropolis that will set new standards for 
development worldwide.
Masdar Siemens HQ Building
Location: Masdar City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
AECOM is engaged as the design and site supervision 
consultants for the Siemens HQ building in Masdar City, an 
emerging clean-technology cluster located in Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates.
Consisting of 21,695 square meters of ofﬁce space, AECOM’s 
sustainable design includes the testing of various outdoor 
thermal comfort strategies using advanced simulation 
techniques such as energy modeling, computational ﬂuid 
dynamics, daylighting simulations, which will, in turn, drive 
and integrate an innovative design process at different scales 
in relation to wind, daylighting, ﬂoorplate efﬁciency and 
public realm integration.
The project was awarded the 2012 Architectural Review  Future 
Ofﬁce Award by MIPIM, an international property group, in 
recognition of its innovative thinking. Currently, the project is 
in line to achieve a LEED Platinum rating and most likely 
Estidama 4 Pearls.Click to view more.
Click to view more.21 2012 Sustainability Report
PEOPLE
Tuvalu Renewable Energy and Energy  
Efﬁciency Unit 
To the local population of 11,000, living on nine low-lying 
islands about 620 miles north of Fiji, the supply of diesel for 
power generation is not only costly but also unsafe and 
environmentally risky. AECOM worked with the Tuvalu 
Electricity Corporation (TEC) for 18 months to outline a master 
plan for the conversion of the power generation from diesel to 
renewable energy. A total of US$55 million of funding would 
be required for generation equipment, inverters, batteries 
and grid management systems.
The US$420,000 project focused on planning, institutional 
development, project management and capacity building.
The highlight of the project was the Prime Minister of Tuvalu 
committing his nation to the concepts of the master plan at the 
Rio+20 Conference in June 2012.
 ADAPT  Asia-Paciﬁc program
At AECOM, we strive for success. Under the ADAPT Asia-Paciﬁc 
program, we are working to establish a fully functional and 
self-sustaining adaptation project, preparation facility that 
will support preparation of speciﬁc projects and build the 
capacity of the region’s governments to independently access 
climate adaptation funds. AECOM implements the project on 
behalf of the U.S. Agency for International Development.
A major barrier exists to the rapid mobilization of adaptation 
funds, which is the lack of a common platform for fund 
managers and project proponents to explore possible 
projects, learn from each other, and identify capacity 
strengthening needs.
Essentially, ADAPT Asia-Paciﬁc aims to strengthen the 
capacity of government agencies in target countries to 
prepare and implement climate change adaptation projects.
ECO-Asia
We are working closely with The United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) in Asia to improve 
sustainable potable water delivery, so that existing utilities 
can expand their services into depressed and peri-urban 
areas.  ECO-Asia has improved access to water and sanitation 
for more than 95,000 people.  
Click to view more.
Click to view more.22 AECOM
Environment
Greening our operations  
Our aim is to reduce the environmental impact of our operations 
by conserving energy, water and other resources throughout our 
global operations. 
We are working to roll out new and comprehensive initiatives 
to help reduce costs as well as conserve paper, ink and 
energy. During ﬁscal year 2012, we piloted green printing 
practices in many ofﬁces around the world that provide a 
consistent approach to monitoring our sustainability 
performance. This process is currently being implemented in 
every ofﬁce in 140 countries companywide during ﬁscal years 
2013–2014. Furthermore, we are working with a document 
solutions company to develop an innovative system that 
reduces costs and embraces these best printing practices. As 
part of this partnership, AECOM has a set of printing 
guidelines that focuses on paper use as well as the reduction 
of toner and ink. 
We surveyed our top 50 largest ofﬁces and currently are 
certiﬁed in LEED, BREEAM or energy star rated in 19 of those 
ofﬁce buildings. We aim to ensure that our buildings and our 
employees adhere to the applicable requirements and reduce 
our environmental impact. That’s why AECOM’s global 
operations have approximately 250 of AECOM’s 450 ofﬁces 
worldwide being ISO14001 certiﬁed.
Following are highlights of how we have aligned our green 
initiatives globally:
Australia and New Zealand:  We launched ”Sustainability Week” 
— activities and events developed to educate and gain 
feedback from employees about sustainability initiatives at 
work. We conduct regular behavioral energy audits of all 
employees to establish baseline performance and cut back 
energy costs. The building at 2 Victoria Avenue in Perth (below), 
Western Australia, achieved a 6 Star Green Star design — 
Ofﬁce as Built v2. Asia:  In our Hong Kong Shatin ofﬁce, reducing waste of all 
types is a priority. Staff members switch off computer power 
and lighting after work. Moreover, all employees are 
encouraged to use recycled paper and minimize the use of 
paper cups. Air-conditioning is being closely managed to save 
electricity and reduce environmental impact. 
Americas:  AECOM’s ofﬁce in Arlington, Virginia, United 
States, received Energy Star certiﬁcation for greening its 
operations. The work consisted of adding lighting sensors, 
extensive paper-recycling efforts, ﬂorescent light bulb 
recycling, low-ﬂow toilets and urinals, faucet sensors, green 
cleaning practices, green pest management, direct digital 
controls (DDC) for heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC) electronics recycling, and water meter monitoring. 
Africa: Our operations in Africa have implemented water 
conservation (dual ﬂush toilets), energy conservation (light 
timers, water heaters), recycling (paper only), and a unique 
transportation program by which staff members are urged to 
use the Gautrain and Metro Train stations and the easy access 
to a bus network. 
Europe:  We are always looking for ways to have a positive 
impact on our environment. In Europe, the building housing 
Davis Langdon, an AECOM subsidiary, achieved BREEAM 
Certiﬁcation classiﬁcation of “excellent” for taking a holistic 
approach to going green. Some of the efforts included 
recycling paper, water reduction, and installation of lighting 
sensors for AECOM employees.23 2012 Sustainability Report
ENVIRONMENT
Asia: Collaborate and transform 
AECOM’s fully integrated planning, design, and management 
capabilities are proven to make cities and regions better by 
advancing strategic thinking and human progress. Through 
integration and collaboration practices, AECOM builds 
resilient structures around the globe. More speciﬁcally, 
AECOM is working with the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing 
Facilities, China Merchant Real Estate and the Singapore 
Environment Council to help promote sustainability 
throughout the regions. 
Collaborate: Jingshan Sustainable Creative Park  
in Guangzhou
AECOM is helping China Merchant to develop a landscape 
design that will not only provide open spaces for ofﬁce 
workers to enjoy, but will help manage stormwater through 
integrated Water Sensitive Urban Design features. The 
landscape will collect, clean and store urban stormwater, 
mitigating ﬂood risk on the site and reducing water demand. 
The China Merchant Real Estate, for example, is looking to 
design a sustainable and creative park for ofﬁces and retail 
spaces in its future headquarters. The group envisions a 
“world-of-art” green headquarters tower, retail street areas, 
an international-brand hotel, a large-scale international 
convention center, and a sports plaza, together with other 
supporting facilities.
Transform: Singapore’s Environment Eco-Establishments 
Initiative
The Singapore Environment Council (SEC), an independent 
non-government organization (NGO), wanted to transform its 
current structure of certiﬁcation, criteria and audit protocols 
for various types of establishments (i.e., ofﬁce, school, food 
court, hotel and community center) in accordance with  
international environmental guidelines such as ISO14001 in 
order to target speciﬁc organizations.AECOM House, Auckland (Five Green Star 
Ofﬁce Design Rating)
Auckland, New Zealand
Environmental responsibility within AECOM 
In October 2012, local AECOM employees moved into a new 
home on Mahuhu Crescent in Auckland, New Zealand — a 
beautifully designed building that successfully achieved a Five 
Green Star Ofﬁce Design and Built rating by the New Zealand 
Green Building Council. The Five Green Star rating conﬁrms 
that AECOM House has achieved “New Zealand Excellence” in 
sustainable design, construction and maintenance.
Employees at AECOM House are encouraged to explore 
sustainable ways of traveling to work through access to 
Rideshare, the creation of designated parking spaces for 
motorbikes and bicycles, and the distribution of transport 
Discovery Passes so staff can experience the ease of getting to 
work by bus, train and ferry. The full shower, locker and towel 
service facilities available in AECOM House further support our 
commitment to promoting healthy lifestyles and making active 
modes of transport more accessible to all staff.
Click to view more.Click to view more.24 AECOM
ENVIRONMENT
Carbon footprint
With a global economy powered largely by fossil fuels, the 
amount of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas 
equivalents in the atmosphere continues to increase.  
Like many of our clients, AECOM is committed to managing 
the carbon footprint of our own operations in addition to 
working with clients to ﬁnd opportunities to reduce their 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Our GHG inventory
Building on earlier efforts by some of the ﬁrms that have 
joined AECOM, during 2011, AECOM developed a partial 
inventory of its GHG emissions, focusing on 78 of our largest 
ofﬁces as well as business air travel, which was the major 
source of the total emissions estimated in 2011. For 2012, our 
goal was to develop a more complete carbon footprint 
analysis and investigate goals for reducing emissions. The 
2012 inventory is AECOM’s ﬁrst effort to conduct a 
comprehensive companywide assessment of the Green House 
Gas emissions that result from the company’s operations. It is 
consistent with the Voluntary Reporting Protocol developed 
by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
and the World Resources Institute. 
The 2012 inventory focuses on emissions of CO2e (CO2, CH4, 
and N2O) and includes Scope 1 emissions, which are direct 
emissions from our ofﬁces and ﬂeet vehicles; Scope 2, which 
are emissions from the generation of purchased electricity; 
and Scope 3 emissions due to employee business travel. 
Emissions were calculated or estimated using readily 
available data. Appropriate proxy values were used when 
desired data was missing.Data availability varied widely by source. For most of our 
employees and ofﬁces, detailed records were readily 
available for ﬂeet vehicle fuel consumption, car rentals, and 
commercial air travel. Because we lease our ofﬁce space, we 
rarely pay utilities directly, and usually share buildings with 
other tenants; therefore for most ofﬁces we estimated fuel 
and electricity use based on square footage and heating and 
cooling degree days obtained from nearby airports.
Since AECOM provides consulting services and does not 
manufacture a product, we have normalized our emissions 
based on the number of employees. During ﬁscal year 2012 
our global headcount averaged 45,000. Our emissions 
footprint is 4.5 Metric tons of CO2e per employee.
Initiatives and accomplishments
As the largest contribution of the company’s carbon footprint 
came from sources such as business travel, purchased 
electricity, ofﬁce heating and ﬂeet vehicles, we are continuing 
to work to reduce travel and consolidate ofﬁce space, as well 
as develop green purchasing policies and leases, which place 
sustainable practice requirements on the building’s leaser. In 
addition, we assessed our top 50 ofﬁces to determine 
whether they met building certiﬁcation standards such as 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or 
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment 
Method (BREEAM). It was determined that 19 ofﬁces met 
building certiﬁcation standards.
Scope Emissions Source Metric Tons CO2e Pct of AECOM total Primary data* Estimation internal
1 Fleet vehicle emissions 18, 371 10% 90% +/- 10%
2 Ofﬁce electricity 67 , 688 37% 30% +/- 30%
3 Staff business air travel 71,053 39% 95% +/- 20%
3 Staff business ground travel 25,732 14% 50% +/- 20%
Total CO2e emissions 182, 844 100% 82% +/- 20%
*Percent of staff for whom primary activity data was available to calcula te emissions. 
Where primary data was not available, proxy data was used to infer activity l evels.25 2012 Sustainability Report
Measurement for 
Management
CDP Cities 2012 Global Report
Including special report on C40 Cities
Written by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
www.cdproject.net 
+44 (0) 207 970 5660 
cities@cdproject.netReport analysis and 
information design for 
Carbon Disclosure Project by
Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) releases its 2012 global 
cities report
In 2012, AECOM partnered with the 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an 
independent, not-for-proﬁt organization 
that works to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and drive sustainable water 
use by businesses and cities. AECOM 
volunteered its expertise to provide data 
analysis, communications and 
information design for the CDP Global 
Cities 2012 report, making the incredible 
depth and breadth of information more 
accessible. Through encouraging cities to 
report both their attitudes to climate risk 
and their approach to mitigate and adapt 
to climate change, the CDP and AECOM 
hope to spread best practice and spur 
more climate action by cities globally.ENVIRONMENT
Click to view more.26 AECOM
Mitigating landslide risks in Hong Kong:  
Effect of change in rainfall
Location: Hong Kong
The effect on rainfall due to climate change has been a much 
debated topic for many years. In Hong Kong, the frequency 
and intensity of heavy rainstorms is expected to rapidly 
increase. The climate in Hong Kong is forecasted to become 
hotter and wetter in the next 100 years. The Hong Kong 
Observatory predicts that the frequency of extremely wet 
years (annual rainfall above 10 feet) will increase, from three 
extremely wet years in the period 1885–2008 to 10 extremely 
wet years in the 21st century. A team of AECOM engineers 
and specialist released a paper in 2010 that addresses the 
growing issues of excessive rainfall risks. However, AECOM 
is continuing to actively monitor the occurrence of 
landslides in Hong Kong under its current LandsLIDE 
Investigation Consultancy with the Geotechnical Engineering 
Ofﬁce. Between 2010 and 2012, there have been no incidents 
of landslides, but looking ahead, the paper analyzed data 
and forecasted risks based on landslide frequency and 
magnitude relationships.
Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System
Gauteng, South Africa
With a signiﬁcant increase in car ownership and road trafﬁc, 
South Africa needed to reassess its transportation 
infrastructure to ensure it met the needs of its increasing 
mobile population. The development of the Gautrain Rapid 
Rail Link System in South Africa changed the preferred 
transportation choice in South Africa towards a more 
environmentally friendly form of public transport. 
AECOM’s innovative sustainable development performance 
monitoring on the Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System translated 
political objectives into contractual obligations and set a new 
benchmark for how major infrastructure projects should be 
managed in South Africa. It ensured that the project 
effectively addressed sustainability — making a major 
contribution to the socio-economic development in South 
Africa as well as introducing a system sensitive to the 
environmental impact on the region.
AECOM provided a range of sustainable services for the 
project, including overseeing one of the largest Environmental 
Impact Assessment’s (EIA) ever undertaken in South Africa 
and an analysis of impacts on geology, air quality, ground and 
surface water, and land use.
ENVIRONMENT
Click to view more.Click to view more.27 2012 Sustainability Report
Economy
Enhancing shareholder value
A Fortune 500  company, AECOM generated revenue of $8.2 
billion during the 12 months ending Sept. 30, 2012. We are 
proud to be recognized in Engineering News-Record ’s 2012 Top 
500 Design Firms rankings, where AECOM is ranked #1 overall 
four years in a row. And, for four consecutive years, Newsweek  
included AECOM on its U.S. Companies Green Rankings list. 
With more than 45,000 employees operating in more than 140 
countries, we also recognize that long-term growth is based 
on a solid reputation of ethics and integrity in our dealings 
with our clients and employees.  
Our operational and ﬁnancial success is fostered by our 
commitment to good corporate citizenship as well as 
communities and the environment. At the core of our 
operations, we strive to make the right investments to satisfy 
the growing needs of our clients, which leads to better 
corporate performance and enhanced shareholder value. At 
AECOM, we understand the need to deliver growth while 
creating value for our clients and for our shareholders, many 
of whom are our employees, who hold about 15% of our stock. 
AECOM’s strength also lies in our geographical diversity. 
During ﬁscal year 2012, AECOM continued to expand our 
geographic presence and the resources needed to better 
serve our global clients. During 2009, we were joined by a 
Moscow-based ﬁrm that offered services complementary to 
our own in order to create a regional foundation in Eastern 
Europe that would augment local client relationships, 
construction management capability and our Russian 
marketplace expertise. Now, a few short years later, this 
region is one of AECOM’s fastest-growing markets. 
 
Despite economic challenges in Europe and the United States 
during the past several years, our vision and diversiﬁed 
growth strategy have allowed us to remain a major player in 
the transportation, facilities, government services, and 
energy markets. For example, our deep transportation 
expertise helped us secure key roles on the New York Second Avenue Subway and Eastside Access projects. In total, these 
massive efforts will represent about $30 billion in 
infrastructure investment. And our project management 
expertise allowed us to win the master planning for the 2012 
London Olympics and the 2016 Rio Olympics as well as the 
program management for Crossrail, Europe’s largest civil 
infrastructure project since the construction of the Chunnel. 
Our operating success is built on effective decision-making, 
which continues to position us well for the future. For ﬁscal 
year 2012, our revenue grew 2.2 percent from US$8.0 billion to 
US $8.2 billion, and our backlog expanded 3 percent from 
US$15.6 billion to US$16.0 billion.
Between ﬁscal years 2013 and 2015, we plan to reduce our 
real estate footprint by 20%, which translates to about $40 
million in annualized savings by 2015. 
Outlook for the future
At AECOM, we understand the need to sustain our growth 
while creating value for our clients, shareholders and 
employees. It is our responsibility to ethically grow our 
earnings and return maximum value to our shareholders while 
balancing environmental and social value. During FY12, we 
encountered periods of economic instability, and although 
this had an adverse effect on some of our business segments, 
it helped deﬁne who we are as company. Against this 
backdrop, we remain committed to further intensifying our 
client focus, streamlining our internal processes and 
effectively managing our costs. 
For additional information about operational and ﬁnancial 
performance, please refer to our annual report  for the ﬁscal 
year ended September 30, 2012, ﬁled with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission.28 AECOM
ECONOMY
Broadcasting House — a new era in  
media design
Over a decade ago, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) 
took on its biggest challenge to date, to make its iconic 
central London building, the 80-year-old Broadcasting House, 
ﬁt for the digital age. 
The world’s largest broadcaster turned to AECOM as lead 
building services consultant to take on the technical 
challenge of restoring and expanding its ageing landmark. 
The scale of the upgrade was immense. The result is a triumph 
in sustainability in a high-demand environment, which has 
earned the BBC the world’s ﬁrst BREEAM Excellent rating for 
media design. The renovation is expected to save the BBC 
£736million (US$1.1 billion) over a 20-year period.
Innovation in India: The Leela Hotel, Eco 
Commercial Building, and 3M R&D Centre
Client: The Leela Group
Innovation lies at the heart of everything we do. It is through 
innovative and creative ideas that AECOM helps drive technology 
growth throughout various economies. The Leela Group is a 
premier hotel group in India that established its ﬂagship green 
building prior to the start of the Commonwealth Games in 2010 
with the construction of the Leela Hotel. This prestigious building 
is regarded as New Delhi’s ﬁrst LEED Platinum Hotel. Through an 
integrated project delivery approach, AECOM played a crucial role 
in the luxury hotel’s sustainability success where different 
disciplinary teams discussed and resolved issues to achieve 
overall sustainable excellence in the design of the building.
This project achieved a Platinum rating under LEED-India NC 
rating system with the following green elements:
 - 50 percent energy savings over ASHRAE 90.1-2004 base 
building.
 - Use of a Combined Cooling Heating and Power (CCHP) 
system. 
 - 100 percent waste water treatment done on site.
 -Maximum usage of daylight resulting in reduced lighting loads.
Click to view more.
Click to view more.29 2012 Sustainability Report
Social responsibility
Focusing on the outcomes
AECOM is committed to fulﬁlling its purpose in a way that is 
not only economically proﬁtable for the enterprise and our 
shareholders, but recognizes that everything we do has a 
social and environmental impact. Beginning in 2014, we will 
benchmark our efforts against international standards, and 
have already signed the U.N. Global Compact  and set a 
reporting framework around The Global Reporting Initiative.
We believe that, by aligning our business values, purpose and 
strategy with the social, environmental and economic needs 
of all our stakeholders, we create a competitive advantage for 
our company, while embedding responsible and ethical 
business policies and practices in everything we do. 
Community engagement is the core of our CSR program. 
AECOM and our employees have a long history of contributing 
to society and the environment by supporting pro-bono, 
philanthropic and charitable activities in the places where we 
work and live, as well as in under-served communities. Social 
responsibility is the foundation of our commitment to work 
towards continuous improvement and responsible 
management of the economic, environmental and social 
impacts of our activities.
The creation, coordination, maintenance and management of 
our CSR strategy are the responsibility of the Chief Corporate 
Ofﬁcer, with the support of the Global CSR Steering 
Committee and regional representatives.   
AECOM focuses its pro-bono and charitable contributions in 
the following ﬁve strategic areas:
Strengthening our communities:   Working to create better 
opportunities for everyone, we support initiatives that make a 
visible, positive and material impact in the places where we 
work and live. We have hundreds of stories of how our 
employees positively affect communities around the world. 
From providing our neighbors with a safe place to live through 
Habitat for Humanity to giving children with special needs a 
healthy and safe environment to play, we have supported hundreds of initiatives that positively affect where we live, 
work and beyond. In addition to donating our expertise, hard 
work and care, AECOM donated more than $1 million to 
communities around the world.  
Educating our future:  We are dedicated to enhancing global 
engineering and science resources through training, education, 
scholarships, internships, participation in association-
sponsored events and academic engagements as well as 
delivering education to urban and under-served communities. 
Across the company, we are nurturing future engineers and 
stars through funding AECOM scholarships, to mentoring our 
youth through Architecture Construction Engineering (known 
as “ACE”) Mentor, giving them real-world challenges to solve . 
During 2012, AECOM contributed more than $1 million towards 
the education of our youth around the world.
Alleviating poverty and disaster recovery efforts:  Everyone 
should have access to basic human needs. Through local and 
corporate supported efforts, we provide support for post-
disaster recovery and long-term alleviation of conditions of 
poverty. From ﬁghting hunger with local drives in our 
neighborhoods and volunteering at soup kitchens, to 
providing drinking water in El Pital, El Salvador, which brought 
running water to every home, to our partnership with the 
International Red Cross/Red Crescent/American Red Cross in 
helping to support life through the donation of blood. In 
addition to pro-bono services and thousands of volunteer 
hours, AECOM has given more than $144,000.
Supporting a healthier world:  We understand the importance of 
promoting and protecting the health and wellness of our 
employees and our communities around the world. From our 
corporate wellness program in the Americas to dozens of local 
health-related events which supports the research in ﬁnding a 
cure for the many ailments that we face today, AECOM has 
matched our employees efforts and donated more than $377,000  
during 2012.
Protecting our planet:  Our employees are dedicated to 
making the world a better place. We think we should also help 
protect and enhance the natural capital we work so hard to 
make better. That’s why we are committed to conserving 
environmental resources and modeling sustainable practices, 
through activities such as planting and preserving trees; 
cleaning rivers, lakes and shorelines; promoting clean air; and 
supporting diversity of wildlife. Nothing can replace human 
energy, and in addition to volunteer hours, AECOM donated 
more than $132,000 to protecting our planet.
For more information, please read our CSR review .
Far left: Catarina Portugal, urban 
designer, volunteers with children in 
Ghana as part of Sabre Trust.
Video link: AECOM has a long history of 
post-disaster recovery work across the 
Americas and around the world.30 AECOM
SOCIETY
AECOM’s 10 key contributions
1. United Way
2. International Red Cross  &  Red Crescent
3. March of Dimes
4. YMCA/YWCA
5. ACE Mentor Program
6. Academic Alliances   (such as Clarkson 
University, Villanova University and 
University of Queensland)
7. Engineers Without Borders
8. Professional Afﬁliations  (such as 
Association of the State Floodplain 
Managers, Consulting Engineers Canada 
and the  American Water Works 
Association)
9. Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust
10. Memorial Scholarship Association
AECOM has a constant drive to be the leader in our industry. 
The same holds true for our CSR efforts around the globe. As 
the company’s program grows, we will not only strive to be 
one of the largest contributors to our communities, but we 
aspire to be the best. Community
$1m+ 
Education
$1m+ Health
$377k Professional
$738kDisaster 
$144k Environment
$132k Other 
$127k 
*Total includes matched donations from individuals; 
however it includes only those parts of the company 
on its common ﬁnancial system at the time.Charitable donations in 2012*
Key contribution  spend: 
$1,440,501
TOTAL FY 2012 CSR spend:  
$3,614,825
Top: AECOM volunteers 
partner with the 
American Red Cross for 
Superstorm Sandy relief.
 
Far left: John Daza, 
AECOM bridge engineer, 
working with ACE Mentor 
Team 19 in New York City.
Middle: Water for People 
thanks AECOM.
Right: Ross Gordon 
Engineers Without 
Borders video.
Sustainable development and social priorities
AECOM’s 2012 employee and company donations to charitable 
and philanthropic organizations globally totaled more than 
US$3.5 million. Our employees logged thousands of volunteer 
hours with our CSR partner organizations in more than 100 
countries, such as Engineers Without Borders (EWB), the Red 
Cross, Water for People, among many others. Read more 
about our partnerships on AECOM.com here .
31 2012 Sustainability Report
At AECOM, we take pride in what we do and as a result, we 
have received many accolades for our environmental and 
sustainability contributions. This reﬂects how our integrated 
solutions allow us to better solve complex problems. The 
following is a selection of some notable awards:
Global
Named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 2011, 
2012 and 2013 by the Ethisphere Institute. 
AECOM is a “global sponsor” of Water For People — recogniz-
ing more than US$100,000 raised per year for the non-proﬁt 
organization.
AECOM is a “global platinum sponsor” of Engineers Without 
Borders  — committing to charitable and in-kind donations of 
US$100,000 annually.
Financial Times  named AECOM among its Best Workplaces.
Engineering News-Record  magazine ranks AECOM no. 1 design 
ﬁrm.
Careerbliss.com  named AECOM as one of the top 10 compa-
nies dedicated to making its employees happy.
Americas
Won the “Overall Governance, Compliance and Ethics (small 
to mid-cap)” and in Corporate Secretary  magazine’s ﬁfth-
annual Corporate Governance Awards program.
David Weight, a sustainability consultant for Davis Langdon, 
an AECOM company, was awarded the “2012 James Watt 
Medal” by the Institute of Civil Engineers.
Thirty-one AECOM projects were named in ReNew Canada  
magazine’s “2012 Top 100 Infrastructure Projects in Canada.”
David Forrester, FCIM, senior mining engineer, was awarded a 
fellowship from the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy 
and Petroleum.
Australia and New Zealand
AECOM directors Dr. Mark Gibbs and Donna Lorenz, along with 
CSIRO economist Olivier Thebaud, were awarded the Engineers 
Australia G.N. Alexander Medal for Hydrology and Water Resources 
at the “2012 Hydrology and Water Resources Symposium.”
Asia
The Ofﬁce of Corporate Sustainability received the “Merit 
Award for Sustainable Development” from the Royal Institute 
of Chartered Surveyors.The building engineering practice in Singapore was awarded the 
“International Award for Asia” from the KNX Association for its 
lighting-management system on the AECOM Asia Square project.
The Hong Kong Development Bureau awarded our civil 
engineering group the coveted “2012 Skyrise Greenery Merit 
Award (Planning/Research Projects)” for the design and build 
trafﬁc improvements to Tuen Mun Road Town Centre Section.
The U.S. Green Building Council recognized our building 
engineering team in India with the “LEED India Platinum 
Certiﬁcate” for its work with Delta India Electronics.
Europe
We once again received the Gold Award for health and safety 
management from the Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents.
Celeste Morgan, director for sustainability, was named one of 
Building  magazine’s “Top 50 Rising Stars in Sustainability.”
AECOM was named the “2012 Building Services Consultancy  
of the Year” by the Chartered Institution of Building Services 
Engineers. 
AECOM was named “U.K. National Champion” at the 2012–
2013 European Business Awards.
Davis Langdon, an AECOM company, was named “2012 
Consultant of the Year” by the British Institute of Facilities 
Management.
Paul Woods, technical director, building engineering, was 
named the “2012–2013 Champion of the Year” by the 
Combined Heat and Power Association.
Middle East
AECOM’s design for the expansion of the American Hospital, 
in Dubai, won the ﬁrst place award in the Health care category 
at the International Interior Design Association Northland 
chapter FAB Awards.
AECOM’s Msheireb Heart of Doha master plan received the 
overall “Best Future Project of the Year” award at World 
Architecture Festival 2012.
Siemens’ Headquarters in Masdar City, United Arab Emirates, 
for which AECOM provided building engineering and commer-
cial management, has won the following:
 -Middl e East Architects Awards “Sustainable Project of the 
Year 2012.”
 - Middle East Architects Awards “Commercial Project of the 
Year 2012.”
 -Internat ional Property Awards Arabia “Best Ofﬁce 
Architecture Award 2012.”Awards32 AECOM
ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING DATA
AECOM receives APEGBC’s Sustainability Award
The Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of 
BC (APEGBC) honored its 2012 President’s and Project Awards 
recipients in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, on October 26 
and 27, 2012. AECOM received accolades from the Association at 
its annual conference by receiving its sustainability award for 
the Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems Upgrade for 
the City of Cranbrook, British Columbia. APEGBC’s 
Sustainability Award recognizes a project that demonstrates a 
commitment to, and understanding of, the concept of 
sustainability.
The project work involved improving treated wastewater 
quality, building capacity for the next 25 years of growth, 
replacing failing infrastructure with high-efﬁciency systems 
that limit environmental damage, preserving archeological 
sites, and maintaining and improving the sustainability 
features of the systems within approved budget.
Our memberships 
Membership education plays a critical 
role in evaluating the success of our 
sustainable outcomes. The quality of 
our work is reﬂected through our ability 
to leverage the best ideas while keeping 
up with industry trends. We are proud 
to be ofﬁcial members of the following 
organizations:  
 -AHC Corporate Afﬁliates Group
 -American Council of Engineering 
Companies (ACEC)
 - American Membrane Technology 
Association (AMTA)
 - American Public Transit Association (APTA)
 - American Public Works Association (APWA)
 - American Road and Transportation 
Builders Association (ARTBA)
 -American Water Works Association (AWWA)
 - American Water Works Research 
Foundation (AWWArf)
 -Association of Metropolitan Water 
Agencies (AMWA)
 - Association of State Dam Safety Ofﬁcials 
(ASDSO)
 - Association of State Floodplain Managers 
(ASFM)
 - Australian Green Infrastructure Council 
(AGIC), Foundation Members
 -Australian Water Association (AWA) -California Climate Action Registry
 -Canada Green Building Council
 -Catalyst
 -Clean Energy Council
 - Community Business Diversity & Inclusion 
Asia Network
 -Conference of Minority Transportation 
Ofﬁcials (COMTO)
 -Construction Management Association of 
America (CMAA)
 -Corporate Wetlands Restoration 
Partnership
 - Design Build Institute of America (DBIA)
 -Design Professionals Coalition
 -Energy Efﬁciency Council
 -Engineers Without Borders
 - Global Carbon Capture and Storage 
Institute
 - Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA)
 -International Audit Protocol Consortium 
(IAPC)
 -International Association for Public 
Participation (IAP2)
 -International Association of Public 
Transport (UITP)
 -International District Energy Association 
(IDEA)
 -International Ozone Association
 -International Water Association (IWA)
 -National Association of Clean Water 
Agencies (NACWA)   - National Association of Flood & 
Stormwater Management Agencies 
(NAFSMA)
 - National Council for Air and Stream 
Improvement (NCASI)
 -National Water Resources Association
 - New Zealand Green Building Council
 - Society of American Military Engineers 
(SAME)
 -Sustainable Remediation Forum (SURF)
 - U.S. EPA Green Power Partner
 - U.K. Green Building Council
 - U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)
 - U.S. Business Council for Sustainable 
Development
 - Water and Urban Development, Asia
 - Water Design Build Council
 -Water Environment Federation (WEF)
 -Water Environment Research Foundation 
(WERF)
 - Water Services Association of Australia 
(WSAA)
 -WateReuse Association (WRA)
 -WateReuse Foundation
 -World Environment Center
 -World Association for Waterborne 
Transport Infrastructure (PIANC)
 - World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development
 -World Environmental Council
 -Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS)Employee numbers  
as of September 30, 2012
Americas 25,198
Asia-Paciﬁc 12,022
Europe, Middle East and Africa 8,580
Global total 45,800
Explanatory note
Americas total includes employees working for our 
government services group, who may be based 
outside the Americas.
Click to view more.33 2012 Sustainability Report
GRI INDEX
Strategy and analysis
1.1  Letter from Chairman and CEO John M. Dionisio, 
Perspectives of CSO Gary Lawrence
1.2  Fiscal Year 2012 highlights, Our approach to 
sustainability, Enhancing shareholder value
2.1-2.9 Governance, Annual report (p. 6)
2.10  Awards and recognition 
Report parameters
3.1  Fiscal year 2012 ended Sept. 30, 2012
3.2  Fiscal year 2011 ended Sept. 30, 2011
3.3,  
3.6-3.9,  
3.11  About this report, Carbon footprint
3.4  Phone 213.593.8000
3.5   Engaging the right people, Our approach to 
sustainability
3.10  Annual report (p. 2)
3.12  GRI Index
Governance, Commitments and Engagement
4.1 Governance
4.2-4.3  Governance, Annual report (p. 116)
4.4  Engaging the right people
4.6  Acting ethically and with integrity
4.8  Purpose and Core Values, Social responsibility
4.9  Governance, Our approach to sustainability
4.10  Governance
4.11   Purpose and Core Values, Our approach to 
sustainability  
4.12  UN Global Compact,  Social responsibility
4.13  Memberships
4. 14-4. 17 Engaging the right peopleEconomic
EC1-EC4  Annual report (p. 17, 95), Enhancing shareholder 
value
Environmental
EN4   Carbon footprint 
EN5-EN7  Greening our operations, Carbon footprint
EN13   Projects
EN16-  EN18 Carbon footprint
EN26   Our approach to sustainability
EN28   Greening our operations
Labor practices and decent work
LA1   Additional supporting data
LA2-LA6;  
LA9-LA 12;  
LA14  Not reported
LA7-LA8   Keeping everyone safe and maintaining the 
environment
LA13   Bringing diversity to the forefront
Human rights 
Society 
SO2; SO4  Annual report (p. 16, 12)
Product responsibility 
PR1    Our approach to sustainability, Our product and 
social responsibility
PR5    Engaging the right people, Our product and social 
responsibility V.01 Printed on recycled paper ©2013 AECOM. All Rights Reserved.About AECOM
AECOM is a global provider of professional technical 
and management support services to a broad range 
of markets, including transportation, facilities, 
environmental, energy, water and government. With 
approximately 45,000 employees around the world, 
AECOM is a leader in all of the key markets that it 
serves. AECOM provides a blend of global reach, local 
knowledge, innovation and technical excellence in 
delivering solutions that create, enhance and sustain 
the world’s built, natural and social environments. A 
Fortune 500 company, AECOM serves clients in more 
than 140 countries and has annual revenue in excess of 
$8.0 billion.
More information on AECOM and its services can be 
found at www.aecom.com.
HEADQUARTERS
555 South Flower Street, Suite 3700
Los Angeles, California, U.S.A. 90071-2300
T 1.213.593.8000