Environmental, 
Social &  
Governance  
Report
2021
Natural Capital Laboratory (NCL), United Kingdom. Established in 2019 by AECOM, the NCL is a unique project focused on identifying, 
quantifying, and valuing the impacts of biodiversity and re-wilding. Located in the Scottish Highlands, near Loch Ness, for the next five years 
the NCL is restoring 100 acres of forest and reintroducing lost species.Table of Contents
AECOM At-A-Glance 2
Letter from Troy Rudd 5
Q&A with Lara Poloni 7
Sustainable Legacies - AECOM’s ESG Strategy 9
Why Now 10
Our Strategy 10 
Delivering Sustainable Legacies 11
Our Work 12
AECOM’s Materiality-Based Approach to ESG  13
 ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP 14
Environmental Management 16
Climate Change 16
Pledge to Net-Zero 19
Environmental Responsibility 19
SOCIAL IMPACT 20 
Thrive with AECOM  22
Social Value  22
LGBTQ+ Equity 23
Turnover 23
People with Disabilities 23
STEM  Education 23
Veteran Support 23
Health, Safety and Wellness 24
COVID-19 Response 24
Our Community 25
CUL TURE OF GOVERNANCE 26 
Oversight 28  
Ethics and Integrity 29 
Risk Management 29 
Responsible Supplier Chain Management 29
SASB Table 31
TCFD Table 37
1 2021 ESG ReportThe data presented throughout this report reflects AECOM’s fiscal 2020 unless otherwise noted.AECOM At-A-Glance
2 2021 ESG ReportAECOM AT-A-GLANCE
Focused  on our core 
higher-returning and 
lower-risk businesses.
Strengthened  financial 
profile with transformed 
balance sheets and 
returning capital to 
shareholders.Leader  in key transportation, 
water and environment markets 
and ideally positioned to advise 
clients on their ESG priorities.
Capitalizing  on market leading 
positions, substantial backlog 
and ongoing continuous 
improvement initiatives to drive 
long-term profitable growth.
Numbers are presented as percentage of trailing twelve month gross revenue as of Q3 ’21Revenue by Geography 
U.S.
U.K.
Australia-New Zealand
Hong Kong
Europe
Middle East
OtherCanada72%
6%5%4%4%
3%3%3%3 2021 ESG ReportAECOM AT-A-GLANCE
Engineers
Program 
Managers
Consulting / 
Planners
Scientists
Design, Dig ital  
& OtherPrivate
State & Loca l 
Governments
Non-U.S. 
Governments
Federal U .S. 
Government
Cost-Plus 
Design
Fixed-Price 
Design
Construction  
Management9%
25%24%
20%
10%
13%
16%8%
39%Diverse Funding  
Sources
Broad Technical 
ExpertiseLower-Risk  
Business ModelT ransportation
Facilities
Environment/Water
New Energy3%
35% 42%
41% 53%34%28%Attractive Exposure  
to Key End MarketsAs a Professional Services business, AECOM is poised to thrive.
All numbers are presented as a percentage of TTM net service revenue (NSR).SA
Consistent with our 
Sustainable Legacies 
strategy, we at AECOM 
have pledged to advance 
sustainability and 
ESG initiatives within 
our operations and in 
partnership with our clients. AECOM AT-A-GLANCE
4 2021 ESG ReportEnsuring we are operationally  
net-zero   
by the end of 2021 
Implementing a  
50%  
reduction in business travelReaching science-based  
net-zero   
by 2030 
Incorporating an ESG 
action plan for reducing 
carbon impact by at least 
50%   
on all major projects  
(our ScopeX™ process)• Partnering with our supply chain to 
develop their own carbon reduction 
targets;
• Embedding net-zero, resilience, and 
social value targets into our client 
account management program and 
the work we bid for;
• Offsetting residual carbon by 
creating our own nature-based 
solution projects;
• Integrating climate adaptation and 
climate resilience into all aspects 
of our advisory, planning, feasibility, 
design, and program management 
solutions for all our clients;
• Ensuring our project teams reflect 
the diversity of the clients and 
communities we serve;• Ensuring women comprise at least 
20 percent of senior leadership 
roles and at least 35 percent of the 
overall workforce in the near term;
• Making strategic investments 
that positively impact clients, 
communities, and society;
• Implementing and enhancing our 
enterprise framework that assesses 
ESG risk in all project pursuits;
• Driving accountability through 
specific ESG goals/metrics in 
leadership annual goals; and
• Reporting on our ESG performance in 
line with the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) and T ask 
Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) frameworks.These commitments include:Our ESG Commitments5 2021 ESG ReportLETTER FROM THE CEO
Letter from the CEO
Troy Rudd, Chief Executive Officer
Being a Leader in ESG
As the world’s trusted infrastructure consulting firm, leading 
in ESG is essential to delivering positive, impactful, and 
Sustainable Legacies . We have a responsibility to embed 
ESG principles into everything we do – partnering with our 
clients and communities to solve their ESG challenges 
through innovation and fostering a culture where our global 
employees can work on projects that deliver environmental 
and social value. Our talented professionals are driven to 
deliver Sustainable Legacies because the tens of thousands of 
engineers, scientists, architects, consultants, and program and 
construction managers who work at AECOM are all committed 
to ESG principles — and are energized by the idea that their 
work can contribute positively to the world and to society. 
ESG is something that we live and breathe. Directly integrating 
ESG values with our technical capabilities puts us in the best 
position to be the ESG leader in our industry, and to truly help 
deliver a better world for generations to come.I am pleased to share AECOM’s first global Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Report, 
which marks a significant step forward in our sustainability journey and tells the story of how our 
people and company are taking action to deliver a better world. 
This report also formalizes our promise to regularly communicate our ESG actions and the 
progress we are making against our commitments and strategy. Building on this foundation, we 
incorporated and used the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and T ask Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) frameworks as part of this disclosure to further 
enhance transparency and better align with data standards. The results of our assessment were 
also mapped to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the coming years, AECOM will 
remain vigilant to maintain our rigorous ESG standards, advance our sustainability efforts and focus 
on implementing our best-in-class ESG program. 
Our Clients
A key goal of our ESG strategy is to ensure that the work we 
do in partnership with our clients leaves a positive, lasting 
impact on communities and our planet. ESG is a top priority 
for nearly all of our clients in nearly every market. As of 
2020, more than 1,500 companies and 800 cities globally 
have already set net-zero targets, and others are looking at 
strengthening the resiliency of communities to adapt to climate 
change or are rethinking master planning in order to advance 
community equity and economic prosperity. Our clients need a 
trusted advisor to help them advance these initiatives, and they 
are turning to us for guidance. 
We hear from so many of our stakeholders that we are the most 
capable company to advise clients on how they can achieve 
their bold ESG-related ambitions — and our track record 
supports these beliefs. We are the world’s largest and most 
diverse environmental services firm, we are number one or 
two in key environmental and water sub-sectors, and we are 6 2021 ESG ReportLETTER FROM THE CEO
a top green design firm and green building contractor. Most 
management consultants simply do not have the complex 
technical skills and decades of experience to deliver the 
holistic infrastructure solutions that are necessary. Our 
leadership in markets like transportation, environment, 
buildings + places, and water, in partnership with our global 
program management business, puts us at the right place 
at the right time to apply our deep technical expertise and 
successfully take on that advisory role for our clients. 
Challenges and Opportunities
The world continues to face unprecedented challenges such 
as climate change, the coronavirus pandemic, social inequality, 
and racial injustice. Through these challenges, the AECOM 
team has stayed true to our company values — placing 
increased emphasis and focus on embedding sustainable 
development and resilience across our work, improving social 
outcomes and achieving net-zero carbon emissions. 
Further, we are seeing strengthening alignment between 
government leadership and key stakeholders to address 
these challenges. For instance, the $1.9 trillion coronavirus 
relief bill signed by President Biden in February 2021 included 
key funding for our state and local clients. It also places a 
greater emphasis on ESG-related issues. We anticipate that 
the ongoing debate over long-term infrastructure needs, the 
impacts of climate change bills in the U.S. and mounting global 
pressure to move from talk to action on climate matters will 
take this emphasis even further. 
In the meantime, we are mobilizing our network of experts 
and innovators to develop the necessary solutions to these 
challenges and help clients make informed decisions based 
on critical analyses. We’ve already been thinking about these 
issues and how to approach them, and I have testified in  
front of Congress to advocate for transportation systems that 
will better serve communities and reduce impacts on  
the environment. 
Taking Action
I am proud of our achievements and ongoing efforts to lead 
the change toward a more sustainable and equitable future. 
T o ensure that we are collaborating globally and bringing the best of AECOM to each and every opportunity, we created 
our ESG Global Council to fully leverage the expertise of our 
sustainability practitioners and business leaders from across 
the organization. We have also strengthened our governance 
by reconstituting the SRS Committee of our Board of Directors 
to the Safety, Risk and Sustainability committee to ensure 
oversight is expressly integrated to the highest levels of our 
company. Additionally, our equity, diversity, and inclusion 
program, called Thrive with AECOM, is a key component of 
our ESG efforts and has resulted in us doubling women in 
leadership roles since 2016. We’re continuing to ramp up our 
initiatives, as well as providing employees with the tools and 
training to create a more inclusive work environment. These 
initiatives support our efforts to foster continued high levels 
of employee engagement - in fact, in our employee survey 
conducted in the summer of 2021, 70% of our respondents 
noted that they would recommend AECOM as a great place to 
work.
AECOM was the first company in the engineering sector to 
have set emission reduction targets approved by the Science 
Based T argets initiative (SBTi), designed to meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Through this 
and other enterprise initiatives, we announced even more 
ambitious targets as part of our Sustainable Legacies strategy 
that include commitments to becoming net-zero in our Scope 
1, 2, and 3 emissions by 2030, along with our commitment 
to achieving operational net zero by the end of 2021. These 
commitments build upon our position as a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact. 
Our focus ahead is unwavering. We will continue to develop 
environmentally and socially conscious infrastructure 
solutions and be a leader in sustainability for our communities, 
clients, employees and investors. We are excited for what the 
future holds for AECOM and to share our sustainability story 
with you in this report. 
Sincerely,
Troy Rudd, Chief Executive OfficerQ: Why is ESG increasingly in focus for AECOM and 
for our clients?
A: In addition to the devastating public health impacts of the coronavirus, 
the pandemic has magnified the inequities that exist in many of our systems, 
including those that support access to basic services and functions. 
Disadvantaged communities across the globe have been especially hard hit.
At the same time, other global stressors such as climate change and natural 
disasters continue to create concern for our future. These issues are now at the 
top of many government policy agendas, and new mandates and regulations are 
coming through that will require focused, sustainable solutions.
Our public and private sector clients understand this in terms of their own 
assets and portfolios and are increasingly focused on their role in promoting 
sustainability and delivering social value. We are best placed to advise and 
execute for them thanks to our leading capabilities across the spectrum of ESG 
services and the global scale of our expertise.
Our Sustainable Legacies strategy highlights our ESG leadership. It also 
shows our own company commitment to lead by example. We have some bold 
aspirations in terms of our net-zero carbon emissions and advancing other 
initiatives aligned with our ESG agenda. Delivering a better world is central to our 
purpose as a company. It absolutely guides how we think and execute. 
Q: What are the outcomes you hope to see with the 
Sustainable Legacies strategy?
A: As governments in the U.S. and other countries advance multi-billion-dollar 
investments in infrastructure, there are important business opportunities for us, 
especially those that aim to reduce emissions, put people to work, and correct long-
standing social inequities. Our teams are already talking to our global clients to help 
them prioritize spending as pandemic relief arrives, and we are well positioned to 
execute across market sectors that have been targeted for that investment.
The other major opportunity is with social impact and advancing projects, 
initiatives and policies that uplift people and communities, both for our clients 
and ourselves. This might be improved health outcomes for a community as a 
7 2021 ESG ReportQ&A WITH LARA POLONI, PRESIDENT
In this Q&A, President 
Lara Poloni talks about 
the timeliness of our 
Sustainable Legacies 
strategy, the outcomes 
we hope to achieve, and 
the impacts operationally.Q&A with Lara Poloni
AECOM President8 2021 ESG Reportresult of clean water infrastructure or reduced air pollution due 
to transport electrification. It could be extending our supply 
chain to engage more minority and Indigenous community 
vendors and partners, or expanding apprenticeship programs 
to cultivate new young talent and build careers.
All of these efforts will ensure that we act as a catalyst for 
community building and inclusion, particularly in terms of how 
cities are planned and their supporting economic and social 
infrastructure are planned and delivered.
Social and economic equity, resilience — these are themes 
that cut across everything our clients will be dealing with 
— and I want us to play a critical role in addressing them. 
Our Think and Act Globally strategy applies here as well. We 
have strong regional capabilities, which are complemented 
by the global business lines. Our ability to share knowledge 
and expertise can be significant in extending our ongoing 
sustainability work to deliver the outcomes we hope to see.
Q: How does this strategy impact how 
we proceed operationally?
A: ESG principles are already embedded into everything we do. 
The goal of our Sustainable Legacies strategy aims to ensure 
that the work we do in partnership with our clients leaves a 
positive, lasting impact for communities and our planet.
T o give one example, we are now asking our teams globally 
involved in all major projects to incorporate an ESG action 
plan that, if chosen by the client, will reduce carbon impacts by at least 50 percent. We will also be developing and growing 
our dedicated ESG and sustainable services each year. This 
means embedding net-zero, resilience, and social value 
targets into our client account management program and the 
work we bid for and working with clients and partners to drive 
innovation in climate change, sustainable design, and social 
value, among other things.
Internally, we will continue to nurture a culture that promotes 
equity, diversity, and inclusion, and we are committed to reducing 
our carbon footprint, with a goal of meeting science-based net-
zero targets by 2030. We have also implemented an enterprise 
framework to assess ESG risk in pursuing potential projects.
Q: Why is evaluating ESG risk part of  
our process?
A: We want to consider sustainability in every decision 
we make, and that includes improving the effectiveness of 
management and operational decision-making regarding what 
work we do and pursue. Much like we evaluate opportunities 
associated with projects, we want to be certain to better 
consider the risks that may work against us achieving our 
sustainability goals.
In setting an enterprise framework to assess ESG risk, we want 
to make sure we conduct effective due diligence, develop 
appropriate mitigation processes as necessary, and support 
decision-making. Our colleagues who are involved in this sort of 
decision-making will receive regular training on risk guidance.Q&A WITH LARA POLONI, PRESIDENT4 2021 ESG Report 9 2021 ESG ReportSustainable Legacies
Sustainable Legacies is AECOM’s strategy for reaching ambitious ESG objectives. This strategy integrates four 
key pillars that will embed sustainable development and resilience across the company’s work, improve social 
outcomes for communities, achieve net-zero carbon emissions, and enhance governance. AECOM is committed to 
publicly reporting on ESG pillars as we work to enhance performance in the most responsible manner possible. Our 
strategic approach of Sustainable Legacies not only helps us manage and measure our progress, but also helps us 
to engage with key stakeholders from around the world.
Embedding 
Sustainable 
DevelopmentImproving  
Social  
OutcomesAchieving  
Net-Zero  
Carbon EmissionsEnhancing  
GovernanceWhy Now
In ways that are both devastating and transformational, the 
pandemic has brought increasing focus on the weaknesses 
and inequities in the systems that support quality of life and 
prosperity in our already fragile world. It has led us and our 
clients to rethink what’s next, reorder priorities, and accelerate 
changes that not only help repair what’s broken, but lead to 
improved, lasting outcomes.
As the world’s trusted infrastructure consulting firm and a 
leader in ESG, AECOM is determined and well positioned to 
deliver positive, impactful, and sustainable legacies for our 
company, our communities, and our planet. ESG is something 
that we live and breathe. Directly integrating ESG values with our technical excellence and capabilities puts AECOM in the 
best position to be the ESG leader in our industry and to truly 
help deliver a better world and sustainable legacies.
Our clients and the communities we serve need a trusted 
advisor to help them advance these initiatives. Many are 
already turning to us for guidance. Our leadership in markets 
like transportation, environment, buildings + places, and 
water — in partnership with our global program management 
business — puts us at the right place at the right time to apply 
our deep technical expertise and successfully take on that 
advisory role for our clients.
Our Strategy
With ESG principles embedded into everything we do, the goal 
of our Sustainable Legacies strategy is straightforward: to 
ensure that the work we do in partnership with our clients leaves 
a positive, lasting impact for communities and our planet.
Our approach to sustainability includes engaging team 
members across departments and finding collaborative 
ways to achieve high environmental, social, and governance 
standards. Our strategic values ultimately guide all of our 
sustainability efforts and aspirations. Written in alignment with 
the SASB and TCFD framework, our efforts focus on:
• Environmental impacts of project development;
• Structural integrity and safety;
• Workforce health and safety;
• Life-cycle impacts of buildings and infrastructure;
• Climate impacts of our business mix;
• Business ethics; and
• Governance, strategy, and risk management of  
our emissions. These topics were identified through a series of analyses 
of our businesses model. Our strategy reflects today’s 
infrastructure revolution that is transforming our world. The 
technologies leading this revolution are transformational and 
we are keenly focused on initiatives that capitalize on these 
new technologies and business models to create sustainable 
solutions.
One example is our ScopeX™ process, which considers 
materials, site locations, logistics, and construction methods 
to reduce and eliminate the impact the projects we create 
have on the natural environment. We minimize energy use, 
optimize sources of renewable power, and where feasible 
work with and enhance natural habitats to eliminate 
carbon emissions. We believe that ScopeX™ will be our 
biggest contribution to help end the climate emergency. 
By decarbonizing the built environment and supporting 
our clients achieve their net-zero agendas, we’re striving to 
improve the cities and communities we serve, delivering a 
better world.SUSTAINABLE LEGACIES
10 2021 ESG Report 
Embedding Sustainable Development and 
Resilience Across Our Work
• T o incorporate an ESG action plan for reducing carbon 
impact by at least 50 percent on all major projects
• T o develop and grow our dedicated ESG and sustainable 
services each year  
• T o work with clients and partners to drive innovation in 
climate change, sustainable design and social value  
• T o embed net-zero, resilience and social value targets into 
our client account management program and the work 
we bid for  
• T o measure key impacts such as carbon emissions, 
climate resilience and social value on major projects  
 
Improving Social Outcomes
• T o deliver social value through our business, empowering 
staff and delivering projects that proactively improve 
social value outcomes to individuals, communities and 
society in general  
• T o ensure our project teams reflect the diversity of the 
clients and communities we serve  
• T o promote social equity, diversity and inclusion in our 
supply chain and communities through partnerships  
with small and minority-owned businesses  
• T o make strategic community investments that positively 
impact clients, communities and society  
• T o ensure women comprise at least 20 percent of  
senior leadership roles and at least 35 percent of  
the overall workforce
 
Achieving Net-Zero Carbon Emissions
• T o ensure we are operationally net zero by 2021  
• T o reach science-based net -zero by 2030 by:
 -Implementing a 50 percent reduction in  
business travel  
 -Developing carbon reduction targets in  
partnership with our supply chain  
 -Decarbonizing all fleet vehicles and switching  
to renewable energy tariffs  
 -Offsetting residual carbon by creating our  
own nature-based solution projects  SUSTAINABLE LEGACIES
11 2021 ESG ReportDelivering Sustainable Legacies
Our ESG strategy in detail 
Enhancing Governance
• T o develop an enterprise framework to assess ESG risk  
in potential projects  
• T o drive leadership accountability and advocacy through 
specific ESG goals/metrics in annual goals  
• T o track and report on ESG performance targets in line 
with leading industry benchmarks (i.e., Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board [SASB] and T ask Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures [TCFD])
SUSTAINABLE LEGACIES
12 2021 ESG ReportOur Work
Delivering sustainable legacies is a multi-layered endeavor. At 
a micro level, the focus tends to be on sustainability here and 
now: energy strategies to reduce emissions, offsetting and 
other mitigation tactics, sustainable development, resiliency, 
and the creation of a waste-free circular economy. At a macro 
level, sustainability takes a global approach to consumption 
over the long term in the interests of the planet and the whole 
of society.
In line with this and reflecting post-pandemic priorities, we 
have developed four themes of our sustainable legacies 
strategy: embedding sustainable development and resilience 
across our work, improving social outcomes (including equity, 
diversity, and inclusion), achieving net-zero carbon emissions, 
and enhancing governance.
Anytime we can bring a diverse set of capabilities to our 
clients, we know that we are successful. Many of the 
projects we have a hand in feature an element focused on 
delivering Sustainable Legacies, with our work in NEOM in 
Saudi Arabia being a great example. The Kingdom has set 
very bold ambitions for this new mega city, including goals to be net-zero carbon and to be powered 100 percent by 
renewable energy. We are currently overseeing the program 
management of this substantial initiative and have brought 
in a whole host of technical experts who are engaged in 
engineering the backbone infrastructure of this new city. This 
work really underscores the sort of value we are uniquely able 
to bring to clients in helping them build a better and more 
sustainable world.
Another great example is the work we are doing in Bronzeville, 
Illinois, a neighborhood on the southside of Chicago. 
Working with ComEd and the Chicago Housing Authority, 
we are developing the first renewable powered microgrid in 
this underserved community. This project will help address 
transportation, electrification, and broader community 
benefits such as jobs and education. At the same time, 
energy-saving programs are helping residents and businesses 
reduce their utility bills, while other initiatives are creating 
jobs, training the future workforce, and preparing low-income 
high school students for careers in science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics (STEM).
AECOM will lead the design, transport and utilities backbone 
infrastructure for NEOM, a new model for urbanization and 
sustainability located in the northwest region of Saudi Arabia.AECOM remains a worldwide leader in building and maintaining 
sustainable infrastructure as seen by our Chicago site. 
4 2021 ESG Report 13 2021 ESG ReportAECOM’s Materiality-Based  
Approach to ESG 
Written in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board disclosure for the Engineering & 
Construction Services, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the T ask Force on Climate-Related Financial 
standard, this report focuses on the following topics deemed most material to our long-term performance:
• Environmental Leadership,  including our environmental management program, climate change initiatives, 
our pledge to net-zero, and our environmental responsibility. Within these sections we provide an overview 
of our environmental impacts of project development (SASB IF-EN-160a), structural integrity & safety (SASB 
IF-EN-250a), lifecycle impacts of buildings & infrastructure (SASB IF-EN-410a), and climate impacts of our 
business mix (SASB IF-EN-410b). We also discuss the governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics 
related to our climate change endeavors (TCFD). 
• Social Impact,  including diversity initiatives, LGBTQ+, employee turnover, programs for people with 
disabilities, STEM education, veteran support, health & safety, our COVID-19 response, and our local 
community initiatives.  Within these sections, we provide an overview of our Workforce Health & Safety (IF-EN-
320a) and related activity metrics (SASB IF-EN-000). 
• Culture of Governance,  including oversight of our corporate governance program, ethics and integrity, risk 
management, and responsible supply chain management. Within these sections, we provide an overview of 
business ethics (SASB IF-EN-510a) and governance of our climate change program (TCFD). 
We believe that investing in environmental leadership, social impact, and a culture of governance will drive long-
term value for AECOM. Our ESG priorities center on these three elements and we look forward to providing more 
information in the pages that follow. 14 2021 ESG ReportEnvironmental
Leadership
Environmental Management
Climate Change
Pledge to Net-Zero
Environmental ResponsibilityEnvironmental Leadership
With nearly 50,000 talented 
engineers, scientists, 
architects, consultants, and 
program and construction 
managers, along with our 
Board of Directors and 
Executive Leadership T eam, 
we are energized by the 
impact of our work and how 
we can contribute positively 
to society and the planet.ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
15 2021 ESG ReportAs a Professional Services firm, it is imperative that we lead in ESG issues. AECOM is committed 
to responsible environmental practices that include climate change adaptation and resilience, 
conservation of natural resources, advancing biodiversity, pollution prevention, and reduction of 
waste. We strive to continue developing environmental programs to protect our planet, employees, 
communities, and future generations by focusing on mitigation, prevention, and opportunity. 
At AECOM, we focus on delivering innovative, pragmatic, and resilient sustainable development 
solutions. Our business and policy teams weave sustainable development solutions into the 
daily activities of our clients, to assist in making better decisions around investment, corporate 
strategies, supply chains, and procurement across all sectors. We also are in partnership with 
some of the leading academic institutions, enhancing our research and development capability.
On track to  
achieve operational  
net-zero   
carbon emissions   
by the end of 2021 Introduced  
ScopeX™  
a first-of-its-kind  
initiative to reduce 
carbon across the 
entire project life cycleCommitted to developing  
1.5°C aligned   
science-based targets   
and delivering net-zero 
science-based targets  
by 2030ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
16Environmental Management
Environmental sustainability is critical for competitiveness 
and business success. The sustainability of operations, 
products, supply chains, and infrastructure projects are 
central to sustained value creation, growth, and resilience. 
We are committed to creating environmental awareness with 
our employees and other partners and to engaging them to 
reduce consumption of natural resources; preserve air, soil, 
and water quality; manage waste properly and encourage 
reuse or recycling; reduce use of toxic substances; and apply 
an ethical approach to source reduction and disposal efforts. 
Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is designed 
to help limit the impact on the environment. It forms part of 
the Integrated Management System (IMS), which covers the 
approach to health, safety, environment, quality, and risk. An 
2021 ESG ReportClimate Change
A key aspect of AECOM’s ESG strategy is our climate 
change response. We do not limit our thinking on emissions 
reductions simply to environmental issues. We also consider 
the vast impacts climate change can and will have on all 
the communities we serve, especially on people who live in 
vulnerable areas and will be disproportionately affected. The 
2018 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report 
showed we need to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees to 
avoid the worst effects of climate change, requiring significant 
changes globally, including from companies. This is echoed 
by the goals of the Paris Agreement which is the first-ever 
universal, legally binding global climate change agreement. 
The science therefore requires reduction of GHG emissions 
in line with the Paris Agreement and achieving ‘net zero’ 
emissions ahead of 2050 to avoid the worst impacts of 
climate change. This is what our new net zero targets align 
with: science-based net zero by 2030 and operational net 
zero by 2021. A science-based net zero target is a new 
concept which commits a company to decarbonizing as 
quickly as possible across its value chain (in line with the Paris 
Agreement) and then neutralizing any remaining emissions 
through carbon offsetting. Operational net zero allows us to 
contribute more climate impact and be ready for our science-
based net zero target. AECOM complies with all applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements to control and reduce emissions and energy 
usage in our operations. We recognize the need to comply with 
strict environmental standards and an increasing number of 
environmental laws and regulations. We are committed to making 
the necessary investments in systems and technology to ensure 
compliance and to meet or exceed these standards. We are 
committed to improving our energy efficiency, as this is the 
largest and most cost-effective way to reduce CO2 emissions.
We have invested in technological advancements focused 
on our service offerings in order to increase efficiencies, 
lower our operating costs, optimize capital expenditures, and 
add value for our customers. We have identified and shared 
opportunities for continued improvement on energy efficiency 
company-wide and launched several global initiatives 
designed to reduce energy consumption in our facilities. We 
are continuously researching and designing innovative ways 
to boost efficiency, such as utilizing high-efficiency electrical 
equipment including LED and motion detector lighting, solar 
panels, and high-efficiency HVAC units. We believe that our 
focus on innovation, with the objective of reducing costs 
and improving sustainability of our operations, provides a 
strategic benefit through the ability to fund, develop, and 
implement new technologies and quickly respond to changes 
in customer requirements and industry demand.effective EMS means we can be confident in the focus on 
reducing both direct and indirect impacts on the environment, 
including reducing carbon footprints, and supporting clients 
with sustainability solutions.
Our EMS is managed at each site by a site-level Environmental, 
Health, and Safety manager, who ensures that the system is 
implemented and maintained. Environmental data from all sites 
are collected by our Chief Safety, Health and Environment 
Officer  and reported to our Safety, Risk and Sustainability 
Committee. In 2021, we also began reporting environmental 
management topics to the Safety, Risk, and Sustainability 
Committee of the Board. Our Environmental Policy and Safety 
Policy are available to all employees, customers, and suppliers 
on our website, and both are regularly reviewed at operational 
meetings throughout the company. Climate Change Oversight
AECOM’s CEO, T roy Rudd, leads the Executive Leadership 
T eam, which comprises senior executives representing all 
business segments and retains overall responsibility for Safety, 
Health, and Environment (SH&E) and Enterprise Sustainability, 
including climate-related issues, policies, and strategy. Our CEO 
implemented the development of the ESG Global Council and 
commenced our process of developing ESG and specifically 
greenhouse gas reduction strategies. AECOM’s President, 
Lara Poloni, and Chief Legal Officer, David Gan, both report to 
our CEO and are co-Chairs of our ESG Global Council, which 
was launched in September 2020 and comprises dozens 
of sustainability experts and business leaders across the 
organization to best advise on all ESG-related matters.
Subsequently, this leadership was responsible for developing 
our Sustainable Legacies strategy that launched in April 2021 
and includes a multitude of commitments on ESG matters 
and associated targets, such as our commitment to achieving 
science-based net-zero carbon by 2030. The ESG Global 
Council is also actively involved in reviewing and mitigating 
climate-related risks associated with our project portfolio.
The responsibility for assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities related to our own operations, including 
our greenhouse gas reduction target, also lies with the ESG 
Global Council. The President is responsible for our global 
operations, including the advancement of our ESG priorities 
across the business, and is also in charge of the global SH&E 
Organization and the Enterprise Sustainability Program. As 
Executive Sponsors for ESG and as co-leads of the ESG Global 
Council, both the President and the Chief Legal Officer are 
responsible for providing status updates on SH&E (including 
climate-related) program initiatives, objectives, and targets to our 
Board on a regular basis. 
The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) steering committee 
provides an established continuous improvement platform 
that actively assesses, analyzes, and works cross-functionally 
to identify and mitigate AECOM’s inherent and strategic risk 
profile, including risks related to energy and climate change, 
concurrently empowering associated enablers. The team 
actively monitors AECOM’s risk profile and facilitates risk-based, 
efficient, cross-functional solutions. The team facilitates the preparation of reports on AECOM’s risk profile that are regularly 
shared with management and the Board of Directors. Risks are 
reported via three key risk indicators: exposure, readiness, and 
performance. 
Climate Change Challenges and Opportunities
AECOM sees numerous challenges and opportunities 
resulting from climate change and emerging from our 
strategic initiatives. The identification and execution of those 
opportunities is the responsibility of our Climate Change and 
Resilience T echnical Practice Group and our GHG and Zero 
Emissions T echnical Practice Group, which are responsible for 
providing technical climate change services to clients.
In the short-term, there are emerging mandates on and regulation 
of existing products and services that may lead to increased 
indirect operating costs. However, this presents an opportunity 
for the development of appropriate relief services that may lead 
to increased demand for products and solutions. In the medium 
term, AECOM views changing customer behavior as a risk that 
may lead to decreased revenue along with emerging regulation, 
but the development or expansion of low emission goods and 
services may lead to increased revenues. Furthermore, the 
development of climate adaptation, resilience, and insurance risk 
solutions could increase the demand for our services.
Furthermore, the market opportunities associated with 
sustainability, including climate-related services, are rigorously 
assessed as part of our annual planning. This review includes 
estimating growth due to a predicted increase in demand for 
climate services. Conversely, the impact on some of our work 
that is more exposed to climate change, such as work with 
coal, is also assessed. 
These challenges and opportunities will continue to be 
evaluated and expanded as part of our ongoing commitment 
to reporting against the TCFD framework in particular.
Climate Change Risk Management
Our ERM program identifies external and internal threats 
to physical assets, data, and intellectual property, as well 
as vulnerabilities that exist within them. Based on the 
enumeration of those assets and threats, we develop  ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
17 2021 ESG Reporteffective risk management strategies and improve resilience. 
The prioritization of risks is done through a collaborative 
process of discussing the main risk profiles with relevant 
stakeholders on an ongoing basis and evaluating the potential 
impact, the level of exposure (vulnerability) as a company to 
that risk, and speed of onset.
Our prioritization process is based on the size (in potential 
revenue) of an opportunity as well as our relationship and 
competitive advantage with the client. Subsequently, AECOM 
adapts to changing global business environments and risk 
conditions through its strategic resiliency practices, led by ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
18 2021 ESG Reportour Global Security and Resiliency (GSR) Department, which 
includes global oversight and coordination of disruptive 
event response and business continuity management. 
These teams focus on identifying threats across the globe 
before they come to fruition, while creating strong and 
effective countermeasures that safeguard our data, people, 
projects, and communities. These teams are composed of 
representatives from communications, human resources, 
legal, facilities, and real estate to help anticipate, act on, and 
learn from disruptive events.
The Climate Pledge
Reflecting our commitment to leading in sustainability 
alongside our clients, AECOM became a signatory to the 
Amazon Climate Pledge in 2021. The Climate Pledge calls on 
companies and organizations to be net-zero carbon across 
their businesses by 2040. Signatories of the Pledge commit to 
three principal areas of action:
Regular Reporting  
Measure and report greenhouse gas emissions  
on a regular basis;
Carbon Elimination   
Implement decarbonization strategies in line with the Paris 
Agreement through real business changes and innovations, 
including efficiency improvements, renewable energy, 
materials reductions, and other carbon emission  
elimination strategies;
Credible Offsets  
Neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, 
quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially-beneficial offsets 
to achieve net zero annual carbon emissions by 2040.Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions for FY’20
SCOPEFY‘18 
(BASELINE) FY‘20
Scope 1 & 2  
(MT CO2e)138,025 94,019
Supply chain 
(Scope 3)  
(MT CO2e)2,740,962 2,550,319
Total  
(MT CO2e)2,878,987 2,644,339
32%   
Reduction in
Scope 1 and 2
emissions 7%   
Reduction in
supply chain
emissions
Since publishing of our Annual Report for FY’20, we have 
continued to reviewed our emissions data to ensure all inputs 
are captured correctly and accurately. In particular, this included 
a close review of our supply chain spend data, which resulted 
primarily in the exclusion of several spend categories associated 
with passthrough costs that have no emissions associated with 
such transactions that previously had emissions factors applied 
to them. As a result, the data above represents a substantial 
reduction from our previously reported data. Our emissions 
reduction trajectory remains largely consistent with our prior 
reports, and we have rebaselined any associated targets to 
reflect this most current data.ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
19 2021 ESG ReportEnvironmental Responsibility
AECOM has committed to manage and report its key 
environmental impacts and make corrective actions where 
necessary. This includes reporting in line with industry 
standards and regulations as well as using its enterprise 
ESG risk framework to assess project risks including 
environmental risks. AECOM also commits to embed 
environmental sustainability into its work, including through 
its ‘ScopeX™’ process requiring carbon reduction on major 
design projects. 
AECOM has committed to delivering net-zero operations 
in 2021 and a net-zero value chain by 2030, as part of its 
sweeping new ESG strategy. The climate commitments 
detailed in Sustainable Legacies build on AECOM’s 
membership to Amazon’s Climate Pledge and its work in co-
founding the Pledge to Net-Zero for our sector.
As part of that AECOM is committed to improving travel 
performance by implementing our T ravel with Purpose 
guidance prioritizing digital tools instead of traveling (for 
business and commuting), and if travel is necessary, 
prioritizing sustainable modes of travel (e.g. walking, 
cycling, public transportation and zero emissions vehicles) 
in conjunction with a location-specific risk assessment. 
This also requires improving the efficiency of our vehicles 
and investing in low or zero emissions vehicles over time. 
AECOM will also advance environmentally sustainable 
offices to achieve our net zero targets. This means 
implementing our Fast Forward Global Guidelines to 
improve sustainability as standard, including through site 
selection and considering energy use and sourcing (with an 
aim to increase the amount of renewable energy used). We are also partnering with clients to advance their 
sustainability initiatives and progress more environmentally 
conscious infrastructure. Just to give a few examples, we are:
• Helping energy giant Shell with their focus on 
transitioning fuel stations to hydrogen stations;
• Partnering with AMPL Y Power, which provides charging-
as-a-service to fleet operators, to help bus fleet owners 
accelerate zero emission initiatives;
• Supporting the Los Angeles Department of 
T ransportation’s transition to electric buses;
• Working with electric utility Commonwealth Edison 
(ComEd) and the Chicago Housing Authority to address 
transportation, electrification, and broader community 
benefits such as jobs and education; and
• Leading on decarbonization measurement and 
biodiversity impact through our innovative work at the 
Natural Capital Laboratory in the U.K.
T o achieve our science-based net zero target, AECOM will 
continue to work hard on reducing supply chain emissions. 
This means improving accuracy of emissions data reporting 
and management, regularly collecting supplier emissions data 
and target information, and collaborating with suppliers so they 
can set leading targets and reduce emissions accordingly. 
Environmental sustainability and ESG are key elements 
that will be embedded into our procurement processes. 
Our latest Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change 
response scored above the industry average. We continue our 
commitment to addressing climate risk as part of our business 
strategy by disclosing our climate-related risks. AECOM is also 
focused on developing and implementing energy efficiency 
and savings programs to managing the construction of LEED 
Platinum buildings and creating proprietary solutions for the 
cleanup of emerging contaminants.
20 2021 ESG ReportSocial Impact
Thrive with AECOM 
Social Value
LGBTQ+ Equity
Turnover
People with Disabilities 
STEM  Education 
Veteran Support 
Health, Safety and Wellness
COVID-19 Response
Our CommunityBy developing our strategy 
with a focus on improving 
social outcomes and 
supported by the strength 
of our technical excellence, 
global collaboration, and 
local engagement, we will 
continue to drive innovation 
in our industry.SOCIAL IMPACT
21 2021 ESG ReportSocial Impact
We believe AECOM’s most important asset is our people, which is why we’ve solidified our 
core values and strive to uphold them every day.
Recognizing that promoting diversity in ideas and perspectives makes us a better, more 
innovative company, AECOM reaffirmed its commitment to extending a culture of equity, 
diversity, and inclusion (ED&I) throughout our global enterprise. From creating a reverse 
mentoring program pairing junior professionals with our executive leadership team to 
expanding employee resource groups, we continue to ensure AECOM remains a place where 
our talent thrives, while we deliver superior business results and enrich our communities.
Nearly  
50,000   
employees  
worldwide  Ensuring that  
women account  
for at least   
35%   
across our  
companyEnsuring that  
women account  
for at least   
20%  
of senior  
leadershipT o empower those in our industry to thrive, we’re focused on 
four key areas to drive greater equity, diversity, and inclusion 
within AECOM and beyond:
 
We encourage every one of our team members to form 
deeper relationships with those around them based on mutual 
respect, dignity, and understanding. In addition, we include 
a variety of stakeholders in proactive engagement to gather 
feedback, increase transparency, and further understanding.Thrive with AECOM
Our commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion  
enables us to better anticipate our clients’ needs, understand 
the challenges facing the communities we serve, drive 
innovation that propels our industry forward, and realize our 
purpose of delivering a better world.
Our Board of Directors recognizes that a diverse workforce 
and a culture of equity and inclusion helps us compete more 
effectively, sustain success, and build long-term shareholder 
value. In leading from the top, the Nominating and Governance 
Committee considers a variety of diversity characteristics for 
board composition, including business experience, geography, 
age, gender, and ethnicity. We believe that supporting and 
promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace brings new 
perspectives that can result in new ideas and help mitigate risk.
Our commitment to diversity starts with our goal to attract, 
retain, and develop a workforce that is diverse in background, 
knowledge, skills, and experience. As of September 30, 2020, 
across our global employee base, approximately 32.5 percent 
were women. Our leadership includes representation from a 
diverse array of communities, with approximately 56 percent 
of our executive team and 45 percent of our Board being from 
a diverse background in regards to race, ethnicity, gender and 
sexual orientation. In addition, we have implemented diversity-
specific KPIs and associated near- and long-term targets in 
each region within our business.SOCIAL IMPACT
22 2021 ESG Report
Building Diverse  
Talent
Expanding 
Understanding
Enriching  
Communities
Thinking Without 
Limits
Social Value
At AECOM, we believe that investing in local communities 
to create social and economic outcomes is at the heart of 
generating social value. We work with our clients, partners 
and suppliers to link the opportunities presented by our 
projects to the needs of the local communities we operate 
in, delivering a positive, lasting legacy. As we transition our 
economies to net zero carbon, we recognize that businesses 
must deliver the employment, skills and business outcomes to 
sustain this green economy. Social Value is critical to achieving 
our ESG strategy and making sure that no one is left behind:• Ensuring a just and equitable transition that delivers 
sustainable employment opportunities
• Utilizing our technical expertise and STEM activity to 
develop a skilled workforce of the future that represents 
the communities we live and work in
• Supporting local economies by contracting with local 
SMEs and building capacity within our supply chains
• Delivering on our core values by engaging with communities 
to deliver projects that improve their wellbeing 
LGBTQ+ Equity
AECOM’s commitment to the LGBTQ+ community is reflected 
in our company’s policies. We offer same-sex domestic 
partner benefits and have a strong anti-discrimination 
policy. Beyond these measures, to make our employees 
feel welcome and included, we recognize and contribute to 
LGBTQ+ community initiatives, including AECOM’s features 
locally based Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) Committees, 
onsite townhalls, and participation in national I&D groups. 
Furthermore, for Pride Month, we held a roundtable discussion 
with our LGBTQ+ colleagues and allies, who shared their 
experiences including an interview with our Board member, 
Sander van’t Noordende.
Employee Turnover 
As a Professional Services business, we are focused on 
ensuring we attract and retain the best talent in the industry. 
As a result, we continually review our compensation and 
rewards practices, conduct annual performance reviews, and 
provide substantive professional development opportunities, 
among other initiatives. Reflecting our successes, turnover 
within our permanent employees and within our high 
performers has remained below our internal targets in fiscal 
2020, and while turnover has increased in fiscal 2021 as 
anticipated and as the headwinds from the pandemic have 
begun to ease, we continue to maintain turnover in alignment 
with industry benchmarks.
People with Disabilities
The inclusion of people with disabilities helps drive our 
sustainable revolution for our employees, communities, 
and customers. As such, AECOM provides a training course 
for employees on disability inclusion in the workplace. 
Reasonable accommodations at AECOM include adaptive 
equipment, allowances for on-site service animals, flexible 
work arrangements, special parking assignments, hotlines, 
and a number of other inclusive services. STEM  Education
AECOM believes the infrastructure industry needs to diversify 
and engage with young people if it is to avoid a future 
recruitment crisis. Furthermore, it is more important than ever 
to continue engaging with schools to attract the best talent. 
The need to attract the best talent in the industry remains — 
as does the need to be more inclusive and employ people 
from a diverse range of backgrounds. As key stakeholders in 
the infrastructure industry, engaging and investing in social 
value is no longer optional, it’s essential. As a result, AECOM 
partnered with nonprofit organizations across the globe to:
• Grow the number of students who earn a STEM degree;
• Increase underrepresented minorities in STEM fields; and
• Continue to support STEM initiatives, including being the 
Titanium Sponsor of the virtual 2021Joint Engineer T raining 
Conference, an educational and networking forum whose 
mission is to lead collaborative efforts to identify and resolve 
national security infrastructure-related challenges.
Veteran Support
AECOM is a long-time supporter of veteran communities, 
with more than 9,000 veteran employees working on projects 
around the world. Their strong leadership, team-building, 
and analytical skills, as well as unwavering commitment to a 
job well done, are critical when the work involves managing 
complexity, making decisions in the face of uncertainty, and 
ensuring safe operations in high-risk environments.
We value the outstanding contributions veterans make to 
our contract performance and overall business success, and 
AECOM has a long-standing commitment to supporting those 
who serve as well as those who have returned to civilian life. As 
part of this commitment, AECOM partners with organizations 
such as the Wounded Warrior Project, Semper Fi Fund, 
American Corporate Partners, the Officers’ Association, and the 
Career T ransition Partnership, which ensure veterans have the 
support they need during and after their service.
SOCIAL IMPACT
23 2021 ESG Report
SOCIAL IMPACT
24 2021 ESG ReportHealth, Safety, and Well-being
Core to our corporate values is safeguarding our people and 
fostering a culture of caring that promotes the well-being 
of our employees, contractors, and business partners. We 
protect our people, projects, and reputation by striving for 
zero employee injuries and illnesses, while operating and 
delivering our work responsibly and sustainably. 
We maintain best-in-class lost workday case and recordable 
incident rates, and our safety performance is consistently 
recognized by key clients across the regions where we work 
as well as by recognized safety organizations. Specifically, 
AECOM has been commended by clients and councils with 
numerous safety awards across the globe over the course of 
fiscal 2020, including the 2020 Ground Investigation and the 
2020 Health and Safety Award Recognizing AECOM T raining’s 
safety initiative to ensure plant and rig conformity/compliance. 
From the United States National Safety Council (NSC) alone, 
AECOM received 157 awards; in addition, hundreds of AECOM 
supervisors earned Safety Qualified Supervisor status, 
demonstrating their commitment to our values and their 
outstanding leadership abilities. 
In fiscal 2020, our T otal Recordable Incident Rate in our 
Professional Services businesses improved by 31% over the 
prior year to 0.11, and our Lost Workday Case Rate improved 
by 40% to 0.03. Both of these metrics reflect a world-
class level of safety performance and the benefits of our 
restructuring activities throughout the year.Safety requires focus and continuous effort. We thoroughly 
investigate serious incidents and near misses to identify root 
causes. The knowledge gleaned from our analysis forms the 
basis for modified behaviors, more effective safety programs, 
and improved communications and training on safety issues. 
We are also committed to fostering the physical and mental 
well-being of our workforce. We provide a comprehensive 
and competitive benefits package that supports the health 
and financial wellness of our people. Some common features 
offered to our employees in 2020 include the following: 
• Medical, dental, and vision benefits for employee, spouse, 
and dependents;
• Flexible spending accounts for both healthcare and 
dependent care;
• Health savings accounts and health reimbursement 
accounts;
• 401(k) retirement savings program with company 
matching contributions;
• Short-term and long-term disability benefits;
• Mental health resources and assistance programs;
• Wellness incentives for employees; and
•  Employee assistance program.
Furthermore, we provide our employees several opportunities 
to focus on physical, mental, and financial wellness by 
maintaining paid vacation, holiday, family leave, and sick leave, 
adoption support, fertility support, and maternity/paternity 
support programs.
Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR)
FY’19 FY’20 31%  
0.16 0.11Lost Workday Case Rate  
(LWCR)
FY’19 FY’20 40%  
0.05 0.03Community Engagement
We are passionate about being good corporate citizens 
in the communities where we live and work. Through 
strategic nonprofit partnerships, pro bono work, skills-based 
volunteering, and philanthropy, Blueprint for a Better World, 
our corporate responsibility platform, is focused on delivering 
access to safe and secure infrastructure to those who need 
it most, creating opportunity for the leaders of tomorrow, and 
protecting our planet. T ogether, these efforts will allow AECOM 
to fulfill its purpose to deliver a better world.
As part of the Blueprint pro bono program, our technical experts 
partnered with nonprofit organizations in their local communities 
to provide critical design, engineering, and infrastructure 
solutions. In fiscal 2020, we continued to further our employees’ 
passion through the Blueprint T ravel Grant program, which 
allowed us to assist in building dormitories to further Peruvian 
girls’ education, purifying drinking water on Zinga Island in 
central Uganda, strengthening engineering ecosystems in 
Sub-Saharan Africa, and designing and fundraising for a women 
and children’s center in Kosovo. In addition, we sustained our 
commitment to our enterprise strategic nonprofit partners, 
Engineers Without Borders and Water for People.
Volunteerism is a big part of who we are at AECOM, and it 
takes form in many ways. From individuals committing their 
time to help local nonprofits to small and large employee 
groups teaming up to support community initiatives.
25 2021 ESG ReportSOCIAL IMPACT
• Nearly 200 AECOM employees across 32 countries 
provided feedback, encouragement, and coaching to 
girls in middle and high school as they developed mobile 
applications to address real-world challenges related to 
food waste, nutrition, the environment, and more.
• During the 30 days of our inaugural Blueprint Service 
Month, AECOM offices held 34 events with more than 
800 volunteers supporting 29 nonprofit organizations.
• Regional events included homeless initiatives, mentorship 
of youth in business, collecting food for the elderly, 
environmental clean-up, and participation in a community 
garden beautification project.
Furthermore, we partner with nonprofit organizations that work to 
increase the number of individuals with technical skills, decrease 
the number of individuals facing economic barriers, and make 
our communities better via innovation and improvement.COVID-19 Response
As soon as the pandemic began, we took immediate action to 
ensure employees were safe and accounted for and to maintain 
business continuity for our clients. In each of our markets, 
we have been doing our part to help contain the spread of 
COVID-19 and enable a safe work environment by following the 
lead of our safety and health experts, as well as guidance from 
public health organizations and government agencies.
In March 2020, we suspended all business-related travel 
until further notice and began transitioning our employees to 
work-from-home arrangements. As of December 31, 2020, 
90 percent of our employees were working remotely. Despite having the majority of our workforce working remotely, 
we continue to maintain our commitment to ensuring our 
employees’ health, safety, and wellness, including employee 
support programs to aid employees and their families most 
directly impacted by the pandemic. We continue to follow 
recommendations from the World Health Organization and 
the Centers for Disease Control, including practicing social 
distancing, increased cleaning and sanitizing of workstations, 
and implementing screening procedures for on-site 
employees. We continue to adapt our business continuity 
plans to address the changing needs of the business. 
Culture of  
Governance
Oversight
Ethics and Integrity
Risk Management
Responsible Supply  
Chain Management
26 2021 ESG ReportAECOM is governed by an  
11 person Board of Directors. 
Our Board of Directors’ 
mission is to represent the 
owners’ interest in the long-
term health and the overall 
success of the business and 
its financial strength.Culture of Governance
AECOM is committed to achieving excellence in our governance practices to establish a strong 
foundation for the long-term success of our company. We emphasize a culture of accountability 
and conduct our business in a manner that is fair, ethical, and responsible to earn the trust of 
our stakeholders, including customers, employees, investors, partners, and regulators and 
communities. We also maintain robust risk management programs to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations governing ethical business practices. 
AECOM has comprehensive corporate governance policies and structures in place to foster 
accountability and transparency for our Board of Directors and management team. These 
policies reflect our underlying commitment to maintain the highest standards of ethics and 
integrity and to operate our business in compliance with all applicable anti-corruption, anti-
bribery, and anti-trust laws and regulations.
27 2021 ESG ReportCULTURE OF GOVERNANCE
45%  
of directors are diverse* 
including self-identifying 
as LGBTQ+64%   
of Board members  
are new within the  
last two years36%   
of directors  
are women  
* Our leadership includes representation from a diverse array of communities, including race, ethnicity, gender, and sexual orientation.CULTURE OF GOVERNANCE
28Oversight
AECOM’s Board of Directors, consisting of eleven directors, is 
responsible for oversight of the management of our company 
and its business for the long-term benefit of our stakeholders. 
The Board sets the tone for AECOM and operates under a 
set of published Corporate Governance Guidelines, which 
are based on best practices that meet or exceed the existing 
standards of the New Y ork Stock Exchange and requirements 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 5 of the 11 
directors at the 2021 Annual Meeting were diverse, consisting 
of four women, including one African American woman, and 
one director who self-identifies as LGBTQ+. In August 2020, 
AECOM separated the roles of Chairman and CEO. The Board 
believes that this structure streamlines decision-making 
and promotes accountability. Annual self-assessments 
at the Board and Committee levels are conducted by an 
independent third-party for objectivity, and members may 
choose to participate anonymously. Results are shared with 
Board members annually. Questionnaires monitoring potential 
related-party transactions and other conflicts of interest are 
also administered on a regular basis. 
Our Board of Directors includes four standing committees: 
the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Organization 
2021 ESG ReportCommittee, the Nominating and Governance Committee, and 
the Safety, Risk, and Sustainability Committee. 
In November 2020, the Risk and Safety Committee was 
refocused to include further oversight of sustainability 
matters. As a result, the Safety, Risk, and Sustainability 
Committee has direct oversight of our company’s ESG 
policies and programs, including reviewing and evaluating ESG 
plans and practices, overseeing the development and use of 
future ESG metrics, and reviewing the annual ESG report. As 
the highest governing body that oversees ESG issues within 
our company, the Committee receives regular updates and 
information on sustainability matters. 
AECOM continues to evolve and improve upon its ESG 
strategy and is implementing and managing long-term, 
strategic sustainability initiatives. The Board and its 
Committees continues to oversee this effort including the 
establishment of our company’s ESG Council in 2021. The 
Council includes seven cross-functional teams of leaders 
representing operations, human resources, supply chain, 
regulatory compliance, finance, marketing communications, 
investor relations, facilities, and the legal department. 
Co-chaired by the President and Chief Legal Officer, the Global Council 
includes leaders comprising roles within:
Hundreds of representatives with each of our Regions and Global Business 
Lines that are trained on our Sustainable Legacies strategy and key 
ESG risks that can ensure ESG considerations are incorporated into our 
business on a daily basis.• Operations
• Sustainability & ESG  
Advisory Consultants  • Legal
• Finance
• Communications
• RiskBOARD
LEADERSHIP
ENTERPRISE
BUSINESS/REGIONS/ 
OPERATIONSEXECUTIVE SPONSORSBoard of Directors
Chief Executive Officer
President
Global  
ESG Council
Regional  
ESG AdvisorsSRS Committee
Chief Legal OfficerESG Governance Structure CULTURE OF GOVERNANCE
29 2021 ESG ReportEthics and Integrity
AECOM is committed to ethics and integrity, and we adhere to 
the highest standards of ethics and compliance while delivering 
excellence to our clients. Our Code of Conduct outlines our 
legal guidelines and ethical principles that help each of us make 
the right decisions when conducting business worldwide. 
Our commitment to ethics and compliance starts at the 
top. AECOM’s Board, including through its Nominating and 
Governance Committee, has oversight of our company’s 
general policy relating to the support of trade associations, 
political organizations, and lobbying activities. AECOM conducts 
several forms of training relating to lobbying, including annual 
training and certification regarding our company’s Code of 
Conduct, and specialized training for company employees 
involved in the engagement of lobbyists and other advocates.
As part of our underlying commitment to operating our 
business ethically and fairly, AECOM has policies and 
procedures in place to meet or exceed all applicable anti-
corruption laws and regulations. T o help ensure that AECOM 
is fostering the best possible work environment, we also 
maintain a rigorous Anti-Corruption Policy, a Human Rights 
Statement, and an Anti-Human T rafficking Statement/Modern 
Slavery Policy.  
Risk Management
AECOM recognizes that effectively managing enterprise 
risks is critically important to the long-term success of our 
business. Management is responsible for our company’s 
day-to-day risk management activities. Our company relies 
on a comprehensive risk management process to aggregate, 
monitor, measure, and manage risks. The risk management 
process is designed to enable the Board to establish a mutual 
understanding with management of the effectiveness of the 
company’s risk management practices and capabilities, to 
review the company’s risk exposure, and to elevate certain key 
risks for discussion at the Board level.
Our risk management program ensures that management is 
monitoring and controlling such operational risks as business 
continuity, compliance risk, reputational risk, technology risks 
involving information security, and others. In March 2020, our  
Plan was utilized as part of our COVID-19 response. In 2020 and 2021, as part of our increased focus on ESG issues, 
AECOM included sustainability risks such as climate change and 
equity, diversity, and inclusion in its assessment of critical risks. 
Plans and procedures to monitor and address any gaps identified 
are included in regular updates to the Board and its Committees.
ESG Risk
As the world’s most trusted infrastructure consulting firm, the 
most significant ESG issues that affect us are related to our 
client work. There are opportunities but also risks that we need to 
manage for our clients and for our company, better allowing us to 
deliver a better world. That is why we use an ESG risk framework 
that allows all our employees to assess and manage this risk 
right from project selection stage. Every opportunity is looked at 
through the ESG risk framework which identifies riskier project 
types from an environmental, social and governance perspective. 
If any of these are relevant then appropriate mitigations need 
to be documented and explored as part of our risk committee 
process. This allows a decision to be made on project pursuit and 
how to include appropriate mitigations throughout the project as 
necessary. This process is supported by ESG risk training and a 
network of ESG Risk Advisors throughout our Regions. 
Responsible Supplier Engagement
AECOM is committed to working with suppliers willing to 
support our sustainability and human rights initiatives. We 
believe that managing a responsible supply chain includes a 
proactive approach to supplier onboarding combined with a 
diligent auditing process to assess potential supply chain risks. 
While we exercise strong supply chain management practices, 
we do not have full control over our supply chain nor the 
suppliers we do business with; however, when working with 
customers with environmental product considerations, our 
engineers utilize strategies to minimize operating costs of 
assets through the use of new technologies that eliminate 
inefficiencies, saving energy and non-renewable resources, 
improving product quality, and reducing environmental 
impacts and costs. In addition, we continually seek to partner 
with suppliers that share common values and a shared 
commitment to our ESG objectives. T o promote supply chain 
transparency, we expect our suppliers to fully comply with 
AECOM’s Conflict Mineral Policy and provide all necessary 
conflict minerals content declarations.  4 2021 ESG Report 30 2021 ESG ReportSASB and TCFD Tables
This annex expands transparency through key quantitative data compiled in accordance with the SASB and 
TCFD frameworks and standards, along with additional details on our workforce, revenues, sales, stakeholders, 
locations, and certification, and alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Report data 
covers all global operations unless otherwise noted. This report contains forward-looking statements, including 
our commitments, targets, and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are subject to 
risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. Factors that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements are set forth in our SEC filings. All forward-
looking statements are based on management’s current assumptions, estimates, and projections. 
AECOM believes our role as a corporate leader is to ensure that the work we do in partnership with our clients 
leaves a positive, lasting impact for communities and our planet. In developing our ESG Report, we have 
compiled metrics organized by key ESG themes incorporated within our tables and throughout our organization. APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
31 2021 ESG ReportApproach to Sustainable Growth
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a series of interlinked goals adopted by UN 
member states in 2015. These goals focus on creating a fairer, more just world with more 
sustainable economic and environmental practices by 2030. The goals are ambitious and will 
only succeed through the combined efforts of government, business  and civil society. 
AECOM supports the SDGs, and recognizing the importance  of the 
goals, we have linked our priority areas to them.  We have prioritized 
several goals that most align with  our business and where we can 
make a positive impact  around the world. 
No Poverty
End poverty in all its forms everywhere.Reduce Inequalities
Reducing all forms of inequality within and among 
countries
Good Health and Well Being
Providing equitable access of health services for all and end 
preventable deaths.Sustainable Cities and Communities
Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
Quality Education
Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.Responsible Consumption and Production
Encourages more sustainable consumption and 
production patterns through various measures
Clean Water and Sanitation
Safe drinking water and sanitation are human rights and 
fundamental to human health and well-being.Climate Change
T ake urgent action to combat climate change and  
its impacts
Affordable and Clean Energy
Affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all  
by 2030Life Under Water
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and 
marine resources for sustainable development.
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work  
for all.Life On Land
Seeks to protect, restore and promote the conservation 
and sustainable use of terrestrial, inland-water and 
mountain ecosystems
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovation.Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Dedicated to the promotion of peaceful and inclusive 
societies for sustainable development, the provision 
of access to justice for all, and building effective, 
accountable institutions at all levelsTOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Environmental 
Impacts  
of Project 
DevelopmentNumber of incidents of 
non-compliance with 
environmental permits, 
standards, and regulationsIF-EN-160a.1Page 14  
10K ReportSignificant fines, penalties and other sanctions 
may be imposed for non-compliance with 
environmental and health and safety laws and 
regulations, and some laws provide for joint and 
several strict liabilities for remediation of releases 
of hazardous substances, rendering a person 
liable for environmental damage, without regard to 
negligence or fault on the part of such person.
Any material costs in this regard would be 
disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Discussion of processes 
to assess and manage 
environmental risks 
associated with project 
design, siting, and 
constructionIF-EN-160a.2Pages 10, 15  
ESG ReportAECOM manages its operational environmental 
performance with a certified environmental 
management system (EMS). The Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) steering committee 
provides an established continuous improvement 
platform that actively assesses, analyzes and 
works cross-functionally to identify and mitigate 
AECOM’s inherent and strategic risk profile.  
The prioritization of risks is done through a 
collaborative process of discussing the main risk 
profiles with relevant stakeholders on an ongoing 
basis. AECOM’s Resilience Process begins 
with the Resilience Plan Risk Assessment and 
Business Impact Analysis at the local level. 
These teams are composed of representatives 
from communications, human resources, legal, 
facilities, and real estate to help anticipate, act 
on and learn from disruptive events. This risk 
assessment is vital to determining resilience 
priorities specific to our various operations globally 
and enables local resilience teams to develop 
realistic Resilience Plans around the most probable 
and highest risks in their geographic location.
Structural 
Integrity  
and SafetyAmount of defect- and  
safety-related rework costsIF-EN-250a.1 n/aWe do not have defect- and safety-related  
rework costs. Any material costs in this regard 
would be disclosed in our periodic reports filed 
with the SEC.
T otal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with defect- and safety-
related incidentsIF-EN-250a.2Page 32  
10K ReportWe are involved in various investigations, claims and 
lawsuits in the normal conduct of our business. We 
are not always aware if we or our affiliates are under 
investigation or the status of such matters. Any 
material costs in this regard would be disclosed in 
our periodic reports filed with the SEC.FY‘20 SASB TableFY‘20 SASB TABLE
32 2021 ESG ReportTable aligns with the SASB framework for the Engineering and Construction and Professional & Commercial Services industriesFY‘20 SASB TABLE
33 2021 ESG ReportTOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Workforce  
Health and  
Safety(1) T otal recordable 
incident rate (TRIR) and (2) 
fatality rate for (a) direct 
employees and (b) contract 
employeesIF-EN-320a.1Page 17  
Annual ReportCore to our corporate values is safeguarding 
our people and fostering a culture of caring 
that promotes the wellbeing of our employees, 
contractors, and business partners. We safeguard 
our people, projects, and reputation by striving for 
zero employee injuries and illnesses, while operating 
and delivering our work responsibly and sustainably. 
We maintain our industry’s best-in-class lost 
workday case and recordable incident rates, and our 
safety performance is consistently recognized by 
key clients across the regions where we work as well 
as by recognized safety organizations.
As detailed in Page 17 of our Annual Report, our 
TRIR is 0.11 and our Fatality Rate is not reported.
Lifestyle  
Impacts of 
Building and 
InfrastructureNumber of (1) 
commissioned projects 
certified to a third-
party multi-attribute 
sustainability standard and 
(2) active projects seeking 
such certificationIF-EN-410a.1Pages 20–21  
Annual ReportWe regularly work with our clients to advance 
their sustainability initiatives, including ensuring 
their projects achieve third-party sustainability 
standards and certifications, such as respective 
LEED and WELL certifications. Our work in this 
regard is reflected in our rankings in Engineering-
News Record’s Green Building Design and Green 
Contractors rankings, where AECOM was ranked 
#2 and #5, respectively. Across these portfolio 
of projects, we estimate that we executed 
approximately $3.6 billion of work. Since the 
process for seeking these certifications can 
evolve, we do not have an accurate estimate 
for the number of active projects seeking such 
certification. 
Discussion of process to 
incorporate
operational-phase energy 
and water efficiency 
considerations into project 
planning and designIF-EN-410a.2 n/aAECOM offers many services that assist our 
clients in reducing their GHG emissions, such 
as energy savings performance contracts 
(ESPCs), renewable energy system design and 
construction, and green building design and 
construction. As a rough indicator on % revenue, 
our Design Consulting Services advise on water, 
green design, next generation transportation, and 
renewable energy, which combined represent 
nearly 60% of our NSR. Therefore an estimated 
40% value has been provided.TOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Climate Impacts 
of Business MixAmount of backlog for  
(1) hydrocarbon-related 
projects and (2) renewable 
energy projectsIF-EN-410b.1Page 13  
10K ReportBacklog represents revenue we expect to 
realize for work completed by our consolidated 
subsidiaries and our proportionate share of work 
to be performed by unconsolidated joint ventures. 
Backlog is expressed in terms of gross revenue 
and therefore may include significant estimated 
amounts of third party or pass-through costs to 
subcontractors and other parties. 
Backlog fluctuates due to the timing of when 
contracts are awarded and contracted and when 
contract revenue is recognized. Many of our 
contracts require us to provide services over 
more than one year. Our backlog for fiscal 2020 
was $41.2 billion.  
Within this backlog, our contracted backlog, 
which represents the portion of our backlog for 
which work a contract has been executed, was 
$21.1 billion. Within this backlog, we estimate 
that approximately $237 million was related 
to hydrocarbon projects and $37 million was 
related to renewable energy projects. We did not 
experience backlog cancellations associated 
with hydrocarbon-related projects. More broadly, 
we estimate that approximately $10.4 billion of 
our contracted backlog related to non-energy 
projects associated with climate change 
mitigation. This work includes climate change 
adaption and resiliency, energy efficiency, transit 
modernization, environmental management 
and restoration, green building design, disaster 
resilience and recovery, and other services.Amount of backlog 
cancellations associated 
with hydrocarbon-related 
projectsIF-EN-410b.2Page 13  
10K Report
Amount of backlog for 
non-energy projects 
associated with climate 
change mitigationIF-EN-410b.3Page 13  
10K ReportFY‘20 SASB TABLE
34 2021 ESG Report35 2021 ESG ReportFY‘20 SASB TABLE
TOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Business Ethics(1) Number of active 
projects and (2) backlog 
in countries that have 
the 20 lowest rankings 
in T ransparency 
International’s Corruption  
Perception IndexIF-EN-510a.1 n/aIn fiscal 2020, AECOM had 21 active projects 
and backlog of less than $5 million in countries 
that have the 20 lowest rankings in T ransparency 
International’s Corruption Perception Index.
T otal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with charges of (1) bribery 
or corruption and (2) anti-
competitive practicesIF-EN-510a.2Page 21  
Annual ReportOur internal policies mandate compliance with these 
anti-corruption laws, including the requirements 
to maintain accurate information and internal 
controls. We operate in many parts of the world 
that have experienced governmental corruption 
to some degree; and, in some circumstances, 
strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may 
conflict with local customs and practices. Despite 
our training and compliance programs, we cannot 
assure that our internal control policies and 
procedures always will protect us from reckless 
or criminal acts committed by our employees or 
agents. In addition, from time to time, government 
investigations of corruption in construction-related 
industries affect us and our peers. Any material 
monetary losses would be reported in our periodic 
reports filed with the SEC.
Description of policies and 
practices for prevention of 
(1) bribery and corruption, 
and (2) anti-competitive 
behavior in the project 
bidding processesIF-EN-510a.3Page 15  
Annual ReportThe U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and 
similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including 
the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, generally prohibit 
companies and their intermediaries from making 
improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the 
purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our 
internal policies mandate compliance with these 
anti-corruption laws, including the requirements to 
maintain accurate information and internal controls 
which may fall within the purview of the FCPA, its 
books and records provisions, or its anti-bribery 
provisions. We operate in many parts of the world 
that have experienced governmental corruption to 
some degree; and, in some circumstances, strict 
compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict 
with local customs and practices. Despite our training 
and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our 
internal control policies and procedures always will 
protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed 
by our employees or agents.
Activity MetricsNumber of  
active projectsIF-EN-000.A n/a 58,775 
Number of  
commissioned projectsIF-EN-000.B n/a 40,026
T otal backlog IF-EN-000.C n/a $41.2 billion (contracted and awarded).TOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Data SecurityDescription of approach to 
identifying and addressing 
data security risksSV-PS-230a.1Page 22  
10K ReportWe face threats to our information technology 
systems, including unauthorized access, computer 
hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, 
cyber-attacks, phishing, and other cybersecurity 
problems and system disruptions, including 
possible unauthorized access to our and our clients’ 
proprietary information. We rely on industry-accepted 
security measures and technology to securely 
maintain all proprietary information on our information 
technology systems.
As these security threats continue to evolve, we 
may be required to devote additional resources to 
protect, prevent, detect, and respond against system 
disruptions and security breaches.
Description of policies 
and practices relating to 
collection, usage, and 
retention of customer 
informationSV-PS-230a.2 n/aAECOM has a mature Information Security Program 
comprised of robust policies, procedures and standards 
governing data privacy and information security of the 
company’s information and assets. The company has 
established a structured unified security framework, 
aligned to industry-leading standards and safeguards, 
including but not limited to ISO 27001, NIST CSF, and 
NIST 800-53. Security measures are taken to guard 
against unauthorized access to, alteration, disclosure, or 
destruction of data and systems.
This includes but is not limited to:
• A robust incident response plan and procedure 
that involves proper notification, assessment and 
reporting requirements.
• Real-time email sand-boxing/filtering and protection 
to prevent phishing attempts and malicious files
• Advance endpoint security solutions to prevent 
download / installation of malicious software
• Proactive vulnerability management to mitigate 
security weaknesses and prevent exploitation 
attempts
• Next-gen intrusion prevention system (IPS) to 
prevent network cyber-attack and malicious activity
• Two-factor authentication to prevent use of stolen 
credentials to access company applications, etc.
In addition to the security controls implemented 
throughout the enterprise, AECOM has established 
a global cyber defense team, staffed with seasoned 
security professionals, who are dedicated to daily 
security operations to detect and prevent cyber 
security events.
(1) Number of data 
breaches, (2) percentage 
involving customers’ 
confidential business 
information (CBI) or 
personally identifiable 
information (PII), (3) number 
of customers affected SV-PS-230a.3 n/aAECOM has not suffered a data breach involving 
customer CBI or PII data. We are committed to 
protecting its employees, partners, and clients from 
damaging acts that are intentional or unintentional. 
Protecting sensitive data and the systems that collect, 
process, and store this information are priority. We will 
follow data breach notification laws and regulations.
36 2021 ESG ReportFY‘20 SASB TABLETOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Workforce 
Diversity and 
EngagementPercentage of gender 
and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) 
executive management 
and (2) all other employeesSV-PS-330a.1Page 23  
Annual ReportOur Leadership includes representation from a diverse 
array of communities, including race, ethnicity, gender, 
and sexual orientation. For fiscal 2020, AECOM had 
56% diverse executive team and 45% diverse board 
of directors. Please see the ‘Social’ section of this ESG 
Report for additional information. 
(1) Voluntary and (2) 
involuntary turnover rate 
for employeesSV-PS-330a.2 n/aAs a Professional Services business, we are focused 
on ensuring we attract and retain the best talent in 
the industry. As a result, we continually review our 
compensation and rewards practices, conduct 
annual performance reviews, and provide substantive 
professional development opportunities, among other 
initiatives. Reflecting our successes, turnover within our 
permanent employees and within our high performers 
has remained below our internal targets in FY’20, and 
while turnover has increased in FY’21 as anticipated, 
and as the headwinds from the pandemic have begun 
to ease, we continue to maintain turnover in alignment 
with industry benchmarks.
Employee engagement as 
a percentageSV-PS-330a.3 n/aDuring the summer of 2021, AECOM conducted an 
employee survey to understand employee sentiments 
on the strengths and opportunities for improvement 
within the company. The survey revealed overall 
positive sentiments from our professionals with 
there being opportunities in each region to continue 
improving and further investing in manager levels. 
The strongest responses were seen relating to ‘I 
understand how my work contributes to AECOM’s 
strategy and purpose’. In addition and most 
importantly, more than 70% of participants agreed 
that they would recommend AECOM as a great place 
to work, providing a strong baseline of employee 
engagement.
37 2021 ESG ReportFY‘20 SASB TABLE38 2021 ESG ReportFY‘20 SASB TABLE
TOPIC AND SDG 
ALIGNMENT SASB METRIC CODE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Professional 
IntegrityDescription of approach 
to ensuring professional 
integritySV-PS-510a.1Page 26  
Annual ReportOur Code of Conduct outlines the legal guidelines we 
must follow and general ethical principles to help each of 
us make the right decisions when conducting business 
worldwide. T op leaders at AECOM promote ethical 
behavior through a global ethics committee as well as 
regional ethics committees. Our employees take part 
in annual Code of Conduct training, which received a 
100% completion rate in FY‘20. Furthermore, we have a 
comprehensive cross-functional ethics and compliance 
program focused on preventing issues from occurring, 
detecting them if and when they happen, effectively and 
expediently resolving issues and capturing lessons to 
prevent them from repeating.
T otal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with professional integritySV-PS-510a.2 n/aAlthough the outcome of our legal proceedings 
cannot be predicted with certainty and no assurances 
can be provided, in the opinion of our management, 
based upon current information and discussions 
with counsel, none of the investigations, claims and 
lawsuits in which we are involved is expected to have 
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial 
position, results of operations, cash flows or our ability 
to conduct business.  Please see pages 32 of our 
most recent 10-K for additional information.
Activity MetricsNumber of employees by: 
(1) full-time and part-time, 
(2) temporary, and  
(3) contractSV-PS-000.APage 9  
10K ReportAt the end of our fiscal 2020, we employed 
approximately 54,000 persons, of whom approximately 
22,000 were employed in the United States. Over 
4,000 of our domestic employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements or by specific labor 
agreements, which expire upon completion of the 
relevant project.FY‘20 TCFD TABLE
TOPIC DISCLOSURE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Governancea) Describe the board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities.Pages 15-16 
ESG ReportOur CEO leads the Executive Leadership T eam, 
which comprises senior executives representing all 
business segments and retains overall responsibility for 
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) and Enterprise 
Sustainability, including climate related issues, policies 
and strategy. 
Our President is co-lead of our ESG Global Council, which 
she launched in September 2020 and which comprises 
dozens of sustainability experts and business leaders 
across the organization to best advise on all ESG-related 
matters. This committee is responsible for developing 
our Sustainable Legacies strategy that launched in April 
2021 and includes a multitude of commitments on ESG 
matters and associated targets, such as our commitment 
to achieving science-based net carbon zero by 2030. 
The Council is also actively involved in reviewing and 
mitigating climate-related risks associated with our 
project portfolio. This committee will be responsible for 
developing AECOM’s 2021 Sustainability Strategy.
Strategya) Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organization has identified 
over the short, medium, and long term.
b) Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and 
financial planning.
c) Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or  
lower scenario.Pages 15-17 
ESG ReportAs part of annual financial planning, the market 
opportunities associated with sustainability including 
climate related services is assessed. This includes 
estimating any estimated growth due to estimated 
increase in demand for climate services. Climate risks 
and opportunities also impact our service offering and 
solutions we provide to our clients across our company. 
We are regularly looking for opportunities to expand our 
capabilities, such that we are able to more holistically 
advise our clients on their evolving sustainability and 
climate-related initiatives. Please see pages 15-17 of  
this report for more information. 
Risk 
Managementa) Describe the organization’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
b) Describe the organization’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk management.Pages 15-17 
2020 ESG 
ReportIn this 2020 ESG Report, please see sub-section titled
“Climate Change” for more detailed information.FY‘20 TCFD Table
39 2021 ESG ReportTOPIC DISCLOSURE REFERENCE NARRATIVE RESPONSE
Metrics and 
Targetsa) Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-related risks 
and opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, and the related risks.*
c) Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.Pages 15 – 17
ESG Report
 AECOM calculates Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
emissions. The most material emissions for Scope 
3 are calculated using accounts payable information 
and emissions factors from S&P Global’s T rucost 
Environmental Data set. 
In this 2020 ESG Report, please see the sub-section 
titled “Climate Change” for more detailed information.FY‘20 TCFD TABLE
40 2021 ESG Report* Scope 1 (2020): 22,234 MTCO2e; Scope 2 (2020): 70,886 MTCO2e (location based); Scope 3 (2020): 4,761,868 MTCO2e AECOM Leadership
Board of DirectorsTroy Rudd
Chief Executive 
Officer
Douglas W. Stotlar  
Director,  
Chairman of the Board
Bradley W. Buss  
Director
Robert G. Card  
Director
Diane C. Creel  
Director
Jacqueline C. Hinman  
Director
Lydia Kennard  
DirectorTroy Rudd  
Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Clarence T . Schmitz  
Director
Daniel R. Tishman  
Director
Sander van’t  
Noordende  
Director
Gen. Janet C.  
Wolfenbarger  
DirectorGaurav Kapoor
Chief Financial  
OfficerShirley Adams
Chief Human
Resources Officer
Lara Poloni
PresidentDavid Gan
Chief Legal  
OfficerT odd Battley
Chief Strategy  
Officer
About This Report
AECOM’s 2021 ESG Report primarily covers data 
and metrics from October 1, 2019, to September 
30, 2020, unless otherwise noted and includes our 
subsidiaries. This report was prepared in accordance 
with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Standard. The report also aligns with the 
T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations. 
AECOM is committed to transparency, engagement, 
and consistent communication of our ESG strategies 
and programs to all stakeholders. This is our inaugural 
Sustainability report, which takes a materiality-based 
approach to disclosure. 
2021 ESG Report 41aecom.comDelivering a  
better world
About the Company
AECOM (NYSE: ACM) is the world’s trusted infrastructure consulting firm, delivering professional services throughout the project 
lifecycle – from planning, design and engineering to program and construction management. On projects spanning transportation, 
buildings, water, new energy and the environment, our public- and private-sector clients trust us to solve their most complex 
challenges. Our teams are driven by a common purpose to deliver a better world through our unrivaled technical expertise and 
innovation, a culture of equity, diversity and inclusion, and a commitment to environmental, social and governance priorities. AECOM 
is a Fortune 500 firm and its Professional Services business had revenue of $13.2 billion in fiscal year 2020. See how we are delivering 
sustainable legacies for generations to come at aecom.com and @AECOM. 