Transforming 
Tomorrow
Sustainability Report 2016This year’s theme, “Transforming Tomorrow,” 
shows how AECOM’s greatest opportunity to 
shape the future is by managing our clients’ 
complex economic, social and natural investments and assets. We design, build, finance and operate critical infrastructure and deliver international 
development programs that unlock opportunities, 
protect the environment and improve lives. Our commitment to sustainability drives innovation, 
reduces risk and provides attractive project 
lifecycle returns on investment.About this Report
On the cover
Opened in 2016, the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, California, United States, is the world’s first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum-certified 
indoor sports arena. We provided a combination of services to deliver a 100 percent 
solar-powered structure made of 36 percent recycled materials that plays host to more than 200 events a year at net-zero energy.
2 AECOM34 Workplace
35 Safety, Health and Environment36 Diversity + Inclusion37 Work-Life Balance + Career GrowthOur Sustainability Report 2016 includes a 
navigation system that makes it easier to go 
back and forth between its sections.  At the 
top of each page you will find a navigation panel, which you can use to jump to a 
specific section. The panel contains three 
icons for further navigation options:
From the Contents page, you can also jump 
to any of the report’s sections or specific 
sub-sections by using the table of contents. 
Simply click on any section or sub-section 
found below.Go forward/back
Contents page
Start page4 Sustainability and Corporate
Responsibility at  AECOM
5 A Message From Our CEO
6 Environmental Sustainability (ES)7 Corporate Responsibility (CR)
31 Environment32 Greenhouse Gas Emissions33 Geography-level Efforts
38 Marketspace39 Economic Performance40 Corporate Governance41 Ethics + Compliance42 Sustainable Procurement43 Supplier DiversityHow to Find Your Way Through the Report
27 Community28 Opening Doors29 Creating Opportunity30 Protecting Tomorrow8 Solutions + Knowledge9 Our Work and the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs)ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
35 A Message From Our CEO
6 Environmental Sustainability (ES)7 Corporate Responsibility (CR)Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility at AECOM
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
We recognize the responsibility to 
make our operations sustainable. 
Corporate Responsibility is 
an extension of our purpose:              
Built to deliver a better world.
4
AECOMA Message From Our CEO
I’m delighted to introduce AECOM’s fifth 
annual Sustainability Report, “Transforming Tomorrow.” A sustainable world depends on physical and social infrastructure that advances economic opportunity, protects our environment and improves people’s lives. Sustainable solutions and innovation are at the core of what we do, and how we operate. 
2016 marked the first anniversary of the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by countries to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda. We are proud to showcase 17 projects, one for each of the SDGs, in which our solutions and knowledge are helping a client take action to make the world a better place. 
The report also serves as an opportunity 
to introduce Blueprint for a Better World , 
AECOM’s Corporate Responsibility platform. Our charitable work taking place around the world is vital in extending our sustainability commitments. Blueprint for a Better World  is 
a reflection of our core values and priorities.
As a global company, AECOM recognizes 
our responsibility to make our operations sustainable. This report highlights our progress over the past year, including our efforts to focus on practices that reduce energy consumption and waste. 2016 highlights
 −Named one of Fortune  magazine’s 
“World’s Most Admired Companies” for the second consecutive year
 −Ranked #1 in Engineering News Record ’s “Top 
100 Design Firms” for the 7th consecutive year; #2 in the Green Building’s category
 −Ranked #2 in Architectural Record ’s 
Top 300 Architectural Firms
 −Awarded “Company of the Year” in Construction at the 2016 Dive Awards, in part for our carbon reduction efforts
 −Recognized as “Highly Commended” in the Consultancy of the Year Category at the 2016 BusinessGreen Leaders Awards in the U.K.
Through innovative processes and our integrated approach to projects, partnerships and our operations, AECOM aims to build a better world.
Regards,
Mike Burke 
Chairman and CEO
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
5Environmental Sustainability (ES)
Doing more with less
Infrastructure impacts the environment where 
it is built. At AECOM,  we take this seriously 
and are committed to being responsible stewards of the environments where we work and live, and of the future we imagine. 
Our commitment to sustainability goes beyond 
meeting client requirements and complying with environmental rules and regulations at the local, state/provincial and national levels. We seek to innovate and deliver solutions that are resilient to a dynamic and unpredictable world, reduce pollution, are environmentally sustainable and conserve resources. 
In partnership with our clients, we are:
 −Advancing green building systems 
that harness 100 percent of their energy from renewable sources and seamlessly blend different experiences with the natural environment
 −Designing energy-efficient transportation hubs that can withstand a myriad of environmental conditions with a minimal carbon footprint
 −Developing cutting-edge tools to evaluate and generate energy conservation measures that strengthen communities’ future resilience and capabilities We partner with leading organizations to build a more sustainable planet:
 −Since 2012,  AECOM has partnered with 
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) to analyze climate change data for over 500 cities and report on the ways urban centers are tackling these challenges
 −AECOM has organized and supported the UrbanSOS student competition in partnership with the Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities program and the Van Alen Institute to engage future generations in solving significant sustainability challenges through technology and innovative thinking
 −With 100 Resilient Cities we collaborate with mayors and chief resilience officers in 16 global cities to assess baseline strategies and improve resilience
As a global company, we recognize our expansive footprint and focus on practices that reduce energy consumption and waste. We’ve implemented a sustainability data management system to better track and analyze data to enable continuous improvement. We’ve launched initiatives to decrease energy, consolidated our physical footprint by nearly 10 percent year-over-year and committed to significantly reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
NASA Ames Research Center, Mofett Field, California, United States.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
6Corporate Responsibility (CR)
Setting a new bar for CR
Our CR platform, Blueprint for a Better World , is 
inspired by our employees. Through charitable 
contributions and volunteering, they make a positive and tangible impact in communities around the world.
At the heart of Blueprint for a Better World  is our 
CR mission: To deliver access to safe and secure 
infrastructure to those that need it most, to create opportunity for the leaders of tomorrow and to protect our planet so that, together, we can realize our dream of a better world . Blueprint for a Better World  identifies three 
strategic pillars that support this mission:
Opening Doors:  We deliver access to safe 
and secure infrastructure so those who need it 
most have a place to call home and resources to thrive.
Creating Opportunity: We help develop the 
next generation of the world’s problem solvers and ensure future leaders reflect the diversity of the world we live in.
Protecting Tomorrow: We leverage our 
expertise to lessen our impact on the planet to help communities prepare for the future.
Learn more about our CR work from examples 
provided in the report’s Community  section. ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
Blueprint for a Better World , AECOM’s CR 
platform, captures our unique CR mission.
7Solutions + Knowledge
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
Click an icon below to exploreAs a global, fully integrated 
infrastructure firm, we connect 
the knowledge and experience to 
provide solutions to the world’s 
most complex challenges.
8
AECOMAECOM’s solutions look beyond our 
projects to the communities they serve. Our holistic approach uses current best practices and innovations to meet both immediate and emerging challenges.
The United Nations’ 17 SDGs define global 
sustainable development priorities and aspirations for 2030 and seek to mobilize global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. The SDGs call for worldwide action among governments, business and civil society to end poverty and create a life of dignity and opportunity for all, within the boundaries of the planet. We support the SDGs through our work on clients’ projects.
As a global, fully integrated infrastructure 
firm,  AECOM connects the knowledge 
and experience to provide solutions to the world’s most complex challenges. This section offers case studies on projects that reflect each of the SDGs and our involvement in them — whether it is enhancing opportunities for the disenfranchised, facilitating economic equality or promoting responsible resource use and consumption.Our Work and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Yambuk Wind Farm, Portland, Victoria, Australia.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
9In recent years, Egypt 
has experienced a number of economic challenges, including currency devaluations, fuel subsidy cuts and increases in foreign exchange earnings. To address these issues, foreign 
aid agencies have stepped in to offer economic development assistance. 
AECOM is assisting as an implementing 
partner in USAID’s SEED project, which aims to support the growth and development of entrepreneurs and micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Through SEED, we provide sustainable technical assistance, capacity building and training to relevant stakeholders and counterparts. SEED fosters collaboration between universities, business associations, financial institutions, government and entrepreneurs. It also focuses on disadvantaged areas and populations such as women and youth.
The project’s central goal is to create 
an environment in which MSMEs and entrepreneurs can continue to create economic opportunities for themselves.
Supporting the Growth of Business Opportunities
Strengthening Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development (SEED), Egypt
Taher Usri, right, winner of the USAID SEED business plan 
competition.
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
10Herding is a traditional 
business for people in the Bankass and Koro districts in Mali. Access for women, often seen as outcasts, is limited and they often struggle to produce and sell sheep. 
Through the USAID Mali L4G program, we reached out to some of the most disenfranchised women in the area to help them with livestock fattening techniques that have resulted in extremely positive outcomes in an unrelentingly harsh environment. 
These livestock fattening techniques quickly 
improved the physical condition of the sheep, permitting them to produce more and demand greater compensation. Our training has helped Dougnon Harérata Maiga, who lives in Pel Maoude village of the Koro district, double the size of her flocks in just a year, and she is excited to train other women in the techniques.She is excited about the advantages of making and using multi-nutritional lick blocks, treating straw and hay to increase nutritive value and growing hyacinth bean to achieve impressive increases in production — all part of our training regime. 
Before our involvement, there was little to 
no nutritional advice for women herders to improve their livestock. The sheep were underfed and suffered during the “lean season” of no rain that runs from November through July each year. Ewes would only produce one lamb per year. Since our involvement, four of her ewes have had twin births, something she has never experienced before.
Introducing Techniques that Yield More and Better Livestock
Livestock for Growth (L4G), Mali
Dougnon Harérata Maiga uses livestock feeding and 
fattening techniques learned through the L4G program.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
11Following the 
devastating earthquake in 2010 and Hurricane Matthew in 2016, the USAID HHIP was created to repair, renovate and equip the Haitian Ministry of Health’s damaged 
medical facilities. The program also constructs facilities in Haiti to strengthen local health referral networks and provide access to health care through sanitary and safe facilities.
With support from USAID, AECOM is providing 
planning, design and construction management 
services that will enable the Haitian Ministry of Health to deliver critical health care services. One of the most significant contributions to the HHIP scheme is the reconstruction of the National University General Hospital (L ’Hôpital Universitaire d’État d’Haïti). The 5,850-square-meter (19,192-square-foot) complex in Port-au-Prince has modern teaching facilities, a school of nursing and a lab technician school. The National Campus for Health Sciences (Le Campus des Sciences de la Santé), which offers clinical training, is adjacent to the complex. 
Renovated medical facilities and new hospitals 
and health centers are giving Haitian citizens access to the basic health services they need to maintain a standard of living. In addition, design and construction of new medical supply warehouses in the west, north and south departments are supporting improved supply chains, leading to better care across the country.
Rendering of a pediatric clinic in Cap Haitian, Haiti that will provide important health care to local citizens.Strengthening Critical Healthcare Service Capacity
Haiti Health Infrastructure Program (HHIP), HaitiES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
12The Malian Ministry 
of Education aims to reopen 62 schools that had been closed since 2012 due to the conflict crisis, a result of a coup that had led to militants occupying parts of northern Mali. To prepare 
for the new academic year, a special one-month summer school program was created for youth in the Kidal region of the country. 
This special program was created thanks to 
support from USAID’s two-year Mali Peace Initiative, also known by its French acronym, ACCORD (Programme d’Appui à la Cohésion Communautaire et les Opportunités de Réconciliation et de Développement). AECOM managed grants under ACCORD, which awarded an in-kind grant to the Kidal Teaching Academy, the Malian government body responsible for school management in the Kidal region.The program attracted 808 students — 410 boys and 398 girls — from grades one to nine who completed standard curriculum courses and transitioned to a new grade the following year.
The funding helped provide school uniforms, 
school manuals, a t-shirt for each student and a small honorarium for the 40 teachers recruited to participate in the program.
It helped reinvigorate school life after years 
of interruption. According to the director, it built excitement for the upcoming school year and despite a chronic shortage of teachers, students remained devoted and hardworking throughout the month.
Kidal Youth summer school program participants with their supplies and uniforms.Reinvigorating Education
Kidal Youth Summer School, MaliES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
13To promote stability 
in conflict-affected areas of Afghanistan, the SIKA-East program sought to increase citizen confidence in district-level government. The program supported efforts 
to improve governance and effective service delivery by promoting participation in governance processes. This included providing women with a platform to connect with district leaders and local authorities. 
AECOM supported SIKA-East by working with 
provincial and district officials to develop tools and processes to sustain responsive and accountable governance. Events were held to encourage women to participate and engage in defining district challenges and priorities with local decision makers. The program examined how women influence traditionally male-dominated decision-making in Afghanistan and encouraged diverse perspectives. Women leaders from District Development Assemblies’ communication committees achieved significant and sustainable gender empowerment. These leaders demonstrated resourcefulness, creativity and leadership to raise awareness of women’s priorities, connect with the government to obtain services and increased the overall voice of women in rural areas.
Women were highly represented during 
meetings with line department officials. Communications committee meetings created public outreach plans and other mechanisms to share information and advocate for local priorities. In total, over 9,000 women attended 1,377 meetings across all 30 SIKA-East districts, laying the groundwork for future government-led engagement with female community leaders.
Afghan women’s advocacy group overseeing a community project facilitated by SIKA-East.Engaging Women to Boost Confidence in Government
Stability in Key Areas (SIKA)-East, AfghanistanES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
14The Sawah Raja 
WTP produced approximately 13.2 million gallons per day (MGD) of treated water for residents of Rembau in southeastern Malaysia. However, this was insufficient 
to meet demand and Rembau still relied on additional water to be supplied from the Gemencheh WTP, located over 12 miles (20 kilometers) away. 
As a result, plant owners Pengurusan Aset Air 
Berhad and Syarikat Air Negeri Sembilan asked 
AECOM to expand the existing water treatment 
capability at Sawah Raja WTP. To ensure success of the project, AECOM studied and investigated the site, assessed and appraised the existing WTP and water supply network, and provided detailed design and site supervision.
Drawing on world-class water treatment 
experience and expertise, our solution considered the existing site constraints, treatment processes and equipment and ensured that the plant operation and water supply to Rembau was not disrupted.
The expansion of Sawah Raja WTP from 13.2 
MGD to 26.4 MGD reduces supply dependency on Gemencheh WTP while also improving the security of the water supply to Rembau. 
Construction site of the Sawah Raja WTP’s extension project.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
Expanding Access to Water
Extension of Sawah Raja Water Treatment Plant (WTP), Malaysia
15With its coal fired 
power plant out of operation, ENGIE North America turned to AECOM to engineer and design a 5.8 megawatt photovoltaic (PV) solar facility adjacent the site in the Mount Tom 
area of Holyoke, Massachusetts, United States. 
Flood risk and snow fall complicated the 
challenge. A portion of the site is within the 100 year FEMA floodplain along the banks of the Connecticut River. All critical electrical equipment had to be elevated six feet off the ground on steel platforms set on pilings. To account for snow, the solar modules required an optimal tilt angle to shed snow and ensure maximum energy production. In addition, AECOM performed energy model performance estimates using a mix of different solar PV modules and equipment. The final design scenario yielded 7,286 megawatt hours annually of solar energy production, enough electricity to power 1,800 homes for a year. 
Based on the calculated energy production, the 
AECOM-designed PV system will reduce over 3,000 metric tons of greenhouse gases annually.
Angled solar panels to shed snow and allow for maximum energy production.Engineering and Designing a Solar Facility in a Complex Environment
Mount Tom Solar Farm, United StatesES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
16Agriculture is central 
to the livelihoods of many people living in the South Pacific. Historically, the region has been economically disadvantaged, with limited development opportunities, and is increasingly 
vulnerable to issues of climate change, population growth and a competitive international trade environment. 
The PHAMA program is an initiative of the 
Australian Government, co-funded by the New Zealand government, to support development opportunities and economic growth in the South Pacific. PHAMA helps Pacific Island countries develop and better manage exports including fish and forestry products. Countries assisted by the program include Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Vanuatu, Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea.AECOM manages PHAMA on behalf of the Australian government and oversees activities including: 
 −Conducting technical studies to understand market access issues
 −Facilitating industry coordination and planning 
 −Promoting public-private partnerships to overcome issues
 −Developing systems and procedures to improve compliance and quality in export pathways
PHAMA is opening and protecting market opportunities and increasing exports for producers from Pacific Island countries. This is contributing to economic growth and improved rural livelihoods in these predominantly agricultural and resource-based economies.
Women preparing agricultural goods for export to Australia.Building an Economy on Local Livelihoods
Pacific Horticultural and Agricultural Market  Access (PHAMA), Various LocationsES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
17Cities are looking 
for ways to prepare for the growing number of physical, social and economic challenges that threaten their growth and development. 100RC — Pioneered by the Rockefeller 
Foundation — is dedicated to helping cities around the world respond to these challenges, and  AECOM is providing the strategic 
planning services to make it happen. 
As a strategic advisor, thought partner and 
project manager for the cities participating in 100RC, AECOM helps facilitate diverse stakeholder engagement workshops to better understand perceptions, needs and risks. We carry out technical analyses in key priority areas, help to identify a list of potential actions and assist in developing the final strategy.The 100RC resilience method identifies interdependencies between major components of a city: people and organizations, places and infrastructure, and the economy, networks and knowledge. This harnesses connections to help cities cope and recover after sudden events like fires, earthquakes and floods, referred to as “shocks”  by 100RC, which make cities vulnerable. It also addresses long-term trends, referred to as “stresses,” such as unemployment and widespread crime which undermine cities’ systems and increase their vulnerability. 
In 2016, AECOM helped Bangkok (Thailand), 
Berkeley (United States), Christchurch (New Zealand), Medellín (Colombia), Melbourne (Australia), Mexico City (Mexico), Oakland (United States), Rotterdam (Netherlands) and San Francisco (United States)  publish their resilience strategies. We also worked with Wellington (New Zealand) to publish its resilience strategy in March 2017. We will help at least an additional seven cities publish their strategies in 2017.
100RC roundtable discussion.Helping Cities Become Resilient
100 Resilient Cities (100RC), Various LocationsES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
18Papua New Guinea’s 
(PNG) vision for 2050 is to become a “wide, fair and happy society.” For PNG’s leaders, that means a society in which citizens are enabled to participate, there is fair and equitable 
distribution of benefits and vulnerable communities are represented and protected. SPSN, a program AECOM is implementing in PNG, is helping the country realize this 2050 societal transformation. 
Translated to mean “Empower People, 
Strengthen the Nation,” SPSN is a six-year partnership between the governments of PNG and Australia. The project aims to enable civil society to work with the state and other interest groups to better meet the needs and priorities of men, women and children in communities across PNG. AECOM managed the delivery of SPSN by organizing capacity-increasing activities in five key areas: 
 −Increasing the practice and promotion of democratic governance through key partnerships
 −Facilitating communities working together to address identified priorities
 −Supporting initiatives that improve local governance
 −Improving collaboration of men and women to promote democratic governance
 −Strengthening human capital for the practice of democratic governance
The program has benefited more than 1 million people from 87 of the country’s 89 districts and has touched all 22 provinces in PNG. More than US$53 million has been invested in activities that strengthen community participation, including civic awareness, gender equality, education, disability and combating HIV/AIDS. To help communities confront the challenges of being more inclusive, government officials were provided training to enhance their capacity to work with communities. This “increased capacity” comes in the form of systems, skills, knowledge and networks. 
SPSN improved access to services for 
poor communities by providing training and programs to enable them to engage with government more effectively from education, healthcare, gender equality, disability, HIV and AIDs outreach, to disaster risk reduction.
Man voting in Papua New Guinea.Enhancing Democratic Capacity
Strongim Pipol Strongim Nesen (SPSN), Papua New GuineaES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
19The CRCLCL is an 
Australian-based seven-year academic and industry partnership to upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors across the globe. CRC aims to cut 
Australia’s residential and commercial carbon emissions by an extra 10 mega tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year by 2020 in addition to government commitments.
To achieve this, CRC focuses on collaborative 
innovation by bringing stakeholders from planning, engineering and policy organizations together to develop technological and policy tools, facilitating the development of low-carbon products and services to reduce emissions.As a founding member, AECOM conducted research to examine how to adapt existing power and water infrastructure into more flexible, resilient and sustainable networks. The work sought to identify the opportunities and challenges with using public-private partnerships to make existing infrastructure more energy and resource efficient. The research focused on building in the Broadway neighborhood in inner-city Sydney, but highlighted methods that could be applied to enable such improvements in any urban area. 
This research informed a toolkit, policy 
directive and transition manual to help future teams create low-carbon infrastructure.
University of Technology Sydney’s Faculty of Engineering and IT Building, part of the CRCLCL retrofit project. Identifying New Approaches to Low-Carbon Communities
Cooperative Research Centres for Low-Carbon Living (CRCLCL), AustraliaES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
20A circular economy 
aims to generate no waste by keeping materials for as long as possible and reusing, recovering and repurposing them as often as possible. When Highways England asked  AECOM 
to develop a circular economy routemap and supply chain risk framework, our team needed to examine the details. That meant taking a close look at Highways England’s current processes and suppliers.To mitigate ethical or environmental infractions in the supply chain, our team:
 −Created detailed supply chain maps for two key product categories
 −Outlined principles for responsible sourcing in supply chains
 −Created a set of questions for suppliers
 −Conducted risk assessments for complicated regions and material chains
We submitted these tools to Highways England to help them to manage their supply chains and purchasing decisions. Our work to address Highways England’s circular economy routemap focused on moving the existing Highways England business model to a closed materials loop, which ensures that resources are used for as long as possible and reused at the end of a product lifecycle. The recommendations also included repurposing and upcycling where feasible. 
As a result of our work, Highways England now 
has a responsible sourcing management system and a new circular economy routemap that includes the actions required to create a robust framework.. 
Highways England is the government-owned company responsible for maintaining and improving England’s major roads.Developing a Routemap for a Circular Economy 
Highways England, United KingdomES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
21AECOM partnered 
with the USDN to create a climate change preparedness training toolkit to help local governments accelerate their progress in climate adaptation.  AECOM 
is providing 
training to equip government staff with the knowledge and resources to bring climate change preparedness and resilience into their cities’ planning, engineering, operations and maintenance activities. 
The focus of the training is on climate-driven 
changes to coastal, riverine urban flood zones and their impact on municipal infrastructure, service delivery and supply chains. The toolkit includes real-world examples and customizable training materials such as presentation slides, case studies and exercises. There are two “tracks” within the toolkit. The first is an interactive exercise-based track, while the second is an innovative game-based track. Both facilitate group discussion and learning about evaluating climate hazards, climate vulnerability and risk assessments and considering a range of appropriate adaptation options.
Embedding awareness, knowledge and the 
toolkit to disperse the information throughout teams and communities will result in more effective planning and better understanding of risks.  
We prepared the training materials in 
collaboration with advisory cities, incorporated input from city pilot sessions and delivered a train-the-trainer workshop for USDN members at the 2016 Annual Meeting.
We are proud to be working with government 
employees in high-risk flooding areas to help improve their knowledge base and awareness of the risks posed to their communities.
Participants identifying risks at USDN workshop.Building Awareness to Drive Climate Change Preparedness
Urban Sustainability Directors Network (USDN) Climate Change Preparedness Toolkit, United StatesES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
22AECOM is providing 
technical assistance to DIVECO2, a program to support the sustainable development of the fishery sector in Algeria, with a focus on marine and continental aquaculture.
The greatest challenge facing this program is introducing sustainable fishing methods that are more compatible with species preservation from current entrenched tactics that promote indiscriminate capture, such as trawling fishing. Such practices are challenged by teaching local communities to use alternative fishing methods that are less intensive, such as pelagic longlining and jar lines for octopus fishing. Other technical assistance is centered on commercialization and distribution of fisheries and aquaculture products. This includes communication of sustainable production through community engagement and promoting sustainable products.
To improve aquaculture production, AECOM 
provided equipment and special assistance to introduce standards for water recycling and purifying techniques. We are now planning related trainings for members of DIVECO2 and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fishing and Rural Development. 
Information and communication session regarding the progress of the DIVECO2 project.Promoting Sustainable Development of Fishery Sector
Diversification Économique (DIVECO2), AlgeriaES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
23Eco-corridors are 
important links between natural habitats for wildlife to travel through.  
AECOM was selected 
as the conceptual masterplanner for the Dachang Eco-Corridor, 
one of six in Nanjing, China. 
Our masterplans for eco-corridors considered 
both natural and human needs. We provided water system design, ecological restoration and brownfield remediation services to provide an environmental buffer for the neighboring residential areas. The Dachang ecological corridor is in the center of the biggest industrial area of Nanjing which poses a number of contamination threats to consider.
To solve these problems we established a 
series of strategies to recover and enhance the ecological function. The first stage includes all control elements for field management: water system management, green corridor control and recovery of existing building lots into green space. One important facet was the creation of a pollution protection buffer zone and ecological structure to secure the local environment. The primary focus of our involvement was to protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, while sustainably managing forests, combating desertification and halting biodiversity loss. An added bonus of the scheme was an enhanced quality of life for residents and tourists through green spaces in urban areas.
We will aim to improve the ecological value 
in the second stage of the project through a series of water and landscape habitats to make a multi-functional green corridor. This will not only provide biodiversity habitats for local species, but also protect the surrounding community from contamination and provide them with local green space. 
Nanjing Eco-Corridor Masterplan which shows the connection of ecosystems and proximity of urban areas and green spaces.Imagining a Sustainable Eco-Corridor 
Envisioning a Better Nanjing, ChinaES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
24USAID’s Office of 
Transition and Conflict Mitigation’s VISTAS program, implemented by AECOM,  is a conflict 
mitigation and political transition mechanism. 
VISTAS’ goal is to 
prevent the further 
spread of communal violence and rising tensions in critical areas of South Sudan where local level conflict could have national implications.
To this end, VISTAS has four objectives: 
1. To increase space and tools to manage 
conflict and tensions
2. To build cross-line interdependency to promote peaceful coexistence
3. To promote a more informed community
4. To engage communities in trauma awareness to lay the foundation for healing and reconciliationMisunderstandings and unbalanced information can derail peace building efforts. VISTAS launched a nationwide dissemination of the Peace Agreement, signed by the government and rebels, in local languages and facilitated workshops with local community members so they could understand the implications of each provision and formulate informed opinions. 
Additionally, two newly constructed radio 
stations and large-scale distribution of wind-up radios increased the reach of reliable information to over 50,000 new listeners.
VISTAS raises awareness of how trauma can 
perpetuate violence through an initiative called Morning Star to promote peaceful co-existence. AECOM helped train a network of resource 
facilitators to implement the Morning Star program across different communities in both rural and urban settings.
Our work in South Sudan will not finish until 2018, 
but the social and physical infrastructure that we have put in place throughout the region will go a long way in assisting South Sudan’s nation building process.
Recipients of wind-up radios from the VISTAS project to promote the reach of reliable news and information across South Sudan.Mitigating Conflict and Promoting Peace
Viable Support to Transition and Stability (VISTAS), South SudanES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
25The Asia Pacific region 
is highly vulnerable to impacts from climate change and variability. Many countries in the region are experiencing frequent and intense flooding, droughts and storm events among other 
impacts of climate change. This is especially threatening to low-lying and coastal areas which have seen economic progress over the last 50 years.
Through USAID’s Adapt Asia-Pacific project, we 
are assisting governments of 27 target countries  to access pools of climate change. The project promotes sustainable development through multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources to address the negative impacts of climate change funding in developing countries in the region.The program has trained more than 139 government officials in climate change finance and adaptation issues, delivering over 4,000 hours of training. An estimated 107,000 people have benefited from facilitated climate change adaptation proposals and the institutional capacity of six Asia Pacific government institutes has been improved to better respond to the needs of the region.
Adapt Asia-Pacific helps government institutes identify solutions to protect rural communities and children who are are among the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Helping Governments Prepare for Climate Change 
Adapt Asia-Pacific, Various LocationsES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
26Community 
28 Opening Doors
29 Creating Opportunity
30 Protecting Tomorrow
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
Blueprint for a Better World , 
AECOM’s Corporate Responsibility 
platform, is a reflection of our 
core values and priorities.
27
AECOMThrough Blueprint for Better World’s  first 
pillar, Opening Doors , we deliver access 
to safe and secure infrastructure so those 
who need it most have a place to call home and resources to thrive. We look to build on what was achieved in 2016 in this area with future work next year and beyond. 
Water, water, everywhere
Water For People is a non-profit organization that brings together local entrepreneurs, civil society, governments and communities to establish creative, collaborative solutions that allow people to build and maintain their own reliable and safe water systems. In 2016, we raised more than US$150,000 for Water For People via employee giving programs and over US$750,000 since 2009.Professional quality, 
community delivery
Engineers Without Borders (EWB) helps 
create a more stable and prosperous world by addressing people’s basic needs — providing necessities such as clean water, power, sanitation and education. We partner with EWB to help to advance its mission and contributed more than US$92,000 in 2016.
AECOM provided pro-bono design 
services in Melbourne, Australia, to CERES Community Environment Park — a self-funded, non-profit organization focused on community-based learning and action as part of our partnership with EWB Australia.
Building a better world
Since 2007, AECOM volunteers have traveled with Caminul Felix to Ordea, Romania, to build new homes, as well as improve existing ones, for orphans and their caretakers. The new homes are sold for material cost and without profit. The project is the legacy of an AECOM employee inspired to help the community after traveling in the area for work. The June 2016 expedition included 16 employees from the U.S., U.K. and Romania. A return trip is planned.
Opening Doors
Water system installed at the Escuela Oficial Rural Mixta Choacamán III, in the Santa Cruz del Quiche municipality, Guatemala.
AECOM volunteers with Caminul Felix in Ordea, Romania.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
28With Creating Opportunity , the second pillar 
of our Blueprint for a Better World,  we help 
develop the next generation of the world’s 
problem solvers and ensure future leaders reflect the diversity of the world we live in. Our commitment to increasing our activity in this area will continue to grow in future years. 
A legacy of outreach 
The “AECOM Millennium Project” is a U.K. registered charity focused on the relief of poverty, hardship and distress among children in developing countries throughout the world. At least 95 percent of the nonprofit’s proceeds go directly to helping children.
In 16 years the charity has supported 36 
projects in 23 countries, having a real impact on children’s lives. In 2016, we provided:
 −US$25,000 for the Engineers For Overseas Development work in Uganda
 −US$6,900 for school emergency relief work in Mozambique
 −US$4,200 final installment of library construction in India (total spend was US$25,000)A gift of STEM education
To help ensure that high school students are prepared for life after graduation and future demands of the the modern workplace, we’re helping Aiken County Public Schools in South Carolina, United States, implement a program of accelerated learning initiatives.  
We provided US$300,000 sponsorship to help 
create two science, technology, engineering and mathematics academies in local high schools.
Employing the people who serve 
AECOM is one of the top companies in the world hiring veterans; more than 10,000 are currently employed. We are committed to helping those who are currently serving as well as those who have returned to civilian life. Our employees dedicate their time and talent to many community organizations, regional or national groups supporting veterans. Semper Fi Fund, Wounded Warrior Program and American Corporate Partners are just a few of the organizations we support.Creating Opportunity
Students receiving food and drink provided through Mozambique school emergency relief funding.
AECOM representatives presenting funding for STEM 
academies to South Aiken High School officials.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
29Through Protecting Tomorrow , the third pillar 
of our Blueprint for a Better World , we leverage 
our expertise to lessen our impact on the planet 
to help communities prepare for the future. We look to build on what was achieved in 2016 in this area with future work next year and beyond.
Solar power for the poorest
Pollinate Energy is a social enterprise based in Australia and India that aims to bring life-changing technologies such as solar lanterns, cookstoves, solar fans and water filters to families living in impoverished communities in India. In 2016, we again sponsored six employees from our Australia and New Zealand operations to travel to India. This year’s team assisted with Pollinate Energy’s team in Lucknow, the fourth city in India where the organization has expanded its work. Harvesting rainwater
AECOM’s Manila, Philippines, office developed the Million Barrels project. Employees planned, designed and installed a rainwater harvesting and filtration system to collect water for irrigation and sanitation. The system was piloted Tanza, a district of Novotas in Manila.
Glasgow Canal coalition
AECOM is helping to turn the Glasgow Canal into a surface water storage system and re-thinking the way canals contribute to water management. By using meteorological forecasts and sensors for real-time operational management we are creating a reliable water network to benefit the communities, equipping the canals to be prepared for a resilient tomorrow.
Scottish Canals, Glasgow City Council and 
Scottish Water are the key stakeholders from the Metropolitan Glasgow Strategic Drainage Partnership.Protecting Tomorrow
Pollinate Energy’s  AECOM participants with solar lanterns. 
The Million Barrels project to collect rainwater in Manila, Philippines.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
30Environment
32 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
33 Geography-level EffortsES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
We are committed to being 
responsible stewards of the 
environments where we work and 
live, and of the future we imagine.
31
AECOMReducing our carbon footprint
We aim to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions resulting from our operations. As a large, multinational, professional services firm, our sources of GHG emissions are highly varied in form.  In an effort to prevent pollution, conserve resources and lead in environmental sustainability, a key commitment in AECOM’s Safety, Health and Environment Policy, we regularly measure and report on the progress to lower our GHG emissions.
Major sources that we measure include direct 
emissions from fleet vehicles and heavy equipment (fuel consumption) and indirect emissions from facilities (purchased electricity or other sources of energy), also referred to as Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions respectively, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.  We also monitor our total annual mileage from business air and ground travel (Scope 3).
AECOM is striving to meet its target of a 
20-percent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2020. This target is set on 2015 operations as its baseline, normalized by revenue. To advance progress toward this goal, our current work is focused on our major sources with initiatives to consolidate our real estate footprint and upgrade to more fuel-efficient vehicles and heavy equipment. 2016 highlights
 −FY16 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were 13.29 metric tons of CO2e
1/$US million, 
compared to 18.29 in the previous year2 
 −Five office consolidations in the United States resulted in a 332,000 square-foot reduction in floor space and related Scope 2 emissions −Our Oil & Gas construction operations added 20 new excavators, which use 15-20 percent less fuel than existing models
 −We strengthened our GHG monitoring with FigBytes, a leading reporting software tool, to improve the data collection and processing demands involved in measuring our emissionsGreenhouse Gas Emissions
1 2015 baseline revised by 7,500 metric tons due to previously unreported project-level data. 
2 2016 reductions primarily the result of AECOM’s divestment of Oil & Gas fleet assets in North America.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
2016 GHG emissions reductionsScope 1 and 2 (metric tons CO2e)
2016 2015178,728196,581
Facilities                               
(Scope 2 emissions)
2016 201552,616137,546
Vehicles and Heavy Equipment 
(Scope 1 emissions)
32News from Asia Pacific 
AECOM’s sustainability program combines 
both a “top-down” and “bottom-up” approach to making our operations sustainable.
Our Asian operations have monitored 
and reported their environmental impacts across 22 regional offices for the past seven years. They track electricity consumption, paper purchased and flight mileage.
The measurements are published annually 
in AECOM’s Asia Sustainability Report. The report also includes the results of an annual employee survey to gauge both how employees and clients view sustainability as a priority and how they perceive AECOM’s own level of commitment to sustainability. This feedback is then used to provide recommendations to guide future initiatives to improve our sustainability performance. Our Australia and New Zealand operations run GO!, a green office program. A new, five-year strategic plan for GO! was launched in 2016. It aims to demonstrate sustainable business practices in five priority areas: travel, energy, water, procurement and recycling. These areas form the basis for both ANZ- and region-level action plans. The work contributes to AECOM’s compliance in ANZ with ISO 14001, the operations’ Environmental Management System standard.
Geography-level Efforts ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
33Workplace
35 Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E)
36 Diversity + Inclusion
37 Work-Life Balance + Career Growth
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
We aim to make our offices and 
projects sites safe, comfortable 
and representative of the 
communities we work in and serve.
34
AECOMDelivering a safer world
At AECOM,  we make safety part of everything 
we do. Safety for Life, our SH&E program, sets 
an expectation for each employee, contractor and business partner to take personal responsibility for the safety of their colleagues and others associated with our work.
Our employees are critical to reducing the 
frequency and severity of incidents. Safety for Life empowers employees to stop unsafe work at any of our locations and requires them to make safety observations and report near misses. Executives and senior management lead by example in our safety efforts. Each year we set minimum targets for senior management observations that include visits to project sites where they can assess performance, recognize excellence and report back on issues they have identified.2016 highlights
 −AECOM employees made over 345,000 observations through online reporting systems and other sources
 −Our global recordable incident rate in 2016 was one-tenth of the current U.S. construction industry average 
 −Our global lost work day incident rate in 2016 was 22 times lower than the current U.S. construction industry average
 −In the United States, six AECOM locations earned Voluntary Protection Program Star status, a designation of exceptional safety performance from the US Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration
 −AECOM’s latest Safety Report  
provides more information on these achievements and othersSafety, Health and Environment (SH&E)ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
35Encourage diversity and 
build inclusion 
The power to create innovative solutions is 
connected to our ability to attract, develop and manage diverse teams. We want to grow diversity in our workforce and create a company culture that embraces inclusiveness.
Diversity expresses itself in many different 
ways — including age, race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, marital status, religious creed, disability, medical condition, genetic information, military and veteran status and any other legally protected category.  
We aim to foster an environment that is free 
from discrimination and harassment and provides equal opportunities in all areas of employment, including recruitment, hiring, training and promotion. We want to ensure all employment practices are objective and free from bias, based solely on work criteria, individual merit and meet the broader goals and objectives of the company.Our employees’ participation in Employee Resource Groups is essential to promoting a greater sense of inclusiveness at AECOM. By connecting employees with shared interests and life experiences, the groups help members grow and learn, network, support their peers through coaching and mentoring and raise awareness in others. 
Our online global employee resource group, 
WomenExcel, is over 2,400 members strong and focuses on celebrating and enriching women’s development through active dialogue, engagement and collaboration.
Our mCircles (mentoring circles) program 
is a grassroots program built to promote diversity and inclusion through group mentoring. There are over 20 mCircles throughout the company, which are made up of eight to ten employees representing entry level- to senior-level positions.
Among others, additional groups within 
our organization include: LGBT+ Allies, AEMOMS (AECOM mothers), Global Young Professionals Forum and Hispanics@AECOM.
2016 highlights
 −The number of women leaders increased by nearly 30 percent, an accomplishment that demonstrates our commitment to increasing our women in leadership over the coming years 
 −Our Australian operations achieved a 50:50 gender split among undergraduate hires in 2016 
 −Our top employer awards and recognition include: 
•  Top 50 Employers (Minority 
Engineer Magazine)
• Corporate Equality Index on LGBT workplace equality (Human Rights Campaign Foundation)
• Most Outstanding Company in Gender Diversity Award (Engineers Australia) and Veteran Friendly Employer of the Year (American Veterans)Diversity + InclusionES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
36Being balanced and successful 
We encourage and assist employees to 
achieve a work-life balance that is right for them, no matter their age or stage in life. Our employees are supported by a range of policies and benefits, which help ensure they have time and energy for their personal priorities. 
To help employees pursue a healthy work-life 
balance, we develop progressive workplace programs and practices that cater to their needs. In North America, we offer Wellness at AECOM , a year-round wellness initiative 
for our benefits eligible U.S. employees and their spouses and domestic partners. Across the company, we also provide access to competitive and affordable benefits, including healthcare, life and disability coverages, voluntary benefits, including family and parental leaves, along with paid time off.  
To help manage mental health issues such as 
work-related stress and challenging life-events, we provide employees free, 24/7 counseling resources. Through this confidential service, employees also have access to work-life services, such as financial guidance, legal support, child and elder care referrals. Achieving a healthy work-life balance is one of many ways we help employees lead more fulfilling lives. We also support them on their career paths at AECOM. 
Professional development opportunities 
and career advancement are powerful catalysts in driving job satisfaction for our employees. To support their success, we provide them tools and resources so they can reach their full potential.
Recognizing the ability to build and manage a 
successful career as a powerful catalyst that drives job satisfaction for our employees we provide them with the tools and resources needed to reach their full potential. 
Our Performance + Rewards program provides 
employees with competitive compensation and rewards. They can work and live abroad, building their experience and professional networks, with our Global Mobility Program. AECOM University, an online learning platform, offers over 10,000 unique professional development courses. Our Development Hub allows employees to take ownership of their advancement with the support and guidance of their managers. 
2016 highlights
 −Our Australia and New Zealand operations launched “Flexibility Works,” which offers employees flexible hours of work, two weeks purchased additional annual leave and other flexible work options
 −We introduced a new family care service benefit to eligible employees in North America. Care.com helps employees find caregivers for their whole family, including their children, parents/grandparents and/or pets
 −We launched a program across our Europe, Middle East, India and Africa operations to train managers to have better conversations about mental health with their teams, and reduce the stigma associated with discussions about it
 −Our new office opened in London, England, providing shared desks and drop-in space to support an agile working environment for teamsWork-Life Balance + Career GrowthES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
3739 Economic Performance
40 Corporate Governance 41 Ethics + Compliance 42 Sustainable Procurement
43 Supplier Diversity
Marketspace
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
In pursuing growth, we are 
committed to conducting 
our business in an ethically 
sound and sustainable way.
38
AECOMEconomic Performance
Pursuing growth
We want to be the single point of service 
for the entire lifecycle of our clients’ projects. We have set a course to become the leading integrated infrastructure firm with the ability to design, build, finance and operate infrastructure assets around the world. In 2016, our performance demonstrated that our diverse business model is resilient, strong and positioned for growth.  
Our portfolio of truly iconic project wins 
speaks to our leading role in driving innovation, improving communities and shaping skylines. Highlights include AECOM’s selection to build the expansive new NFL stadium in Los Angeles, our framework agreement with Shell to deliver enabling infrastructure work across major global projects, our work on transformative transportation projects like Hyperloop and our selection to build New York City’s newest skyscraper — the US$1 billion One Vanderbilt tower.
We also continued to successfully diversify 
our business into attractive new markets, with more than US$2 billion in key power, energy and industrial wins in the year and the expansion of our Construction Services and Management Services businesses into new global markets.
These accomplishments provided significant 
momentum and allowed us to close fiscal year 2016 with an approximately US$43 billion backlog and a robust project pipeline.2016 highlights
 −We delivered on our commitment to return the Americas design business to positive growth in the second half of the year
 −Building Construction experienced its second consecutive year of double-digit growth and 15 percent growth in contracted backlog in the year
 −Our Management Services group entered the year with US$25 billion in bids awaiting client decisions
 −We delivered strong free cash flow to drive a substantial US$1.2 billion in debt reduction since closing the URS transaction two years ago
ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
39Corporate Governance
A foundation of trust and integrity
We are guided by our core values and corporate 
policies and practices that ensure the company is managed in our shareholders’ best interests. In addition, we are committed to upholding sound principles of corporate governance and to meeting the requirements of various regulatory institutions, including the governing laws of the markets in which we operate. 
AECOM’s Board of Directors is comprised of 
industry leaders and experts who are highly respected for their accomplishments as well as their values.
Our company leadership represents some of 
the best executives in our industry. Many have built their careers at AECOM,  reflecting our 
company’s career development opportunities, and have significantly contributed to our business and organizational growth.
*As of fiscal years ended September 30th, respectively.Board of Directors* 2016 2015 2014
Number of board members10 13 12
Percentage of independent directors80% 77% 67%
Percentage of directors that are women20% 15% 8%ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
Executive Team2016 2015 2014
Number of executive officers9 10 11
Percentage of executive officers that are women22% 20% 0%
40Ethics + Compliance
Acting ethically with integrity
We take pride in how our people 
operate ethically and with integrity while delivering excellence to our clients. 
Our actions are guided by the AECOM 
Code of Conduct which establishes our professional, ethical, financial and social values. The Code informs our actions and helps us make the right decisions when conducting our business worldwide. 
Everyone at AECOM,  as well as those working 
on our behalf, knows the expectations and 
requirements spelled out in our code. Our annual ethics training program reinforces these expectations and requirements of all employees and provides guidance on international anti-corruption laws and conventions.
A workplace that prioritizes ethical 
behavior is fundamental to one of our core values, Safeguard. We foster a culture of ethics by celebrating AECOM’s Ethics Week, a global event held annually that recognizes the importance of ethics and integrity to our operations. Employees are encouraged to participate in enterprise-wide as well as location-based activities that promote our values-based culture. 2016 highlights
 −AECOM’s Modern Slavery Act Statement was signed by Chairman and CEO Mike Burke and approved by AECOM’s Board of Directors, reaffirming our commitment to human rights
 −Our sixth annual Ethics Week launched an internal video competition to encourage AECOM employees to share how they 
safeguard our people, our work and our world by acting ethically with integrityES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
41Sustainable Procurement
Better supply chain management
We expect that goods and services related 
to our business are procured and delivered with full consideration of local legislation and environmental, social, ethical and economic issues throughout the whole purchasing and product lifecycle.
Our commitment to sustainable procurement 
drives us to work with our diverse network of suppliers to make a positive impact across our broad range of global markets. By building long-term collaborative partnerships, we seek to use AECOM’s strategic position to support, encourage and influence our suppliers to extend the impact of AECOM’s sustainable procurement actions throughout their own supply chains. 
We consider the sustainable impacts of our 
procurement decisions, including but not limited to, complying with all international and local laws, employment laws, safety and quality standards. To assess our suppliers’ sustainability performance, we communicate our requirements and evaluate their ability to deliver goods and services in a sustainable manner.Working in collaboration with our suppliers and operations teams,  AECOM strives to transform 
our supply based on our sustainability values. If a supplier does not align with or is unable to meet our commitment and expectations, we actively work with them to develop improvement plans. We reduce the need for new goods, procure goods and services from sustainable sources and reuse or recycle as far as practically possible. 
2016 highlights
 −AECOM developed its Sustainable Procurement Policy to align and update the existing practices and policies of its global operations 
 −Our Infrastructure & Environment team in the U.K. was named a Rated Supplier on the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply Sustainability Index for a second year in a rowES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
42Working and growing together
We believe that small and diverse businesses 
bring innovation and expertise that can strengthen the services we deliver our clients. This commitment is reflected in our Supplier Diversity Commitment Statement, signed by Chairman and CEO Mike Burke. 
AECOM’s supplier diversity program engages 
small and diverse businesses to support our work across all markets. Our suppliers include women- and minority-owned businesses, companies run by service-disabled veterans and small businesses from rural and urban communities participating in the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program. Supplier diversity is a critical component in delivering projects for the federal and public utility contracts in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, among other countries. 
Partnerships in the U.S.
To continuously seek out new partners, we have instituted a comprehensive outreach program to identify new diverse firms to support our work. Engagement activities include hosting and attending industry-led conferences, workshops and events where small and diverse firms can market their products and services to us. We also participate in mentor-protégé programs to help small and diverse businesses build strategic partnerships with larger firms, develop their technical capabilities and share knowledge.Supplier Diversity
2016 highlights
 −59.9 percent of AECOM’s subcontracted work for U.S. federal and public utility contract awards went to small and diverse businesses 
 −In Australia, as part of our Reconciliation Action Plan, we recommitted to embedding Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander procurement initiatives to increase supplier diversity  −AECOM was a winner of multiple business diversity awards and recognition in 2016. For more information on these awards and past ones, visit our Small Business/Supplier Diversity webpageAECOM increased its share of work awarded to small and minority 
businesses to 59.9 percent of its total Federal and Public Utility projects 
subcontracts in 2016, as measured in $US.2016
2015
2014
 US$0
Women Minority Veteran Disabled 
VeteranHUBZone HUBCU/MI US$245,000,000
 US$49,000,000 US$98,000,000 US$147 ,000,000 US$196,000,000ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
43GRI Disclosures
General Standard 
Disclosures Page number/resourceSpecific Standard 
DisclosuresPage number/resource
Strategy and Analysis Category: Economic
G4-1 5 G4-EC1 39, 46
Organizational Profile G4-EC9 43
G4-3 4 Category: Environmental
G4-4 46 G4-EN3 32
G4-6 46 G4-EN5 32
G4-7 10-k G4-EN15 32
G4-9 39, 46, aecom.com G4-EN16 32
G4-13 5, 39, 43 G4-EN18 32
G4-15 41, 44 G4-EN30 32
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Category: Social
G4-17 10-k G4-LA6 aecom.com
G4-18 45 G4- L A10 37
G4-19 45
G4-23 45
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-26 42, 43, 44, 45
G4-27 44, 45
Report Profile
G4-28 46
G4-29 aecom.com
G4-30 2
G4-31 46
G4-32 44
G4-33 44, 45
Governance
G4-34 40, aecom.com
Ethics and IntegrityG4-56 7, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44This report contains Standard Disclosures 
from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. References to where information related to the Standard Disclosures in the table provided.
The GRI G4 sustainability reporting 
framework informs the process by which the AECOM Sustainability Program 
team identifies and prioritizes what we include in the sustainability report. 
AECOM will continue to improve our 
alignment in future reports. AECOM is also a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, and this report represents our 2016 Communication on Progress.
This report has been audited by an 
independent team of internal reviewers to check that the information and facts presented in it reflect our performance.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
44Disclaimers
Scope of report
This report covers data and activities for the 
past several years to provide a clearer picture of our performance. This report covers our owned or operated businesses and does not address the performance of our suppliers, contractors or partners unless otherwise noted. We have prepared the information and case studies solely to provide a general overview of our sustainability activities and this report should not be used by anyone making an investment decisions. In addition, the information in this report is summarized and is not a complete description of all of our activities; therefore, we have made qualitative judgments as to certain information to include that could be determined to be inaccurate or incomplete. We did not employ any third party firm to audit this report.Forward-looking information
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to the manner in which we intend to conduct our activities based on our current plans and expectations. These statements are not promises of our future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed in this report, may differ materially in the future. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this report and we do not undertake to publicly update any statements in this report.  As used in this report, the term “AECOM” and such terms as “the company,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may refer to one or more of AECOM’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate entities, each of which manages its own affairs.ES&CRSOLUTIONS +
KNOWLEDGECOMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE
45aecom.comAbout  AECOM 
AECOM is built to deliver a better world. We 
design, build, finance and operate infrastructure assets for governments, businesses and organizations in more than 150 countries. As a fully integrated firm, we connect knowledge and experience across our global network of experts to help clients solve their most complex challenges. From high-performance buildings and infrastructure, to resilient communities and environments, to stable and secure nations, our work is transformative, differentiated and vital. A Fortune 500 firm, AECOM had revenue of approximately US$17.4 billion during fiscal year 2016. See how we deliver what others can only imagine at aecom.com and @AECOM.