2013 Sustainability Report
Managing complexity, building better lives.2 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Contents
About this report  .................................................... 3
Global Reporting Initiative  .................................... 3
Proﬁle and economic impact  ................................. 3
Purpose and core values  ........................................ 3
Fiscal year 2013 highlights  ..................................... 4
The community  ..................................................... 4
Our culture  ............................................................ 4
Environmental impact  ........................................... 5
Engineering and development  ............................... 5
A message from our  
President and CEO  .................................................. 6
Perspectives from our  
Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer  .................................... 7
Our approach to sustainability  ............................... 8
Securing a better future  ........................................ 8
Enhancing value for our stakeholders  .................... 8
Planning for a changing global context  .................. 9
People  .................................................................. 10
Engaging our stakeholders  ................................... 11
The foundation of our culture  ................................ 12
Keeping our people safe  ....................................... 13
Continuous learning and professional  
development  ......................................................... 14
The next generation: Investing in our future  ......... 14
Employee spotlight  ............................................... 14
Social Responsibility ............................................ 15
Purpose  ................................................................ 15
Programs and partnerships  ................................. 15
Environment  ......................................................... 17
Greening our operations  ....................................... 17
Conserving resources  ........................................... 17
Our carbon footprint  ............................................. 17
Metric tons CO2e from AECOM operations  
(ﬁscal year 2013)  ................................................... 18Projects  ................................................................ 19
Port of Los Angeles — A waterfront revived  ......... 19
Strumosa Urban Agriculture and Waste  
Drop-off Centre — Maximizing “green gold”  
for job creation  .................................................... 21
Townsville Port Access Road — Driving the  
three pillars of sustainability  ............................... 22
Livvi’s Place — Making cities more livable  .......... 23
Weishan Lake Wetland Park — Expanding the  
Earth’s kidneys  .................................................... 24
Eicher Group and VECV Headquarters —  
Improving work life quality  ................................... 26
Masdar Siemens Headquarters update —  
Taking the LEED in the UAE  .................................. 27
Energy Technologies Building — Breaking the  
boundaries of engineering  .................................. 28
Sui Chuen O Public Housing Development —  
Cities as catchments  .......................................... 29
Dominating the top spot in India’s green  
building sector  ..................................................... 30
The River of Life — Developing livable cities  ....... 31
Asia Square — Pushing the boundaries of  
environmental sustainability  ............................... 32
Chuvashia Energy Efﬁcient House of the  
Future Design — Applying nanotechnology on  
gigascale projects  ............................................... 33
Starwood Hotels — Greening architecture and  
construction standards  ....................................... 34
Impact of climate change and population  
growth in the United States  ................................. 35
S79 Select Bus Service — Public support  
generates transportation success  ....................... 36
Our memberships  ................................................. 37
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index  ................. 38
Project index by geography  .................................. 393 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
About this report
AECOM’s latest sustainability report illustrates the 
company’s commitment to providing stakeholders with 
long-term solutions in a complex and oftentimes 
unpredictable global environment. Reﬂecting the breadth and 
depth of our employees’ expertise, this report presents a 
broad mix of our key projects and initiatives designed to 
improve lives around the world.
Released in May 2014, this report covers AECOM’s ﬁscal year 
ending September 30, 2013, including details of the 
company’s direct operations, and those companies we have 
acquired, or others still in the process of integrating, and does 
not replicate any previously used information. 
Global Reporting Initiative 
This is the third AECOM sustainability report in which we 
reference the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 
While we are not yet reporting at the Core level as set forth in 
the new G4 Guidelines, a GRI Index is included at the end of 
this report for reference.Proﬁle and economic impact
For ﬁscal year 2013, AECOM reported $8.2 billion in revenue, 
$377 million in operating income, earnings per share equal to 
$2.35 and free cash ﬂow of $356 million.
Total backlog was $16.6 billion and the company invested 
$373 million to repurchase 14.4 million shares during the 
ﬁscal year.
For more for more ﬁnancial information, please see our 10-K 
located on our Investors page  on AECOM.com.
Purpose and core values
Continuing a long legacy of excellence in architecture, 
engineering, design and program management, AECOM’s 
global team of experts remains united by our Core Values   and 
shared purpose — to create, enhance and sustain the world’s 
built, natural and social environments. Ranging from 
innovation and integrity to safety and agility, our Core Values  
are the foundation of who we are, what we do and how we do 
it. Equally fundamental to AECOM’s success is the way in 
which our employees integrate sustainability into every 
aspect of our business, contributing to our ultimate goal of 
improving communities around the world.
AECOM helped transform Weishan Lake 
Wetland Park in Shandong Province, China, 
into a tourist attraction that balances 
conservation and development. 4 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Fiscal year 2013 highlights
The community 
 - AECOM’s 2013 employee and company donations to charitable and philan thropic 
organizations globally totaled more than US$5.1 million.
 - 79% of employees believe AECOM is socially responsible in the communi ty.
 - The company received the American Business Awards’ Gold Stevie® for 
Corporate Social Responsibility Program of the Year for enterprises wi th more 
than 2,500 employees.
 - 76% of employees believe their manager is supportive of corporate soc ial 
responsibility.
Our culture 
 - The Ethisphere Institute again names AECOM one of the World’s Most Ethica l 
Companies (fourth-consecutive year).
 - The company launched its “Safety for Life” program, which helped AECOM 
reduce its total recordable injury rate by 22 percent.
 - AECOM won the “Best Overall Governance, Compliance and Ethics (small t o 
mid-cap)” award from Corporate Secretary magazine.
 - Readers of Diversity/Careers in Engineering and Information Tech nology named 
AECOM a 2013 “Best Diversity Company” (sixth-consecutive year).
 - AECOM recently won two 2013 International Business Awards in the Healt h, 
Safety and Environment Program of the Year category for Asia and Australi a New 
Zealand (Gold), as well as Canada and the United States (Silver).
 - AECOM earned the top spot among U.S. engineering and construction ﬁrm s on 
the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, a ra ting of 
corporate American businesses on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transge nder (LGBT) 
workplace equality (third-consecutive year).
 - The company was named Employer of the Year for large companies as part of the 
2012 Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers Young Eng ineers’ 
Awards in London.
Click here for a full listing  
of the company’s FY13 awards.5 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM FISCAL YEAR 2013 HIGHLIGHTS
Environmental impact
 -Newsweek  named AECOM one of the Top 500 Greenest Companies (ﬁfth 
consecutive year).
 - Every ofﬁce in North America transitioned to 30-percent recycled pa per and a 
new printing program, enabling AECOM to save 729 tons of material paper wei ght.
 - 84% of employees believe that AECOM is an environmentally responsib le 
company.
 - The Climate Change Business Journal  Awards acknowledged AECOM’s Climate 
Resilience study in Australia for Queensland’s Urban Utilities. 
Engineering and development 
 -Engineering News-Record ’s Top 500 Design Firms survey ranks AECOM no. 1 
design ﬁrm (ﬁfth-consecutive year).
 - Professional Woman’s Magazine named AECOM Top STEM company in its 201 4 
Best of the Best List.
 - Tishman Construction, an AECOM company, oversaw the installatio n of the ﬁnal 
two sections of One World Trade Center’s 408-foot (124-meter) spire in New Y ork 
City, which brings the tower’s height to 1,776 feet (541 meters) — making it the 
tallest building in the Western Hemisphere.
 - The New Port project in Doha, Qatar, reached the safety milestone of achie ving 10 
million hours worked without experiencing a lost-time incident.
 - For the second-consecutive year, AECOM was ranked as the leading tunne ling 
consultant in Asia according to Tunnels & Tunneling International  magazine.
AECOM’s annual Excellence Awards celebrate 
outstanding client projects and business achievements 
across the company, encouraging employees to push the 
boundaries of conventional solutions. Click the image to 
see what projects were recognized for ﬁscal year 2013.6 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
A message from our  
President and CEO
I am proud to present AECOM’s third global sustainability 
report, Managing complexity, building better lives , which 
illustrates the actions we’ve taken during the last year to 
bring our sustainability commitment to life.  
Our 45,000 professionals are passionate about helping our 
clients manage complex resource and infrastructure challenges, 
and this report presents details regarding the solutions we 
provide for our clients, our industry and the world.  By focusing 
on delivering excellence in everything we do, we create 
innovative solutions that help our clients and the world at large 
achieve short- and long-term goals in the most sustainable 
ways possible.  This means taking our thinking a step further 
beyond solely meeting project requirements and growing our 
business.  We are also helping clients meet undeﬁned needs 
that secure business continuity, reduce their impact on the 
environment, and improve the lives of our work’s end users.
And we assess our own global operations on a yearly basis to 
ensure that we are working toward our goal of reducing our 
carbon footprint — and to identify additional areas where 
improvements can be made.
 
We believe that empowering employees to make the right 
decisions is a responsibility that should be taken seriously by 
every company. And our designation as one of the “World’s 
Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere Institute for the 
fourth-consecutive year reﬂects our efforts in this area.  It’s 
also worth noting that we won two 2013 International 
Business Awards in the “Health, Safety and Environment 
Program of the Year” category for our work in Asia, Australia 
and New Zealand, Canada and the United States. 
This report also showcases our work on some of the world’s 
most complex projects.
 - The Masdar Siemens Headquarters in Masdar City, Abu 
Dhabi, is the ﬁrst Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
design project in the United Arab Emirates with a Platinum 
rating.
 - We were selected as a ﬁnalist in the “River of Life” 
competition to further develop our master plan submission 
to rejuvenate the Klang River and its surrounding area into 
an iconic waterway — facilitating the continued growth of 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. - AECOM analyzed the potential long-term implications of 
climate change and population growth on the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency’s National Flood Insurance 
Program in the United States.
 - Our work on South Africa’s Strumosa Urban Agriculture and 
Waste Education Centre incorporates an interconnected 
system optimizing the use of waste and water to create 
jobs, improve the livelihood of local community members 
and boost the country’s economy in the long term.
 - Australia’s Townsville Port Access Road aims to support 
signiﬁcant regional economic development over the next 20 
to 25 years.
 - Our design on the University of Nottingham’s Energy 
Technologies Building helped to establish the low-carbon 
building as the ﬁrst laboratory complex in Britain with a 
sustainability rating of BREEAM Outstanding. 
The work we do as a company, coupled with our corporate 
social responsibility efforts, provides us with the privilege of 
touching the lives of millions of people every day.  In 
partnership with organizations such as the ACE Mentor 
Program, Engineers Without Borders, the International Red 
Cross, we have provided ﬁnancial support and our employees 
have volunteered thousands of hours throughout the year in 
support of AECOM’s commitment to making the world a better 
place. In 2013, AECOM donated more than US$5.1 million to 
charitable and philanthropic organizations globally, and looks 
forward to supporting key organizations in the coming years.
Thank you for supporting us as we focus on providing 
comprehensive, long-term solutions that help communities 
and clients adapt to a rapidly evolving world.
Best regards,
Mike Burke
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
7 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Perspectives from our  
Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer
These initiatives, as well as our global commitment to 
excellence, ethics and safety played a key role in the 
company’s overall development.  I am eager to report that we 
have again made progress on all of the sustainability 
objectives we set last year.  However, we also recognize that 
there are still improvements that can be made by all of us 
— AECOM, our clients and our communities — and we will not 
stop in our efforts to continue to learn and improve.
Just as this report continues to showcase AECOM’s efforts to 
achieve our improvements in sustainability each year, it will 
also highlight how we become increasingly effective at 
meeting the needs of our clients, improving the lives of people 
around the world, and securing a better future for all.  
And as we do so, we will be mindful that the decisions we 
make today must not compromise our hopes for a successful 
future for all.
Regards,
Gary Lawrence
Vice President and Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer
I am proud to present to you AECOM’s 2013 global 
sustainability report, which documents the advancements 
we’ve made during the past year in processes, project work 
and spreading our understanding of the various systems 
involved with sustainability. 
In last year’s report, we examined our strategic approach to 
managing the complexity of the interactions between 
economic, natural, social and human capital — focusing on 
helping our clients advance human progress with less risk.  In 
addition to broadening our understanding of sustainability 
across the company, we evaluated our direct impact on the 
world by undertaking our ﬁrst comprehensive, company-wide 
assessment of the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from 
our operations. 
In 2013, beyond factoring in the impacts of greenhouse gases 
and climate adaptation, we became even more mindful that 
providing an ever-changing, growing urban population with 
clean energy, clean water, healthy nutrition and a secure 
environment, as well as long-lasting, reliable infrastructure 
and shelter is the deﬁning challenge of our time. 
Our employees thrive on unraveling the complexities of these 
global challenges — partnering with clients to ensure that 
meeting their near-term objectives will not ultimately 
compromise their ability to realize long-term value creation.  
The present and future effects of our decisions are something 
we must always consider — whether we are restoring 
infrastructure, developing new capacity, protecting natural 
capital or creating new human settlements.  Understanding 
and managing the myriad, complex interactions between 
systems is critical if we are to optimize returns on investment.  
More and more, our experts are collaborating around the 
globe to maximize the value of the sustainable solutions we 
deliver to our clients.  We successfully boosted our efforts to 
integrate sustainability into the fabric of AECOM’s culture.  
Furthermore, through the passions and interests of our own 
people, AECOM has become even more engaged in bettering 
the lives of people around the world through corporate giving, 
in-kind donations and volunteer efforts.
 Managing complexity, 
building better livesLeveraging better 
outcomesGoals of AECOM’s 
annual sustainability 
report
Click on the videos below for more information.
At AECOM, we’re always looking to improve 
our processes and operations. Please click 
on the icon to take a brief four-question 
survey.8 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Our approach to sustainability
Securing a better future
AECOM’s vision for a better future drives all of our work, and 
forms the foundation of how we operate as a company. We 
understand that the decisions we make and the actions we 
take today will shape the quality of life for future generations. 
Whether it is through the services we provide to clients, how 
we operate as a business, or how we support our volunteer 
efforts in communities around the world, placing 
sustainability at the forefront of every initiative we pursue is 
inherent in our company’s culture.
This commitment is integral to attracting and retaining 
professionals who are dedicated to building better lives 
around the world by tackling issues that, if left unaddressed, 
could compromise the world’s future security. These include 
climate change, poverty, unreliable infrastructure and shelter, 
resource scarcity, environmental damage and inequity.
We strive to anticipate our clients’ needs and provide 
comprehensive solutions that incorporate value creation, 
efﬁcient use of scarce resources, and opportunities for 
future success. 
Enhancing value for our stakeholders
AECOM is dedicated to enhancing value not only for our clients 
and employees, but also for all of our partners who directly 
inﬂuence our business. We work with a wide range of 
stakeholders, such as employees, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) and vendors, to achieve a common set  
of goals: 
 - As we work to attract and retain the best and brightest 
talent, we continue to focus on the philanthropic and 
sustainability issues that our employees  care about.
 - AECOM offers our NGO partners  an unmatchable 
combination of technical expertise and in-kind donations, 
while they provide us with opportunities to align with our 
core values and inﬂuence the public regarding the 
importance of the global issues that our work addresses.
 - In addition to business support, we offer our vendors  
guidance in sustaining long-term value through initiatives 
such as our recent Strategic Partner Sustainability 
Assessment — which also helps AECOM manage its supply 
chain sustainability while furthering its own commitment to 
economic, environmental, social and governance issues. Our approach to sustainability is centered on skillfully navigating  
social, economic and political climates to provide the most 
appropriate solutions for our stakeholders. Understanding the 
interconnected relationships we have with our indirect 
stakeholders — such as the media and general public and 
policymakers — is also another important part of this approach. 
Understanding how we impact various sectors of society 
provides us with a heightened perception of sustainability. 
This broad view enhances our long-term strategy as we seek 
to encourage our direct and indirect stakeholders to partner 
with us in providing resource and infrastructure solutions for 
a rapidly transforming world.
AECOMDirect relationshipIndirect relationship
Policymakers  World economy
MediaGeneral public
Competitors
EmployeesAECOM senior leadership
ClientsNon-governmental organizations
Communities
Investors
VendorsRecruitsUniversities/academia
GovernmentsJoint venturesSubcontractors
Google+ Hangout — Sustainability, Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibil ity: 
This Google+ Hangout features thought leaders across AECOM as they expl ore 
emerging trends in global sustainability reporting and discuss the im portance of 
charitable and philanthropic efforts in addressing world issues.
9 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Planning for a changing global context
Half of humanity currently lives in cities, and, by 2050, that 
proportion is expected to rise to 70 percent. In many 
countries, populations are aging, and there is an increasing 
need to address growing resource scarcity and the impacts of 
global climate changes.  At AECOM, we are continually 
transforming our approach to project delivery to better 
address these rapidly changing dynamics and to enhance 
sustainability.
 -Aging Populations:  To accommodate the aging populations 
in many countries, we are constructing urban spaces that 
will better serve these diverse groups in the future. 
Carefully planning transportation infrastructure is a key 
factor to developing sustainable cities that can 
accommodate an aging population that increasingly 
requires improved mobility access. In addition, as our 
specialists are called upon to design a growing number of 
senior care facilities, we recognize the importance of 
creating and maintaining environments where care and 
independent living can be maximized. -Resource Scarcity:  The world’s growing population is 
rapidly consuming energy, food and potable water at rates 
that exceed production and replenishment. Focused on 
sustaining economically viable cities around the globe, 
AECOM applies an integrated approach to analysis and 
problem-solving that is critical to conserving these scarce, 
interrelated resources.
 -Rapid urbanization: Globally, many countries struggle to 
balance rapid urbanization, aggressive resource 
consumption and climate change — all effects of a growing 
population. At AECOM, we continue to focus on 
incorporating such considerations into our designs, 
including mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions and 
developing environmentally friendly projects to reduce 
environmental impacts.
 -Disaster Preparedness: As our global team of experts works 
to transform the built environment, climate change is a 
primary consideration when assessing the feasibility and 
sustainability of our projects.  Considerations such as sea 
level changes, urban sprawl into more environmentally 
sensitive areas, loss of natural buffers and other effects of 
growth need to be factored into the planning and design of 
the infrastructure in these increasingly sensitive areas so 
as to enable the infrastructure to better withstand the 
negative impacts of such changes.
Half of humanity currently lives in 
cities, and, by 2050, that proportion is 
expected to rise to 70 percent.TODAY:
50%
live in citiesIN 2050:
70%
will live in cities
Aiming to help Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United 
States, reach its goal to become the “Greenest City 
in America,” AECOM’s Gary Lawrence, vice president 
and chief sustainability ofﬁcer; Mark Gander, 
technical leader, transportation; and Bijan 
Pashanamaei, district general manager, Keystone 
district, Americas, partnered with the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development to 
create a report named “A solutions landscape for 
Philadelphia.”AECOM hosted a Twitter Chat exploring integrated 
solutions for complex issues related to the 
food-water-energy security nexus. The chat 
featured AECOM’s Gary Lawrence ( @CSO_AECOM ), 
chief sustainability ofﬁcer and vice president at 
AECOM, and Michele Ferenz (@MicheleFerenz), 
director of the Food, Water and Energy Nexus 
Program at the EastWest Institute.For more from AECOM on thought 
leadership surrounding cities,  
please visit a recently released  
SlideShare presentation named  
“From Vulnerable to Resilient Cities.”10 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Our people — the approximately 45,000 professionals 
dedicated to building better lives in more than 150 countries 
— drive the success of our company. While business results 
are a critical measure of our success, how we achieve those 
results is every bit as important. Every project we deliver 
reﬂects the depth and breadth of the knowledge, skills, 
passion, excellence and integrity that characterize AECOM’s 
diverse workforce. And most important, our employees 
remain committed to providing client services ethically and in 
compliance with the law every day. Whether through the 
services we provide or our volunteer efforts, AECOM remains 
dedicated to our purpose — to create, enhance and sustain 
the world’s built, natural and social environments. 
Barbara Faga worked on AECOM’s Diagonal Mar 
project (left and below), which brought a unique 
concept to Barcelona, Spain, combining hotel, retail, 
housing and ofﬁces into one planned community 
covering the equivalent of 15 city blocks. The coastal 
strip was zoned for new tourist and residential 
functions, including the creation of the Olympic 
Village and a series of artiﬁcial beaches. The 
Diagonal Mar shopping center, the largest in the 
country, brought American retailing concepts to the 
city, combining shopping with leisure and 
entertainment.AECOM Fellow Barbara 
Faga, considered a 
leader in advocacy and 
participatory planning 
processes, discusses 
her 30-year career as an 
author, professor and 
professional urban 
planner.
People
“Most people distrust any plan 
perceived as drawn up without public 
process by experts they’ve never met. … A 
plan created with the community, rather 
than for them, has built in the public’s 
support, and stands a better chance of 
beneﬁting everyone involved in its 
implementation.”
Barbara Faga, AECOM urban designer and 
principal, design + planning11 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PEOPLE
Engaging our stakeholders
At AECOM, we understand that effective stakeholder 
engagement is key to fulﬁlling our goal to be recognized as the 
true global leader of professional services by our clients, the 
place to grow professionally by employees, and a valuable 
investment by our shareholders.
AECOM, as well as our partners, considers a robust 
sustainability strategy to be a fundamental element to our 
long-term business success. This is why we continuously evaluate our framework to ensure that our projects, as well as 
our economic, social and environmental efforts best serve our 
customers, employees and business partners. As outlined in 
the table below, throughout ﬁscal year 2013, we solicited 
feedback on our sustainability reporting through executive 
leadership interviews, surveyed our vendors on their 
sustainability efforts, and established employee cohorts to 
further integrate sustainability and innovation into the fabric 
of our company. 
Direct stakeholder groups Methods of engagement Focus
AECOM senior leadership  - Interviews  - Incorporating sustainability into  project delivery
 -Enhancing business development efforts
Clients  -Interviews  -Measurable outcomes
 - Incorporating sustainability into  project delivery
 -Understanding stakeholder needs
Communities/General Public  -On-site ﬁeld ofﬁce visits
 - Presentations to local groups and 
neighborhood associations
 -Public participation meetings and workshops - Improved understanding of community needs
 -Enhanced sense of community involvement
 -Decreased community resistance
Employees  -Surveys
 - Video conference discussions with global 
sustainability employees
 - Chatter – internal social media -Environmental performance 
 -Ethical business practices
 - Introducing sustainability on our projects
 - Sustainability in AECOM operations
Investors  -Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 - Quarterly earning conference calls
 - Letters/communications to Board members 
and committees
 - Analyst Day
 - Participation at investor and analyst 
conferences -Financial performance
 -Critical business practices
 -Corporate social responsibility
Governments  -Workshops and interviews  - Leading by example
 -Environmental performance
 -Addressing community needs
Non-Governmental 
Organizations and 
Universities/Academia -Interviews  -Ethical communications and business practices
 - Incorporating sustainability into project delivery
Partners (Vendors, Joint 
Ventures and Subcontractors) -Interviews  -Financial performance
 -AECOM’s sustainability policy
 -Ethical business practices
 -Corporate social responsibility
 - How to improve partner sustainability
Recruits  -Conferences, trade shows  -Our culture
 -Environmental performance
 -Ethical business practices
 - Sustainability in AECOM operations and projects12 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PEOPLE
The foundation of our culture
Our commitment to sustaining a workplace culture deﬁned by 
integrity, one of our Core Values, is paramount to AECOM’s 
continued success. AECOM and its employees have a personal 
responsibility to make certain we and those we work with always 
provide our services ethically and in compliance with the law.
As a ﬁrm named to the Ethisphere Institute’s “World’s Most 
Ethical Companies” list four years in a row based on its 
organizational focus and tools dedicated to maintaining integrity  
in its business dealings, AECOM employees and our leadership 
team display a deep-rooted commitment to business ethics.
For us, diversity expresses itself in many different ways — age, 
gender, race, nationality, language, culture, marital status, 
sexual orientation, religion, belief or creed, education, 
disability and experiences. With employees in more than 150 
countries worldwide, we strive to maximize the potential of this 
diverse group by embracing uniqueness and creating an 
opportunistic and inclusive work environment where everyone 
feels respected and valued.
Fusing science, engineering, and design solutions, we work to 
incorporate sustainability into every project in order to shape 
a better tomorrow. In each sector of our business, we have 
thought leaders who work to devise new and innovative 
methods of ensuring that the principles of sustainability 
underpin everything we do.
But it’s not just in our work for clients that we pursue 
sustainability. In virtually every AECOM ofﬁce around the 
world, local initiatives are in place to encourage the 
conservation of energy, water and other ﬁnite resources.
®
We respect and 
encourage our 
employees’ ideas, 
diversity and cultures.
AECOM, General Electric and Ethisphere share 
ideas on how to best promote an ethical business 
culture through an annual “Best Practices in Ethics 
Communications Workshop.”
13 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Keeping our people safe
During ﬁscal year 2013, AECOM’s total recordable injury rate 
improved by 22 percent, targeting a 5-year improvement of 78 
percent. And our experience modiﬁcation rate was .66 in 
ﬁscal year 2012 and .53 in ﬁscal year 2013, a 20-percent 
improvement.
At AECOM, we believe that safety has no boundaries — no 
matter where we operate, we ensure that our employees are 
in a safe and sound environment at work and home. In the 
event of a crisis, AECOM employees can turn to our 
comprehensive travel management safety and security 
systems that redirect our employees to a safe zone when they 
are traveling or working abroad.  
Protecting and preserving the natural environment in which we 
work is also a top priority. We actively seek to conserve energy, 
water and natural resources, and to recycle and reduce waste 
wherever possible. We strive to be good corporate citizens by 
ensuring that our facilities and operations do not pose 
unreasonable safety or environmental risks, and by 
participating in community-related activities that promote 
excellence in safety, health and environmental practices.
Derived from AECOM’s Core Values, the ultimate goals of our new 
“Safety for Life” program are simple — to prevent work-related 
injuries or illnesses, damage to property and/or equipment from 
our activities, and adverse impacts to the environment from our 
ongoing projects or operations. And our recently updated nine 
“Life-Preserving Principles” will drive AECOM’s employees to 
proactively commit to achieving these goals.Our safety mission: 
To guide the architecture, 
construction and 
engineering industries as a 
safety thought leader by 
embedding a culture 
focused on health, safety, 
risk management and 
sustainability into all 
business activities.
Our goals: 
 –0 work-related incidents/
injuries. 
 –0 damage to property and 
the environment. 
 –Environmentally friendly 
and sustainable 
workplace. 
PEOPLE
RECORDABLE INJURY RATE  
IMPROVEMENT LAST YEAR  
22%
 -Demonstrated 
Management 
Commitment
 -Employee Participation
 -Budgeting and Stafﬁng 
for Safety
 -Pre-Planning -Contractor Management
 - Recognition and Rewards
 - Safety Orientation and 
Training
 -Incident Investigation 
 - Fit for DutyLife preserving principles
Andy Peters, AECOM’s chief safety ofﬁcer, talks 
about the importance of embracing safety, health 
and environment as a company.
14 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PEOPLE
Continuous learning and professional development
AECOM is committed to training and development by fostering 
talent, encouraging new ideas, and providing professional 
opportunities for all employees at all levels, from individual 
contributors through executives. One of AECOM’s strategic 
priorities is to strengthen and support our 45,000 talented 
employees around the world. The company offers more than 
40,000 learning opportunities for employees around the globe 
through in-classroom teaching and innovative technology 
platforms.
The next generation: Investing in our future
By collaborating with universities under our Academic 
Alliances Program, our professionals are not only developing 
mentor relationships with these students, but they’re also 
inspiring them to discover new, innovative solutions to 
problems around the globe.
The company’s commitment to social responsibility is the 
cornerstone of these alliances, and, similarly, students in the 
programs are encouraged to mentor younger students. In 
addition to developing tomorrow’s engineers, academic 
research broadens AECOM’s exposure to the latest research 
and innovative ideas. 
A full list of the company’s Academic Alliances can be found 
here .
Employee spotlight
In each sector of our business, we have thought leaders who 
work to devise new and innovative methods that ensure the 
principles of sustainability and excellence underpin 
everything we do. Below are two exemplar employees that 
represent the 45,000 people that reinforce AECOM’s strong 
culture.
Christopher Rapone, an alumnus of Villanova’s college of engineerin g and now 
an engineer in AECOM’s transportation practice, discusses his exper ience as 
part of AECOM’s Academic Alliance Program.
AECOM’s Lanelle Ezzard 
(left) is a water 
resources engineer in 
AECOM’s Atlanta, 
Georgia, ofﬁce, who 
recently completed a 
project assisting the 
Federal Emergency 
Management Agency’s 
(FEMA) rebuilding 
efforts in New York after 
Superstorm Sandy. She 
was recently named a 
ﬁnalist in the New Faces 
of Engineering program 
by the American Society 
of Civil Engineers.
As sustainability lead in 
AECOM’s Durban ofﬁce 
in South Africa, Candice 
Manning (left) is 
working on a number of 
prestigious 
developments in South 
Africa and other African 
countries targeting 
either Leadership in 
Energy and 
Environmental Design 
(LEED) or Green Star 
ratings. Manning is also 
beginning the initial 
designs for a new 
AECOM interior ofﬁce 
ﬁt-out located on the 
prestigious Umhlanga 
Ridge in Durban, which 
is targeting a Green Star 
Interiors Pilot Rating. “It is fantastic to work for a company 
that not only offers outstanding 
sustainability services, but also 
incorporates sustainability within everyday 
work life,” said Candice Manning, 
sustainability lead based in South Africa. 
“Incorporating sustainability in our 
business gives us a competitive advantage 
and makes good business sense.”15 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Social Responsibility
There are only a few companies that have the privilege of 
playing a role in millions of people’s lives around the world 
every day — from the work we do as a company to our global 
community engagement. We do not take this privilege for 
granted and believe that aligning our business values, 
purpose and strategy with the social, environmental and 
economic needs of all of our stakeholders is important. 
Purpose
The heart of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) program 
is focused around the communities and people whose lives we 
touch every day through our philanthropic efforts. Our 
purpose statement deﬁnes AECOM as a responsible company 
and as a community citizen: To create, enhance and sustain 
the world’s built, natural and social environments.Programs and partnerships 
We feel that by aligning our business values and company 
purpose with our initiatives, the people and communities that 
we serve will receive the greatest beneﬁt. 
In 2013, through a combined employee and company effort, we 
donated thousands of volunteer hours and more than US$5.1 
million to charitable and philanthropic organizations throughout 
the world.  Much of this effort was made through strategic 
partnerships such as Engineers Without Borders (EWB), Water 
For People, WaterAid, and the International Red Cross and its 
afﬁliates.  By carefully selecting these organizations, we were 
able to maximize the beneﬁts from our efforts.
In addition to supporting these organizations, we invested 
heavily in education, supporting more than 30 universities 
worldwide through our Academic Alliance program, which 
aims to positively inﬂuence engineering students at the start 
of their careers.
Our community and employee programs   
foster ﬁve program areas: 
1 Community development
2Education and training STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics)
3 Alleviating poverty and disaster recovery
4 Health and well-being
5 Natural environmentAECOM’s top contributions:
1. Academic Alliance Program
2. March of Dimes
3. International Red Cross and afﬁliates
4. Empire State Relief Fund
5. United Way
6. ACE Mentor Program
7.  Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship
8. Engineers Without Borders USA
9. YMCA
10. Seabee Memorial Scholarship Association  
AECOM has been 
involved with Water For 
People outreach 
initiatives for years. 
This includes being 
named a global sponsor 
in 2011 for contributions 
of more than 
US$100,000 per year.Since our partnership began in 
2012, we’ve donated more than 
$600,000 to help Water for People 
reach its mission of providing 
four million people with access to 
clean water by 2018.16 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Professional 
afﬁliations:  
$1,324,781  
(26%)
Community:  
$1,352,15 4 
(26%)Education:  
$1,274,752 
(25%)Other:  
$176,570 
(3%)Environment:  
$124,546  
(2%)
Disaster relief:  
$ 34 8,311  
(7%)
Health:  
$ 5 47,337  
(11%)    
 
$5,148,451 
Total charitable 
donations  
in 2013
Below: In January 2013, AECOM helped the Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council ( UPC) to design and build an 
exhibition stand from 100% waste materials identiﬁed from local proje cts. The exhibition stand was used 
at the World Future Energy Summit (WFES) to educate children on the importa nce of recycling.
Requested by Aldar, a client in the U.A.E., AECOM’s construction superv ision team on the Yas Mall project 
provided design development for the stand and identiﬁed materials t hat could be used from construction 
waste.
The UPC stand had the lowest carbon footprint at WFES as all of the materials wer e 100% recycled, and 
100% regional (from Yas Island projects). Both UPC and Aldar were pleased w ith the ﬁnal outcome.
Left: At AECOM, we 
bring together 
expertise, ingenuity and 
passion to make the 
world a better place. 
This video exempliﬁes 
the collective energy 
and effort of our 
company and our 
employees to beneﬁt 
society and the 
environment through 
the contribution of 
labor, ﬁnancial support 
and facilities as well as 
social and community 
networks.
Through Engineers Without 
Borders, AECOM has helped  
to better the lives of more than  
2.5 million people.17 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Environment
4,209
TREES12,153
POUNDS OF 
WATERBORNE WASTE
1,788,218 
GALLONS OF  
WASTEWATER398,505
POUNDS OF 
GREENHOUSE GAS198,041
POUNDS OF  
SOLID WASTE
2,981,581,801
BTUS OF ENERGYGreening our operations
At AECOM, we encourage our clients, contractors and vendors 
to reduce the environmental impact of their operations — and 
look to lead by example in our efforts to preserve the planet 
for future generations.
For example, we recently assessed the sustainability practices 
of our strategic vendors. In this collaborative effort, we are 
strengthening our business partnerships and renewing our 
commitment to environmental, social and governance best 
practices. We intend to use the resulting data to provide an 
initial gap analysis and solicit updates on a continuous basis to 
enable improvements.
We hold the company to the same high standards as we aim to 
become more sustainable overall by conserving water, energy 
and other resources throughout our own global operations.
Conserving resources
In partnership with a document solutions company, we 
continuously embrace best practices in printing to reduce 
costs as well as paper, toner and ink use. During ﬁscal year 
2013, we completed our rollout of green printing practices 
across North America. Furthermore, we have successfully 
integrated our recently established printing guidelines into 
the company’s culture. In North America, every ofﬁce has 
transitioned to 30-percent recycled paper, and our Australia 
New Zealand operation is also rolling out a new printing and 
copying program.
As ofﬁce energy is the biggest source of emissions, we remain 
focused on consolidating ofﬁce space and furthering our 
ongoing Sustainable Ofﬁce Operations initiatives to reduce our 
energy use. While every ofﬁce embraces sustainability in different ways, 
AECOM aims to provide the most efﬁcient and comfortable 
space possible. This includes strengthening our internal 
programs that save energy through efﬁcient lighting and 
electricity systems; maintain clean air; reduce waste by 
integrating green purchasing initiatives, recycling programs 
for ofﬁce waste and organics programs to collect food waste; 
and conserve water via automated faucets, ﬂushing systems 
and irrigation systems.
Our carbon footprint
During ﬁscal year 2013, AECOM conducted its second effort to 
assess the greenhouse gas emissions that result from our 
global operations. The main goal again was to use this data to 
more effectively reduce emissions and to improve our 
measurement techniques in the future. 
This year’s efforts entailed several improvements in 
methodology and scope, such as a more comprehensive view 
of the company’s ground-transportation activities, and for the 
ﬁrst time, we included a detailed inventory of company and 
off-site servers and their power demands, as well as 
emissions from home-ofﬁce use by telecommuters. While the 
overall accuracy of AECOM’s total greenhouse gas estimates 
has improved, the additional sources have caused year-to-
year comparisons to be misleading. We aim to continue to 
improve our assessment methods as well as the initiatives 
that focus on reducing our emissions. 
North America transition to recycled bond paper (FY13 environmental sav ings)18 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM ENVIRONMENT
As the majority of our ofﬁce space is leased, we rarely pay 
utilities directly and often share buildings with other 
tenants. As a result, we base our estimations of fuel and 
electricity use on square footage occupied and climate at 
each geographic location.
According to the data, AECOM continues to produce CO2e 
emissions from three major sources — ofﬁce energy, air travel 
and ground transportation.
Activity data used to derive estimates includes square meters 
of leased space, detailed records of individual ﬂights, and 
gallons of fuel purchased or expenses submitted for 
reimbursement of ground transportation expenses. Where 
primary data was not available, proxy data was used to infer 
activity levels.
The inventory includes emissions from the combustion of 
fossil fuels used to heat ofﬁces, generate and deliver 
electricity, and power the vehicles and aircraft operated by 
AECOM or used for company business travel. The estimated 
total does not include the “upstream” emissions involved in 
extracting, reﬁning and delivering the fuels used for these 
purposes. Adding these “upstream” emissions would increase 
AECOM’s total emissions estimate by 15 to 20 percent.
Metric tons CO2e from AECOM operations (ﬁscal year 2013)
GeographyOfﬁces and 
serversCommercial 
air travelGround 
transpor-
tation All sourcesPercent of 
total CO2eRelative 
regional 
uncertainty
Americas  41,000 22,000 41,000  104,000 55% Low
Asia 10,000 11,000 5,000  26,000 14% Medium
Europe 6,000 6,000 12,000  24,000 13% Medium*
Australia and  
New Zealand6,000 6,000 5,000  17 ,000 9% Low
Middle East 3,000 5,000 5,000 13,000 7% Low
Africa 3,000 1,000 2,000  6,000 3% High
Total 69,000 51,000 70,000  190,000
Percent of total CO2e 36% 27% 37%
Relative category 
uncertaintyMedium Low High
* The United Kingdom and 67 percent of European staff have relatively com plete and reliable data, but there is little primary 
data for other European ofﬁces.19 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Projects
Port of Los Angeles — A waterfront revived
San Pedro, California, United States
For residents of San Pedro, California, 
United States, living on the Paciﬁc Ocean 
has not been a “day at the beach.” Many 
people in the lower income community 
have rarely had the opportunity to get to 
the water’s edge. Once a small ﬁshing 
village, San Pedro grew up in the shadow 
of the Port of Los Angeles, against a backdrop of container 
ships and cranes and a constant ﬂow of diesel trucks and 
trains. Over time, shipping activity at the largest port in the 
United States blocked access to the water and local beaches. 
Now, an ongoing waterfront renovation is changing that in 
dramatic fashion.
Working closely with the Port of Los Angeles, AECOM created 
a master plan focused on public access to the water’s edge 
and regeneration of public recreation attractions in the 
community of San Pedro. The larger “Bridge to Breakwater” 
vision for the Los Angeles Waterfront will ultimately extend 
over seven miles, offering promenades parks, and retail and 
commercial spaces.“Water is something that people ﬁnd so 
vital in their lives. We need to take 
advantage of our waterline and make our 
waterfront a great place to be.”
John Papadakis, lifelong resident of San Pedro
Left: The Gateway Plaza includes a black-granite fountain that provid es a 
misty respite from hot Los Angeles summers.
Right: The Cruise Ship Promenade offers up-close views of working crane s and 
cruise ships and has created much-needed space for civic celebrations o n and 
around the water.20 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
“We have such a great spectacle here; 
the channel should be called ‘Grand
Canal of the Great Ships.’ It’s an 
educational spectacle. A great theater. 
Before, it’s just been a dead end.”
John Papadakis, lifelong resident of San PedroInviting a community back to the water
With the ﬁrst phases of the renovation complete, industrial 
land has been reclaimed for public use, and locals are 
experiencing access to the waterfront in a way that very few 
residents remember.
The Gateway Plaza welcomes residents and arriving 
passengers with a grand water fountain timed to music and 
lights. Set against a sweeping backdrop of Canary Island 
palms, the fountain rises from a black-granite pool bisected 
by a path that invites the public to stroll into the water, 
providing a cool, misty respite from hot Los Angeles summers.
States longtime resident John Papadakis: “We have such a 
great spectacle here; the channel should be called ‘Grand 
Canal of the Great Ships.’ It’s an educational spectacle. A 
great theater. Before, it’s just been a dead end.”
Developing Maersk Pier 400
AECOM’s expertise in comprehensive port and terminal 
facilities played a vital part in the successful completion of 
Maersk’s Pier 400 Terminal at the Port of Los Angeles. Our 
extremely aggressive schedule called for us to fast-track the 
design and construction, while streamlining processes 
where it was safe and beneﬁcial to do so. We completed this 
project ahead of schedule, under budget, with no claims or 
lost-time injuries.
21 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Strumosa Urban Agriculture and Waste Drop-off Centre — Maximizing  
“green gold” for job creation
Rustenburg Local Municipality, North West Province, South Africa
First sustainable waste drop off center in  
South Africa
Optimized use of water: 100% of water 
recirculated through bioﬁlters for reuse
Energy-efﬁcient: 100% of energy is solarPotential to create nearly 5,000 jobs within ﬁrst 
10 years of operation if replicatedAs the ﬁrst of its kind in South Africa, this waste drop-off 
center maximizes resources such as “green gold” (waste) and 
water through reuse, recirculation, bioﬁltration, hydroponics, 
composting and green waste diversion.
AECOM’s project team developed a systems-based approach, 
which includes growing freshwater crayﬁsh, cultivating 
vegetables and cut ﬂowers in water rather than soil, selling 
compost made on site, and developing innovative projects 
such as vertical gardens. The entire operation runs on solar 
power and includes two living walls and artiﬁcial shade sails 
— eliminating the need for an active ventilation system. 
“Among a number of sustainability 
innovations, our main focus was to 
design a skills-development hub focused 
on education and continuous high-
revenue job creation. Community 
members are educated on the importance 
of waste and employees remain for one 
year before they’re supported to establish 
their own businesses.”
Mike Howard, AECOM executive technical 
manager, environment, South AfricaPROJECTS
Above, left: Freshwater 
crayﬁsh, Australian 
Marron, Cherax 
tenuimanus , grown in 
the aquaculture farm.
Left: The project 
incorporates the 
cultivation of 
vegetables and cut 
ﬂowers.
Click to hear a podcast 
about this project from 
AECOM’s Mike Howard, 
executive technical 
manager, environment, 
South Africa.22 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Townsville Port Access Road — Driving the three pillars of sustainability
Townsville, North Queensland, Australia
Innovative embankment construction on highly 
collapsible soil (Ecoﬂex platform) saved client 
approximately $70,000
Met 100% of the strict environmental 
requirements for working in the Great Barrier 
Reef Marine Park
Developed innovative strategies to mitigate two-
month delay and save approximately $750,000 
due to Cyclone Yasi (category 5 storm) and heavy 
rain events
Removes approximately one-third of heavy 
haulage vehicles from residential streets each dayUsed more than 2,300 recycled tires to build 
Ecoﬂex platform
“Our work on TPAR met the client’s 
needs and successfully embodied the 
three pillars of sustainability by 
incorporating social, economic and 
environmental features. This project 
serves as a leading example of AECOM’s 
sustainability work in the transportation 
sector.” 
Chris Paterson, AECOM’s area manager, North 
Queensland and Northern Territory, Australia 
New ZealandThe Queensland Government’s vision for the Townsville Port 
Access Road (TPAR) was a freight-efﬁcient, strategic road link 
to the Port of Townsville that complements the natural 
environment, and achieves excellence and sustainability 
through every project phase with a high level of stakeholder 
support and recognition. 
Click to hear a podcast about 
this project from David 
Derrick, AECOM transportation 
technical director.
Click to watch this video displaying the 
construction of the John McIntyre (Ross River) 
Bridge, one of seven bridges designed by AECOM 
as part of the Townsville Port Access Road project.The TPAR project improved the quality of life of 
residents, reduced trafﬁc congestion, included 
local charity support and rehabilitated various 
environmental features in the area.23 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Livvi’s Place — Making cities more livable
Yamble Reserve, Ryde, North Western Sydney, Australia
Founded as a result of the devastating loss of an 8-month-old girl 
named Olivia, the Touched by Olivia Foundation aims to positively 
enhance the lives of children and their families. Aligning with this 
mission, AECOM volunteered professional services equivalent to 
US$115,000 to help the organization develop Livvi’s Place, a 
playground designed to provide all children — including those 
with physical, sensory and intellectual disabilities and disorders  
— with a safe and comfortable place to play. 
Awards
 - Premier’s People’s Choice Award at the 2013 New South 
Wales (NSW) Landscape Architecture Awards
 - 2013 NSW Minister for Planning and Infrastructure’s Sydney 
Greenspace Award
Left: The labyrinth: This space has been designed to stimulate the senses i n 
many ways, through playfully carved totem poles, whimsical sculptur al 
elements and a series of looping paths through sensory gardens.
Right: Roly Poly Path: This undulating path creates exciting changes in l evel for 
wheelchair users and forms a gentle embankment that allows children of al l 
abilities to play alongside one another in many different ways.More than 3,000 people use Livvi’s Place  
each week.
US$115,000 in pro-bono professional services 
donated to help develop Livvi’s Place 
playground.The project has won two high-proﬁle awards. “Despite challenges such as a complex 
cost and procurement framework, and 
the discovery and necessary remediation 
of 165 tons of asbestos-contaminated soil, 
the project was ultimately successful. We 
were recognized at the launch event 
among several members of Parliament and 
community leaders, in local publications 
and with the Premier’s People’s Choice 
Award as an addition that has done the 
most to make Sydney more liveable.”
Jo Blackmore, principal landscape architect, 
design + planning, AECOM
Click to hear a podcast about 
this project from AECOM’s  
Jo Blackmore, principal 
landscape architect, design + 
planning.24 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Named one of China’s ten most charming 
wetlands, Weishan Lake Wetland Park merges 
resilient green systems, restored natural 
environments, remaining forest, waterfront 
plants and the lake itself.25 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Weishan Lake Wetland Park — Expanding the Earth’s kidneys
Shandong Province, China
Due to inadequate facilities located far away from developed 
urban centers, Weishan Lake suffered from low tourism for 
years.
“When the Weishan Government requested that we transform 
the lake into a tourist attraction that balances conservation 
and development, we quickly decided to develop a wetland 
project,” said AECOM’s Hal Hu, landscape designer and 
project manager. “This allowed us to meet the client’s needs 
and combat the decline in China’s wetlands due to rapid 
urbanization, industrialization and population growth.”
Wetlands, known as the “kidneys” of the Earth, provide 
beneﬁts such as degrading pollutants, retaining and purifying 
water, controlling ﬂooding, regulating rivers, and conserving 
animal and plant species. Named one of China’s 10 most 
charming wetlands, Weishan Lake Wetland Park merges 
resilient green systems, restored natural environments, and 
forest and waterfront plants, serving as a natural barrier and 
resource for nearby New Southern Town.
“AECOM’s work helped promote development in New 
Southern Town by conserving and maintaining the existing 
wetland functions, improving entertainment and service 
facilities, and enabling wetland science education and 
ecological tourism,” said Mr. Tian, director of the Weishan 
Government. “Most important, the project team exceeded our 
expectations for tourism expansion — as we anticipate a 
ten-fold increase in planned tourism numbers by 2020.”
The Weishan Lake Wetland Park has been recognized as one 
of the Top 10 Glamorous Wetlands in China by the Chinese 
State Forestry Administration and China Central Television.More than 400% increase in land value (from 
US$491,000 to US$2.5 million per hectare)
Since its completion, local wildlife previously 
rarely seen have returned. This indicates that 
the ecosystems and habitats of the waterways 
have begun to be restored.More than 500,000 tourists attracted in 2013, 
compared to practically zero prior to project 
implementation.Over the last 100 years …
… half of the world’s wetlands  
have disappeared.
AECOM transformed Weishan Lake into a wetland 
park, enabling wetland science education and 
increasing ecological tourism.26 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Eicher Group and VECV Headquarters — Improving work life quality
Gurgaon, India
 
AECOM’s design for the Volvo-Eicher headquarters building on 
behalf of the Eicher Group created a comfortable, healthy and 
productive environment to enhance work-life quality and 
minimize the building’s impact on the environment — while 
providing client savings in annual operational costs.
To meet the highest level of indoor environmental quality, 
AECOM’s design incorporates a high-performance building 
envelope, passive design strategies for indoor thermal 
comfort and ventilation, efﬁcient artiﬁcial lighting, as well as 
intelligent daylight controls. The heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning equipment is highly optimized for comfort and 
efﬁciency, and includes under-ﬂoor air conditioning, allowing 
workers to adjust airﬂow at the desk level according to 
personal comfort needs. Annually reduces approximately 219 tons of 
CO2 (equivalent to annual carbon emitted by 39 
passenger cars)
Achieved LEED Platinum rating under the 
Indian Green Building Council’s New 
Construction rating system
Saves 100% of the wastewater generatedEstimated operational savings of US$180,315 
(over Energy Conservation Building Code 
baseline)
Top right: The Volvo-Eicher headquarters building incorporated re cycled 
materials such as wood from railway sleepers used in the building facades a nd 
in wooden discs suspended from the ceiling. 
Bottom right: To satisfy the client’s requests to achieve LEED Platinum , 
AECOM used advanced strategies together with building-integrated  sensors to 
optimize operational energy consumption.“Every step of the way, we worked to 
maximize comfort and minimize the 
environmental footprint of this project. In 
addition to energy performance, we 
maximized our resources. For example, 
we ensured that every drop of wastewater 
generated on-site would be treated in a 
sewage treatment plant and reused.” 
Sangita Das, sustainability project consultant, 
building engineering, AECOM
Click to hear a 
podcast about this 
project from 
AECOM’s Ashish 
Rakheja, managing 
director, building 
engineering, India.27 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Masdar Siemens Headquarters update — Taking the LEED in the UAE
Masdar City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE)
Sheppard Robson International selected AECOM to provide 
mechanical, electrical and plumbing; sustainability; and cost 
consultant services to deliver a cost-effective, optimized 
sustainable design and low-carbon construction for the new 
Siemens Headquarters in Masdar City, an emerging clean-
technology cluster. 
Explains Chris Wan, Masdar’s city design manager when 
describing the building, “For a start, many of its innovations 
cannot only be seen, they can also be felt. It feels as if we 
don’t need to add anything else to this building and that 
nothing can be taken away from it. That doesn’t happen very 
often but in my view that has happened in this building.”
“We are proud that this project will help Masdar City become 
a sustainable low-carbon city,” stated AECOM’s Georges 
Basmaji, associate director, buildings + places, Middle East.First building in the United Arab Emirates 
certiﬁed Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED V3.0) Core and  
Shell Platinum
50% reduction in water demand  
(over EPA baseline)
46% reduction in energy demand  
(over ASHRAE 90.1_2007 baseline)
30% reduction in embodied carbon  
(over Masdar baseline)98% construction waste diversion from landﬁll
Click to hear a podcast about this project from 
AECOM’s Georges Basmaji, associate director, 
buildings + places, Middle East.Left: A parametrically designed external shading system together wi th low 
embodied carbon materials were used to ensure that the building’s envel ope 
met the client’s high performance goals regarding wind resistance, 
daylighting, water and air tightness. 
Top right: The building’s lobby features a suspended staircase (atriu m) 
intended to promote walking between ﬂoors and reduce elevator demand. 
(Photo by Gonzalo Seminario).
Bottom right: Public 
Realm landscaped 
terraces help make the 
smooth transition from 
the plaza to the podium 
level. (Photo by David 
Lloyd).28 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Energy Technologies Building — Breaking the boundaries of engineeri ng 
University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
Limited cost budget was achieved
First laboratory complex in Britain with a 
sustainability rating of outstanding (BREEAM)
Generates up to 150% of the total annual 
electricity requirementWorld’s ﬁrst zero-carbon operational laboratory
“We were asked to break the boundaries of engineering and, 
according to the client, we did,” said AECOM’s Aleksandra 
Sasha Krstanovic, regional director, building engineering and 
project director. 
Set to become an internationally signiﬁcant hub for energy 
research and low-carbon technologies, the University of 
Nottingham’s Energy Technologies Building (ETB) needed to 
remain within a limited cost budget and meet two ambitious 
energy goals — to become the world’s ﬁrst zero-carbon 
operational laboratory and to achieve a BREEAM 
“Outstanding” rating, the highest level.
Said Krstanovic, “Most laboratories require large amounts of 
energy use. In order to satisfy our client, our building engineering 
team developed pioneering technology that maximizes energy 
from renewable and ambient sources, and minimizes the 
building’s demand for heating, cooling, lighting and ventilation.”
“In order to align with our vision for this 
research, our goal was for the building to 
lead by example as a highly efﬁcient 
structure in its own right — and AECOM 
helped us achieve that.”
Chris Jagger, chief estates and facilities 
ofﬁcer, University of Nottingham
Top: The building incorporates a number of innovative sustainabilit y features 
as pictured above. 
Above: Called an investment in the technology of the future, ETB caters to th e 
brightest minds in technology research.
Click to hear a podcast about 
this project from AECOM’s 
Martin McLaughlin, regional 
director, building 
engineering, London.29 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Sui Chuen O Public Housing Development — Cities as catchments  
Sha Tin, Hong Kong
50% reduction in demand for potable water for 
irrigation purposes
Water tanks will be 50% full for more than 100 
days per year70% estimated reduction in key pollutants (total 
suspended solids) in collected rainwaterTo reduce the increasing urban population’s dependence on 
potable water from the Dong Jiang river basin in mainland 
China, AECOM’s environment team conducted a feasibility 
study and detailed design for the client incorporating water-
sensitive urban design to enable rainwater harvesting in a 
local housing development plan.
This cost-effective, low-carbon solution results in an on-site, 
sustainable source of water; reduced ﬂood risks; and a less 
burdened stormwater drainage system by improving the 
quality of runoff entering the ecosystem. 
“Our long-term goal for this project was 
to help Hong Kong reconsider its 
municipal water strategy to prepare for 
urban population growth and climate 
change. Educational elements were 
incorporated to introduce the system to 
the general public and promote 
sustainable urban ecosystem 
development and water conservation in 
the region. We are proud that this project 
has been showcased at industry 
conferences and has led to ongoing 
cooperation between AECOM and the 
government of Hong Kong.”
AECOM’s David Gallacher, executive director, 
environmental + ecological planning, Hong 
Kong
A blend of historical techniques and modern 
innovation, this project has been showcased at 
industry conferences and has led to ongoing 
cooperation between AECOM and the government 
of Hong Kong. Rainwater harvesting cycle: Water is collected at high 
elevations from building rooftops, green roofs, covered 
walkway roofs and planted slopes, then treated via 
bioretention by entering the basin, percolating down through 
various layers, then draining into pipes once the basin is 
ﬁlled. Treated water travels along chlorinated distribution 
pipes to be placed in storage tanks, then disinfected via 
ultraviolet treatment before usage.30 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
“Through AECOM, I have worked with 
almost every major developer, builder, 
architect and construction manager in 
India. This includes the ﬁrst building in 
India to be rated green, the Godrej 
Business Centre in Hyderabad. This project 
transformed the construction industry in 
India by inﬂuencing the country to adopt 
green rating certiﬁcation.”
Dr. Prem C. Jain, AECOM’s chairman, IndiaDominating the top spot in India’s green building sector
India (Nationwide)
India has the second-largest green-building 
footprint in the world.
Expanding from modest beginnings of a 
20,000-square-foot green footprint in 2003, 
today, more than 2 billion square feet of green 
building projects are being constructed 
throughout India — landing a spot as the 
country with the second-largest green-building 
footprint in the world. Under Dr. Jain’s leadership, AECOM has 
completed 35 LEED Platinum-rated buildings in 
India.Responsible for assessing every square foot, the Indian Green 
Building Council (IGBC) is led by AECOM’s Dr. Prem C. Jain, 
chairman, India, who also acts as chairman of the council. 
Key AECOM sustainability projects in India also include the 
Indira Paryavaran Bhawan project in New Delhi, Infosys’ 
Software Development Blocks 2 and 3 in Hyderabad, KFC’s 
ﬁrst green location in India, the Mall of India at Noida and 
Ramunajan IT City in Chennai.
Click to hear a podcast 
about this project from 
AECOM’s Dr. Prem C. 
Jain, chairman, India.
AECOM acted as consultant for Infosys’ Software Development Blocks 2 an d 3 
in Pocharam, Hyderabad, India, which were awarded LEED (India) Platin um 
certiﬁcation for water and energy efﬁciency, a green power solar plant th at 
reduces reliance on the grid, and the improvement of biodiversity on camp us.
31 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
The River of Life — Developing livable cities
Greater Kuala Lumpur/Klang Valley, Malaysia
Located in the most densely populated area in Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia, the Klang River serves as the center of the lives of 
the city’s residents. However, heavy development alongside 
the river bank has led to high levels of pollution and 
intensiﬁed ﬂooding during storm seasons — threatening the 
sustainable development of the river and the city.
 Transform 100% of city’s waterfront area for 
public use and future development.
Add 1 million square meters (10,763,910 square 
feet) of commercial space, and more than 27,000 
new employment opportunities.
Raise public transportation usage within the 
master plan area from 15% to 60% by 2020.
Reduce trafﬁc demand by 15% by 2020.Aims to help Kuala Lumpur meet its goal to 
become one of the most livable cities in the 
world by 2020.
Add more than 14,000 new affordable and 
market rate housing units, accommodating more 
than 35,000 new residents.“World’s leading consultant AECOM 
was identiﬁed to assist the City Hall of 
Kuala Lumpur in conceptualizing, master 
planning and detail designing of the river 
in order to meet our goal to make Kuala 
Lumpur one the most livable cities in the 
world.”
Datuk Ahmad Phesal Bin Haji Talib, mayor of 
the City of Kuala Lumpur
Left: For this project, the client determined that AECOM was the best choic e to 
lead the master planning and detailed design of the river to help Kuala Lumpu r 
meet its goal to become one of the most livable cities in the world by 2020.
Right: Three major components of the US$1.3-billion River of Life proje ct 
include cleaning the Klang and Gombak rivers; rejuvenating the distri cts 
alongside the rivers to beautify the area and increase economic viabili ty; and 
increasing private-sector development along the river to encourage  
investment in the surrounding area.Click to hear a podcast 
about this project from 
Scott Dunn, AECOM’s vice 
president for Southeast 
Asia.32 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Asia Square — Pushing the boundaries of environmental sustainability
Central Business District, Marina Bay, Singapore
Singapore’s ﬁrst waste-recycling plant located 
within a commercial development.
Largest renewable energy generation 
installation of any commercial ofﬁce 
development in Singapore.
Solar panels to generate approximately 270,000 
kwh per year.
To consume at least 30% less energy than 
standard commercial buildings.Waste-recycling plant to convert cooking oil to 
63,401 gallons of biodiesel annually.
Currently, cities consume 75 percent of the world’s energy, and 
in many cities, commercial buildings use the majority of that 
energy. At AECOM, creating project designs that not only meet 
client needs, but also help to reduce the negative impact 
humans have on the environment, is of primary importance. 
Selected to provide engineering and consultancy services for 
Asia Square in Singapore, AECOM’s building engineering team 
set the standard for a high-technology, low-energy building 
producing an estimated energy savings of close to six million 
kilowatt-hours (kwh) per year. Situated in the Marina Bay 
business and ﬁnancial center, the development comprises 
two high-rise ofﬁce towers, a ﬁve-star hotel and a retail 
complex with dining and public entertainment features.To consume at least 40% (23,775,485 gallons) 
less water than standard commercial buildings.
“By integrating a high-performance 
glass façade, air quality technologies, 
and a number of energy and water 
efﬁciency techniques, Asia Square will be 
one of the region’s most efﬁcient 
commercial developments to meet 
current and future demands for 
environmentally sustainable green ofﬁce 
space.”
AECOM’s Vincent Tong, vice president, 
building engineering, Southeast Asia
Click to hear a podcast about 
this project from AECOM’s 
Yeo Hwee Chin, associate, 
building engineering.Currently, 
cities 
consume
75% 
of the 
world’s 
energy and 
are 
responsible 
for
80%
of the 
world’s 
carbon 
emissions.
AECOM’s design for Asia Square blended global 
expertise and local knowledge to create a design in 
accordance with Singapore’s garden-city image 
with open spaces, courtyards, public city rooms, 
balconies, roof gardens and sky gardens.33 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Chuvashia Energy Efﬁcient House of the Future Design — Applying 
nanotechnology on gigascale projects
Moscow, Russia
30% more energy efﬁcient than typical 
structures in Russia
Design includes nanotechnology solutions such 
as photocatalysis air cleaning, low-emission 
glass and composite ﬁber for reinforcement of 
concrete and othersMeets the BREEAM Ecological Excellence 
standardWhat is nanotechnology? The engineering of matter at the 
atomic and molecular scale — 100,000 times smaller than the 
diameter of a human hair — to create materials with unique 
properties and capabilities.
“AECOM is at the forefront of nanotechnology research and 
practical integration,” said Bill Looney, AECOM’s director of 
the environment business’ nanotechnology initiative. “This is 
a cutting-edge science that has the potential to transform the 
building design and construction market, speciﬁcally, by 
reducing carbon footprints and helping to meet global 
sustainability challenges.
“Working to provide nanotechnology solutions across multiple 
business lines and geographies is imperative to continuing to 
offer the most innovative services to meet current and future 
client needs. A December 2013 independent study conducted 
by Lux Research with funding support from the U.S. National 
Nanotechnology Coordination Ofﬁce and U.S. National 
Science Foundation estimates that the global market for  
nanotechnology-based products will reach US$4.4 trillion by 
2018.”
With a goal of investing in nanotechnology projects that offer 
business potential and social beneﬁt as well as advance 
Russia as a world leader in nanotechnology, RUSNANO 
partnered with AECOM’s building engineering team to design 
the Chuvashia House in Russia. “The Chuvashia design successfully 
demonstrates the sustainable qualities 
of innovative building materials and 
nanoproducts such as insulation, lighting, 
solar cells, self-cleaning windows and 
basalt structural beams. We are proud 
that the design successfully meets the 
BREEAM Ecological Excellence standard 
and is 30 percent more energy efﬁcient 
than typical structures in Russia.”
Andy Parkman, AECOM’s director of building 
engineering for Russia and the Commonwealth 
of Independence States
This project incorporates a number of innovative features, includin g 
nanoadditives that make cement stronger and more weather-resistan t, as well 
as nanoaerogel insulation that helps to reduce the house’s energy fo otprint.
Click to hear a podcast  
about this project from  
Bill Looney, director of  
AECOM’s nanotechnology 
initiative, environment.34 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Starwood Hotels — Greening architecture and construction standards
Stamford, Connecticut, United States
19% estimated energy savings
Increase in owner net present value of US$2 
million
Increase in internal rate of return of 30 basis 
points26% estimated water savingsWith an already well-established sustainability program in 
place, Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide faced a 
signiﬁcant obstacle: What next? Once light bulbs are changed 
and faucets automatized, how does a hotel company compel 
owners to invest in the right sustainability measures?
To address this challenge, AECOM collaborated with key 
stakeholders to develop a comprehensive list of sustainability 
measures — focused on energy efﬁciency, water 
conservation and reduction, indoor air quality and operational 
efﬁciency — to integrate into the hotel’s design and 
construction standards. 
“Having real, objective and quantitative 
data that we could input into our own 
ﬁnancial model was incredibly valuable 
and enabled us to build a compelling story 
for sustainability that we look forward to 
sharing with our owners.”
Veronika Ruf, director, architecture and 
construction, Starwood Hotels and Resorts
Left: AECOM’s Amy Garrod, technical leader for sustainability, tran sportation 
(right), with Veronika Ruf, director, architecture and constructi on, Starwood 
Hotels and Resorts.
Right: AECOM held highly collaborative visioning workshops with key 
stakeholders from Starwood Hotels and Resorts to ensure that sustaina bility 
measures were both quantitative and qualitative.
Click to hear a podcast about 
this project from AECOM’s 
Amy Garrod, technical leader 
for sustainability, 
transportation.
35 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
Impact of climate change and population growth in the United States
United States (Nationwide)
Won two Climate Change Business Journal  
Awards [Project Merit Award for Adaptation; 
Consulting & Engineering: Climate Change 
Practice (Gold)]
Assuming shoreline recession, the total number 
of National Flood Insurance policies may 
increase by approximately 80% by 2100.Assuming shoreline recession, the national 
average increase in special ﬂood hazard areas 
by the year 2100 may approximate 40% for 
riverine areas and coastal areas.
Long-term erosion inﬂuenced by sea-level rise may cause 
shorelines in coastal areas to shift. By 2100, ignoring this 
shift could result in a 40-percent increase in special ﬂood 
hazard areas in riverine and coastal environments across the 
United States (subject to regional variability).
As a leading advocate and consultant for climate change 
mitigation and adaptation, AECOM was selected by the U.S. 
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to develop 
“The Impact of Climate Change and Population Growth on the 
National Flood Insurance Program through 2100,” a study 
addressing riverine and coastal ﬂood response to climate change.
“With a goal of identifying increasingly hazardous coastal 
areas and reducing the risk of ﬂood damage to people and 
property, the study recommends options intended to increase 
the National Flood Insurance Program’s long-term viability,” 
said AECOM’s Scott Edelman, director, water.
“The climate change study may be one 
of the most important studies that FEMA 
conducts over the next year or so — if not 
the next decade.”
Mark Crowell, FEMA project manager
Click to hear a podcast about this project from 
AECOM’s Art Miller, science practice leader, 
climate initiative, water, North America.36 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM PROJECTS
S79 Select Bus Service — Public support generates transportation succes s
Staten Island, New York, United States
Reduced travel time by 13% to 16%.
Ridership increased 7% on the combined local 
and S79 SBS bus routes vs. a 3% decline on other 
Staten Island routes.Increased customer satisfaction — 97% of S79 
SBS passengers indicated they were satisﬁed or 
very satisﬁed with service.As the most suburban borough in New York City, Staten Island 
experiences high public transportation usage, slow bus 
speeds and trafﬁc congestion. Higher-quality bus service is 
critical to improving the transportation balance in these 
areas, and as prime consultant, AECOM’s transportation team 
upgraded the S79 bus service along the 15-mile-long Hylan 
Boulevard corridor, delivering a solution tailored to a 
suburban area. 
In addition to improved customer satisfaction, travel time, 
reliability, trafﬁc ﬂow and vehicular and pedestrian safety, the 
S79 bus service experienced an increase in ridership compared 
to other Staten Island bus routes that suffered a decline. 
Achieved using short-term, low-cost Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 
designs, typically used for high-transit corridors, this project 
serves as an example of how careful planning can allow 
BRT-style tools to quickly take traditional limited-stop bus 
service to a higher level on a substantially suburban corridor.
“This project exempliﬁed how extensive 
public input and support can lead to 
successful transportation projects. Our 
plan was closely tailored to the needs of 
the community, allowing us to better 
enhance the overall travel experience, 
improve mobility and increase 
accessibility to employment, educational, 
commercial and recreational sites for all 
users.”
Sheldon Fialkoff, AECOM project director and 
vice president, transportation, northeast, U.S.A.
Click to hear a podcast about this 
project from AECOM’s Richard 
Ravit, associate vice president 
and project manager, 
transportation.These three metrics are provided by the 
Metropolitan Transportation Authority New York City 
Transit and the New York City Department of 
Transportation.37 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Our memberships
The quality of our work is reﬂected through our ability to 
leverage the best ideas while remaining updated on industry 
trends. Education through membership organizations is key to 
the excellence we deliver to clients every day, and we are 
proud to be ofﬁcial members of the following organizations: 
 -AHC Corporate Afﬁliates Group
 - American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC)
 -American Membrane Technology Association (AMTA)
 - American Public Transit Association (APTA)
 - American Public Works Association (APWA)
 - American Road and Transportation Builders Association 
(ARTBA)
 -American Water Works Association (AWWA)
 - American Water Works Research Foundation (AWWArf)
 -Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies (AMWA)
 - Association of State Dam Safety Ofﬁcials (ASDSO)
 - Association of State Floodplain Managers (ASFM)
 - Australian Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC), Foundation 
Members
 -Australian Water Association (AWA)
 -California Climate Action Registry
 -Canada Green Building Council
 -Catalyst
 -Clean Energy Council
 - Community Business Diversity & Inclusion Asia Network
 - Conference of Minority Transportation Ofﬁcials (COMTO)
 -Construction Management Association of America (CMAA)
 -Corporate Wetlands Restoration Partnership
 - Design Build Institute of America (DBIA)
 -Design Professionals Coalition
 -Energy Efﬁciency Council
 -Engineers Without Borders
 - Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute
 - Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA)
 -International Audit Protocol Consortium (IAPC) -International Association for Public Participation (IAP2)
 -International Association of Public Transport (UITP)
 -International District Energy Association (IDEA)
 -International Ozone Association
 -International Water Association (IWA)
 - National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA) 
 - National Association of Flood & Stormwater Management 
Agencies (NAFSMA)
 - National Council for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI)
 -National Water Resources Association
 - New Zealand Green Building Council
 - Society of American Military Engineers (SAME)
 - Sustainable Remediation Forum (SURF)
 - U.S. EPA Green Power Partner
 -U.K. Green Building Council
 - U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)
 -U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development
 - Water and Urban Development, Asia
 -Water Design Build Council
 -Water Environment Federation (WEF)
 - Water Environment Research Foundation (WERF)
 - Water Services Association of Australia (WSAA)
 -WateReuse Association (WRA)
 -WateReuse Foundation
 -World Environment Center
 -World Association for Waterborne Transport Infrastructure 
(PIANC)
 -World Business Council for Sustainable Development
 -World Environmental Council
 -Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS)38 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index
General Standard Disclosures Page number/resource
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1 6, 7
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 3
G4-4 3
G4-5 3, 10-K
G4-6 3, 10-K
G4-7 3, 10-K
G4-8 3, 10-K
G4-9 3, 10-K
G4-10 n/a
G4-11 n/a
G4-12 n/a
G4-13 n/a
G4-14 n/a
G4-15 37
G4-16 37
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 10-K
G4-18 3
G4-19 3
G4-20 8
G4-21 n/a
G4-22 n/a
G4-23 17, 18
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 11
G4-25 8
G4-26 8
G4-27 n/a
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28 3
G4-29 3
G4-30 3
G4-31 n/a
G4-32 3
G4-33 n/a
GOVERNANCE
G4-34 AECOM.com
ETHICS AND INTEGRITYGeneral Standard Disclosures Page number/resource
G4-56 AECOM.com, 3, 12
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA 8
G4-EC1 3, 10-K
MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
G4-DMA 3, 10-K
G4-EC7 3, 10-K
G4-EC8 6, 7
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT
G4-DMA n/a
G4-EN30 17, 18
MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL
G4-DMA 17, 18
G4-EN31 17, 18
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA 13
G4-LA6 13
MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
G4-DMA 14
G4-L A10 14
SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS
MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR
G4-DMA n/a
G4-HR5 n/a
SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY
MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA 15, 16
G4-SO1 15, 16
MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON 
SOCIETY
G4-DMA 17, 18
G4-SO9 17, 1839 2013 Sustainability Report AECOM
Project index by geography
Americas
Port of Los Angeles — A waterfront revived  .......................... 19
Starwood Hotels — Greening architecture and construction 
standards  ............................................................................. 34
Impact of Climate Change and Population Growth in the 
United States  ........................................................................ 35
S79 Select Bus Service — Public support generates 
transportation success  ........................................................ 36
Europe
Energy Technologies Building — Breaking the boundaries of 
engineering  .......................................................................... 28
Chuvashia Energy Efﬁcient House of the Future Design 
— Applying nanotechnology on gigascale projects  .............. 33
Asia
Weishan Lake Wetland Park — Expanding the  
Earth’s kidneys  ..................................................................... 24
Eicher Group and VECV Headquarters — Improving work life 
quality  .................................................................................. 26
Sui Chuen O Public Housing Development — Cities as 
catchments  .......................................................................... 29
Dominating the top spot in India’s green building sector  ..... 30
The River of Life — Developing livable cities  ........................ 31
Asia Square — Pushing the boundaries of environmental 
sustainability  ....................................................................... 32Australia and New Zealand
Townsville Port Access Road — Driving the three pillars of 
sustainability  ....................................................................... 22
Livvi’s Place — Making cities more livable  .......................... 23
Middle East
Masdar Siemens Headquarters Update — Taking the LEED in 
the UAE  ................................................................................ 27
Africa
Strumosa Urban Agriculture and Waste Drop off Centre 
— Maximizing Green Gold for Job Creation  .......................... 21Printed on recycled paper V.01 ©2014 AECOM. All Rights Reserved.About AECOM
AECOM is a global provider of professional technical 
and management support services to a broad range 
of markets, including transportation, facilities, 
environmental, energy, water and government. With 
approximately 45,000 employees around the world, 
AECOM is a leader in all of the key markets that it 
serves. AECOM provides a blend of global reach, local 
knowledge, innovation and technical excellence in 
delivering solutions that create, enhance and sustain 
the world’s built, natural and social environments. A 
Fortune 500 company, AECOM serves clients in more 
than 150 countries and has annual revenue of $8.0 
billion.
More information on AECOM and its services can be 
found at www.aecom.com.