Leaving Our Duckprints
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Aflac 2015Message from Chairman 
and CEO Dan Amos
Leaving our foot, er, duckprints
No matter who we are or what we do, we leave our marks – our 
footprints – on the world. Some of those footprints are large and others small. Companies leave their marks, too. At Aflac, we think of ours not as footprints, but as duckprints. After all, Aflac’s name and reputation are known worldwide largely due to the influence of our whimsical, wise Duck.
1 
For 60 years, our duckprints have represented how we serve others, give back to our communities, protect our environment and behave ethically. It’s not just about doing things the right way or the socially responsible way; it’s about doing them The Aflac Way. 
Dan Amos, Chairman and CEO of Aflac, with the famous Duck
Message from Chairman and CEO Aflac 2015
 2Social responsibility is critical to Aflac. We believe companies must give back 
to their neighborhoods, communities, nation and world. In fact, we recently conducted the Aflac Corporate Social Responsibility Survey, a study of more than 6,000 people that directly tied strong corporate social responsibility to business success. As new, younger, more idealistic generations evolve into influential consumers, social responsibility will increase in importance – and companies that don’t enact social responsibility programs will face growing criticism.
Aflac’s social responsibility promise is based on four non-negotiable principles: 
 »First, our business practices ar
e focused on always doing the right things. 
 »Second, our workfor
ce must reflect an increasingly diverse marketplace. 
 »Thir
d, we will give back to our community in many ways, including through our 
primary philanthropic cause — treating and ultimately curing childhood cancer. 
 »And fourth, we will always be a str
ong advocate for our environment  
and community. 
In addition to being socially responsible, Aflac is committed to providing the best 
possible service to our customers. Our commitment led to the 2015 introduction of our One Day Pay
SM initiative, which has already helped more than 1 million 
policyholders receive benefits within one day of filing an eligible claim. That can make a real difference to the 52 percent of employed American adults who have less than $1,000 on hand to pay out-of-pocket expenses associated with an unexpected illness or accident, according to the 2015 Aflac WorkForces Report.
We invite you to join the social responsibility conversation by asking yourself:  
“How can I make my neighborhood and community better? Am I doing my best  to protect the environment? Do my actions reflect strong ethics? How can I  leave my duckprints?”
No individual or company is perfect. As famed football coach Vince Lombardi 
once said, “Perfection is unattainable, but if we chase perfection, we can attain excellence.” The 2015 Aflac Corporate Social Responsibility Report explains how our company always strives for perfection and often achieves excellence.
 
Dan P. Amos
Chairman and CEO
Aflac
Message from Chairman and CEO Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 3Duckprints Done Right 
 »A long, pr oud history of leaving our duckprints  
 »Doing right by our business and our customers 
 »Doing right by our policyholders 
 »Doing right by our investors 
 »Aflac gover
nance 
Duckprints in the Workplace 
 »Doing right by our employees 
 »An emphasis on diversity 
Duckprints in Our Communities 
 »Supporting the cancer community
 »Building homes for our neighbors 
 »Community support for Aflac flood victims
 »The Duck doesn’
t stop there: More causes we support
Duckprints in Japan 
 »Aflac Japan hosts women’ s summit in Tokyo 
 »The Aflac Par
ents Houses – Aflac Japan’s commitment to fighting cancer
 »TOMODACHI Initiative
 »Aflac Scholarship Fund for Childhood Cancer Survivors and Childr
en of Cancer Victims
 »Cancer awar
eness and prevention: The Gold Ribbon Campaign
 »Social-contribution activities
 »Aflac Heartful Services
Duckprints on the Planet 
 »Envir onmental stewardship
In the Duckprints of Our Leaders
About This ReportTable of Contents
05
13
17
 
 
 
 
23
  
27
31
35
This report includes references to best business practices, indicated by the 
globe icon, that correspond to guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative, the world’s most recognized framework for sustainability reporting. Full descriptions of each reference are included on page 35. 
Table of Contents Aflac 2015
 4
Duckprints 
Done Right
A long, proud history of 
leaving our duckprints 
When principal founder John Amos, along 
with his brothers Paul and Bill, founded Aflac 
in 1955, they never imagined their small 
door-to-door insurance company would 
become one of the most well-known and 
respected businesses in the world. But it was 
their vision, compassion and commitment 
to doing the right thing – not only for their 
customers, but also for their employees, 
sales team and community – that laid the 
foundation for the Aflac we know today. “John Amos was a 
visionary who shared the 
values inherent to strong 
families: hard work and 
service to his fellow 
man … He was a civic 
leader, a philanthropist 
and a statesman.”
- President Jimmy Carter,  
honoring Aflac’s principal founderInstead of focusing only on the bottom line, they concentrated 
on creating a company worthy of respect and trust. After all, 
they knew they were selling a product based on a promise 
and a handshake. Insurance is not an item that can be 
purchased, taken home, examined and returned if it doesn’t 
meet expectations. The quality of insurance is tested only 
in times of need – when an individual is sick or hurt – and 
failure to deliver can have devastating consequences. 
It may sound quaint, but Aflac employees have, through the 
years, abided by seven homespun commitments based on 
the premise of doing the right thing and living by the golden 
rule: Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.  
Each new Aflac employee receives The Aflac Way ,2 
a book of tenets set out by the Amos brothers more 
than half a century ago. The principles include: 
 »T
reat everyone with respect and care  
All customers are to be treated the same. No customer  
is more important than any other. Treating everyone  
we encounter with respect and care is key to our  
business and always will be.
 »Y
our problem is my problem  
Our customers turn to Aflac when they’re hurt or sick and 
in great need. It’s our job to look at their problems as if 
they were our own and to do all we can to help them. 
 »Shoot straight
  
Honesty is the best policy. We must be honest in our 
dealings with customers and co-workers, even when 
the news isn’t all good. When we combine honesty 
with caring service, we’re working The Aflac Way. 
Doing right by our business 
and customers
Now that we’ve established the Aflac culture, let’s take a look 
at the duckprints we’ve left over the years – duckprints that 
have made an enormous difference in the lives of those we 
insure, our employees, our sales team and our investors. 
John, Paul and Bill Amos created a new industry when they 
introduced supplemental insurance. In their first year of 
Duckprints Done Right Aflac 2015
 6business, they sold a respectable 6,426 policies. But they 
weren’t interested in being a one-hit wonder. They kept the 
innovation going by inventing cancer insurance and, later, 
with a worksite sales strategy. They stepped it up again 
with with employer-sponsored Section 125 plans, which 
allowed payroll deductions for premiums on a pretax basis.
Then, the Amos brothers had another huge idea: Under their 
leadership, Aflac became just the third American company licensed to sell insurance in Japan. They pioneered a  
product – cancer insurance – at a time when cancer awareness 
was growing. The Japanese segment now accounts for 
approximately 78 percent of Aflac’s pretax operating earnings.
With 60 years of experience and tens of thousands of Aflac 
representatives selling our insurance in the U.S. and Japan, it’s 
no surprise that a whopping 50 million people worldwide are 
protected by Aflac’s individual and group insurance products. 
In Japan, about 1 in 4 households are insured by Aflac.  
We are in the business of growing, changing and improving – 
operating with the understanding that if a company doesn’t 
continuously innovate, it will eventually become irrelevant. That’s 
why at Aflac, in addition to leading the insurance industry in 
terms of how and what we sell, we also set the standard for 
serving customers once the business is earned. Quality service 
is not only a cornerstone outlined by The Aflac Way, but it’s a critical component of Aflac’s success. Our commitments to 
service and innovation have led us to become the first voluntary 
insurer to introduce One Day Pay
SM, enabling Aflac customers 
to receive their benefits within a day of filing an eligible claim.
We build on our service promise by continuously examining 
our customers’ needs. We assess and reassess our product 
portfolio to ensure the businesses, individuals and families 
who rely on us to help protect their financial security have 
access to the products they want and need. In fact, our goal 
is to figure out what they want and need before they do.
Over the years, we’ve been ahead of our industry  competitors in many ways: 
 »In short-term disability insurance, we wer
e leaders in 
offering true, guaranteed-issue coverage options. 
 »In hospital insurance, we wer
e at the forefront of 
creating specialized benefits for policyholders.
 »In dental insurance, we helped pioneer open networks. 
 »In vision insurance, we set the standar
d for offering benefits 
for eye diseases, eye surgery and progressive blindness.
 »And in the evolution of intensive car
e insurance, 
we introduced step-down benefits. 
Aflac’s entrepreneurial spirit has never faded. We’re willing 
to take calculated risks to ensure our industry leadership. 
We even took a chance by introducing the Aflac Duck in 
2000, one that has more than paid off in name and brand 
recognition. But there will always be more innovation at Aflac:
 »W
e created SmartApp, which accelerates 
the application process for new policyholders.
For doing so, we received the Computerworld 
Smithsonian Award for Excellence in Technology. 
 »W
e became the first publicly traded U.S. company to 
give its shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation, better known as “Say on Pay.”
3   
 »W
e introduced One Day PaySM and, as a result, 
more than a million Aflac policyholders have received benefits within one day of filing claims. Aflac’s principal founder John Amos, with brothers Paul and Bill 
Duckprints Done Right Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 7
Trying new things entails risk, but risk is part of the 
business. “Not everything we try is going to work out 
the way we expect or want it to,” says Aflac CEO Dan 
Amos. “But at Aflac we take smart risks, and most of the 
time, those thoughtful risks pay off. We don’t put anything 
critical in jeopardy, but we do innovate so that everything 
we do for our policyholders is always improving.”
Doing right by our policyholders
We wish we had records of claims going back to the year Aflac 
was founded, because the comparison between 1955 and 
today would be mind-boggling. We can tell you this, though: 
In 1971, we paid out just over $2 million in claims. In 2015, the 
total grew to nearly $8.8 billion. And how did that $8.8 billion 
help policyholders? It housed families by helping with mortgage 
payments. It kept children warm by paying for furnace oil. It 
kept food on the table by paying grocery bills. It went toward 
car payments, airline tickets and hotel bills so that adults and 
children could travel for treatment of heart disease, cancer, 
burns, or any number of other serious illnesses and injuries.   
Promises made, promises kept
When families and individuals choose to rely on Aflac, 
they’re putting their faith in the promise that we’ll be there to help them during some of the most emotionally and 
financially difficult times of their lives. Over the past 60 
years, generations of Americans have learned that Aflac 
keeps its promises. We mean it when we say we’re 
committed to treating our policyholders like family. 
We receive more than 100 letters each month from 
people whose faith in our company has been justified. 
It is their letters that remind us just how fulfilling 
an Aflac career can be. Here are just a few: ‘Aflac shines through’
LINO BAILEY  “In the dark and scary world of 
health care, Aflac shines through all the bureaucracy 
and paperwork nightmares with its simplified insurance 
policies and forms, easy-to-use online filing and support, 
rapid claim decisions and direct deposit, and above all, 
their willingness to try to say ‘yes’ at every opportunity. 
“Nothing is perfect, but in the world of voluntary 
insurance, nothing for me comes close to Aflac!” 
‘All I had to worry about  
was getting better’
ELIZABETH BORN  “I applied for the Aflac accident 
insurance policy because I have three very active boys. 
Little did I realize that I would be the one to need it. In 
February 2013, we were moving to our new home. My 
father and I were carrying a box when I slipped and fell. The 
box fell on me, and when I hit the ground, not only did 
I fracture my tail bone, I also dislocated my kneecap. 
“I was rushed to the hospital, where an MRI not only showed 
the dislocated kneecap, but also extensive damage to the 
ligaments that held my knee together. Within a week, I had knee surgery and spent five days in the hospital, followed by 
extensive physical therapy. I was out of work for 12 weeks.
“With a new house and three boys to feed, my husband 
and I both were stressing out because we knew finances 
were going to be tight. But then my Aflac insurance 
kicked in. I have the Aflac short-term disability, accident 
and hospital confinement indemnity insurance policies. 
The benefits we got from Aflac were a welcome 
relief. From that point on, money would not be such a 
worry. All I had to worry about was getting better.”
Duckprints Done Right Aflac 2015
 8‘The cost is small compared  
to the peace of mind’
LARISSA ZIMAGE  “My husband and I had our first 
child this year. You never expect that you will experience 
complications, but they happen. I ended up becoming ill 
and had to deliver my son five weeks prematurely. He was in 
the neonatal intensive care unit for almost three weeks. The 
Aflac short-term disability and hospital confinement indemnity 
insurance policies paid benefits on me, and the hospital 
confinement indemnity policy paid daily benefits for my 
newborn son’s hospital stay. This money helped us to pay for 
doctor bills and NICU costs that we could not have anticipated.
“Although we applied for these policies with pregnancy/
maternity leave in mind, they help protect our family in other 
unforeseen circumstances. The cost is small compared 
to the peace of mind the coverage grants my family.”
‘If it weren’t for Aflac,  
I’d likely be in debt’
KEISHA MALONE  “On July 1, I received a phone 
call that my 5-year-old son had been bitten by a dog in 
New York City. I live 90 miles from the city. My son ended 
up in the operating room, where he underwent four hours of 
plastic surgery. He was then sent to the intensive care unit, 
where he spent the next two days trying to talk and adjust 
to what had happened. He suffered multiple lacerations to 
his face and three fractures in his jaw, along with several 
displaced teeth. Four days later, he was operated on for 
seven hours to place a titanium plate in his jaw and wire it. 
“We spent a week in the hospital. I stood by his side the whole 
time. After he was discharged, I missed another week of 
work while he recovered. Aflac’s accident insurance policy 
helped me keep up with my apartment rent. I had no more 
personal days off at work, so I went two weeks without pay. 
The benefit check from Aflac helped me with my out-of-pocket 
expenses. I went back and forth to the city, and Aflac helped cover those expenses, too. If it weren’t for Aflac, I’d likely be in debt with all the medical expenses caused by the accident.”Doing right by our investors
Aflac obviously helps provide financial security to its 
agents, brokers and employees, but we also strive 
to reward shareholders who show confidence in our 
company by investing in Aflac Incorporated stock. Aflac’s 
initial shareholders purchased 1,000 shares of stock for 
$11,000. After 28 stock dividends or splits – the last in 
2001 – those 1,000 shares have grown to approximately 
1.9 million shares, excluding reinvested cash dividends. 
While past performance is not a guarantee of future results, 
Aflac’s numbers are impressive by anyone’s definition. Our 
continued efforts to remain at the top of our industry demonstrate 
that we are well-positioned to leverage the opportunities to 
enhance our financial strength in the decades to come. 
What does this really mean? It means that those forward-
thinking shareholders – those who in 1955 had the foresight 
to envision the prosperity that Aflac could bring them and 
retained it, along with the stock – received more than 
$3 million last year in cash dividends alone. It means that 
at the close of trading on Dec. 31, 2015, an $11,000 initial 
investment in 1955 was worth an incredible $113.4 million.
Aflac governance
As a Fortune 150 company with annual revenues of $20.9 
billion, Aflac places a premium on ethics and integrity. We 
call this doing business The Aflac Way. We have high expectations of all employees – from the longest-tenured 
to the most recently hired – and those expectations 
are outlined in our company code of conduct.
Our spirit of responsibility, caring and compassion is also 
illuminated in our Seven Commitments to Customer Service. 
These commitments are the ultimate expression of doing 
business The Aflac Way. The tenets are simple – they include 
communicate regularly, know your stuff, shoot straight and cover the customer, not your behind – but they’re courtesies 
rarely found in today’s hard-driving business world.   
Aflac’s commitment to ethics, sustainability and 
transparency goes beyond our employees. It extends to 
our board of directors, which includes the committees of 
Duckprints Done Right Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 9Aflac was named one of Ethisphere Institute’s 
2015 World’s Most Ethical Companies, marking nine consecutive years on the list.The Aflac Contact Center’s Live-Phone Channel was recognized by J.D. Power’s 2015 Certified Contact Center Program
SM for providing an outstanding 
customer service experience. 
In 2015, Dan Amos was named one of the 100 Most Influential People in Business Ethics by Ethisphere Magazine and Best-Performing CEOs in the World by Harvard Business Review. Fortune magazine named Aflac to its list of the World’s Most Admired Companies for the 14th time in 2015, ranking Aflac No.1 in innovation for the insurance, life and health category.
In 2015, Aflac hired our first 
global chief security officer.Aflac Japan was 1 of 4 insurers honored as part of the country’s 2015 Diversity Management Selection Project.Aflac’s RepTrak® Pulse score from the Reputation Institute improved from 68.40 in 2014 to 73.30 in 2015.
AFLAC GOVERNANCE IN REVIEW
Outstanding 
Customer Service
W orld’s Most  
Ethical Companies2015 
73.30
2014 
68.40
2015
Duckprints Done Right Aflac 2015
 10Audit, Executive, Compensation, Pension, Acquisition, 
Sustainability and Corporate Governance. Members of 
the Audit, Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Committees are independent directors. 
In addition to the board’s Sustainability Committee, Aflac’s 
Green Committee is led by employees. This group serves 
in an advisory capacity and reports to the board several 
times each year. Aflac’s sustainability reporting reflects 
Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI, index guidelines.
Aflac maintains several other employee-led committees 
that provide up-to-date information to the CEO 
and board of directors. These include committees 
focused on corporate social responsibility, as well 
as diversity employment and charitable giving.
Aflac has many stakeholders, including the communities 
we work and live in, policyholders and shareholders, 
suppliers, employees, agents, brokers and the employers 
who offer Aflac to their workers.4 We regularly communicate 
with these groups to ensure they’re informed about our 
latest initiatives and the strength of our company. 
Aflac maintains an active role in the public policy arena to 
assure complete transparency. In addition to complying 
with all state and federal regulations, we take additional 
steps to ensure the public and regulators are fully 
informed. For example, beginning in 2012, the company 
exceeded Securities and Exchange Commission standards 
by posting political contributions on our website. 
Recognition: Ethics, reputation  
and customer service
Aflac is committed to doing business honorably and ethically. 
As a result, our company has received many honors for  
our efforts:5  
 »Aflac was named one of 
2015’s World’s Most Ethical 
Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, marking nine 
consecutive years on the list. Aflac is the only insurance company that earned this title every year since its inception.
 »Aflac’
s reputation pulse score improved by five points, 
from 68.40 in 2014 to 73.30 in 2015, which is considered 
a significant increase by the Reputation Institute.Top: Aflac’s Jon Sullivan and Catherine Hernandez-Blades accept the Ethisphere 
award on behalf of Aflac, presented by Ethisphere CEO Timothy Erblich. 
Bottom: Aflac leaders are honored to be recognized for customer service 
excellence with our live phone channel under the J.D. Power 2015 Certified Contact Center Program
SM.
Duckprints Done Right Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 11Top: Aflac leadership routinely participates in cybersecurity 
drills with teams from the U.S. and Japan. 
Bottom: Aflac’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
meets to discuss department updates for 2015. »The Aflac Contact Center’ s Live-Phone Channel 
was recognized by J.D. Power’s 2015 Certified 
Contact Center Program for providing an outstanding 
customer service experience. J.D. Power recognition 
is based on exceeding a customer satisfaction 
benchmark in a survey of recent interactions. 
 »In 2015, Dan Amos was named one of the 100 Most 
Influential People in Business Ethics by Ethispher
e 
Magazine. The award recognizes individuals who 
have made a material impact in the world of business 
ethics and compliance. It’s the second time Amos 
was chosen for this prestigious list. Additionally, Amos 
has been recognized as a Best-Performing CEO in 
the World by Harvard Business Review for 2015.
 »Fortune magazine named Aflac to its list of the W
orld’s Most 
Admired Companies for the 14th time in 2015, ranking Aflac 
No. 1 in innovation for the insurance, life and health category.
 »The company’
s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
is chaired by the senior vice president of Business Services 
and is comprised of company officers who represent 
various Aflac stakeholder groups: senior vice president of 
Human Resources (employees); vice president of Facilities 
(environment): vice president of Strategic Sourcing and 
Procurement (suppliers): manager of Cause Marketing 
(society), vice president of Government Relations (government), and senior vice president of Corporate 
Communications (the community at large). The CSR Committee has focused on using the ISO 26000 Social 
Responsibility Guidelines to inform Aflac’s CSR progress.
 »As a company that is entrusted with personal customer 
information, Aflac takes cybersecurity very seriously
. 
In 2015, we hired our first global chief security officer, 
who routinely orchestrates cybersecurity drills in real 
time with teams from both Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan. 
Aflac makes sure our policyholders are protected.
Duckprints Done Right Aflac 2015
 12Duckprints 
in the  Workplace
Doing right by our employees
We believe our employees are the heart and 
soul of our company, and we do everything 
we can to keep them as part of our growing 
Aflac family. We are committed to fostering an 
environment that embraces integrity, respect, 
ethics, enjoyment and amity, which has 
resulted in being named as one of Fortune 
magazine’s 100 Best Companies to Work 
For. This is the 18th consecutive year that 
we have appeared on this prestigious list. In 
addition, Great Place to Work and Fortune 
have recognized Aflac as one of the 100 Best 
Workplaces for Millennials in the U.S. These 
honors make us a Fortune Blue Ribbon 
company and are a tribute to our founding 
principle that says if you treat employees 
right, they will take care of the business. 
That’s why Aflac not only pays its employees competitive 
wages, but everyone also shares in pro fits, earning annual 
bonuses based on personal and company performance. 
That’s everyone – from the CEO to the newest hire. In 
fact, in 2008, the company held a shareholder vote on 
executive compensation, known as “Say on Pay,” the fi rst 
such vote held at a publicly traded company in the U.S.
Aflac also serves employees with its Career Success 
Center ,6 a fully staffed career-counseling office that has 
been warmly received. To date, more than 580 employees 
have met with career counselors. Remarkabl y, almost 
34 percent of those counseled have seen their careers 
enhanced, often with promotions. The Career Success 
Center hosts monthly career management sessions 
and aims to double them from 30 to 60 by 2017.
In addition, Aflac is dedicated to improving the well-
being of our employees and their children. We offer Top: Aflac employees visit the Career Expo which was sponsored by our on-site Career 
Success Center to build skills and increase awareness of available career opportunities. 
Bottom: Aflac awards scholarships to employees’ children.
the largest on-site child care facility in Georgia at our 
headquarters in Columbus. We also provide fully equipped exercise facilities and several miles of walking trails at our campuses to help employees remain healthy and fit as they maintain the health and well-being of our business. 
Because work should be fun, Aflac rewards its employees each 
year with a giant celebration known as Employee Appreciation Week. For five workdays, the company holds raffles for prizes like high-tech electronics, gift cards and trips. It culminates with a big event, including even more prizes and live entertainment.  
Empowering through education
At Aflac, we believe education paves the way for a brighter future, not only for individual students, but also for our community and our company. Generations of families join the Aflac team, and through experience and education, they can help ensure the company remains strong for their children. To help make higher education attainable, Aflac awards scholarships to employees and their dependents.  
Duckprints in the Workplace Aflac 2015
 14
Aflac Diversity Council’s works to attract and retain diverse talent by reaching  
out to minority markets and driving initiatives that celebrate the company’s  existing diverse workforce.Employee scholarships, available to those who work  
full time, include:
»The Paul S. Amos Educational Scholarshipis for employees who have been accepted to ColumbusState University (CSU) at the undergraduate level andhave a strong record of community service. In 2015,Aflac awarded a total of $32,127 to 25 students.
»The Paul S. Amos Educational Scholarshipis for employees who have been accepted to TroyUniversity at the undergraduate level and who havea str
ong, three-year record of community service. In
2015, Aflac awarded $28,889 to five students.
Dependent scholarships, available to the children and grandchildren of current Aflac employees, include:
»The W. L. Amos  Scholarship  is for dependents 
who have been accepted to a university, college, 
trade or technical school. In 2015, Aflac awarded a 
total of $81,000 to 34 students.
»The Paul S. Am os Dependent  Scholarship is 
for students who have been accepted to CSU at 
the undergraduate level. In 2015, Aflac awarded a 
total of $77,367 to 55 students. 
In addition to awarding scholarships, Aflac supports 
employees who wish to pursue graduate level degrees at CSU through the Paul S. Amos Tuition Reimbursement Program. Eligible employees with at least one year of service to the company must demonstrate a strong commitment to community service. In 2015, Aflac provided $27,850 in tuition reimbursement to 17 employees attending Columbus State University and $44,630 in tuition assistance to two students who were accepted to MBA programs at the University of Georgia and Auburn University. 
An emphasis on diversity 
Aflac was founded on the principles of care, respect, dignity and fairness. Our commitment to diversity is an extension of those principles. We take pride in the fact that 67 percent of our workforce is comprised of women and 44 percent of Aflac employees are minorities. Perhaps most significantly, 34 percent are minority women. 
Aflac continues to drive diversity, and our efforts  
do not go unnoticed: 
In 2015, the company was included in the top 20 of LATINA Style’s 50 Best Places for Latinas to Work. This was the ninth consecutive year and 16th time overall Aflac made the list.   
Black Enterprise magazine included 
Aflac on its list of 40 Best Companies for Diversity for the ninth time in January 2015. In February, Aflac U.S. President Teresa White was also featured on the magazine’s cover as a member of the 50 Most Powerful Women in Corporate America list for 2015.
Aflac Japan was one of just four insurers 
honored as part of the country’s 2015 Diversity Management Selection Project. The company was selected based on its commitment to actively recruiting and activating female potential in the workplace; the number of women in managerial positions; and providing opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender, for career advancement.
It’s not just external accolades that inspire us. Aflac promotes diversity internally through the activities of our Diversity Council. In 2015, we continued to celebrate the richness of our 
Duckprints in the Workplace Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 15AFLAC U.S. DIVERSITY BY THE NUMBERS
W omen in the W orkplace
Minorities in the W orkplace29% of
Aflac officers 
are women
44% of Aflac
employees are minorities34% of Aflac
employees are minority women
10% of Aflac
officers are minorities67% of
Aflac employees are women
7differences. During our annual Diversity Week, popular activities 
included the Aflac World Fair and Selfies with Strangers. 
Employees were encouraged to snap a photo with 
an employee they didn’t know, post it to the My Aflac Experience Facebook page and note one similarity and one difference. We also continued our Talk the Talk series, which features members of our executive management team addressing a number of topics, including diversity. 
Holding our suppliers to a higher standard 
Aflac’s support of workforce diversity extends to the companies we do business with. While diversity isn’t our only consideration when assessing new and existing vendor relationships, it plays an important role.
Our nation’s demographics are changing, and Aflac is reaching 
out to increasingly diverse accounts, customers and communities. After all, if we want these individuals and groups to do business with Aflac, we must also do business with them. Identifying capable and qualified minority- and women-owned businesses isn’t difficult. Georgia, the state in which Aflac’s home office is located, is among the top-five states for growth in women-owned firms according to the American Express 2015 State of Women-Owned Businesses Report. In addition, Black Demographics ranked Georgia first in the nation for black-owned businesses.
At Aflac, we want to be known for supporting and mentoring 
suppliers through our Supplier Diversity Program. To that end, we increased our Tier 1 diverse-supplier spending to 9 percent of our overall supplier spending in 2015.
In 2015, we launched a section for suppliers on our 
website. Because we believe acting ethically and responsibly is not only the right thing to do, but also the right thing to do for our business. Our suppliers are expected to abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct.
8
We also commit to supplier diversity by participating in trade shows and sponsoring business-development events. Our efforts don’t stop there. Aflac participates in the Mentor Protégé Connection Program, sponsored by the Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council. We were the first company to participate in an interview on the council’s Business Radio X, which broadcasts in the Atlanta area. 
Duckprints in the Workplace Aflac 2015
 16Duckprints 
in Our  CommunitiesBY THE NUMBERS: DUCKPRINTS IN OUR COMMUNITIES
10 Homes Built 2,062 Volunteer Hours 275 Employee 
Volunteers$104 million
donated
 since 1995
$774,488
funds donated
 for children’s cancer 
in 2015 from online engagementsChildhood Cancer
V olunteer Participation Flood Victim SupportHabitat for Humanityraised for research and treatment of childhood cancer 
through 2015
hours donated to local and national 
charitable organizations$3.2 million
10,480Macy’s Duck Sales
$44,000
funds raised for fellow employees affected by the South Carolina flood
Duckprints in Our Communities Aflac 2015
 18At Aflac, we believe companies have 
a responsibility to make the areas in which we live and work better places – not just for our employees, but for the community as a whole. In fact, it is our own employees who lead company efforts in donating time and talent to support great causes and the local community. 
Each year, we contribute funds and labor to projects that 
affect the lives of thousands of individuals and families. For example, we provide support to cancer research, Habitat for Humanity, victims of natural disasters, educational initiatives, community improvement projects and more.
9  Aflac volunteers logged nearly 10,500 volunteer 
hours in 2015 at various charitable organizations.
Supporting the cancer 
community 
Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center 
of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta
More than 20 years ago, a young mother named Vicki Riedel 
reached out to Aflac CEO Dan Amos for help. Riedel’s baby, Ansley, was undergoing leukemia treatment at what is now Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. The floor on which children like Ansley received cancer treatment was in need of major renovation, and Vicki asked for $25,000 to get the job done. Amos considered Riedel’s request and came up with a better solution: Instead of contributing $25,000, he pledged $3 million, and The Aflac Cancer Center was born.
Since 1995, Aflac has raised more than $104 million for 
the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. Much of Aflac’s support comes from its independent sales agents who contribute from their monthly commission checks and Aflac employees who contribute through payroll deductions.
The Aflac Cancer Center is a national leader in childhood 
cancer, hematology, and blood and marrow transplant programs, serving infants to young adults. It is recognized as one of the largest and most renowned childhood cancer centers in the U.S., annually caring for more than 2,200 patients with cancer and more than 2,500 children with sickle cell disease, hemophilia and other blood disorders.
Fundraising for childhood cancer research 
Cancer is the primary death-causing illness in children under 15, but less than 5 percent of government medical funding is allocated to children’s cancer research, according to the Childhood Cancer Foundation. Aflac believes men and women 
Top: Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos and Aflac Foundation President  
Kathelen Amos visit pediatric cancer patients at the Aflac Cancer Center,  located at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. 
Bottom: Comedian Jeff Foxworthy attends Aflac Duckprints event to raise  
money and awareness for treatment and research of childhood cancer. 
Duckprints in Our Communities Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 19
who support the research of children’s cancer are true heroes. 
That’s why we celebrate these individuals through our ongoing Duckprints initiative. In 2015, Aflac conducted fundraising and awareness for childhood cancer support and research at Duckprint events in Atlanta, Georgia; Dayton, Ohio; Fort Worth, Texas; and Columbia, South Carolina. You can trace the path of our Duckprints journey by following the Aflac Duck.
Aflac’s James Mailman 
honored for leading the fight 
against childhood cancer
AFLAC’S JAMES MAILMAN  was named one of 
the 2015 Heroes of the Fortune 500 — a select group 
from the nation’s largest companies honored for acts of 
charity. Mailman leads fundraising efforts to support Beads of Courage, a nonprofit which encourages and rewards childhood cancer patients undergoing difficult treatments. 
White beads are for chemotherapy or immunizations, blue 
beads are for clinic visits or infusions, glow-in-the-dark beads 
are for radiation, star beads are for surgery, red beads are for 
blood transfusions, black beads are for pokes or injections, 
and yellow beads are for overnight stays in the hospital.
The Beads of Courage effort isn’t Mailman’s first act of 
charity related to childhood cancer. He also led Aflac 
initiatives to collect more than $262,000 to support the 
Aflac Cancer Center’s staffing and equipment, as well as 
extras like rocking chairs for each hospital room, a foosball 
table, video games, big-screen TVs and gift cards.
Aflac’s James Mailman is honored as one of the 2015 Heroes of the 
Fortune 500 for his fundraising efforts for pediatric cancer. 
National fundraising through social media 
Aflac encourages individuals across the U.S. to become 
active in fighting childhood cancer through social media. Each year, Aflac has promised to donate up to $1.5 million to the cause by giving $2 for any duckprints-related social media posts. Examples of our calls to action on social media are included below:
Twitter – We’ll donate $2 for tweets using the hashtag #duckprints or for retweets of a duckprints-related tweet.
Facebook – We’ll donate $2 for 
any share of specific posts related to duckprints or using #duckprints. 
YouTube – We’ll donate $2 per view 
of the duckprints videos online.  
Partnership with Macy’s Department Stores
Since 2001, Aflac has teamed with Macy’s to produce 
plush, limited-edition holiday versions of the Aflac Duck. The plushed duck is a popular gift sold at Macy’s stores throughout the U.S. and online at Aflacduckprints com.  All net proceeds are donated to the participating children’s cancer facility nearest to the point of purchase.
Aflac is a regular participant in the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day 
Parade, too. Each year, the Aflac balloonicle – a combination balloon and self-propelled vehicle – cruises down New York City’s 6th Avenue to the delight of many fans and admirers. 
#duckprints.
Duckprints in Our Communities Aflac 2015
 20who works full time and describes music and writing as her 
passions, spent 500 hours working alongside Habitat for Humanity to make her dr
eam of homeownership a reality. 
In Columbia, South Carolina, July 5 became a special day, as Aflac Group Insurance Company employees presented new homeowners with the keys to the office’s first Habitat for Humanity home. Sixty employees worked alongside the new homeowners during the five-day renovation project. 
In Nebraska, Aflac employees teamed up with Habitat 
for Humanity for the second year. Volunteers participated in a two-day, two-home demolition event. 
Top: Aflac’s Chad Melvin secures a staircase handrail for a Habitat for Humanity project.   
Bottom: Nebraska employees participate in a two-day demolition project for  
Habitat for Humanity. Aflac honors local heroes who have left their duckprints in the 
fight against childhood cancer with the Duckprints Award.
Breast cancer support: This Duck Wears Pink
In addition to crusading against childhood cancer, 
Aflac supports the efforts of the American Association 
for Cancer Research (AACR). Founded in 1907, the 
AACR is the world’s oldest and largest professional 
organization dedicated to advancing cancer research 
and preventing and curing the disease.
In October 2015, Aflac raised more than $50,000 for AACR 
through continued participation in the This Duck Wears Pink 
campaign, a national breast cancer awareness program. 
Consumers were asked to visit a website to make tax-
deductible donations or to purchase pink-themed Aflac Duck 
merchandise. Fans also showed their support by engaging 
with the Aflac Duck on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram with 
the hashtag #thisduckwearspink.
Building homes for 
our neighbors
In 2015, employees at Aflac’s headquarters in Columbus, 
Georgia, built their 10th house for Habitat for Humanity. Aflac 
prioritizes community involvement and encourages 
employees to reach out to those in need. Perhaps that’s why 
participation in our Habitat for Humanity program 
is so popular: Lotteries are held to determine who will 
get the chance to exercise their construction skills, and more 
than 1,900 members of Aflac’s Columbus team 
have strapped on hardhats and tool belts since 2007. 
This year, more than 275 employees teamed with a Habitat 
for Humanity crew to build a home in just five weeks. The 
delighted new resident was Tyra, a single mother of two. Tyra, 
Duckprints in Our Communities Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 21
In New York, employees volunteered at local Habitat projects 
and Aflac signed on to be the Green Building Sponsor of 10 homes in the Sheridan Hollow Redevelopment Project in Albany. The company assumed the costs of building materials and accreditations required for the Habitat homes to be Energy Star certified and compliant with the National Association of Home Builder’s Green Building Standards.
Community support for 
Aflac flood victims 
In Columbia, South Carolina, employees worked to clean 
up damage left by massive storms that flooded hundreds of area homes and businesses. Among the flood victims were several Aflac Group employees whose families suffered devastating losses to their personal property. Aflac employees mobilized to help their colleagues by raising about $44,000, establishing the Aflac Disaster Relief Fund. Donations from this fund helped employee victims to cope with losses from the flood. In addition, employees collected and sorted nonperishable food, clothes, bottled water and juice bound for those displaced by the storms. 
The Duck doesn’t stop there: 
More causes we support 
The Nebraska team purchased gifts for dozens of children being 
treated for cancer or blood disorders at Nebraska Medicine. All of their siblings received gifts, too. All told, more than 300 gifts were provided to families during very difficult times.
Aflac New York participated in the Alzheimer’s Association 
Walk to End Alzheimer’s and hosted The Charity Challenge for three weeks, participating employees played games to raise funds for a charity of their choice. Employees raised $2,500 for various causes.
Approximately 23,000 young people were registered as 
homeless in the New York City area at the start of the 2015-2016 school year. One of the most disturbing but often overlooked consequences is the impact homelessness can have on a child’s education. Aflac’s Global Investment Office in New York City recognized this and wanted to help. In 2015, the office partnered with the Bowery Missions’ Mont Lawn Camp to participate in Operation Backpack, the largest back-to-school drive for homeless students living in New York City. The Mont Lawn Camp provides support for at-risk youth lacking the economic means to buy necessary school supplies. Aflac employees delivered backpacks filled with school supplies for their students. 
New York employees deliver backpacks filled with school supplies  
for disadvantaged youth. 
Top: New York employees participate in the Alzheimer’s Association  Walk to End Alzheimer’s to increase awareness and raise research funds  for the care and treatment of people with Alzheimer’s disease.  
Bottom: Aflac employees gather donations for victims of floods in  
Columbia, South Carolina. 
Duckprints in Our Communities Aflac 2015
 22
Duckprints 
in Japan
Shizuko Yoshino, a volunteer at the Aflac Parents Houses, cultivates a rooftop 
garden that yields fresh fruits and vegetables that are part of healthy meals for children facing cancer and other serious illnesses.Aflac Japan presented its women’s empowerment event, the Aflac Women in 
Leadership Global Conference, in Tokyo. 
2015 marked the 41st year of operations 
for Afl ac Japan. Both the company and 
its employees remain committed to 
upholding Afl ac’s strong business ethics and 
participating in companywide philanthropic 
initiatives, furthering A flac’s d uckprints globally. 
Aflac Japan hosts women’s 
summit in Tokyo
With an aging population impacting Japan ’s economy, Prime 
Minister Shinzo Abe introduced what he calls “womenomics,”  
an initiative aimed at both increasing the number of women in the workforce and empowering them, which underscores what 
Aflac has done for many years. In November 2015, Aflac Japan and female members of senior and executive management from Aflac U.S. met at the Aflac Women in Leadership Global Conference in Tokyo. They discussed the changing tides of women in Japan and Abe’s “womenomics” initiative, which calls for all publicly listed companies to appoint at least one female board director by 2020, as well as to have women occupy 30 percent of leadership positions. In his conference remarks, Paul Amos II said Aflac Japan is well on track to meet and exceed Abe’s goals. To date, women currently hold 20 percent of Aflac Japan’s leadership positions.
The Aflac Parents Houses: 
Aflac Japan’s commitment to fighting cancer
When children in Japan are faced with serious medical 
conditions like cancer diagnoses, they often must travel long distances to receive treatment. Since 2001, the Aflac Parents Houses have provided cheerful and spacious accommodations to pediatric patients and their families, allowing them to stay together in comfortable accommodations while they are away from home during treatment. Generous 
Duckprints in Japan Aflac 2015
 24Hirozumi Sano, M.D., chief of pediatrics at Sapporo Hokuyu Hospital in Japan 
and a TOMODACHI Initiative participant at the Aflac Cancer Center, checks in on patients Hannah Moore-Harris, 7 (left), and Maylee Highland, 3 (right).
donations from Aflac Japan’s sales agents, employees 
and officers provide a steady stream of funding for three Parents Houses – two in Tokyo and one in Osaka. The encouraging smiles and unending support of the staff and volunteers at the Aflac Parents Houses provide a welcoming setting where families, and especially pediatric patients, can summon the resolve to endure their treatment journey. 
TOMODACHI Initiative
TOMODACHI is the Japanese word for “friends.” Since January 2013, Aflac has participated in the TOMODACHI Initiative, a public and private partnership that invests in the next generation of Japanese and American citizens through an array of educational and cultural exchanges, as well as leadership programs. The initiative’s goal is to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Japan. Aflac’s involvement in the TOMODACHI Initiative centers on pediatric cancer research and treatment. 
Since June 2013, Japan-based pediatric cancer specialists 
have traveled to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta on a rotational basis to  share insights and experience. Dr. Hirozumi Sano, chief of pediatrics at Sapporo Hokuyu Hospital in Japan, is the third specialist invited to observe and share best practices related to research, care and treatment protocols for children with cancer. Aflac Scholarship Fund for 
Childhood Cancer Survivors and Children of Cancer Victims
In addition to serving and helping children battling cancer, Aflac 
Japan supports those who have lost a parent to the disease. The Aflac Scholarship Fund for Childhood Cancer Survivors and Children of Cancer Victims was established to offer financial assistance to high school students who have lost a parent to cancer. The program eases the financial burden associated with attending high school and provides funds to qualified students facing economic hardship. Each scholarship recipient receives ¥25,000  per month to assist with educational and living expenses until graduation. Aflac Japan is proud to have provided this scholarship to more than 2,200 students to date.
Cancer awareness and 
prevention: The Gold Ribbon Campaign 
Aflac Japan’s partnerships with national and local governments 
and organizations not only highlight its dedication to helping communities, but reinforce it. Through these alliances, Aflac Japan increases cancer awareness, promotes early detection and educates the public about prevention and treatment. One such partnership is the Gold Ribbon Campaign, which began in the United States to help promote childhood cancer awareness and raise funds for pediatric cancer research. It has taken hold in Japan, where it continues to grow with the support of Aflac Japan. Since 2004, Gold Ribbon Campaign events have focused on cancer prevention and treatment through special exhibitions, including informative displays, videos and artwork by pediatric cancer patients.
Social-contribution activities
Since 1993, Aflac Japan employees have devoted their time and personal resources to various fundraising activities. One such activity is the “One Hundred Club,” in which the company matches the monetary amount employees elect to contribute 
Duckprints in Japan Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 25
through monthly salary deductions. Funds are allocated to 
the Aflac Kids Support System, Gold Ribbon Campaign support groups, and global and environmental organizations. Approximately 80 percent of Aflac Japan employees participate, and about ¥23 million was donated in 2015. 
In addition to financial donations, Aflac Japan employees and 
agents give their time to volunteer initiatives. For example, Aflac Japan has participated in blood donation initiatives since the 1995 Kobe earthquake. The company’s volunteers help with blood drive campaigns throughout the country, especially during the month of February when the blood supply is most limited.
Hiroyuki Miki practices the art of shakyo, his passion that brings him peace of mind. Aflac Heartful Services
Aflac Heartful Services was established in 2009 to develop the talents, abilities and independence of individuals overcoming various challenges. Hiroyuki Miki, who has worked at Aflac for four years, has a passion and talent for shakyo, the art of calligraphy which entails copying Buddhist scriptures. The concentration required for practicing shakyo provides peace of mind for the artist – the very feeling we at Aflac strive to give our policyholders in difficult times.
Duckprints in Japan Aflac 2015
 26Duckprints 
on the Planet
Environmental stewardship
Just as we at Aflac strive to be good stewards of our 
business, we also strive to be good stewards of our planet. The Aflac SmartGreen® philosophy outlines our corporate commitment to wisely choosing, using and disposing of resources. Although Aflac’s environmental impact is minimal due to the nature of our business, we’re always looking for innovative ways to reduce, reuse and recycle. 
As a large, publicly traded company, Aflac recognizes 
its responsibility for leading the way in eco-friendly business initiatives. From the materials we use in our daily operations to the construction and renovation of our facilities, we carefully consider the environmental effect today and in the years to come. 
Aflac is proud to have been recognized for these efforts 
by its inclusion on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for four consecutive years. Additionally, Aflac was ranked No. 9 in Newsweek’s 2015 Green Rankings for the U.S. 500 and No. 16 for the Global 500.
10
The Aflac Board of Directors Sustainability Committee leads our SmartGreen® efforts and is committed to doing business in an environmentally conscious manner. This includes streamlining our business operations and reducing paper consumption by communicating and delivering our services online whenever possible. Here are some of the green initiatives Aflac supports:
 »Arbor Day tr
ee giveaway – Employees at all Aflac 
locations registered to win one of 750 free trees as part of Aflac’s Arbor Day event, which is conducted in partnership with Trees Columbus. To date, employees have planted more than 4,200 trees to ensure thriving tree canopies for future generations.
 »Earth Hour
 – For the sixth year, Aflac participated in 
the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour, joining participants around the world for a one-hour power down.  »Earth Day  - Aflac’s eighth annual Earth Day events 
recognized the need to protect the Earth and support Aflac’s sustainability initiatives. Employees enjoyed activities such as information booths and demonstrations; planting herbs for spring; a Chuck the Cup challenge encouraging employees to say no to throw-away, one-time-use cups; test-driving electric cars on campus; and playing trivia games to learn more about our green initiatives. 
 »Alter
native commute – Employees in Columbus, 
Georgia, left their cars at home and biked to work using the city’s rails-to-trails bike route on Bike to Work day. Conveniently located bike racks and special access to 
Top: Aflac employees learn about the benefits of biking to work at the Earth Day event.
Bottom: Aflac employees get tips about responsible landscaping and environmental 
responsibility at our annual Earth Day event in Columbus.
Duckprints on the Planet Aflac 2015
 28
locker-room showers made this Green Committee event 
a favorite among cycling enthusiasts. In New York, 96 percent of employees use public transportation or walk to work as part of their commitment to a greener commute. 
 »E-waste Drive 
– Although employees are welcome to 
drop off their personal, used electronics in designated bins any time of the year, we hold two annual drives to promote the proper disposal of electronic waste. We use a certified e-Steward company to recycle the e-waste. In 2015, we recycled 63,661 pounds of e-waste.
 »Gr
een Committee outreach – Aflac’s Green Committee 
conducted five outreach programs in 2015: a coloring contest for children at a local elementary school and our corporate day care centers; a Teachers Free Cycle Event where we shared gently used office supplies with local educators; an Earth Day Booth at Columbus State University to engage potential future leaders of Aflac in our sustainability mission; Help the Hooch, an annual program with Keep Columbus Beautiful to clean our waterways leading to the Chattahoochee River; and a fundraiser for EarthShare of Georgia that raised more than $4,000 for Oxbow Meadows, an environmental learning center in Columbus, Georgia. 
 »Recycling
 – an important pollution-prevention activity, 
recycling reduces our burden on the environment and makes Aflac a better, more responsible neighbor in our communities. Aflac encourages employees to recycle paper products and much more, including newspaper, cardboard, fluorescent lamps, toner and ink jet cartridges, microfilm and recording tape, ceiling tiles, computer equipment, pallets, plastic bottles, aluminum, copper and steel.
Green initiative goals
Aflac sets stretch goals to ensure continued responsibility and diligence in meeting its sustainability best practices. Specifically, Aflac is committed to:
 »Reducing electricity consumption at its U.S. facilities to 50 per
cent of 2007 levels. By 2015, the 
company reduced consumption by 42 percent.  
Aflac hosts a biannual drive to collect and properly recycle electronics. 
 »Maintaining Energy Management Systems r egistration. 
In 2015, an independent audit found Aflac was in compliance with all ISO 50001 requirements.
 »A 40 per
cent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 2025. In 2015, emission levels were 33 percent lower than in 2007. 
 »Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions acr
oss all U.S. 
operations by 2 percent each year. In 2015, emissions dropped 3.8 percent from the previous year.  
 »Maintaining Energy Star certification at 80 per
cent of 
its company-owned properties in the U.S. At the close of 2015, 83 percent were Energy Star certified. 
 »Reducing the amount of waste sent to landfills by company-owned pr
operties from 612,540 
pounds in 2015 to 500,000 pounds by 2025.
Duckprints on the Planet Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 29
GREEN INITIATIVE GOALS
Energy Star Certification Electricity Consumption
Emission Levels LandfillsReducing electricity consumption at its U.S. 
facilities to 50 percent of 2007 levels. By 2015, the company reduced consumption by 42 percent. Maintaining Energy Star certification at 80 percent of its company-owned properties in the U.S. At the close of 2015, 83 percent were Energy Star certified. 
A 40 percent reduction  in Scope 1 and 2 emissions  by 2025. 
Reducing Scope 1 and 2 
emissions across all U.S. operations by 2 percent each year. In 2015, emissions dropped 3.8 percent from the previous year.  42 % 
REDUCED
3.8 % 
REDUCEDIn 2015, emission levels  were 33 percent lower  than in 2007. 
Reducing the amount of waste sent to landfills by company-owned properties from 612,540 pounds in 2015 to 500,000 pounds by 2025.2015
2025
Duckprints on the Planet Aflac 2015
 30In the  
Duckprints of Our  Leaders
Aflac’s leadership is the driving force 
behind our ability as a company to make an impact through the duckprints we leave behind. Here is our leadership team.
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman; Chief 
Executive Officer, Aflac; Aflac IncorporatedPaul S. Amos II
President, AflacKriss Cloninger IIIPresident, Aflac IncorporatedFrederick J. CrawfordExecutive Vice President; 
Chief Financial Officer, Aflac IncorporatedTeresa L. White
President, Aflac U.S.Charles D. Lake IIPresident, Aflac International; 
Chairman, Aflac Japan
J. Todd Daniels
Executive Vice President; 
Global Chief Risk Officer and Chief ActuaryKenneth S. Janke
Executive Vice President; 
Treasurer; Head of Corporate Finance and Development
Andrew K. Glaub
Senior Vice President; 
Director of Sales
Thomas P. McKenna
Senior Vice President; 
Deputy General Counsel, Legal DivisionTeresa Q. McTague
Managing Director; 
Chief Investment Officer, Global InvestmentsEric M. Kirsch
Executive Vice 
President; Global Chief Investment OfficerAudrey Boone Tillman
Executive Vice President; 
General CounselCatherine Hernandez-
Blades
Senior Vice President, 
Corporate CommunicationsTimothy L. Callahan
Senior Vice President; 
Global Security Officer 
Gail A. Galuppo 
Senior Vice President; 
Chief Marketing OfficerPhillip J. “Jack” Friou
Senior Vice President; 
Director of Governmental RelationsJune P. Howard, 
CPA, CFA, CGMA
Senior Vice President, Financial 
Services; Chief Accounting OfficerJulia K. Davis
Senior Vice President; 
Chief Information OfficerBradley E. Dyslin
Managing Director; Global Head 
of Credit, Global Investments
J. Pete Kelso
Managing Director; Head 
of Global Investments and Corporate ITNadeem G. Khan
Senior Vice President, Corporate 
Development; President, Empowered Benefits, LLCVirgil R. Miller
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Administrative OfficerDrew J. Niziak
Senior Vice President, 
Broker Sales
In the Duckprints of Our Leaders Aflac 2015
 32
The management teamMatthew D. Owenby
Senior Vice President; Chief 
Human Resources OfficerMichel G. Perreault
Senior Vice President; 
Global Risk and Corporate Reinsurance OfficerEric B. Seldon
Senior Vice President, 
Business Services; President and CEO of Communicorp Alex W. Stephanouk
Senior Vice President, 
Internal Audit
Robin Y. Wilkey, CPA
Senior Vice President, Investor 
and Rating Agency RelationsTimothy Chip Stevens
Managing Director; Global 
Head of Macro Investment Strategy, Quantitative Research and Trading, Global Investments
Koji Ariyoshi
Executive Vice President; 
Director of Sales and MarketingHiroshi Yamauchi
President; Chief 
Operating OfficerMasatoshi Koide
Deputy PresidentJun IsonakaFirst Senior Vice 
President, SalesYuji Arai, CFA
Senior Vice President, 
Aflac Japan; President, Aflac Insurance ServicesJohn A. Moorefield
First Senior Vice President; 
Chief Transformation Officer, Aflac Japan; Strategic Management, Aflac International
Andrew J. Conrad
Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel, Aflac Japan; Senior Vice President, Aflac InternationalTohru Futami
Senior Vice President; 
Chief Information OfficerTomohito Hasumoto
Senior Vice President; 
IT Architect, Chief Technology OfficerOsamu Ishii
Senior Vice President, 
Kinki Administration and Disaster PreparednessKosuke Kato
Senior Vice President, 
Marketing and Corporate DevelopmentRiko Kubo
Senior Vice President, Planning, 
Human Resources, General Affairs, Executive Assistant Office, Translation and Interpretation Office
Yoshifumi Murayama
Senior Vice President, 
Sales, Marketing and Agency ManagementJoseph F. Meyer
Senior Vice President, Aflac 
Japan; Global Chief Operating Officer, Global InvestmentsTakashi Osako
Senior Vice President, 
Government Affairs and Research, Legal and Corporate CommunicationsYukihiro Sugiyama
Senior Vice President, 
Financial Institutions Sales Promotion and Financial Institutions PlanningHideto Yamamoto
Senior Vice President; 
Chief Investment OfficerTomoya Utsude, M.D.
Senior Vice President; Chief 
Administrative Officer
Kazuhiro Yamazaki
Senior Vice President, Financial 
Accounting and Actuarial
In the Duckprints of Our Leaders Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 33
Aflac Japan ManagementAt Aflac, our executives lead by example, 
and many have left powerful and positive duckprints on our company, communities and industry. Here are examples of their volunteer work and recent awards:
Community Involvement
American Chamber of Commerce in Japan
American Red CrossAmerican School in JapanBankersLab Inc. Baruch College FundBetter Business Bureau of ColumbusBridge i2iChattahoochee River ClubCoalition of Service IndustriesColumbus, Georgia, Institute of Internal AuditorsColumbus Regional Health FoundationDelta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc.Family Center of ColumbusGeorgia Research Alliance Board of TrusteesGirls Inc. of Columbus & Phenix-RussellHarris County High School CouncilHouse of Mercy in Columbus, GeorgiaHPA-SonicsJapan Post Holdings Co. Ltd.Jersey Shore University Medical Center FoundationLeadership ColumbusLife Management Institute FellowLoyola University Environmental 
Communications Fellow
Midtown Inc.National Center for Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation
Operation HomefrontPeterson Institute for International EconomicsPrecept Ministries InternationalRibbon LabsRun for the Cure Foundation St. Katherine’s Episcopal Church in WilliamstonTippie College of BusinessTokyo Electron Ltd.Total Systems Services Inc.Tupperware Brands CorporationTurner School of Business at 
Columbus State University
U.S.-Japan Business CouncilWestchester Country Club Homeowners Association
Awards
American Business Awards’ 2015 
Silver Stevie honoree in the Female Executive of the Year category
American Business Awards’ 2015 Bronze Stevie 
honoree in the Woman of the Year – Advertising, Marketing & Public Relations category 
Best in Biz Awards’ Human Resources 
Executive of the Year for 2015 
Black Enterprise’s 2015 list of the 50 Most 
Powerful Women in Corporate America
Black Professionals magazine’s Top 100 
Blacks in Corporate America for 2015
2015 Blanchard Award for Outstanding 
Stewardship and Ethics in Business
Bulldog Stars of PR Award’s 2015 Gold 
honoree in the Corporate Communications Professional of the Year category
Computerworld magazine’s list of 
Premier 100 IT Leaders for 2015
Greater Columbus Chamber of 
Commerce’s 2015 Chair Award
Chattahoochee Council of the Boy Scouts 
of America’s 2015 Distinguished CitizenChief Investment Officer Magazine ’s 
2015 Power 100 list
Corporate Counsel Women of Color ’s 
2015 Diamond Award of Excellence
Evanta’s 2015 CIO’s Breakaway Leader Award 
Evanta 2015 CISO Top Breakaway Leader Award
Georgia Trend magazine ’s 2015 list of 
the 100 Most Infl uential Georgians
Georgia Trend magazine ’s 2015 list of the 30 
Most Influential Georgians of the last 30 years
2015 Girls Inc. Celebrating Women of Achievement
Harvard Business Review ’s 2015 list of the 
Best-Performing CEOs in the World
Insurance Networking News’ Women 
in Insurance Leadership for 2015
2015 J.D. Power Certified Contact Center 
ProgramSM Certi fication for the Customer 
Call Center Live Phone Channel
Leaders of Today and Tomorrow’s 2015 Trailblazer 
Award
National Diversity Council’s 2015 Most 
Powerful & Influential Woman Award
The Network Journal ’s 25 In fluential 
Black Women in Business
Office Depot Visionary Award
PR News’ Diversity in PR Award for 2015
PR News’ People Award in the 2015 PR 
Team Leader of the Year category
PR News’ 2015 list of Top Places to Work in PR 
PR News’ Top Women in PR Award for 2015
Profiles in Diversity Journal ’s 2015 
Women Worth Watching list
Security Magazine’s 2015 Security 500 Award
In the Duckprints of Our Leaders Aflac 2015
 34About This Report
This report includes financial and nonfinancial information and references the G3.1 
guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative or GRI, the world’s most recognized framework for sustainability reporting. Aflac has not sought independent verification of this report but has practices in place to internally validate the data. 
We appreciate you taking the time to review this report.
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE:
1 Global Reporting Initiative G4-1.1 
Business Best Practice
Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. (page: 2) 
2 Global Reporting Initiative G4-4.8 
Business Best PracticeInternally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. (page: 6) 
3 Global Reporting Initiative G4-4.5 
Business Best PracticeLinkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). (page: 7) 
4 Global Reporting Initiative G4-4.14 
Business Best PracticeList of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. (page: 11) 
5 Global Reporting Initiative G4-2.10 
Business Best PracticeAwards received in the reporting period. (page: 11) 
6 Global Reporting Initiative G4-LA11
Business Best PracticePrograms for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (page: 14) 7 Global Reporting Initiative G4-LA1
Business Best PracticeTotal workforce by employment type, employment contract and region, broken down by gender. (page: 16) 
8 Global Reporting Initiative G4-HR1
Business Best PracticePercentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns or that have undergone human rights screening. (page: 16) 
9 Global Reporting Initiative G4-SO1
Business Best PracticePercentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. (page: 19) 
10 Global Reporting Initiative G4-EN18
Business Best PracticeInitiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions and reductions achieved. (page: 28) aflac.com  |  706.323.3431 or 800.235.2667
Aflac Incorporated  |  1932 Wynnton RoadColumbus, Georgia 31999
Stay updated on Aflac’s CSR initiatives by visiting Aflac.com/CSRReport
