EVERYONE HAS 
THE POWER TO DO GOOD
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Overview 03
Message from Dan Amos  0 4
Reputation Institute  0 5
Governance 06
Workplace 19
Philanthropy 3 2
Environment 42
Japan 47
Credits 52
Global Reporting Initiative  5 3An internal steering committee oversaw report 
preparation with guidance from Aflac’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, executive leadership and internal subject matter experts. 
We invite you to contact us with questions 
or for more information about this report at aflacassistance@aflac.com.
The indicators at the bottom of the each page 
represent disclosures that fulfill GRI requirements.This icon indicates the CSR reputation driver that 
aligns with information presented in each chapter.This report includes financial and nonfinancial 
information from Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan about activities related to governance, workplace, philanthropy and environmental sustainability  
for the 2016 calendar year. 
This is Aflac’s fourth annual corporate 
social responsibility report.
The 2016 report marks our second year working 
toward adherence to the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Disclosures that fulfill GRI G4 Core, the latest guidelines, are noted.  
This report also notes how key reputation drivers 
in corporate social responsibility outlined by Reputation Institute – governance, workplace and citizenship – are linked to Aflac’s 2016 activities and data. ABOUT THIS REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace
RepTrak® is a registered trademark of Reputation Institute. 
© 2017 Reputation Institute, all rights reserved.
G4-28 G4-30 G4-29 G4-322016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 3 OVERVIEW
of Aflac 
employees 
are womenof Aflac 
employees are 
ethnic minoritiesMore than 
1 million
system patches 
were applied to known 
information vulnerabilities 
Since 1995, Aflac 
has raised more than 
$110 million
for research and treatment 
at the Aflac Cancer and 
Blood Disorders CenterAflac's Career Success 
Centers have helped 
more than 1,200  
employees earn a promotion 
or identify a new career path
Since 2007, 
more than 2,300 
Aflac employees have strapped 
on hardhats and tool belts to 
build or renovate 27 Habitat 
for Humanity housesAflac employees 
received a total of
650 trees  
in celebration of Arbor Day Aflac ranked 42 out of 500 
companies in the U.S. and 
80 out of 500 globally in 
Newsweek Green Rankings75%
o
f total supplier diversity spend 
($14.6 million ) 
goes to women-owned businesses 
($10.9 million )Celebrating Diversity Fighting Childhood Cancer Prioritizing Data Security Commitment to Employees
Restoring Our Tree Canopy Building a 
Stronger CommunityRanked Nationally 
for Green InitiativesSelecting Diverse Suppliers66.5% 44.5%2016 Year in Review4 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
When I was a youngster, I was taught the value 
of helping others and doing what’s right.  My 
mother’s persistent wisdom: People have a 
responsibility to look out for one another. I’ve 
since learned that large companies share this 
responsibility. It’s their duty to look out for their 
employees, their consumers, their investors and 
the people with whom they share this world. Today, Aflac provides supplemental insurance 
protection to more than 50 million people in 
Japan and the U.S. In more than 60 years 
of business, Aflac’s promise has remained 
constant. It extends to those who make our 
business successful, like agents and brokers, as 
well as neighbors in the communities where we 
live and work. Most visibly, it touches the families 
and children struggling with childhood cancer, 
our primary philanthropic cause.  
In 2016, Aflac’s cumulative contributions since 
1995 from employees and partners to childhood 
cancer support services and research exceeded 
$110 million. We also led national discussions 
on diversity and gender parity in the workplace, 
hosted Ethisphere’s first ethics conference in 
Japan and reduced our carbon footprint  
through Aflac’s Smart Green program.  
We have learned through our own research that 
a healthy company culture is inextricably linked 
to corporate social responsibility. Companies 
that “do good” for others do better in business. 
To support this idea, Reputation Institute, 
considered the gold standard in reputation 
tracking, identified and analyzed key dimensions 
of Aflac’s reputation, including citizenship, workplace and leadership. At the end of 2016, 
Aflac’s score from Reputation Institute increased 
by nearly five points, which is considered 
statistically significant. This is a testament that 
the investments we made in our employees and 
their families, our stakeholders, our customers 
and our neighbors defines Aflac’s corporate 
character and helps our business thrive.
It is with great pride and appreciation for our 
people that I introduce our 2016 Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report. Within its pages, 
you’ll learn about Aflac’s role as a business 
and as a corporate citizen, and you’ll see how 
our employees and partners are living the Aflac 
promise: to provide help when you need it, 
demonstrating every person’s power to do 
what’s right.
Sincerely, 
Dan Amos 
Chairman and CEO 
Aflac Inc. 
MESSAGE FROM DAN AMOS
CHAIRMAN AND CEO, AFLAC INC.
Since 1955, Aflac’s North Star has been  
its dedication to people, beginning with  
our offering to customers:
HELP WHEN YOU NEED IT.
G4-1.12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 5 REPUTATION INSTITUTE
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplaceAflac worked with Reputation Institute, considered 
the gold standard in reputation tracking, to conduct 
research on the company’s overall reputation 
as compared to competitors and RepTrak 100 
companies. This research enabled the team to link 
reputation with business drivers and to identify seven 
key dimensions of reputation including: citizenship, 
workplace, leadership, performance, products, 
innovation and governance.
A comprehensive 2016 report from Reputation 
Institute revealed a 3.4 point increase in Aflac’s  
overall RepTrak Pulse score, moving the company 
from an “average” to a “strong” 
reputation ranking in all areas. 
Most notably, the citizenship and workplace scores 
found in the Reputation Institute report had increased 
by 5.2 and 4.5 points, respectively.
The four CSR dimensions most relevant to Aflac 
consumers and investors based on our analysis  
of Reputation Institute’s research and analytics are 
ethics, workplace, philanthropy and sustainability. 
These pillars became the outline of Aflac’s 2016  
CSR Report and campaign.6 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportPeople often believe companies are successful 
because they’re hard-driving, business-focused 
and attentive to the bottom line. Aflac,  a 
Fortune 135 company with annual revenues 
of $22 billion, is all of those things. But there’s 
something else you should know about us: 
We would be remiss to exclude intangible 
assets – ethics, integrity, service – that 
characterize what shapes the company’s 
culture and how we conduct business. We are 
proud of our position as the leader in voluntary 
insurance sales at the worksite in the United States and celebrate the many attributes that 
make Aflac a hero to so many.
Aflac was founded in 1955 by principal founder 
John Amos and his brothers, Paul and Bill Amos, 
who literally invented the voluntary insurance 
industry when they began selling policies door 
to door. Their idea? To provide individuals and 
families with a new type of protection: lifestyle 
insurance. In other words, insurance that covers 
what major medical does not and that helps pay 
bills that continue to roll in when a breadwinner 
is sick or injured. 
THE AFLAC WAY
Aflac’s commitment to behaving in an ethical, 
trustworthy manner is best captured by our 
code of conduct, also known as “The Aflac 
Way.”  You see, in addition to making boardroom 
decisions based on what we believe is morally 
right, we expect our employees to follow suit at While sales, earnings and the number of 
policies in force are important to our business, 
how we go about achieving our goals is 
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING 
WHO WE ARE AS A COMPANY.GOVERNANCE:  
DOING GOOD IS 
GOOD FOR BUSINESS
MATT ORR
Managing Aflac’s compliance standards, Matt commits to 
honesty, transparency and integrity. Although he may not 
communicate with customers day to day, he never loses 
sight of the big picture: making sure that Aflac meets and 
exceeds expectations of what is being advertised.CSR HERO
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 7 every level. Those expectations are outlined in 
the code of conduct.
Our spirit of responsibility, 
caring and compassion is 
also the central premise of 
our Seven Commitments  
to Customer Service. 
The tenets may sound simple – communicate 
regularly; respond immediately; know your stuff; treat everyone with respect and care; your problem is my problem; shoot straight; and cover the customer, not your behind – but they’re courtesies rarely found in today’s hard-driving business world. These commitments  
are the ultimate embodiment of doing business 
“The Aflac Way.” THE BOARDROOM AND BEYONDAt Aflac, we believe that doing good is good for business. Our commitment to that belief reverberates from the boardroom’s seven principle committees – Audit, Executive, Compensation, Pension, Acquisition, Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability, and Corporate Governance – to our employees.  
It’s also important to other stakeholders like the communities in which we live and work, investors, suppliers, agents, brokers and the businesses that offer Aflac policies to their employees. We share information with these individuals to ensure they’re updated on our initiatives and the strength of our company. We also listen to them. In fact, as a result of a shareholder’s request, we’ve conducted shareholder votes at each annual meeting since 2008 to consider our processes for compensating top-level executives. This initiative is commonly referred to as Say on  
Pay, and Aflac was the first publicly traded company in the United States to conductsuch a nonbinding vote.
Aflac maintains an active role in the public 
policy arena, and we do so with complete transparency, the cornerstone of Aflac’s communication with stakeholders. In addition to complying with all state and federal regulations, we take additional steps to eliminate obfuscation common to corporate governance. For example, the company has gone beyond SEC requirements since 2012 by posting political contributions on Aflac.com.  Our commitment to 
transparency engenders trust and confidence, which is critical to our company’s reputation.
DOING RIGHT BY OUR 
CUSTOMERS AND SHAREHOLDERS
Aflac is committed to doing right by our 
stakeholders. While we consider ourselves great listeners, we also conduct dozens of surveys each year to ensure our products, services and even our behavior as a company exceed expectations. Two of the most comprehensive and valuable surveys are our annual Aflac 
Aflac principal founder, John Amos, with brothers Paul and Bill.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Aflac’s CSR Team meets to discuss the 2016 CSR Report. Key 
dimensions of the report are outlined by Aflac’s RepTrak pulse: 
citizenship, workplace and leadership.
G4-4.8 G4-SO68 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
IN THE ENVIRONMENTIN THE WORKPLACE PHILANTHROPY IN JAPAN GOVERNANCE
WorkForces Report and Corporate Social 
Responsibility Survey.  
The Aflac WorkForces Report  is an annual 
temperature check that gauges employer and employee attitudes and opinions about health insurance, health care spending and related issues. We use this report to determine the value and viability of Aflac’s products and make adjustments to our lineup. We also use it to help associates and brokers direct their conversations with employers – and, in turn, their direct conversations with workers – with respect to their insurance needs and coverage. In short, the Aflac WorkForces Report tells us what Americans have, want, need and can afford when it comes to their health care and insurance. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility Survey  
is our annual look at how consumers and 
investors decide what kind of companies they want to do business with, as well as what they believe constitutes admirable and desirable corporate behavior. What have we discovered? Well, the latest survey results show that:
•Expectations of good business behavior havebecome so strong that consumers are readyto take action to penalize companies theyview as irresponsible. In fact, 75 percent ofconsumers are likely to take some negativeaction toward irresponsible companies.•A vast majority of professional investorsview investments in community action andphilanthropy not as a waste of money thatcould be returned to shareholders, butrather as an indicator of a corporate cultureless likely to produce expensive misstepslike financial fraud. In fact, 61 percentof investment professionals view CSRprograms as a marker for ethical corporatebehavior, which reduces investment risk.
•An overwhelming majority of employeesbelieve their own companies are sociallyresponsible, while less than half believe thatAmerican companies overall are sociallyresponsible.
Results indicate that consumers and investors wish to be associated with companies that have corporate citizenship built into their DNA.
CYBERSECURITY AND OUR COMPANY
Over the past few years, we’ve seen major corporate brands and their customers suffer at the hands of cybercriminals. These companies and others have a great deal at stake if they lose the trust of their customers. Maintaining consumer confidence is essential for the success of any business and especially for Aflac. The nature of our company requires access to sensitive health and personal details that  
must be protected.
Overall, Aflac exceeds industry peers in 
protecting, detecting and responding to data threats, and we strive for continuous improvement. We require all of our employees to complete online privacy and security training. As a result, employees understand the importance of security awareness and their role in protecting policyholders and the Aflac brand.
A dedicated information security team detects 
and blocks millions of attacks per month, 
Doing good is not just the right 
thing to do; it is the best business decision we can make if we want to
GROW OUR BUSINESS 
FOR THE FUTURE.
Aflac leadership routinely participates in cybersecurity drills with teams from the U.S. and Japan.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
G4-PR52016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 9 protecting policyholders and employees. In 
2016, more than 1 million system patches were applied to known information vulnerabilities. As a result of its criminal detection activities, Aflac won two CSO50 awards for excellence in cybersecurity and security intelligence.
Finally, Aflac orchestrates cybersecurity drills 
with teams from both Aflac U.S. and AflacJapan to ensure our data is protected globally.The privacy of our customers is everything; wedon’t take that responsibility lightly.
2016 AWARDS AND HONORS
Aflac’s employees have the opportunity to make a difference in the everyday lives of those who have placed their trust in us. It’s a feel-good moment each time we receive a letter or phone call from someone who made it through tough times with the help of payments from an Aflac policy. Still, it’s nice to receive affirmation from external sources that we’re doing a good job and have earned respect. Aflac received dozens of awards in 2016. Among the most notable: 
The Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s 
Most Ethical Companies.  Aflac earned a spot 
on the list for the 10th consecutive year and is the only insurance company to be named to the list every year since its inception.  
The Harvard Business Review’s list of the 100 Best Performing CEOs in the World.  
We know our CEO Dan Amos is the cat’s meow … er, the Duck’s quack … and we’re glad others recognize it, too.
Ethisphere Magazine’s list of Attorneys 
Who Matter. Audrey Boone Tillman, our own general counsel, received the honor – and most deservedly so. Fortune Magazine’s list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For. This is the 18th consecutive year that Aflac has made the list. 
We are the only insurance company that can make that claim.  
Fortune Magazine’s list of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies.  Aflac was named to this 
list for the 15th year and ranked No. 1 in innovation for the insurance, life and health category.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 
North America list. Aflac has been honored for six consecutive years. The DJSI is composed of North American sustainability leaders as identified by SAM Research through a corporate sustainability assessment. The index represents 
Aflac’s Catherine Blades and Darcy Brito accept Ethisphere 
award on behalf of Aflac, presented by Alex Brigham, 
founder of Ethisphere. 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
G4-2.1010 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportthe top 20 percent of the largest 600 North 
American companies in the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria.
Aflac ranked 42 out of 500 companies in the 
United States and 80 out of 500 companies 
globally in  Newsweek’s Green Rankings.  
The Newsweek Green Rankings are one of  
the world’s most recognized assessments  
of corporate environmental performance.
IDG Enterprise’s 2016 CSO50 Awards.  
Aflac is recognized for two projects:  
•The You Can’t Duck Our Scans project
focused on how Aflac enhanced its
vulnerability management process.
•The Duck Takes the Leap from Log
Management to Security Intelligence
project focused on enhancing our datamanagement system to query informationmore effectively and timely. To do this, Aflacimplemented a new Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) platform that solved these needs. 
INNOVATION AND TRANSFORMATIONAflac is the leader in the supplemental insurance industry with revenues that topped $22 billion in 2016. But we know that getting to the top of an industry isn’t nearly as tough as staying there. We must work harder, faster and smarter to maintain our position as more competitors  
jump into our waters. 
Aflac’s co-founder Paul Amos proudly accepts 
Computerworld’s Smithsonian Award for Excellence in Technology for Aflac’s application process, SmartApp. The SmartApp is just one of the ways that Aflac contributes to innovative business practices.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Innovation is critical for us: 
We’re always looking for ways to improve our way of doing business. Need some examples? 
•We created  SmartApp,  which accelerates
the application process for new
policyholders. For doing so, we received
the Computerworld Smithsonian Award
for Excellence in Technology.
•We became the first major publicly tradedU.S. company to give its shareholders anonbinding vote on executive compensation,better known as Say on Pay.
•We introduced One Day PaySM and as a
result, nearly 1.8 million Aflac policyholdershave received benefits within just a day offiling eligible claims. That means 1.8 millionpeople were able to move on with their livesquickly after an injury or illness. As you mightimagine, receiving benefits payments inless than 24 hours goes a long way towardhelping policyholders breathe sighs of reliefin difficult times. Turn the page to see what
a few of them had to say.
G4-4.52016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 11 On Christmas Eve, I fell down the ramp 
coming off our front porch. A few hours 
later, I noticed the swelling and bruising, so 
on Christmas Day, I went to the emergency 
room for X-rays on my knee. No broken 
bones were found at that time, but an  
MRI later revealed I had fractured a bone  
in my knee.
A few days before the MRI, I contacted Aflac 
Customer Service to get some information 
about our policy. The customer service rep 
was very friendly and helpful. She said my 
accident was covered and I should submit 
all the necessary documentation in order 
for them to pay the claim. I submitted the 
reports via the online Smart Claim® process 
on the Aflac website.
The claim was paid in one day, just like Aflac 
said it would be. We are so blessed for this 
policy and Aflac’s fast customer service. It 
is truly a company that does what it says. In 
today’s society, that’s a big plus to me and 
my family. Thank you, Aflac, for making the 
claims process easy!  – La Donna Beaty
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
After 14 years of never using my Aflac 
cancer insurance policy, I was diagnosed 
with breast cancer in September 2016. 
Initially, I thought I could continue to work at 
my usual pace. When I began to realize that 
may not be possible, my husband reminded 
me of our policy. This made the decision to 
take a one-year leave from my second job 
without any financial stresses a no-brainer.
This policy has been remarkably easy 
for us to navigate. Each policy document 
spelled out the benefits we could access. 
Being able to submit documents and claims 
online and receive direct deposit made the 
process smooth and fast. 
The Aflac benefits for a first-time cancer 
diagnosis gave me the freedom to take care 
of myself and focus on regaining physical 
and emotional stability. If we didn’t have 
Aflac, I know I would have tried to do it all 
and feel defeated if I had failed. I am a very 
grateful Aflac customer. – Maury WohlWhen Tim and I were given the diagnosis, 
we couldn’t think clearly for days. The 
only thing we knew was we were thankful 
that we had added him to my Aflac cancer 
insurance policy just 11 months prior. I 
contacted our Aflac insurance agent and 
told her about Tim. She has “held my hand” 
and helped us every step of the way. With 
everything going on in our lives, I appreciate 
how easy the process is.
It has only been 2 ½ months since we 
started this journey and we have already 
received a substantial amount in benefits. 
The website is very easy to navigate and we 
can see a breakdown of each payment. Our 
Aflac payments are helping us to keep the 
bills paid. Thank you, Aflac, for being our 
ally in this battle.” – Tim and Leisa Hansen
The Beaty family, featuring La Donna second from left,  
is thankful for Aflac’s claims process, allowing La Donna 
to get back on her feet with little financial stress.
Maury and her grandson spend the afternoons together, 
grateful for Aflac’s easy claim process. 12 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report“AFLAC WAS #THEREWHEN …” 
At Aflac, we are energized and motivated by 
the words of those who’ve been helped by the 
proceeds from our policies. To remind us of how 
valuable coverage can be – and how close to 
home it hits – we reached out to discover how 
Aflac had affected lives of some policyholders 
who also happen to be company employees. 
#THEREWHEN …
Japen Hollist,  our vice president of Strategic 
Sourcing and Procurement, recalled a horrifying 
moment. He was helping his son P.K. put up 
a flagpole as part of the young man’s Eagle 
Scout project. Unfortunately, P.K. was jolted by 
electricity from a nearby power line. He briefly 
stopped breathing and also suffered third and fourth degree burns. P.K. was taken by Life Flight 
to a hospital in Augusta, Georgia, for treatment. 
“The bills started to come in, and they were 
huge,” Japen recalls. “Thank goodness I had 
great insurance from Aflac. When you have  
seven kids, you need insurance. 
Aflac was a safety net I needed 
when I fell off the high wire  
of life.” 
Japen notes that although P.K. is doing well 
today, it took his son a year to walk again. 
“Aflac was there when my son survived a life-
threatening injury,” he says. 
#THEREWHEN …
Tina Lamb,  second vice president of Claims 
Production Support, learned that her mother 
and four-year-old daughter, Greenlee,  had 
been in a head-on collision. Initial reports 
were that the child had a cut on her forehead. 
The truth was much worse. Greenlee had a 
fractured skull and lacerated brain. Doctors 
weren’t sure she’d survive. The little girl had 
surgery to ease the pressure on her brain and 
was in a coma for a week. 
Tina learned Greenlee had suffered neurological 
damage, causing weakness on her left side. 
She was transferred to Children’s Healthcare of 
P.K. Hollist, son of Japen Hollist, rests after an incident 
while completing his Eagle Scout project.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Four-year-old Greenlee Lamb continues to improve 
after surviving a severe car accident.
Greenlee Lamb, daughter of Tina Lamb, second 
from left, and her family enjoy the holidays happy, 
recovered and appreciative. 
G4-LA82016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 13 Atlanta, where she spent five weeks learning to 
walk again. For the next 19 months, Greenlee 
visited Atlanta regularly for therapy. 
“Our Aflac insurance benefit payments were a 
blessing for our family,” Tina says. “They helped 
pay bills and out-of-pocket expenses. 
Without those payments,  
we could have lost our house.” 
Today, Greenlee is a thriving 6-year-old 
kindergartner. She continues to improve, and 
the family is learning to live with some limitations, while overcoming others. “I’m thankful that Aflac 
was there when we needed help,” Tina says.  
#THEREWHEN …
Chad Melvin,  vice president of Leadership, 
Learning and Development, recalls a sunny 
afternoon when his son, Grant,  emerged from a 
pool limping a bit and holding his thigh. At first, 
he thought little of it – perhaps it was a pulled 
muscle – but he didn’t get better. After a scan 
at a local hospital, the family was referred to 
the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center in 
Atlanta. Tests revealed he had histiocytosis, a rare blood disease that had reached his bones. 
He had lesions on his ribs, vertebrae and even 
his skull. The family visited the Aflac Cancer 
Center every month for the next two years, 
during which he received regular treatment 
infusions. 
“Today, Grant is a normal 12-year-old kid,” Chad 
says. “He plays middle school football. He’s on 
the swim team, and this year, he actually made 
the state finals. We’re very proud of him. 
Aflac was there when my son 
beat histiocytosis.”  Chad, Grant Melvin and family smile now that concerns for 
Grant are behind them. 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Grant Melvin, son of Chad Melvin, smiles through his 
histiocytosis diagnosis, eager to embrace what his 
future holds.
14 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportOUR EXECUTIVE TEAM
Aflac’s leaders are the driving force behind  
our company’s ability to make an impact on 
the lives of the men, women, children and companies that have put their trust in us.  
Here is a look at our team: THE MANAGEMENT TEAM
Daniel P. Amos
Chairman; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac; Aflac Incorporated
Kriss Cloninger, III
President,  
Aflac Incorporated
Frederick J. Crawford
Executive Vice President; 
Chief Financial Officer,  
Aflac Incorporated
Charles D. Lake II
President, Aflac International; Chairman, Aflac Japan
Teresa L. White
President,  
Aflac U.S.
J. Todd Daniels
Executive Vice President;
Global Chief Risk Officer
and Chief Actuary
Eric M. Kirsch
Executive Vice President;  
Global Chief Investment OfficerAudrey Boone TillmanExecutive Vice President; 
General Counsel
Steven K. Beaver
Senior Vice President,  
Global Strategic Projects
Catherine Hernandez-Blades
Senior Vice President,  
Corporate Communications
Max K. Broden
Senior Vice President 
and Treasurer
Timothy L. Callahan
Senior Vice President;  
Global Chief Security Officer
Julia K. Davis
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Information Officer
Bradley E. Dyslin
Senior Managing Director;  
Global Head of Credit and Strategic Investment Opportunities
Gail A. Galuppo
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Marketing Officer
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 15 Andrew K. Glaub
Senior Vice President; 
Director of Sales
June P. Howard,  
CPA, CFA, CGMA
Senior Vice President,  
Financial Services;  
Chief Accounting Officer
J. Pete Kelso
Managing Director;
Head of Global Investments
and Corporate IT
Nadeem G. Khan
President,  
Aflac Corporate Ventures
Thomas L. McDaniel, Jr.
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Compliance Officer,  
Aflac U.S.
Thomas P. McKenna
Senior Vice President;  
Deputy General Counsel,  
Legal Division
Teresa Q. McTague
Managing Director;  
Chief Investment Officer, 
Global InvestmentsVirgil R. MillerSenior Vice President;  
Chief Administrative Officer
Drew J. Niziak
Senior Vice President, 
Broker Sales
Matthew D. Owenby
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Human Resources Officer
Michel G. Perreault
Senior Vice President; Chief Risk Officer; Investments and Capital
Albert Riggieri
Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Actuary
Eric B. Seldon
Senior Vice President, Business Services; President and CEO of Communicorp
Alex W. Stephanouk
Senior Vice President,  
Internal Audit
Timothy “Chip” Stevens
Senior Managing Director;  
Global Head of Macro Investment Strategy, Quantitative Research and Trading, Global InvestmentsAFLAC JAPAN MANAGEMENT
Masatoshi KoidePresident;  
Chief Operating Officer
Koji Ariyoshi
Executive Vice President;  
Director of Sales and Marketing
John A. Moorefield
Executive Vice President;  
Chief Transformation Officer
Jun Isonaka
First Senior Vice President, 
Sales
Kazumi Atsuta
Senior Vice President, Corporate Actuarial and Actuarial Product Development; Chief Actuary
Andrew J. Conrad
Senior Vice President of Legal and Compliance Management; General Counsel; Compliance Officer
Tohru Futami
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Information Officer
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
16 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportKosuke Kato
Senior Vice President, Marketing and Corporate Development
Yoko Kijima
Senior Vice President, Japan Incorporation Preparation Office, Administration Management and Customer Services Promotion
Riko Kubo
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Affairs, Executive Assistant Office
Yoshifumi Murayama
Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Agency Management
Takashi Osako
Senior Vice President, Planning Department, Interpretation/Translation Office, Government Affairs & Research, Corporate Communications, Enterprise Risk Management, Investment Risk Management
Yutaka Otsuka
Senior Vice President, 
FinanceYukihiro SugiyamaSenior Vice President, Financial Institutions Sales Promotion and Financial Institutions Planning
Tomoya Utsude, M.D.
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Administrative Officer
Hideto Yamamoto
Senior Vice President;  
Chief Investment Officer
Here are examples of their own commitments 
to giving back and recent awards:
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
American Chamber of Commerce in JapanAmerican School in JapanBankersLab Inc.Baruch College FundBetter Business Bureau of ColumbusBridge i2iChattahoochee River ClubClaflin University’s Board of Trustees Coalition of Service IndustriesColumbus Cricket AssociationColumbus, Georgia, Institute of Internal AuditorsColumbus Regional Health FoundationCommunity Foundation of the Chattahoochee Valley Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc.Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council Georgia Research Alliance Board of TrusteesGirls Inc. of Columbus & Phenix-RussellGreenleaf Center for Servant Leadership Hoops For Youth FoundationHouse of Mercy in Columbus, GeorgiaHPA-Sonics Japan Post Holdings Co. Ltd.Jersey Shore University Medical Center FoundationLeadership ColumbusLife Management Institute FellowLoyola University Environmental Communications 
Fellow
LJT & Associates, Inc.Midtown Inc.National Center for Asia-Pacific  
Economic CooperationOperation HomefrontPeterson Institute for International Economics
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
At Aflac, our executives lead by 
example, and many have made
POWERFUL AND 
POSITIVE CHANGES 
in our company, communities 
and industry. 
G4-4.142016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 17 Precept Ministries International
Printing & Imaging Association of Georgia Ribbon LabsRun for the Cure FoundationSmall Business Council of AmericaSt. Katherine’s Episcopal Church in WilliamstonSociety of Actuaries FellowTokyo Electron Ltd.Total Systems Services Inc.U.S.-Japan Business Council
2016 AWARDS
American Business Awards’ Gold Stevie 
honoree – Female Executive of the Year category
American Business Awards’ Silver Stevie 
honoree – Communications or PR Campaign 
of the Year category
American Business Awards’ Silver Stevie 
honoree – Financial Services Executive of the Year category
American Business Awards’ Silver Stevie 
honoree – Maverick of the Year category
American Business Awards’ Bronze Stevie 
honoree – Mentor or Coach of the Year-Business category
American Business Awards’ Bronze Stevie 
honoree – Women Helping Women –  
Business category  
Atlanta Business Chronicle’s Women Who Mean Business listBizwomen’s Women to Watch list
Best in Biz Awards’ Sales Executive of the Year Black Enterprise’s list of the 50 Most Powerful 
Women in Corporate America
Black Enterprise’s list of the Top Executives in 
Corporate Diversity
Bulldog Stars of PR Award’s Gold honoree – 
Corporate Communications Professional of the Year category
Bulldog CSR Award’s Gold honoree – 
Outstanding CSR/Sustainability Executive category
Chief Investment Officer Magazine’s Power 100 
list of CIOs
CIO AwardCorporate Counsel Women of Color’s Diamond 
Award of ExcellenceDigital Edge 25 Award – three consecutive years 
Georgia Trend magazine’s list of the 100 Most 
Influential Georgians
HR Magazine’s Leadership Excellence Awards 
– Ranked No. 1 in Top Corporate Leadercategory
InformationWeek Magazine’s Elite 100LATINA Style’s Top 10 Latina Executive of the 
Year Award
National Law Journal’s list of the 50 
Outstanding General Counsels
Novarica Research Council Impact Award PR News’ Diversity in PR Award –  
Diversity & Inclusion Leader categoryPR News’ Platinum PR Awards –  PR Professional of the Year category
PR News’ Platinum PR Awards – 
PR Team of the Year category
PR News’ Top Women in PR Award Profiles in Diversity Journal’s Diversity Leader
Profiles in Diversity Journal’s Women Worth 
Watching list
Savoy Magazine’s Most Influential Black 
Corporate Directors list 
Security Magazine’s Security 500 AwardThe Technology Association of Georgia –  Game 
Changers – “Who’s Who in Financial Technology” The Technology Association of Georgia –  Game 
Changers – “Who’s Who in Information Security” The Trusted Insight’s Top 30 Corporate Chief 
Investment Officers
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
G4-2.1018 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportABOUT THE AFLAC CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Aflac Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report is the most comprehensive document 
providing examples of our company’s corporate 
character. It offers stakeholders an annual view 
of our efforts to improve our environmental 
stewardship and social responsibility, which 
continue to impact our reputation. It serves as 
a record of where we are today and points to 
where we want to be in the future. The company’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee is chaired by President of 
Communicorp and Senior Vice President of Business Services, Eric Seldon, and is 
comprised of company officers who represent 
various Aflac stakeholder groups: senior vice 
president of Human Resources (employees); 
vice president of Facilities (environment): 
vice president of Strategic Sourcing and 
Procurement (suppliers): manager of Cause 
Marketing (society), vice president of 
Government Relations (government) and senior 
vice president of Corporate Communications 
(the community at large). The CSR Committee 
uses the ISO 26000 Social Responsibility 
Guidelines to inform Aflac’s CSR progress.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
The CSR committee reviews data from Reputation Institute. 
 Eric Seldon leads the CSR committee as members discuss 
progress in key areas of CSR.
For us, social responsibility is not a one-and-
done effort that ends with this document, 
BUT A YEAR-ROUND 
COMMITMENT TO TAKING 
STOCK OF OUR BUSINESS,  
OURSELVES AND THEIR 
EFFECT ON OTHERS. 
G4-4.1
CSR committee members review data for inclusion in 2016 report. 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 19 Aflac’s success in taking care of people in their 
time of need lies first in our ability to take care of our own people. Decades ago, Aflac co-founder Paul Amos said,
More than 5,200 men and women make up 
Aflac’s family, and without them, Aflac would not be such a proud and prosperous company.
Considerations like fair compensation, workforce diversity, career growth services, and facility benefits such as on-campus child care help our employees to care for themselves and their families and therefore thrive as professionals within the corporate family.  MERIT-BASED COMPENSATIONCaring for our people starts with competitive compensation. As a leader in the insurance industry, we recognize that a sound compensation process is what makes Aflac  
an employer of choice and ensures we provide equal pay for equal work. 
In 2016, there were 285 JOB TITLES  at Aflac that more than 
one person held. This included 2,914 EMPLOYEES.  Among those 
positions, the salary ratio skewed 100.73 PERCENT in favor of women.
Aflac has ensured transparency and fairness in pay for key company decision makers since 2008 through an annual shareholder vote on the compensation of the CEO. This voting tradition is called Say on Pay. Aflac was the first WORKPLACE:  
DOING GOOD FOR 
OUR EMPLOYEES
TYRONE KIRKLAND
As Aflac’s senior career counseling coordinator, 
Tyrone’s job goes beyond goal setting and résumé 
help. He sees his job as a chance to identify hidden 
talent, and he finds satisfaction in helping others 
realize the role that’s right for them.CSR HERO
“IF YOU TAKE CARE OF THE 
EMPLOYEES, THEY WILL TAKE CARE OF THE BUSINESS.” 
Those words are still true today. 
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace
G4-LA14 G4-LA320 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportpublicly traded company in the United States to 
hold such a nonbinding vote.
Considerations for annual raises and bonuses 
are linked to individual performance at every level. As a result, Aflac is able to attract, retain, motivate and reward individuals who have the skills to help manage and grow Aflac’s global business. Compensation processes are detailed in the chart to the left.
STRENGTH IN OUR DIFFERENCES
Aflac fosters an environment that attracts and retains a diverse workforce. The qualities that make us different from one another also make us more creative, collaborative and understanding of each other and our customers.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Diversity breakdown of new hires at Aflac in 2016.Making a Difference With Our DifferencesAflac’s Corporate Human Resources Division operates a centralized internal compensation 
function to provide oversight and input to company management ensuring compensation is consistent with job scope, duties and responsibilities. To deliver consistency, the Compensation function evaluates new hire job offers, promotions and compensation adjustments to ensure equitable compensation.
Defined salary structures are reviewed annually and updated utilizing market data. These 
salary structures are published on the company intranet to help ensure consistency and provide transparency. These defined salary structures serve as the framework and act as guardrails for compensation administration.
Jobs and incumbents are periodically reviewed modeling the California Equal Pay Act 
approach to ensure equal pay for equal work. Job levels and associated compensation are determined based on market data, job scope, duties and responsibilities, ensuring equitability 
for gender and ethnic minorities.
Annually, the compensation function participates in, and receives, compensation survey 
results from multiple nationally recognized compensation consulting firms. These surveys help analyze market trends based on key factors such as revenue size, asset size, market value, geography and headcount.
Defined annual compensation adjustment processes help ensure equity across the 
organization by reviewing potential compensation adjustments based on multiple factors, 
including performance, internal equity and market levels.
Commitment to transparency across all levels is encouraged by our documented open-
door policy as well as our formal grievance procedure in the event an employee perceives inequitable pay disparity at any time during the employee’s career. These processes are documented and communicated via the Aflac Employee Handbook.
Compensation partners with nationally recognized compensation consulting firms to aide in 
the review of compensation practices, including the competitiveness of pay levels, design 
structures, market trends and other technical considerations that validate the consistency, 
legitimacy and equitability of our compensation practices and processes.
The board-level compensation committee, at least annually, reviews the goals and objectives 
of our executive compensation plans; evaluates the performance of the executive officers in light of such goals and objectives and sets their compensation levels based on this evaluation; reviews our company’s incentive compensation programs to determine whether they encourage excessive risk-taking and evaluates compensation policies and practices that could mitigate any such risk; and reviews our company’s general compensation and benefit 
plans to ensure they promote our goals and objectives.CENTRALIZED
FUNCTION
DEFINED PAY 
STRUCTURES
JOB REVIEW 
& ANALYSIS
SURVEY
PARTICIPATION
ANNUAL 
REVIEW 
PROCESS
GRIEVANCE 
PROCESSES
CONSULTING 
SERVICES
COMPENSATION 
COMMITTEEHow Aflac Ensures Equitable Compensation for Employees
G4-4.8 G4-LA22016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 21 DIVERSITY RECRUITMENT 
We’re proud to say that in 2016, our new hires to the Aflac corporate family were well-represented by ethnic minorities and women. 
Moreover, Aflac’s programs for recent college 
graduates also encouraged new, diverse talent to explore professional development opportunities at our company. In 2016, Aflac partnered with community organizations, colleges and universities to recruit candidates through the following initiatives: 
•Aflac worked with the LAGRANTFoundation,  a nonprofit organization that
addresses the lack of diversity in the
advertising, marketing and public relationsfields, to recruit minority talent. Two LAGRANT students were hired as summer interns, one of which was offered a full-time position. This commitment is the reason why 44.4 percent of our interns were ethnic minorities and 63 percent were women.  
•Aflac’s commitment to diversity extends toour Leadership and Analyst Program
(LeAP),  which offers an elite opportunity
for top graduates to obtain division-widerotational exposure and experience in theirrelated majors, disciplines and fields ofinterest. As a result, 31.1 percent of ourLeAP hires have been ethnic minorities
and 53.3 percent have been women.•The Information Technology
Apprenticeship (ITA)  is a two-year
rotational program in the IT organization.Ethnic minorities make up 45.8 percent ofour ITA hires, while women make up 37.5percent of our hires in this program.
•Aflac Global Investments in New York Citypartners with Baruch College  to offer
mentoring, recruiting and job opportunitiesat Aflac to underprivileged students. In thelast four years, the division has opened fivesummer internship positions through thispartnership and six full-time positions to hirequalified candidates.
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
LAGRANT Foundation students met with Aflac’s Corporate 
Communications team at Aflac Headquarters in Columbus, 
Georgia, as part of their exploration into the business world.
After completing the division-wide rotation, graduates of 
the 2016 Leadership and Analyst Program are eager to dive into their established disciplines.
Candidates of the 2016 Information Technology 
Apprenticeship become fully integrated as a team, 
ready to take on any challenge they may face.
G4-LA1122 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
Aflac’s emphasis on minority and 
diversity hiring is reflected in the 
existing composition of our workforce 
at every level of the company, from 
junior staff to senior leaders and even 
our board of directors. 35%
of Aﬂac’s key senior 
leadership team are ethnic minorities and/or women
43%
of Aﬂac’s board members are ethnic minorities and/or women
Board Members Key Senior Leadership TeamOther EmployeesEmployee Demographic
Women Ethnic Minorities Female Ethnic Minorities
SVP and Chief Information Oﬃcer
SVP and Chief Marketing Oﬃcer
Chief Accounting Oﬃcer
Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Global Investments
SVP, Investor and Rating Agency Relations
President, GC and SVP of Corp. Comms.SVP, Aﬂac Ventures
SVP, Internal Operations
President, Communicorp / SVP, Business Services
President, GC and SVP of Corp. Comms.President, Aﬂac U.S.
EVP and General Counsel
SVP, Corporate CommunicationsWomen in the Workplace
34%  
of all employees
are female minorities30%  
of all executive 
leaders are women67%  
of all employees 
are womenWomen in the Workplace Employee Demographics in Leadership Positions
G4-LA12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 23 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Employee Demographics by Position at Aflac 
U.S. Workforce Demographics Only As of July 31, 2016  
Includes EEO-1 categories of Administrative Support Workers, Craft Workers (Skilled), Operatives (Semi-Skilled), Laborers (Unskilled), Service Workers and Technicians
*These stats exclude Aflac Independent Sales AgentsWorkplace Demographic
Executive/Senior
Level Officials &Managers
First/Mid Level
Officials &Managers
Professionals
*Sales Workers
All OthersWomen White MinorityBlack or
African
AmericanHispanic
or Latino AsianPacific
IslanderAlaskan
Native2 or
More
Races
29.5
57.3
58.7
40.0
79.4 39.5 60.5 50.7 5.7 1.5 0.1 0.4 2.290.0 10.0 0.0 10.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.067.5 32.5 20.2 4.4 4.8 0.1 0.4 2.470.1 29.9 21.0 5.5 2.5 0.3 0.3 0.381.9 18.1 9.6 1.8 4.4 0.3 0.6 1.5U.S. Workforce Demographics Only As of July 31, 2016
Includes EEO-1 categories of Administrative Support Workers, Craft Workers (Skilled), Operatives (Semi-Skilled), Laborers (Unskilled), Service Workers and Technicians
*These stats exclude Aflac Independant Sales Agents
PERCENTAGE EMPLOYED BY AFLACPERCENTAGE EMPLOYED BY AFLAC POSITION AT AFLAC
G4-LA1324 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
At Aflac’s Diversity World Fair, Aflac employees embraced 
cultures from across the world. Above, Chinese Fan 
Dancers showcased a traditional Chinese dance.The Aflac Diversity Council works to attract and retain diverse talent by 
reaching out to minority markets and driving initiatives that celebrate the 
company’s existing diverse workforce.
Aflac’s Diversity Council was on hand at the Tri-City 
Latino Festival and were treated to delicious delicacies, 
music and culture.
CELEBRATING AFLAC’S DIVERSITY
At Aflac, we believe employees who understand, 
respect and take part in each other’s cultural 
traditions work better together. That’s why 
our diversity efforts don’t stop with our hiring 
practices. In 2016, we celebrated ethnicities, 
cultures and heritages in many ways:
The Diversity Council (DC)  was designed to 
promote internal and external diversity initiatives 
and serves to support and enhance Aflac’s 
business processes and community involvement. 
The DC developed and implemented educational 
sessions such as the Women’s Tea, Men’s Coffee, Diversity Week, Disability Month and 
other events to continuously raise awareness 
and educate our workforce on the importance of 
diversity. 
Our Diversity World Fair  showcased 
various countries and provided information 
on their history, clothing, food and games. 
Employees tried on traditional garments from 
cultures around the world, tasted various 
cuisines and even learned some native 
dances and traditions. Additionally, a panel 
of employees from Aflac Japan gathered with 
U.S. employees to discuss similarities and differences between cultures during a special 
Getting to Know You  event.  
Aflac was a sponsor of the Tri-City Latino 
Festival,  which was created five years ago 
to bring awareness and education to the 
community by celebrating the history and the 
diversity among the 21 nations that constitute 
the Latino cultures. The Aflac Diversity Council 
was on hand for a taste of live Latin music and 
traditional dances. Many said that it was a great 
way to promote unity while also having family fun.
G4-4.412016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 25 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
$1 MILLION
$130,000+
$14 MILLION
$10.9 MILLION
IN BUSINESS WITH WOMEN-OWNED SUPPLIERS Aﬂac donated $1 million to build the National 
Museum of African-American History and Culture. It oﬃcially opened in 2016. 
In 2016, Aﬂac donated over $130,000 to organizations and events such as the United Negro College Fund, Boys and Girls 
Club, Sisters Inc. and the Urban League.
Aﬂac not only believes in implementing diversity within our 
walls. We are active in engaging with vendors and suppliers who are just as diverse as our company. Aﬂac did $10.9 million in business with women-owned suppliers. That's out of $14.6 million total in business with 38 Tier 1 diverse suppliers. Aﬂac leaders understand the importance of being a leader in the company and in the community, which is why several members of our executive leadership team volunteer their time to make an impact to the Columbus community through various minority organizations such as Jack and Jill of America and Girls Inc.The annual Aflac Tower Lighting  brought 
employees and the community of Columbus, 
Georgia together as children from our child care 
center performed holiday songs, Santa arrived and 
posed for photos, and attendees enjoyed free food 
in celebration of the season. 
In honor of the 3.9 percent of Aflac employees who 
are military veterans, we hosted a Veteran’s Day 
Breakfast  to celebrate, recognize and honor the 
sacrifices made for all Americans. 
Additionally, in March 2016, Aflac incorporated 
diversity training, led by the director of Diversity 
and Employee Engagement, to educate new 
leaders about diversity, inclusiveness and 
engagement. In addition, courses on diversity 
are offered via the Leadership, Learning and 
Development team. 
SUPPORTING DIVERSITY  
IN THE COMMUNITY 
Aflac is committed to investing in our 
local community through contributions to 
various minority events and organizations. 
In 2016, Aflac made the following 
commitments and contributions: Contributions to Minority Causes 
G4-EC2.126 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Thanking veterans for their selfless service, Aflac hosts a Veteran’s Day 
Breakfast honoring those who risked their lives for our country.
Aflac employees and families from the Columbus 
community join together at Christmas to celebrate the 
annual Tower Lighting and welcome the holiday season.
Aflac was the first corporate citizen to make a $1 million donation 
toward the creation of The National Museum of African-American 
History and Culture, which opened in 2016.
Macy’s Santa visited 13 hand-picked Aflac-supported hospitals 
across the country bringing Christmas joy, cheer and smiles.EMPLOYEES IN ACTION
Aflac’s sponsored the Tri-City Latino Festival, which was an 
enriching cultural experience enjoyed by all. 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 27 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
PROVIDING THE TOOLS TO SUCCEED 
At Aflac, we don’t want to simply hire good 
people; we want to keep good people. To that 
end, we have many programs in place designed 
to help employees not only define their career 
goals, but also help them achieve those goals. 
These include: 
Career Success Centers 
Aflac’s Career Success Centers in Columbus, 
Georgia, and Columbia, South Carolina, are fully 
staffed career-counseling offices that have helped 
more than 1,200 total employees — 40.19 percent 
of all Columbus employees and 33 percent of 
all Columbia employees — obtain promotions 
since opening in 2014. The Centers empower 
employees to take charge of their careers by 
providing in-person counseling sessions, 
resume development and interview practices. 
TEACH Mentorship Program 
Aflac’s premier mentoring program, called 
TEACH, allows employees to “teach what 
they know and learn what they don’t.” Ethnic 
minorities make up 45 percent of TEACH 
mentors and women make up 68 percent. 
Real Talk 
Real Talk offers employees an open forum to 
make connections with senior leaders through 
small-group settings that foster opportunities for REVERSE-MENTORING
Aflac’s Chief Information Officer Julia 
Davis developed and implemented a 
program that jump-started Aflac’s unique 
approach to reverse-mentoring. The 
initiative pairs a veteran IT staff member 
with “apprentices,” most of whom are 
recent college graduates coined with the 
title “digital natives.” The initiative enables 
470 employees from Aflac’s IT organization 
— whose average age is 48 — to benefit 
from a transformative program intended for 
seasoned IT professionals to keep in tune 
with technology advances while further 
developing the next generation of leaders. 
Apprentices work with members of the 
IT team in two-year rotations. They move 
from team to team every few months to get 
a feel for the nuances of Aflac’s IT roles, 
operations and corporate culture. The 
structure of the apprenticeship program 
also allows younger employees to create 
connections with multiple senior leaders, 
rather than reporting to one boss.Reverse-mentoring offers more than 
just transformation and modernization 
of skillsets and approaches to corporate 
services. Successful apprentices can 
create a desirable problem: Demand is 
so high that before a rotation is complete, 
multiple managers are requesting the 
apprentice as their team member. Across 
the board, this compels managers to raise 
their game to be the kind of leaders for 
whom apprentices strive to work.
Aflac’s reverse-mentoring program, orchestrated by CIO 
Julia Davis connects employees of all ages. Whether 
millennial or veteran staff, each participant learns 
something new.
G4-LA1128 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
growth. In 2016, Aflac hosted more than a dozen 
Real Talk sessions focused on personal career development, including topics like personal 
branding, first impressions, presentation skills, 
and receiving and giving effective feedback. 
Leadership, Learning and Development 
Because quality leadership is vital to building and retaining a top-notch workforce, we also devote resources to helping team leaders become stronger managers. To that end, we launched our Leadership, Learning and Development initiative in 2016 at Aflac’s Columbus office. The program teaches key management skills and conflict resolution. In 2017, Aflac will expand the program in Columbia, South Carolina. Code of Business Conduct and EthicsThe Aflac Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (our “Code”) shows employees how to apply the company’s founding values of teamwork, respect, fairness, honesty, integrity and responsibility to everyday business conduct. By choosing to work at Aflac, employees have made a commitment to ethical and lawful business conduct, and all are expected to understand and follow the policies set forth in the Code. Every Aflac employee is required to complete annual web-based training, confirming their understanding of these important policies. 
Aflac Quest 
Team-building and skills-assessment are combined in the Aflac Quest — an interactive activity to reinforce teamwork, problem-solving and conflict-resolution skills. This hands-on activity is a fun learning tool that encourages teams to work together to resolve problems and develop a succession plan during a crisis scenario.
Scholarships
Aflac awards graduate and undergraduate scholarships to employees to help make their higher education affordable and attainable. Employee scholarships, which are available  
to those who work full time, include: 
•The Paul S. Amos Educational Scholarshipfor employees who have been acceptedto Columbus State University (CSU) at the undergraduate level and have a strong record of community service. In 2016, Aflac awarded a total of $11,993 to nine students. 
•The Paul S. Amos Educational Scholarshipfor employees who have been accepted toTroy University at the undergraduate leveland who have a strong, three-year record ofcommunity service. In 2016, Aflac awardeda total of $21,354 to six students.
There are many programs in place to promote a friendly, 
educational and informative environment at Aflac. Tyrone 
Kirkland, CSR Hero, shares his knowledge and support for 
employees seeking professional development assistance.
From left to right: Mrs. Cheeves; Megan O’Connor, 
daughter of Michael O’Connor; Carter Mauldin, son of Walter Mauldin; Yakira Cochran, daughter of Yolander Cochran; and Cecil Cheeves (Aflac co-founder Bill Amos’ son-in-law and “owner” of the W. L. Amos Scholarship) accept a variety of Aflac scholarships. Devoted to the next generation, Aflac lends a helping hand to undergraduate and graduate students.
G4-4.82016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 29 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
THE SCHOLARSHIP 
HAS BEEN A HUGE HELP IN ADVANCING MY EDUCATION AND CAREER. 
As a first-generation immigrant to 
the United States, I’m trying hard to achieve my version of the American Dream, and earning an MBA is a significant step to achieve that dream. This scholarship helped ease the financial pressures of school and allowed me to place all my focus on becoming the best student and employee I can be. I am honored to be one of the recipients of the scholarship and blessed to be a part of this great company.
Katie Nguyen
2016 TAP scholarship recipient
First-generation immigrant Katie Nguyen received Aflac’s 2016 Tuition Assistance Program scholarship to pursue her dream to earn an MBA. Deciding on which college Jonathan would attend was a difficult decision for our family. My son had so many opportunities when he graduated from Columbus High School, but as an aspiring actor, he ultimately decided that Columbus State’s drama program was the finest. This scholarship has made the college experience much less stressful, even beyond the relief of the financial burden. Working with the Aflac Scholarship Committee and CSU has been seamless. There is security in knowing that the scholarship process works effectively and efficiently every semester. My son can focus on his studies without the distraction of financing an education. 
WE ARE SO GRATEFUL FOR 
THE PSA SCHOLARSHIP!
Eddie LeGallais, whose son, 
Jonathan, received the Paul S. Amos 
Dependent Scholarship for CSU
Making the decision to go back to 
school as an adult was not an easy choice with a family and a full-time job. However, I felt it was important for my kids to see me finish something I started. I plan on graduating this fall. 
BECAUSE OF AFLAC, I 
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO PUT THE FINANCIAL WORRIES OF SCHOOL ASIDE  
so that I can focus on matters 
that are critical for success.
Cathy Love  
CSU scholarship recipient30 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Aflac offers scholarships to the children 
and grandchildren of current Aflac  
employees, including: 
•The W. L. Amos Scholarship for
dependents who have been accepted toa university, college, trade or technicalschool. In 2016, Aflac awarded a total of$56,000 to 25 students.
•The Paul S. Amos Dependent Scholarshipfor students who have been acceptedto Columbus State University at theundergraduate level. In 2016, Aflac awardeda total of $46,105 to 31 students.
•Aflac supports employees who wishto pursue graduate-level degrees atCSU through the Paul S. Amos TuitionReimbursement Program. Eligibleemployees must demonstrate a strongcommitment to community service forat least one year. In 2016, Aflac provided$87,866 to a total of 10 employees.
•Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), whichprovides a full ride for MBA studentsto a select four schools. In 2016, Aflacprovided $15,200 for one student toattend Auburn University.SUPPLIER DIVERSITYAflac’s commitment to diversity extends to the companies with which we do business. While it’s not the only factor we consider, diversity remains a major part of our selection process. As part of Aflac’s daily operations, our employees manage and connect with an increasingly diverse set of accounts, customers and communities. In 2016, Aflac did $14.6 million in business with 38 Tier 1 diverse suppliers, with women-owned businesses making up $10.9 million of our business. Aflac’s support for diverse suppliers is embodied by our Supplier Diversity Program, a mentorship opportunity for small, minority-owned businesses; our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines ethical standards for becoming an Aflac supplier; and our participation in national trade shows and business development events.   
EMPLOYEE PERKS
Aflac employees enjoy benefits and on-campus perks that provide peace of mind and convenience. 
•Aflac offers on-site child care facilities atour offices in Columbus, Georgia. We alsoprovide fully equipped exercise facilities andseveral miles of walking trails at each campusto help employees remain healthy and fit asthey maintain the health of our business.Aflac participates in the Mentor Protégé Connection Program, which is sponsored by the Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council.  In 2016, we were proud to sponsor 
Sweet Grass Dairy, a Thomasville, Georgia, restaurant. The business is committed to producing high-quality, tasty cheeses by using fresh cow’s milk from a family dairy farm.  
We’re proud to say that Sweet Grass Dairy 
was one of just four Georgia businesses to receive the 2016 “Rock Star” designation from the Georgia Department of Economic Development. We look forward to our continued mentorship of small businesses in the states  
in which we do business. 
Sweet Grass Dairy, a fresh dairy-focused restaurant 
sponsored by Aflac, received the Georgia Department  
of Economic Development’s “Rock Star” designation.
G4-4.8 G4-EC6 G4-HR12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 31 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
There’s nothing in the 
rulebook that says work 
can’t be fun.  
•Aflac rewards its employees each year
with a celebration known as EmployeeAppreciation Week. For five work days,the company hosts themed events, gamesand raffles for prizes such as high-techelectronics, gift cards and paid vacations.
•Aflac offers domestic partner leave andparental leave policies that include salarycompensation for both parents for the birthor adoption of a child.IN 2016, AFLAC HAS BEEN NAMED:No. 9 on Fortune magazine’s list of the 10 Best 
Workplaces for African-Americans.  
No. 31 on Fortune magazine’s list of the 50 
Best Workplaces for Diversity.   
No. 72 on Fortune magazine’s list of the 100 
Best Workplaces for Women.
No. 49 on Fortune magazine’s list of the 100 
Best Workplaces for Millennials.   
No. 32 on Fortune magazine’s list of 50 Best 
Workplaces for Parents.   
No. 21 on Fortune magazine’s list of the 30 
Best Workplaces to Retire From.  
No. 30 on LATINA Style magazine’s list of 50 Best 
Companies for Latinas to Work (we’ve made the list 17 times – 10 of them consecutively). 
Black Enterprise magazine’s list of the 50 Best 
Companies for Diversity – a total of 10 times. 
Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Companies to 
Work For – 18 consecutive years.
Fortune magazine’s list of the Top 10 Best 
Workplaces in the Fortune 500.  
Fortune magazine’s list of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies for the 15th time.  
49th on Computerworld Magazine’s 100 Best 
Places to Work in IT, the 16th time on the list.
PR News’ Top Places to Work in PR for the 
second consecutive year.
PRWeek’s Best Places to Work U.S.
Aflac celebrated its employees during the company’s 
annual Employee Appreciation Week. Hawaiian dancing, twin Tuesday and endless giveaways all led up to the big event – EAW Live!
G4-2.1032 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
SUPPORTING THE CHILDHOOD 
CANCER JOURNEY
Aflac adopted the charge to further childhood 
cancer research and treatment and to 
support families in that struggle. It began 
more than 20 years ago when a young 
mother named Vicki Riedel reached out to 
Aflac seeking support in her fight against 
childhood cancer.
Riedel’s baby, Ansley, was undergoing 
treatment for AML, a form of leukemia, at 
what is today Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. 
Children like Ansley received cancer treatment 
on a floor in need of renovations, and Riedel 
reached out to Kathelen and Dan Amos to 
request $25,000 from Aflac to get the job 
done. Touched by Vicki’s story and desire 
to help, Aflac pledged $3 million to renovate the treatment wing in Atlanta and name it the 
Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center 
(Aflac Cancer Center). 
In 2016, Aflac surpassed $110 
million in funds raised for the 
treatment and research of 
childhood cancer since 1995. 
In fact, each month, more than 17,000 Aflac 
independent sales associates contribute more 
than $500,000 from their commission checks 
to the Aflac Cancer Center.PHILANTHROPY:
DOING GOOD BY 
GIVING BACKDANNY CIMMERER
In addition to Danny’s role as senior manager within IT, 
he plays a big part in Aflac’s philanthropy committee. 
Danny helps the IT department give back in their own 
way—the tech way. Through fundraising, compassion 
and a little bit of magic, he helps Aflac show that  
it’s more than just a company–it’s a family.CSR HERO
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace
G4-EC2.12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 33 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
LEAVING OUR ‘DUCKPRINTS’
“We are increasingly conscious at Aflac that 
leaving our ‘duckprints’ – or doing the right 
thing – is everyone’s job,” said Kathelen Amos, 
president of the Aflac Foundation. Childhood cancer  is the leading cause of 
death by disease for children under the age of 
15, according to the National Cancer Institute. 
Yet, less than 4 percent of all federal funding for 
cancer research goes toward pediatric cancer, 
according to the Children’s Cancer Fund. 
Through our ongoing Duckprints  initiative, 
Aflac celebrates individuals who go above and 
beyond to end this disease. 
In 2016, Aflac and its partners hosted four 
events to celebrate cancer-fighting heroes. The 
events took place at the Aflac Cancer Center in 
Atlanta, Georgia; Palmetto Health in Columbia, 
South Carolina; Cardon Children’s Hospital in 
Mesa, Arizona; and Dayton Children’s Hospital 
in Dayton, Ohio.Aflac Cancer Center, Atlanta, Georgia 
To kick off Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, 
the Aflac Duck began his Duckprints tour in 
Atlanta at the Aflac Cancer Center. Aflac’s 
Duckprints awards went to WSB’s Atlanta 
Morning News host Scott Slade who started the 
WSB Radio Care-a-Thon for the Aflac Cancer 
Center in 2000 and raised millions of dollars to 
help eradicate childhood cancer. In addition, Dr. 
Dorothy Jordan, an advanced practice nurse 
and founder of Camp Sunshine, a nonprofit 
organization offering year-round recreational, 
educational and supportive programming for 
children with cancer and their families, saw her 
footprints added to the Duckprints Wall of Fame 
at the Aflac Cancer Center. 
Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos and Aflac Foundation 
President Kathelen Amos visit pediatric patients at the 
Aflac Cancer Center, located at Children’s Healthcare  
of Atlanta.
The Duckprints Committee, which plans and organizes 
fundraising events to benefit the Aflac Cancer Center. Footprints honoring heroes in the fight against cancer are 
revealed at each Duckprints ceremony. 
“THE HUMAN SPIRIT  
OF A COMPANY IS A 
COMPOSITE OF EVERYONE 
WHO INHABITS IT, 
and we’re proud to come together as the 
Aflac family to celebrate this great desire 
to see childhood cancer meet its end in 
this generation.” 
G4-SO134 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
Event attendees heard the story of Ellanor 
Young, a brave girl diagnosed with leukemia at only 4 years old who is now in remission. Her experience inspired her father’s lacrosse team to form Lax for Leukemia Inc., a nonprofit that benefits the Aflac Cancer Center. 
Palmetto Health, Columbia, South Carolina 
The second stop of the Duckprints tour featured long-time Aflac hospital partner, Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital. Todd Ellis, the voice of the South Carolina Gamecocks whose daughter, Logan, is a childhood cancer survivor, served as the master of ceremonies to honor Paul and Sarah Towns, CAMP KEMO supporters and developers of Elgin Lights, a Christmas lights show that honors Cole Sawyer, a local boy whose cancer journey sadly ended in 2004.Longtime medical director of the Children’s Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders at Palmetto Health, Ronnie Neuberg, M.D., was also honored for his efforts. Our final honoree, Stacy Sawyer, was a valued advisor and advocate for CAMP KEMO. Although Sawyer received this award posthumously, her memory will live on with the success of CAMP KEMO.
The event concluded with commentary from DJ 
Fisher, a 17-year-old patient at Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital who shared his story and was recognized for his invaluable peer support to other children undergoing cancer treatment.
Cardon Children’s Hospital, Mesa, ArizonaThe Aflac Duck traveled to Mesa, Arizona, for the third stop on the Duckprints tour to Cardon Children’s Medical Center. 
Diagnosed with Burkitt’s Lymphoma at the end 
of his junior year of high school, honoree Scott Star gave up his lifelong dream of joining the Marines when he was unable to meet the health requirements. His tough attitude and warm heart helped him overcome his battle against childhood cancer. Now cancer-free, he leaves his mark on Cardon Children’s Hospital through his involvement in community programs and is considering becoming an EMT or firefighter.Honoree Joel Nava was diagnosed with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia in May 2003 at the age of 13. His disease later recurred in his central nervous system. Searching for his personal mission and finding his voice, Nava traveled to Japan and earned a degree in nursing and health innovation. He credits his pediatric oncology nurses as his mentors, saying, “My nurses were there for me,” and they “epitomize the idea of compassion and empathy.”
Aflac also honored the McKenzie Monks 
Foundation and its mission of helping children cope with cancer. The foundation provides children with “Kenzie Kases,” inspired by the Hello Kitty suitcase that brought McKenzie Monks joy and comfort when she was ill with cancer years 
Children fighting cancer gaze up at a fireworks show at 
CAMP KEMO, a camp dedicated to making children feel 
like kids, not patients. 
Aflac honored the McKenzie Monks Foundation 
during Cardon Children’s Hospital Duckprints  
event in Mesa, Arizona.2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 35 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
ago. Each Kenzie Kase includes an iPad (or DVD 
player), blankets, toys and crafts. The McKenzie Monks Foundation also created a special space at Cardon Children’s for very young patients, dubbed the “Kenzie Korner.” It offers children a safe place to step away from their treatment and relax, have fun and just be a kid. 
Dayton Children’s Hospital, Dayton, Ohio
The 2016 Duckprints tour made its final stop at Dayton Children’s Hospital to honor Kayleigh Crabtree.
Our small but mighty honoree, Kayleigh 
Crabtree, learned the word “cancer” when she was introduced to Alex’s Lemonade Stand, an organization that raises money for childhood cancer research. Although only 6 years old, she was inspired to host her own lemonade stands to raise money for pediatric cancer patents. In two seasons, she raised more than $500 for the organization. 
After two years of raising money, Crabtree was 
diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Dayton Children’s helped her and her family make it through two years of treatment with a successful outcome. She now continues to raise money for cancer causes, including Dayton Children’s, Children’s Miracle Network, CureSearch and others.
Duckprints also recognized Moms 4 Miracles, 
a program through which local resident Sallie Taylor gathers a group of dedicated moms to host an annual golf outing to raise money for The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. Identifying emotional support for childhood cancer patients as a critical need, participants in Moms 4 Miracles purchased gaming systems and tablet devices to help entertain kids during their long stays in the hospital. With the proceeds from the golf event, the group helps pay off medical bills, makes wishes come true, funds and supports research and supports hospital initiatives. 
We’re inspired by all these stories, which 
reaffirm the need to raise broader awareness of this issue. That’s why we’re proud to say that in 2016, Aflac exceeded its goal for social 
Aflac honored Kayleigh Crabtree as she presented her 
story at the Dayton Children’s Hospital Duckprints event. 
The Duckprints tour recognized Moms 4 Miracles 
for their fundraising in support of The Leukemia  
and Lymphoma Society.
The McKenzie Monks Foundation’s “Kenzie Kases” 
provide toys and crafts for pediatric cancer patients.36 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
interactions with the Duckprints campaign for 
childhood cancer. The campaign rallied people across America to become active in pediatric cancer issues. It encouraged social media users to create or share posts related to childhood cancer by using #Duckprints. For each use of the hashtag, Aflac pledged to contribute $2, up to $1.5 million total to the cause. 
In support of #Duckprints pledges, Aflac 
launched the #Duckprints Twitter Vending Machine (TVM) at Atlanta’s 2016 PGA Tour Championship. Through the vending machine, users tweeted pre-scripted messages spreading the word about Aflac’s Duckprints program through their personal accounts. After tweeting, users received a unique code prompting the TVM to vend a prize at random. 
All told, there were more than 900,000 social 
media engagements across Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, making it the first time 
the #Duckprints program, which 
started in 2013, reached its goal of $1.5 million in contributions. 
“We are proud to have achieved and even 
exceeded our 2016 goal,” said Dan Amos, Aflac CEO. “But it was just one step on the way to achieving the greater goal of eradicating childhood cancer, because every child deserves a lifetime and every family deserves to be whole.”
CUREFEST AND CHASING CANCER: 
ADVANCING THE NATIONAL  
DISCUSSION ON CANCER Aflac expanded its support of this critical issue in 2016 by becoming a corporate sponsor for Curefest,  a grassroots organization that 
aims to make the disease a priority by uniting the childhood cancer community, the general public, physicians, researchers and elected leaders. Curefest is a two-day event held at Freedom Plaza and at the National Mall in Washington, D.C. It included three key events: a “Night of Golden Lights,” which featured live music and speakers and was followed by a walk to the White House gates for a candlelight vigil; a gathering of more than 250 childhood cancer 
support organizations at the National Mall, 
where the Aflac Duck greeted attendees; and finally, a 5k race that concluded the weekend. To compliment the event itself, Aflac Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications Catherine Blades conducted a six-minute interview on CNBC to promote Curefest and their efforts to eradicate childhood cancer.
In December, Aflac worked with the Washington 
Post to create a live panel program called “Chasing Cancer.”  Aflac CEO Dan Amos 
and Aflac Foundation President Kathelen Amos 
Aflac’s Twitter Vending Machine helped spread the word 
about the company’s Duckprints program during the 2016 
PGA Tour Championship in Atlanta. This #Duckprints pledge spread awareness about childhood cancer and excitement to program participants.
Kathelen Amos, President of the Aflac Foundation, 
speaks at the Aflac-sponsored Chasing Cancer event 
hosted by the Washington Post.
G4-EC2.12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 37 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
were among the speakers at the event, which 
brought together leading scientists, health care 
innovators, patients and policymakers to discuss 
advances in cancer care and treatment. They 
examined how the U.S. health care system is 
shaped by a disease that touches the lives of 
millions of people and provided new insights on 
the challenges cancer presents.  
SEASONAL GIVING AND FUNDRAISING 
Since 2001, Aflac has teamed with Macy’s 
department stores to produce plush limited-
edition holiday versions of the Aflac Duck.  
The plush duck, an annual collector’s item, is  
a popular gift sold at Macy’s stores throughout  
the nation and online at Aflacduckprints.com.   
All net proceeds are donated to the participating 
children’s cancer facility nearest to the point  
of purchase.  In total, the initiative 
has raised $3.2 million. 
Aflac also is a regular participant in the Macy’s 
Thanksgiving Day Parade. Each year, the Aflac 
Duck cruises down New York City’s 6th Avenue 
as a “balloonicle,” a combination of a balloon and 
a vehicle, to the delight of fans and admirers. 
A new seasonal effort in 2016 was the Aflac 
Holiday Helpers  program, which spreads 
holiday cheer to families dealing with the 
repercussions of a serious accident or illness. 
Aflac partnered with bloggers and social media 
influencers throughout the country to donate 
a combined $50,000 to families in need. 
Bloggers posted stories about holiday helping 
experiences, and the effort generated media 
attention from online and print publications 
such as People.com, Today.com, AOL.com, 
E!, OK Magazine, US Weekly and more. In 
celebration of Holiday Helpers, Aflac hosted a 
special event in New York City with the help of 
singer Kevin Jonas, his wife, Danielle, and the 
Aflac Duck. 
Additionally, Aflac Florida-Central Market 
Director Dennis Hartin and his team partnered 
with Children’s Dream Racer to raise $10,000 
for a child-sized version of a NASCAR car for 
Kevin Jonas and his wife, Danielle, lend a helping hand at 
the 2016 Aflac Holiday Helpers event.
Children enjoy the child-sized race car donated by Aflac 
Florida-Central Market Director Dennis Hartin and his team.
Aflac’s Nebraska employees deliver Christmas gifts to 
pediatric cancer patients at Nebraska Medicine. 38 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
the Aflac Cancer Cente r. The car’s gaming 
system and flashy design offers young patients 
an escape from the rigors of cancer treatment. 
Aflac’s Nebraska employees were also in the 
spirit of giving. They continued a longtime 
tradition o f purchasing h oliday g ifts for families 
with children being treated for cancer or blood 
disorders at Nebraska Medicine. A total of 
77 gifts were purchased, with funds raised at 
raffles and bake sales throughout the yea r. 
AFLAC AGENTS CHAMPION REGIONAL 
GIVING CA MPAIGNS 
When Tanya Winch ester shared her personal 
dream to volunteer for Arnold Palmer Children’s 
Hospital, she hoped her Aflac team would help 
support t his w orthwhile or ganization. I t was 
no surprise when  they rose to the occasion, 
surpassing b ounds s he could h ave n ever 
imagined. She an d her team embraced t heir 
passion to spread j oy through children, families, 
each other an d beyond. Seeing  the childrens’ 
faces light up is what gives he r joy.
David Watson introduced his community to 
the Breakfast Crew by teaming up with Family 
Emergency Shelte r. He and his team marched 
out to serve up sizzling hot breakfasts for 
families in need, providing the essentials to 
start their day. In 2016, he celebrated five years 
of service through The Breakfast Crew and was named Volunteers of America’s Regional 
Volunteer of the Year. He is proud of his work  
in the community and hopes his team feels 
what he feels: 
the satisfaction of being  
part of something bigger 
than themselves. 
Twenty years ag o, Gail  Moe der was inspired by 
the endless laughte r, radiant joy and ear-to-ear 
smiles powered by the children  of Camp Hope. 
Just as she felt her initial visit, she is honored 
and overjoyed to  volunteer with the camp and 
have Aflac back her mission and support the 
cause she holds so close to her  heart. Camp 
Hope brings children battling cancer together to 
a special place  “beyond the rainbow.” Children  
are treated as kids rather than patients, resulting 
in far more laughter than tears.
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Since 200 7, more than 2 ,100 members of 
Aflac’s Columbus, Georgia, team have strapped 
on hardhats and tool belts with Habitat for 
Humanity. T he program i s so popular that A flac 
holds l otteries t o determine w hich employees 
will get the chance to participate. This yea r, 175 
employees built Aflac’s 11th Habitat house, to 
the great delight of resident Marion Dantzle r. 
Meanwhile, 50 employees at Aflac’s Columbia, 
South C arolina, l ocation w orked a longside 
Tanya Winchester, Aflac Regional Sales Coordinator, Orlando, 
Florida, volunteers at Arnold Palmer Children’s Hospital.
David Watson, Aflac Regional Sales Coordinator, Louisville, 
Kentucky, established the Breakfast Crew to feed families in need.
Gail Moeder, Aflac Sales Agent, Great Bend, Kansas, 
volunteers with Camp Hope.2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 39 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
new Habitat for Humanity homeowners during 
a five-day renovation project, completing the 
team’s second home construction.
In Omaha, Nebraska, more than 120 Aflac 
employees and volunteers worked through 
inclement weather, mud and dust to build a 
total of four Habitat homes in the past three 
years. In 2016, the Nessie and Gwendolyn 
family were the well-deserving recipients who 
helped in building their new, beautiful home. 
Volunteers from Aflac Human Resources 
organized lunches for the construction teams, 
which were busy with demolition, porch repairs, 
framing, painting and installation of windows 
and drywall. 
GLOBAL INVESTMENTS  
TEAM INVESTS IN KIDS 
What began as a community engagement 
project for the Aflac Global Investments team 
in 2014 has evolved into a large back-to-
school drive in New York City for homeless 
students. Through what is dubbed “Operation 
Backpack,”  Aflac Global Investments 
employees donate backpacks stocked with 
school supplies for students who cannot afford 
to buy required materials on the ever-growing 
school supply list. Backpacks are delivered to 
children at the Bowery Missions’ Mont Lawn 
Camp, a home for hundreds of at-risk children.   In 2016, the team raised $3,125, which went 
toward creating 125 fully stocked backpacks for 
students in elementary through high school.  
Aflac’s Global Investments team also supports 
Bring Your Kids to Work Day,  a national event 
that invites children into their parents’ workplace 
to help them understand what their parents do 
and open a discussion about career possibilities. 
The Human Resources team plans educational 
activities to learn first-hand about job duties 
through games, team-building exercises and art 
projects. This fun-filled day inspires children to 
set goals, helping them develop their strengths 
and talents for the future.  
Aflac’s Federal Relations office is a premier 
sponsor of the Hoops for Youth Foundation, 
a nonprofit organization that combines 
basketball skills and life skills into a mentorship 
program for at-risk youth in Washington, D.C. 
Every year, Hoops for Youth hosts a Coaching 
Clinic, giving boys and girls an opportunity to 
practice basketball skills with some of the area’s 
top high school and college coaches. Adult 
volunteers raise money for the Coaching Clinic 
through recreational three-on-three tournaments. 
New York employees deliver backpacks filled with school 
supplies for disadvantaged youth.
Nebraska employees participate in a two-day demolition 
project for Habitat for Humanity. Aflac employees celebrate the completion of their 11th 
Habitat for Humanity house in Columbus, Georgia.40 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
Aflac’s New York office shows support in the fight against 
breast cancer.
The Aflac New York team endured a 3.5-mile challenge 
through downtown Albany as a fundraiser for local charities.
Aflac’s IT department raises money for the Aflac Cancer and 
Blood Disorders Center with a cooking contest.Aflac’s IT department participates in 5k race benefiting 
childhood cancer research and family support services. 
Aflac’s Brad Knox with GOP House Majority Leader Kevin 
McCarthy participate in a Hoops for Youth Foundation 
basketball game. SPOTTED! AFLAC PHILANTHROPY IN ACTION
2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 41 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
Aflac Group employees raised money for the Columbia Chapter of the American Heart Association (AHA). They donated $22,969 through multiple events and activities led by the internal Aflac AHA 
committee members. The committee members hosted soup sales, change wars, jeans weeks and an employee craft fair. Aflac was the No. 2 top fundraising company for the Columbia Chapter for 
AHA thanks to the support of our employees!
SPOTTED! AFLAC PHILANTHROPY IN ACTION
Employees pair up with Logan Elementary School students for their 
Lunch Buddy program. Each student is served a free lunch and is 
assigned a “lunch buddy” mentor. 
Aflac Group raised $1,879.50 for breast cancer awareness (American Cancer Society) in October 2016. 42 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
At Aflac, we take our responsibilities seriously, 
including being good stewards of our business for everyone we serve – from employees and accounts to agents and brokers. 
As a large, publicly traded company, Aflac is 
responsible for leading by example in eco-  
friendly business practices. From the materials we use in our daily operations to the construction and management of our facilities, we carefully consider the environmental impact of our actions – not only today, but in the years to come. Our ultimate goal is to help make our communities, our cities and even our planetENVIRONMENT:
DOING GOOD FOR 
OUR COMMUNITIES 
AND OUR PLANET
better places  
to live and work.
In recognition of our efforts, Aflac has 
earned some important accolades. Placing No. 42 of 500 companies in 
Newsweek’s 2016 “Green Rankings,”  
which are based on carbon, energy, water and waste productivity and green revenue. Listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index  for the sixth consecutive year, finishing 
ahead of the insurance industry average in Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance, Customer Relationship Management, Environmental Reporting, Operational Eco-Efficiency, Risk Detection, Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy, Labor Practice and Human Rights, Occupational Health and Safety and Talent Attraction and Retention.6 years strong
No. 42 of 500SUSAN GOODSELL
As a member of the company’s Green Committee, Susan 
applies her communications skills to help promote Aflac’s 
sustainable initiatives and activities. In working to make her 
workplace more environmentally conscious, her goals are 
simple: healthier employees and stronger communities.CSR HERO
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace
G4-2.102016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 43 
Although Aflac’s environmental impact is 
minimal due to the nature of our business, we’re always looking for innovative ways to educate our employees about green initiatives, reducing waste and recycling to better the environment. The Aflac Board of Directors’ Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee leads these efforts through the Aflac SmartGreen
® program. In 2016, Aflac also 
supported the following initiatives through the employee-led, grassroots Green Committee.
Earth Day
 Aflac hosted its ninth annual Earth 
Day event where employees planted herbs 
for spring, participated in a “Chuck the Cup” challenge discouraging the use of throw-away cups, attended an Earth Day fair, tested fuel-efficient cars on campus and learned about  
the company’s own green goals and initiatives. 
Arbor Day Tree Giveaway Employees received a total of 650 trees in celebration of Arbor Day. The annual tree gift is coordinated in partnership with Trees Columbus, which works with local government, businesses and citizens to create and maintain a lively, livable and green community by rebuilding and protecting the tree canopy. 
Earth Hour For the seventh year, Aflac 
participated in the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour, joining participants around the word for a one-hour “power down.” Taking part in Earth Hour is one way Aflac shows concern for global carbon emissions and supports environmental conservation. Through Earth Hour, Aflac has identified opportunities to improve energy management and implemented cost-effective energy-conservation measures. 
Bike to Work Day Employees left their cars at 
home and biked to work using the Columbus, Georgia, rails-to-trails bike route. Conveniently located bike racks at each Aflac building and access to locker room showers make this initiative a favorite among employee cycling enthusiasts. Employees at Aflac’s Columbus office learn about the 
environmental benefits of biking to work. Bike to Work Day gives employees the opportunity to get fit and get green.
Aflac employees get tips about responsible landscaping at our annual Earth Day event in Columbus.
 As part of Aflac’s annual Arbor Tree Day Giveaway, employees and families plant trees donated by  
Trees Columbus. 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
G4-EN18 G4-EN544 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportE-waste Drive  Although employees are
welcome to recycle their personal, used
electronics in designated bins any time of theyear, Aflac holds two annual e-waste drives topromote the proper disposal of electronic wastelike cellphones, televisions and computers.Freecycle Event Each year, Aflac employees empty their storage closets for an open market office supply swap, dubbed the annual Freecycle event. Departments advertise supplies they have in excess of and hunt for supplies they need. Aflac’s annual Freecycle event has saved the company more than $50,000, proving that going green can also save you some green. Of course, it has also redirected a considerable amount of waste from landfills and improved the efficiency of office supply consumption throughout Aflac’s corporate offices.Community Outreach Programs  Aflac’s 
Green Committee conducted five outreach programs in 2016 that highlighted environmental sustainability: a coloring contest for children at a local elementary school and our corporate day care centers; a teachers freecycle event that provided local teachers with gently used office supplies; an Earth Day booth at Columbus State University to engage potential future Aflac leaders in our sustainability mission; Help the Hooch, a Keep Columbus Beautiful effort that cleans up waterways leading to the Chattahoochee River in Columbus, Georgia; and a fundraiser for EarthShare of Georgia that raised more than $4,000 for the Oxbow Meadows Environmental Learning Center. 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Aflac employees learn how to build 10-gallon composters 
during a live lunch-and-learn. 
Employees gather old computers, monitors and other 
electronics for Aflac’s e-waste recycling drive. 
Aflac employees “shop” for unused office supplies at the 
company’s annual Freecycle event. 
In partnership with a certified e-Steward company, Aflac employees recycled 
19,649 POUNDS
of electronic waste in 2016.
G4-EN22 G4-EC2.12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 45 
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
Shred Day  In 2016, Aflac’s Information 
Security Team held its first annual Shred Day, 
encouraging employees to bring paperwork from home to be shredded and recycled responsibly. The event not only diverted waste from the local landfill, but also helped employees deter potential cybercrimes by destroying personal financial information. 
Greenshortz  Environmental stewardship 
videos and lunch-and-learn tutorials were 
offered to Aflac employees through a partnership with Greenshortz. Instructional videos were made available on the company’s intranet site and lunch-and-learns were hosted by Tom Mills, founder of Greenshortz.Recycling  Recycling is a big part of Aflac’s 
SmartGreen
® program. Employees are 
encouraged to recycle paper products  and much more, including:  
•Newspaper
•Cardboard
•Fluorescent lamps
•Toner and ink jet cartridges
•Microfilm and recording tape
•Ceiling tiles
•Computer equipment
•Pallets
•Plastic bottles
•Aluminum
•Copper
•SteelEstablished in 2016, Aflac’s annual shred day  
encourages employees to dispose of their paper  
waste in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Aflac employees separate recyclable materials from waste 
during a green committee volunteer event. 
46 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
PHILANTHROPYENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE2016 Green Initiatives
Electricity consumption at
U.S. facilities decreased 
by 6.4%  from 2015
Electricity consumptiondecreased by 46% per square foot  over the past 
nine yearsGradual decreases in energy consumptionsaved the company nearly $12 million Electricity
Consumption
1.3%
decrease in overall 
waste going to the 
landfill from 2015Recycled Wasteof eligible space has
earned the Energy Star
Rating. Six buildings are 
now Energy Star rated Energy Star Rating
86%
As part of Aflac's 2016 
Green Initiative, solar panels were installed on top of an office building in Columbus, Georgia, 
enabling more 
efficient and cleaner production of energy 
   Solar Panel Installation
The total overall gas consumption 
decreased by 9%  
based on consumption from 2015Gas Consumption
2015 Gas Consumption 2016 Gas Consumption
900,000 lbs. 
of waste was recycled 
by the end of 20162016 Green Initiatives
Electricity consumption at
U.S. facilities decreased 
by 6.4%  from 2015
Electricity consumptiondecreased by 46% per square foot  over the past 
nine yearsGradual decreases in energy consumptionsaved the company nearly $12 million Electricity
Consumption
1.3%
decrease in overall 
waste going to the 
landfill from 2015Recycled Wasteof eligible space has
earned the Energy Star
Rating. Six buildings are 
now Energy Star rated Energy Star Rating
86%
As part of Aflac's 2016 
Green Initiative, solar panels were installed on top of an office building in Columbus, Georgia,
enabling more
efficient and cleaner production of energy Solar Panel Installation
The total overall gas consumption
decreased by 9%
based on consumption from 2015Gas Consumption
2015 Gas Consumption 2016 Gas Consumption
900,000 lbs. 
of waste was recycled 
by the end of 20162016 Green Initiatives
Electricity consumption at
U.S. facilities decreased 
by 6.4%  from 2015
Electricity consumptiondecreased by 46% per square foot  over the past 
nine yearsGradual decreases in energy consumptionsaved the company nearly $12 million Electricity
Consumption
1.3%
decrease in overall 
waste going to the 
landfill from 2015Recycled Wasteof eligible space has 
earned the Energy Star 
Rating. Six buildings are 
now Energy Star rated Energy Star Rating
86%
As part of Aflac's 2016 
Green Initiative, solar panels were installed on top of an office building in Columbus, Georgia,
enabling more
efficient and cleaner production of energy Solar Panel Installation
The total overall gas consumption
decreased by 9%
based on consumption from 2015Gas Consumption
2015 Gas Consumption 2016 Gas Consumption
900,000 lbs. 
of waste was recycled 
by the end of 20162016 Green Initiatives
Electricity consumption at 
U.S. facilities decreased by 6.4%  from 2015
Electricity consumption decreased by 46% per square foot  over the past 
nine yearsGradual decreases in energy consumption saved the company nearly $12 million ElectricityConsumption
1.3%
decrease in overall 
waste going to the 
landfill from 2015Recycled Wasteof eligible space has
earned the Energy Star
Rating. Six buildings are 
now Energy Star rated Energy Star Rating
86%
As part of Aflac's 2016 
Green Initiative, solar panels were installed on top of an office building in Columbus, Georgia,
enabling more
efficient and cleaner production of energy Solar Panel Installation
The total overall gas consumption
decreased by 9%
based on consumption from 2015Gas Consumption
2015 Gas Consumption 2016 Gas Consumption
900,000 lbs. 
of waste was recycled 
by the end of 20162016 Green Initiatives
G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN222016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 47 
Aflac Japan marked 42 years of business in 
2016 and reinstated its deep commitment 
to corporate citizenship by hosting the first 
Ethisphere Institute Tokyo Ethics Forum, 
“Moving Beyond Compliance to Create an 
Ethical Corporate Culture,” with partner Center 
for Audit Quality, a nonpartisan, nonprofit 
public policy advocacy organization based in 
Washington, D.C. The summit included panel 
discussions titled “Creating a Fraud-Resistant 
Organization” and “Sustaining Long-term 
Growth Through Culture” and was attended 
by more than 40 senior executives from well-
known Japanese companies.
WORKPLACE DIVERSITY
Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently 
sparked a national call to action to promote 
more women into Japanese leadership 
positions. Cultural and familial pressure often limit the advancement of even the most skilled 
and competent women. 
Aflac has conducted forums on diversity in 
Tokyo, inviting female leaders from Aflac U.S. 
to Japan to discuss their roles. In 2016, Aflac’s 
diversity symposium opened with a keynote 
by Aflac U.S. Senior Vice President, Chief 
Accounting Officer June Howard. The event 
featured male and female leaders from Aflac 
Japan and Aflac U.S. who participated in panel 
discussions about values created through AFLAC JAPAN: 
42 YEARS OF  
DOING GOODJUNE HOWARD
Working with both the Japanese and American offices, June utilizes her 
role as Aflac’s chief accounting officer to encourage diversity, success 
and personal development among her employees. Understanding the 
challenges women face in the workplace, she aims to empower and 
inspire her co-workers through women’s leadership conferences,  
guest speakers and simple lunchtime conversations.CSR HERO
Prime Minister Abe’s “Womenomics,”  
a campaign encouraging and empowering 
women in the workforce, emulates 
what Aflac has done for decades:  
CELEBRATE AND PROMOTE 
FEMALE PROFESSIONALS. 
Citizenship
GovernanceWorkplace48 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
diverse experiences and operational changes 
needed to promote a diverse workforce and department-specific diversity. Aflac is on pace to meet Prime Minister Abe’s goal of having 30 percent of leadership positions held by women by 2020.
The company’s efforts have been noticed. 
In 2016, the company received several 
important accolades:
A special diversity award from the Japan Women’s Innovative Network (J-Win)  
honoring management’s commitment to promoting 
women in leadership, engaging all levels of the company in meaningful efforts to advance women and enhancing the business culture.  
The Nikkei Dual Ranking,  
which celebrates companies that support the child-rearing efforts of dual-income couples.  
Aflac Japan received the highest-level Eruboshi 
certification  level in recognition 
of its efforts to promote the 
active participation of female employees, based on the Act to Promote the Active Participation of Women in the Workplace established on April 1, 2016.  
The act dictates that large companies with more than 300 employees must develop a plan to promote the active participation of their female employees. The Eruboshi certification system evaluates these plans and awards companies one of three levels of certification.  Ranking No. 6 in the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare’s  list of the top 100 companies 
concerned with women’s empowerment.
A COMMITMENT TO
FIGHTING CANCER
THE AFLAC PARENTS HOUSE
Since its founding in 2001, the Aflac Parents House has provided cheerful and spacious 
Aflac Japan President and Chief Operating Officer 
Masatoshi Koide poses with the Aflac duck in celebration 
of Aflac Japan’s 42 years of business.
Aflac Japan proudly accepted a special diversity award 
from the Japan Women’s Innovative Network in honor of Aflac’s commitment to women in the workplace. 
June Howard meets with female employees at Aflac Japan 
to share stories about balancing home and work life. 
G4-2.10
2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 49 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
accommodations to pediatric patients and 
their families, allowing them to stay together in a comfortable home away from home while a child is fighting cancer or another serious illness. In Japan, children faced with a serious 
medical condition must often travel to receive 
treatment. Generous donations from Aflac Japan’s sales agents, employees and officers provide funding for three Parents House locations: two in Tokyo and one in Osaka. The support of dedicated staff and volunteers provides a welcoming setting where families can summon the resolve to sustain their treatment journeys. 
TOMODACHI INITIATIVESince 2013, Aflac has participated in the TOMODACHI Initiative, a public and private partnership that invests in the next generation of Japanese and American citizens with an array of educational and cultural exchanges, as well as leadership programs. The goal? Strengthening relationships between the United States and Japan over the long term. 
Since June 2013, the TOMODACHI Initiative has 
also opened doors for collaboration between Japan and the United States on pediatric cancer treatments and care. Japan-based pediatric cancer specialists serve rotations at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. The Aflac Cancer Center is a national leader among childhood cancer, hematology and blood and marrow transplant programs, serving infants through young adults.
The TOMODACHI Initiative gives children such 
as Kyle Klerk, 10, the opportunity to receive world-class care from experts like Dr. Shogo Kobayashi, a TOMODACHI Initiative participant and an assistant professor at the Department of Pediatric Oncology at Japan’s Fukushima Medical University. Dr. Kobayashi is the fourth Japan-based pediatric cancer specialist invited to Atlanta through the TOMODACHI-Aflac Program. There, he observes and shares best practices related to research, care and treatment for children with cancer. 
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR CHILDHOOD 
CANCER SURVIVORS AND CHILDREN  OF CANCER PATIENTSThe Aflac Scholarship Fund for Childhood Cancer Survivors and Children of Cancer Victims was established to provide financial assistance to high school students who have lost a parent to cancer. The program disburses funds to recipients who meet a specified level of academic achievement, typically ¥25,000 per month, until high school graduation to assist with educational and living expenses. 
Aflac Japan is proud to have 
provided this scholarship to more than 2,500 students. 
Kyle Klerk, 10, assembles building blocks with Shogo 
Kobayashi, M.D., assistant professor at the Department of 
Pediatric Oncology at Fukushima Medical University and 
TOMODACHI-Aflac Program participant.
Aflac’s Parent Houses provide comfort for families that 
must travel to receive treatment.  50 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
One of those students is Nanako Sugiyama, 
the first childhood cancer survivor to receive 
support from the scholarship fund. She is 
a dynamic, healthy, intelligent student who 
takes every opportunity to enjoy fun times 
with her friends and family. She is also driven 
to succeed in school, studying hard for her 
college entrance exams. When Nanako was 
diagnosed with acute lymphoid leukemia at age 
nine, Aflac was there to help. Unfortunately, just 
three years later, Nanako’s cancer returned. 
With the support of her loving friends and 
family, Nanako endured additional treatments, 
including a bone marrow transplant. Her battle 
shaped her in many ways, including instilling 
empathy for others with serious diseases. 
Now she is looking forward to working with children and families in hospitals and other 
settings, helping them cope with the challenges 
of hospitalization, illness and disability. 
CANCER AWARENESS AND PREVENTION
Aflac Japan’s partnerships with national and 
local governments and organizations reinforce 
its dedication and commitment to helping 
communities. Through these alliances, Aflac 
Japan increases cancer awareness, promotes 
early detection and provides education to the 
public on prevention and treatment. 
Since 1999, Aflac Japan has been hosting a 
“Classic Charity Concert” to support children 
and their families who were battling childhood 
cancer. This event is held in Tokyo every year, and it features an array of talented entertainers 
year after year. In exchange for their generosity, 
patrons who made a donation at the concert 
received an Aflac plush duck as a small token of 
gratitude. In 2016, 472 people participated in this 
concert and approximately ¥139,881 was raised; 
all of which was used to fund hospitals, research 
efforts and childhood cancer support groups. 
Since 2007, exhibitions sponsored throughout 
Japan by Aflac and the Gold Ribbon Campaign 
have featured informative displays and videos and 
have also showcased the artwork of pediatric 
cancer patients. The Gold Ribbon Campaign 
originated in the United States to help promote 
childhood cancer awareness and raise funds for 
pediatric cancer research. This campaign has 
taken hold in Japan, where it continues to grow 
thanks to increasing support from a variety of 
Japanese organizations and companies.
Aflac Japan is proud to be the primary sponsor 
of “Gold Ribbon Walking” events that raise 
awareness for pediatric cancer with the goal of 
enhancing the quality of life for children battling 
cancer and improving the cure rate. 
JAPAN ETHICS 
In 2016, Aflac Japan was a primary sponsor for 
the inaugural Ethisphere Tokyo Ethics Summit, 
where companies from around Japan gathered 
to discuss the best practices in ethical business 
Aflac’s scholarship fund gives students like Nanako the 
opportunity to continue their education despite their disease.
Aflac’s Classic Charity Concert drew families battling 
childhood cancer to Suntory Hall in Tokyo.
G4-EC2.12016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 51 ENVIRONMENT JAPAN WORKPLACE GOVERNANCE
 PHILANTHROPY
practices. The event was standing room only, 
with participants gaining significant knowledge from panelists from Aflac and other companies.
ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT 
Aflac Japan remains dedicated to giving back to the community. Since 1993, Aflac Japan employees have devoted time and personal resources to various charitable activities. One is the One Hundred Club, through which the company matches contributions of employees. Funds are allocated to the Aflac Kids Support System, Gold Ribbon Campaign support groups and global and environmental organizations.
Approximately 80 percent of Aflac Japan 
employees participate and approximately 
¥46 million was donated in 2016. In addition,
Aflac Japan employees and agents selflessly givetheir time through various volunteer initiatives.
For example, Aflac Japan has participated inblood drives since the 1995 Kobe earthquake.
Gold Ribbon Walk & Jog participants show support during 
a walk on a beautiful November day in Osaka.
Aflac Japan’s popular Maneki Neko Duck, or “good luck 
cat-duck,” stops for a selfie with adoring admirers during 
the Gold Ribbon Walk & Jog held in Osaka in November 
2016. Approximately 2,200 participants enthusiastically 
supported this great cause during the walk.In 1994, I decided to purchase  
an Aflac cancer insurance policy, 
which has provided me with peace of mind for the past few decades. When I was diagnosed with cancer several years ago, the policy also provided financial help for many of the out-of-pocket costs associated with treatment and daily living expenses. Having benefited greatly from Aflac’s cancer insurance, I frequently share my experience with others with the hope that I can help spread the word about the benefits of Aflac’s products, which have helped me so much.
Satomi Yamada smiles because her Aflac 
policy helps give her peace of mind.CREDITS
Editorial Director
Darcy Brito
Contributors
Catherine Blades
Paul DusseaultSydney FoxDana JohnsonJon SullivanRonda Templeton
Art Director/Graphic Design
Linna ChheanDylan CunninghamPhotography/Videography
Mother Nature NetworkJerry BallasAna BrubakerGavin DunnMichael NieceOz Roberts
Digital Creative
Troy Mobley
Vanessa WhitedChristopher Ehrhart
Aflac’s family of insurers includes American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  and/or American Family Life Assurance Company of New York and/or Continental American Insurance 
Company and/or Continental American Life Insurance Company.  One Day PaySM available for most properly documented, individual claims submitted online through Aflac SmartClaim® by 3 p.m. ET. 
Aflac SmartClaim® is available on most Accident, Cancer, Hospital, Specified Health, and Intensive Care policies. Aflac processes most other claims in about four days. Processing time is based on 
business days after all required documentation needed to render a decision is received and no further validation and/or research is required. Individual Company Statistic, 2017.
Z170990 Ex p 7/182016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 53 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
The following is in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative, the world’s most recognized framework for sustainability reporting. 
Aflac has not sought independent veri fication for this report but has practices in place to internally validate the data.
To download a copy of the GRI Standards, visit globalreporting.org.
Tracking Number Page Number Description
4
7
8
10
121618, 247, 20, 28, 30
9, 17, 31, 42, 48G4-1. 1
G4-SO6
G4-4.8
G4-PR5
G4-2. 10
G4-4.5G4-LA8G4-4. 14
G4-4. 1Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization.Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.
Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.
Awards received in the reporting period.
List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.
19
19G4-LA3G4-LA14 Ration of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of contact and principles relevant to economic, 
environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation.
Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including 
departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 
Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible 
for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 
their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 
significant locations of operation.54 | 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
Tracking Number Page Number Description
G4-LA11
G4-LA1G4-LA13
G4-EC2. 1
G4-EC6
G4-HR1Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region, broken down by gender .
Policy , practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation.21, 2722
23
25, 32, 36, 44, 5030
30
G4-SO1G4-EN18
G4-EN5G4-EN22
G4-EN6Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.
Energy saved due to conservation and e fficiency ef forts.
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.334343, 4644, 46
4620 G4-LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender , and region.
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 
and assist them in managing career endings.
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender , 
age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity . 
Voluntary donations and investment of funds in the broader community where the target beneficiaries are 
external to the compan y.
Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses 
incorporating human rights concerns or that have undergone human rights screenings.
Initiatives to provide energy-e fficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in 
energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and 
development programs.2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 55 Thank You!
Arigatou Gozaimasu
͋Γ͕ͱ͏͍͟͝·͢
For more information, visit: aflac.com/csrreport facebook.com/aflac
