2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Investing
today for
a better
tomorrow.
Cover image: At Nihon University Itabashi Hospital, 
Ritsuto Okano, age 6, plays with his new smart 
comforting companion, My Special Aflac Duck,® which 
utilizes “feeling cards” and a compatible web-based 
app to enable the duck to mirror patients’ care routines 
and express a range of emotions patients may be 
feeling to help comfort them throughout patients’ 
cancer treatment journey.
In this document, we may refer to Aflac Incorporated’s  
businesses collectively as “Aflac” or the “company,” the 
company’s U.S. businesses as “Aflac U.S.” and the company’s 
Japan businesses as “Aflac Japan.”
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Contents 2Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 3 Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  In 2016, at only 13 years old, Matthew Gould was first diagnosed with pediatric T-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia. During his treatments, Matthew was admitted into the Aflac Cancer and 
Blood Disorders Center at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta where, like his hero Batman, his quiet 
strength helped him during his leukemia treatment. In the future, Matthew dreams of a career in the 
health care industry working in a laboratory so one day he can help patients like himself. Until then, 
he looks forward to graduating from high school and living a healthy, fulfilled life. Matthew Gould
Aflac has contributed more than
$172 million
to help children with cancer in the U.S. and Japan through 2019.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 4 Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac distributed nearly
My Special Aflac Ducks for 
children undergoing cancer 
treatment at about 275 hospitals in 
the U.S. and Japan through 2019. 6,500At only 17 months old, she was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and then again after 
remission when she was 4 years old. Both times, Amelia received chemotherapy and care from 
the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, where she says 
her care team treated her like family. Amelia says her experience made her who she is today, and 
it inspired her to pursue a career in the medical field. Now, Amelia works as a nurse in the Aflac 
Cancer Center sharing her story and bringing hope to her patients. Amelia Ballard
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 5 Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  In 2019, employees logged a total of
of volunteer work in the U.S. – a 7% increase over 2018.16,466 hoursAt 16 years old, Carson Hand found out he had a Stage 4 undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver, 
and he underwent six months of chemotherapy. After being cured in 2010, Carson went on 
to complete his bachelor’s degree and master’s degree in business. Inspired by the care he 
received at the Aflac Cancer Center, Carson joined the Aflac team as an independent sales agent 
in 2015 to begin his career. Outside work, Carson enjoys spending time with his wife, Charlotte, 
and exploring new and exciting places.Carson Hand
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 6 Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  In my 30 years as chief executive of Aflac, I thought I’d  
seen it all, but I have honestly never seen anything like  
the events of 2020.
While this report recounts the events that took place in  
2019, I would be remiss if I failed to address how 2020  
is the year that a virus, a microbe, a mere bug, shut down  
the planet, extracted trillions from the economy and  
destroyed or disrupted countless lives. At the same time,  
as a company whose workforce is about 35% African 
American, 46% minority and 66% female, the national events 
taking place cannot go without comment. If ever there was a 
time to test Aflac’s decades-long commitment to our corporate 
values of social responsibility, business accountability,  
equality and ethical behavior, this is it. 
As Aflac U.S. President Teresa White eloquently said during a 
2020 webinar, “You cannot build a culture during a crisis; you 
build  it and improve it in perpetuity.” It has long been a guiding 
principle of Aflac to take care of our employees, and in turn, they take care of the business. It has also 
been, dating back to before the civil rights movement, our mission to promote and fight for eq uality and 
racial justice for all. Undeniably, 2020 has shown that we should continue down this path.  
Next year’s Aflac CSR Report will include an analysis of the challenges, achievements, teamwork and, 
yes, even lessons that emerged from this unprecedented and unforeseeable year. But for the 2019 CSR 
Report you are now reading, due to matters of consistency, we are obliged to examine and relate progress 
against corporate social responsibility goals exclusively for 2019.    
In this report, you’ll find report cards and examples of Aflac’s performance on metrics of progressive 
corporate governance, cybersecurity, gender equity, volunteerism, professional development, 
philanthropic giving, green initiatives, technological advances, supplier diversity and community support. 
You’ll find the advent of Aflac’s journey toward more complete environmental, social and governance  
reporting, reflecting our company’s long-held commitment to authenticity, honesty and transparency. 
These are the stories and actions from our Aflac family in Columbus, Georgia; New York City; Albany, New 
York; Omaha, Nebraska; Columbia, South Carolina; and elsewhere in the U.S. and throughout Japan. It’s 
an impressive reflection of our work to support stakeholders beyond, and inclusive of, shareholders. It’s 
the detail behind our promise to do right by our employees, customers, partners and communities.
We have always believed that this socially responsible culture is our differentiator, setting ourselves apart 
in maintaining our record of business success and in attracting and retaining superior professional talent, 
while welcoming all to a diverse and inclusive work environment. 
The community has been good to Aflac, and we intend to be good to our community – not just yesterday, 
not just today, but also for future generations. We know caring about others is not just a business decision. 
It’s the right thing to do.
Message from Dan AmosChairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Aflac Incorporated
Dan Amos
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 7 Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  For more than six decades, Aflac’s forward-thinking leadership 
has taken seriously its responsibility as a good corporate 
citizen – to support our communities, take care of the 
environment and treat our employees, distribution partners 
and policyholders well.
2019 was an important year of advancing the ball in all areas 
pertaining to environmental, social and governance (ESG) and 
operationalizing key initiatives consistent with our vision:
While this report focuses on 2019 accomplishments, it’s impossible not to recognize that 2020 brings  
a special set of challenges. The COVID-19 pandemic has served to highlight the importance of our 
financial strength and risk management. We have taken decisive actions to safeguard the commitment we 
make to all of our employees, independent sales agents, policyholders and shareholders, as well as the 
communities where they all thrive.
By way of examples during the COVID-19 crisis, 98% of the U.S. workforce transitioned to a work-from-
home environment in a little over two weeks, and at the same time, 75% of Japanese employees were 
transitioned to work from home.. Those unable to work remotely received continued pandemic leave, so 
they continued to be paid. Independent sales agents could apply to receive zero-interest loans, within IRS 
guidelines, to bridge the crisis. Policyholders were granted grace periods on paying premium together 
with actions to assist in utilizing coverage if the need arises. Communities are benefitting from more than 
$10 million in donations supporting first responders in both Japan and the U.S. 
The pandemic has also placed further importance on moving to a digital environment, and we are 
accelerating investment to allow for efficiencies in working from home, expansion of customer self-service 
and a reduction of the use of paper. While designed to improve the customer experience, these activities 
also serve to lower our carbon footprint.  
I remain proudest of our true defining strength: Aflac’s character and consistent record of doing the right 
thing for our employees and communities long before the concept of corporate social responsibility or 
ESG. Our character remains strong in the best and worst of times. After all, it has been said that a crisis 
doesn’t create character; it reveals it.  
Message from Fred Crawford President and Chief  
Operating Officer
Aflac Incorporated
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 8
Fred Crawford• We built an online ESG hub  designed for investors and 
others to easily learn about Aflac’s ESG performance, 
goals and strategies. 
• We took the first steps in our journey toward carbon 
neutrality for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 
• We named our first chief ESG officer, who reports to me on 
these strategic efforts.  Introduction     Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Governance
Corporate governance extends beyond
compliance and regulation. At Aflac Incorporated, 
it is an ethical commitment to create a better 
tomorrow for our stakeholders, employees, 
customers and communities. Following the highest 
ethical principles is our true north, providing the 
framework with which we will continue to succeed.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 9 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Balancing purpose and profit
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAt Aflac, being an ethical company is the only way we do business, and how we accomplish that is through 
an uncompromising corporate governance system built on integrity, which began with our founders.  
True governance is measured through transparency, shared responsibility, a commitment to protecting 
stakeholders and our communities, the difference our products make in the lives of our policyholders and 
the engagement of our employees. We believe this is a more sustainable approach to business and one 
that will continue to increase shareholder value.
Simply put, we believe in making a difference while balancing purpose and profit.
Members of the Aflac U.S. ITC agile team work together to make our business processes more streamlined and improve 
products for our customers. 
“Treat everyone with respect and 
care. It’s who we are at our core – 
treat each other as you want to be 
treated. If people want to work  
at Aflac because they feel like 
they’re valued as a human – not  
just an employee, but as a human – 
that matters to me. That’s the 
kind of environment we have and 
continue to build at Aflac.” 
Audrey Boone Tillman, executive vice president and 
general counsel, of Aflac Incorporated
Aflac Incorporated’s General Counsel Field Day and Tailgate 
is a highly anticipated team building day filled with fun. From 
left to right, Tavanesha Shepard, John Hull, Rachel Strouse, 
Audrey Boone Tillman and Abby Supan stop for a quick 
break during the festivities. 
Contents 10 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  How doing good is good 
for business: 2019 highlights
More than  10,000 employees  in the U.S. and Japan received ethics 
training on Aflac’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
Aflac Japan committed to raise the percentage of women in 
leadership  positions from  17.5% in 2014 to 30% in 2020  and 
met this goal early – in 2019.
98% of U.S. employees  indicated they value Aflac as an 
ethical company , according to the 2019 Aflac Ethics Culture Survey. 
Aflac was named to Points of Light’s Civic 50 list of the Most 
Community-Minded Companies in the U.S. for the second consecutive year.
Our commitment to diversity goes all the way to the top. At Aflac 
Incorporated, 64% of our board members are ethnic 
minorities or women . 
More than one-third of the Aflac Japan board of 
directors is diverse in terms of ethnicity and gender.
Aflac has been recognized as a 
World’s Most Ethical Company 
by the Ethisphere® Institute for 
13 consecutive years – the only 
insurance company to have received 
this honor since its inception in 2007.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 11 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (code) is based on the same values that constitute 
The Aflac Way: teamwork, respect, fairness, honesty, integrity and responsibility. These values 
were instilled in the company more than 65 years ago, and it’s our duty to conduct business 
with them in mind. In doing so, we uphold both the letter and the spirit of the code, ensuring 
our company provides the same kind of genuine, caring and personal service that our 
founders set as our standard.
Our code outlines our commitment to our company’s stakeholders – our fellow employees, 
customers, shareholders, business partners and suppliers, as well as our communities, 
the environment and regulators. Our code shows us the responsibilities we have to these 
stakeholders and how to go about fulfilling them.The Aflac Way, the ethical way
Aflac’s commitment to 
behaving in an ethical, 
trustworthy manner is best 
captured by our guiding 
principles, also known 
as “The Aflac Way.” We 
uphold these tenets in 
everything we do, and they 
represent all aspects of our 
corporate governance. 
The seven commitments of The Aflac Way:  
Communicate regularly; respond immediately; know your stuff; treat everyone with respect and care; 
your problem is my problem; shoot straight; and cover the customer, not your behind.
Aflac’s code of business conduct and ethicsThe Amos brothers (left to right: Paul S. Amos, John B. Amos  
and William L. Amos founded Aflac in 1955. 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 12 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac is committed to a sustainable future that 
improves lives for generations to come. Our 
global employees, independent sales agents, 
and partners share the company’s purpose and 
commitment to ethics, philanthropy, environmental 
sustainability and a diverse, equitable and 
inclusive workplace. Aflac governance includes 
corporate responsibility oversight by the board 
of directors’ Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainability Committee . 
Aflac’s CSR/Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Committee, which is comprised of employees 
and chaired by the chief ESG officer, sets ESG 
and sustainability performance objectives, 
monitors implementation and performance of 
objectives, and oversees progress made toward 
our social and environmental goals. ESG is 
strategically integrated throughout all of Aflac.  
 The ESG Steering Committee at Aflac Japan 
designed a framework that brings together 
subsidiary wide information to feed into Aflac’s 
overall ESG initiatives, ensuring sustainable 
growth. With increased interest in ESG-
related issues, Aflac launched an ESG Hub in 
2020, which reports Task Force on Climate-
related Financial disclosures and Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board disclosures. 
Aflac’s commitment to ethical decision-making 
begins with our board of directors , which is 
guided by seven principal committees: Audit 
and Risk, Executive, Compensation, Finance 
and Investment, Corporate Development, CSR 
and Sustainability, and Corporate Governance. 
These committees provide a framework based 
on core values to guide and manage our 
company in the best interest of our employees, 
policyholders, investors and communities.
Aflac maintains an active role in the public policy 
arena, with transparency, the cornerstone of 
Aflac’s communication with stakeholders. In 
addition to complying with all state and federal 
regulations, we take additional steps to eliminate 
obfuscation common to corporate governance. 
For example, our company has gone beyond 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
requirements since 2012 by posting our political 
activity reports on Aflac.com. Our commitment 
to transparency engenders trust and confidence, 
which are critical to our company’s reputation.Investing in a sustainable future
Aflac Incorporated invests in a sustainable future for  
the next generation. 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 13 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Investment management
Aflac Global Investments currently has a 
multipronged approach to ESG investing 
and continues to evolve our ESG integration 
processes. Our internal ESG scoring system 
uses a mixture of E, S, and G external and 
internal factor indicators to construct a rating 
for securities. These ESG scores are viewed as 
supplementary data to the numerous financial 
metrics we use in our credit underwriting analysis. 
Low ESG scores of an issuer will be discussed in a 
typical credit conversation to determine if it could 
impact the credit quality or future cash flows of an 
issuer. We also seek to engage with management 
teams on ESG issues through our internally and 
externally managed portfolios whenever possible. 
Additionally, we have invested in various green 
bonds and other clean energy projects and 
will continue to look for similar opportunities so 
long as they meet our strict credit underwriting 
process and return requirements. Our portfolio 
also includes investments in real assets that are 
often exposed to potential climate change-related 
events, including floods, wildfires and hurricanes. 
While no investment is guaranteed, our internal 
investment team and external manager partners 
generally seek to mitigate risks by relying on 
third-party experts to conduct engineering and 
weather analysis and insurance reviews.
Transparency in legal proceedings
In accordance with Securities and Exchange 
Commission requirements, Aflac discloses 
all material legal proceedings, other than 
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the 
business, in our Annual Reports  on Form 
10-K  and Quarterly Reports  on Form 10-Q .The Aflac Trust: Doing good 
is good for business
Fraudulent activity costs the insurance industry, 
and by association policyholders, billions of dollars 
each year. The Aflac Trust has the mission to 
deter, detect, and respond to fraud and decrease 
losses. Our Trust uses education, system controls 
and investigations to help eliminate fraud. 
These fraud prevention measures help protect  
our customers, employees and investors so we  
can continue to deliver on our promise to do  
the right thing. 
Aflac Innovation Partners G.K.  
launched in 2019
Aflac Incorporated launched Aflac Innovation 
Partners G.K. to pursue investment opportunities 
overseas and in Japan, mainly in cancer, 
health tech and insurtech companies. We 
will engage in investment projects targeting 
early to late-stage venture companies. 
Through these initiatives, Aflac will enhance 
value for our customers, creating a variety 
of innovations while seeing opportunities for 
new growth that provide more stability for our 
customers and more value for shareholders.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac U.S. senior vice president of compliance Tom McDaniel, on 
right, and Aflac Japan’s international senior vice president and 
general counsel Andy Conrad, on left, address an audience of 
business ethics experts at Ethisphere’s 2019 Tokyo Executive 
Ethics and Compliance Roundtable in Japan. 
Contents 14 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportKathy is senior manager of Investor Communications in Aflac 
Incorporated’s Investor Relations department. Kathy is responsible 
for helping to craft clear messaging at the global level, covering 
matters related to the company’s financial performance as well as its 
environmental, social and governance matters in both the U.S. and 
Japan. This includes helping shape communications strategies that 
reinforce Aflac’s commitment to engaging its investors, policyholders 
and regulators in an open, ethical and transparent manner.
“I was first attracted to work at Aflac years ago after regularly 
seeing and reading about all of the accolades the company 
receives. From day one, it became clear to me that the 
recognition Aflac receives is not merely hype; it’s truly 
representative of how this exceptional company operates at every level – with transparency, 
integrity and an unsurpassed commitment to the highest level of ethics,” says Kathy. “It is 
truly an honor for me to be a part of Aflac.” 
With keen commitment to integrity, Kathy has based her career on delivering Aflac’s financial and 
operational messaging in a way that defines Aflac as an organization worthy of being named a World’s 
Most Ethical Company by Ethisphere Institute for 13 consecutive years. Established in January 2019, the Agile Promotion Office (APO) is 
tasked to promote and implement Agile@Aflac, an agile way of 
working and honoring our commitment to responsibly serve our 
customers when they need us most. In addition, APO created 
a facility called Agile BASE to support employees with the new 
practices and has released agile tools known as AgileNow, also 
developing an internal personnel system and governance process. 
To spread awareness and promote agile among employees across 
the company, APO also holds events and uses Aflac Japan’s internal 
portal site to share Agile@Aflac videos.
“Customer engagement is the most important principle 
for our team. We support employees who put agile into 
practice and deliver greater value to our customers,” says 
Michihiro Ito, General Manager of Aflac Japan’s Agile 
Promotion Office.
Kathy ShandAgile Promotion Office
CSR Hero
Columbus, GeorgiaCSR Heroes
Tokyo, Japan
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
Thanks to their efforts, 51 teams currently are using the agile way of working to generate value in a variety 
of areas. Examples include enhancing claim filing and premium payment procedures, shortening product 
development time and improving services provided to Aflac Japan independent sales agents. Agile@Aflac will 
continue to be expanded to further enhance products and services and quickly provide those to customers.
Contents 15 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  As part of our ongoing investment for a better tomorrow, Aflac’s Global 
Threat Intelligence Program provides critical information regarding global 
cybersecurity threats and recommends action plans to protect  
policyholders’ information . 
A dedicated information security team detects and blocks millions of data 
attacks each month, protecting policyholders and employees. Aflac regularly 
conducts cybersecurity drills with Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan teams to ensure 
policyholder data is protected globally. Every Aflac employee is required to 
complete privacy and security training, and the security team initiates periodic 
testing of employees’ attention to detail through exercises.
While phishing attempts may continue as the world becomes more connected, 
Aflac employees are making substantial efforts to protect our informational 
assets with the help of Aflac’s accountability model.
98% of phishing attempt 
awareness tests.Reducing risk through 
enhanced cybersecurity
Aflac employees passed
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 16 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Continuous innovation to enhance 
the customer experience
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFor nearly 65 years, Aflac Incorporated has helped provide financial protection and peace of mind. The 
company now has more than 50 million customers in the U.S. and Japan. Our highest priority is delivering 
on our promise to serve our customers accurately and promptly.
Emergencies don’t wait. It’s our belief that neither should policyholders. When a policyholder or insured 
gets sick or hurt, Aflac processes claims fast in the U.S. and Japan. 
With a wide range of customers, our employees use data and technology to inform policyholders and 
improve their experience. Recently, we expanded the digital capabilities of our website and mobile 
device applications and implemented voice recognition in our call centers. Other steps taken include:
• Development of an Innovation Lab by the Aflac Digital Services team that that focuses on two key 
areas: an accelerator, designed to meet customer needs with digital tools, and an incubator, which 
explores future opportunities for innovation and potential startup partners.  
• Aflac Japan leveraged a payment app called LINE Pay to help customers pay premiums in cash 
anywhere anytime.
• Customer convenience enhancements, such as the provision of Braille forms for the visually impaired 
and sign language translation services for hearing impaired customers in Japan. 
• Convenient retail insurance locations called Aflac Consulting Shops where customers meet with Aflac 
Japan representatives for face-to-face consultations to determine possible insurance needs.
• Artificial intelligence, such as optical character recognition, which will automate more than 500,000 
data entry transactions per month by 2021 for Aflac Japan teams.
Each year, Aflac’s Diversity Council teams in Japan and the U.S. gather to share best practices. Diversity fosters innovation 
by bringing people from different backgrounds together to generate new ideas.
Contents 17 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  In 2019, Aflac spent
with diverse suppliers.$24.5 million
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn 2019, Aflac U.S. engagement with diverse businesses contributed to 
millions in contributions to the U.S. economy and sustained numerous jobs 
in Georgia. It also generated a multiplier effect that supports additional jobs 
in our supply chain and those suppliers’ communities. Small and diverse 
businesses are an important part of the economy, and Aflac is committed to 
supporting them through our supply chain and bolstering the growth of our 
Supplier Diversity program. 
Aflac is dedicated to working with suppliers who conduct themselves with 
the utmost integrity, fairness and respect, as defined in Aflac’s Supplier 
Code of Conduct . Beyond our four walls: Supporting 
small and diverse businesses
9.4% 385.8% 5.2%
Increase over 2018
Minority-owned BusinessesIncrease over 2018
Veteran-owned BusinessesIncrease over 2018
Women-owned Businesses
Contents 18 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Investing in Georgia’s 
diverse businesses
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac’s investment in a better tomorrow starts in our own backyard by generating maximum economic 
impact for small and diverse companies based in Georgia. 
Production Impact
Total economic activity generated by direct, 
indirect and induced impacts
Jobs supported
Total number of jobs that are being supported by 
our Georgia spend with diverse suppliers
Wages supported
The cumulative earnings of the employees in 
the jobs supported through Aflac’s Georgia 
purchases with diverse suppliers$16.1 million
135
$9.2 million
Contents 19 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Supplier diversity spotlight:
Our partners
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac Incorporated chooses from a diverse selection of supplier options to broaden our company’s 
access to experiences, insights and ideas. Our company is also an active participant in initiatives that 
support the development of minority-, woman- and veteran-owned business enterprises and their 
economic development.
These firms represent some of the women business enterprises (WBE) and minority business enterprises 
(MBE) that provide immense value to Aflac Incorporated through their partnership. 
Dove Direct is instrumental in providing cost-saving solutions and 
efficiencies with our U.S. mailing operations.
Xonex Relocation provides relocation services for Aflac Incorporated and 
ensures the process is seamless and stress-free. 
SHI International delivers innovative software to help address, acquire and 
adopt technologies to solve IT challenges. They also assist in recognizing 
vendor duplication and help consolidate vendor services when possible.
Taylor CPA & Associates is a beneficial partner in offering audit, accounting 
and assurance services. Their efforts have been instrumental in supporting 
our internal audit department with work across the financial and risk 
management areas in our organization.
WBE
MBEMBE, WBE
MBE, WBE
Contents 20 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  As a top employer in the insurance industry, we recognize that a sound and fair 
compensation process is a big part of what makes Aflac an employer of choice.  
We are serious about ensuring equal pay for equal work. 
In 2019, 311 job titles held by both men and women at Aflac U.S.  
were reviewed, accounting for 3,294 employees. Among those 
positions, the salary ratio skewed 101% in favor of women.
Compensation for top executives at Aflac is also carefully considered. In fact, since 
2008, the compensation of top executives is approved by shareholders through an 
annual nonbinding shareholder “say on pay” vote, and Aflac was the first publicly 
traded company in the U.S. to conduct such a vote. In addition, considerations for 
annual raises and bonuses for all employees are linked to individual and company 
performance at every level.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportInvesting with integrity: 
Workforce equality
Contents 21 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  How Aflac U.S. ensures 
equitable compensation
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCentralized function
Aflac’s corporate Human Resources division 
operates a centralized internal compensation 
function to provide oversight and input to company 
management, ensuring compensation is consistent 
with job scope, duties and responsibilities. To deliver 
consistency, the compensation function evaluates 
new-hire job offers, promotions and compensation 
adjustments to ensure equitable compensation.
Job review and analysis
Current and prospective job roles are periodically 
reviewed, modeling the California Equal Pay Act 
approach to ensure equal pay for equal work. 
Job levels and associated compensation are 
determined based on market data, job scope, 
duties and responsibilities, ensuring equity for 
gender and ethnic minorities.Defined pay structures
Defined salary structures are reviewed 
annually and updated utilizing market data. 
They serve as the framework and guardrails 
for compensation administration.
Survey participation
Annually, the compensation function participates 
in and receives compensation survey results from 
multiple nationally recognized compensation 
consulting firms. These surveys help analyze market 
trends based on key factors, such as revenue size, 
asset size, market value, geography and headcount.
Annual review process
Defined annual compensation adjustment processes 
help ensure equity across the organization by 
reviewing potential compensation adjustments 
based on multiple factors, including performance, 
internal equity and market levels.Consulting services
Human Resources partners with nationally 
recognized compensation consulting firms to 
assist in the review of compensation practices, 
including the competitiveness of pay levels, 
design structures, market trends and other 
technical considerations that validate the 
consistency, legitimacy and equitability of our 
compensation practices and processes.Grievance process
Commitment to transparency across all levels is 
encouraged by our documented open-door policy as 
well as our formal grievance procedure in the event 
an employee perceives inequitable pay disparity 
at any time during the employee’s career. These 
processes are documented and communicated via 
the employee handbook.
Compensation Committee
The board-level Compensation Committee at 
least annually reviews the goals and objectives of 
our executive compensation plans, evaluates the 
performance of the executive officers and, setting 
their compensation levels based on this evaluation, 
reviews our company’s incentive compensation 
programs. This determines whether the incentive 
compensation program encourages excessive 
risk taking and evaluates how to structure 
compensation policies to mitigate risk as well 
as ensures the compensation and benefit plans 
achieve our goals and objectives. 
Contents 22 Introduction    Governance     Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  At Aflac Incorporated, we know doing good is good for business, 
and we do that every day by investing first in our Aflac family. 
From Employee Appreciation Week and our Diversity World Fair 
in the U.S. to meeting and exceeding gender-related goals in 
Japan, our workplace is an environment where employees feel 
valued and look forward to their future with Aflac.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportWorkplace
Contents 23 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Taking good care of our people
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCulture cannot be developed in a crisis or overnight. At Aflac, we strive for a people-first approach where 
employees feel fulfilled and love coming to work each day. That is the foundation of any good company 
culture, but it’s a daily effort – one we prioritize. 
From providing a workplace that encourages diversity, equity and inclusion to offering programs to help 
protect employee health, we see contributing positively to our employees’ overall well-being as not only 
good business, but the right thing to do.
As one of our founders, Paul Amos, said: “If you take care of your employees, your employees will take 
care of the business.”“It’s because of our people-
focused approach that our culture 
is one of strong passion, purpose 
and promise. Those qualities, 
inside each and every one of us, 
are the secret sauce of Aflac.” 
Teresa White, president, Aflac U.S.
Teresa White, pictured at center, applauds as Ana 
Brubaker is celebrated for nearly 45 years of service  
in the Aflac family.
“One of Aflac Japan’s original 
founding principles is to lift 
the financial burden of those 
suffering from cancer. Our ‘take 
action’ culture is deeply rooted 
within our employees. In these 
ever-changing times, we must 
hold tight to our values and 
continue to do good in society.”
Masatoshi Koide, president and representative director, 
Aflac Life Insurance JapanAflac Japan President and Representative Director Masatoshi 
Koide (top center) regularly communicates with Aflac Japan 
employees to learn how the company can improve the 
workplace and show employees they are valued.
Contents 24 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Investing in our people is what 
we do: 2019 workplace highlights
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report98% of U.S. employees  felt motivated and empowered to 
do the right thing , according to the 2019 Aflac Ethics Culture Survey.
In 2019, Aflac Japan received Platinum Kurumin 
accreditation , which is awarded to top-class companies that are 
committed to supporting working parents with child care assistance.
Aflac has been recognized 13 times  by Black Enterprise  for 
its commitment to diversity.
Aflac Japan was awarded the highest grade of “Eruboshi,”  
which is the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s certification for a 
company’s promotional efforts for women’s advancement in the workplace. 
In 2016, Aflac Japan was the first life insurer to receive this recognition.
Aflac is one of the  first signatories of The Hispanic 
Promise , a pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate Hispanics  
in the workplace.
For 20 years, Aflac has been recognized by LATINA Style  as one  
of the 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work For  
in the U. S.
Aflac Japan was awarded the  Ikumen Award 2019 Grand Prix  
for promoting the balance of work and child care among male employees. 
In 2019, Aflac Japan was awarded the  Telework Pioneer Internal 
Affairs and Communication Minister’s Award  for being an 
exceptional telework pioneer. 
Aflac has been ranked among 
Fortune’s World’s Most Admired 
Companies for 18 years. 
Contents 25 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac women in the workplace
Aflac is dedicated to providing opportunities for career enhancement to 
women in our workforce in the U.S. and Japan.**
** Senior officer roles include vice presidents, senior vice presidents and executive vice presidents.66% in Aflac U.S. 30% in Aflac U.S.  
51% in Aflac Japan 17% in Aflac JapanWorkforce: Senior officers:Aflac is proud to support women in the workplace.  
of U.S. employees are 
female minoritiesof U.S. leaders  
are women*35%55%
*Leadership roles include officers, directors, senior managers, managers and supervisors.
Contents 26 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmployee demographics 
by position at Aflac U.S.
*Rows do not add up to 100%, as categories are not mutually exclusive.
ALL EMPLOYEES* MINORITY EMPLOYEES
Women  
(%)White  
(%)Minority 
(%)Black 
(%)Hispanic 
(%)Asian  
(%)Native 
Hawaiian 
(%)American 
Indian 
(%)2 or More 
Races  
(%)
Executive/
Senior Level 
Officials & 
Managers21% 75.8% 24.2% 15.2% 3.0% 3.0% 0.0% 0.0% 3.0%
First/
Mid-Level 
Officials & 
Managers50% 68.3% 31.7% 20.3% 4.4% 4.8% 0.1% 0.3% 1.8%
Professionals 61% 62.8% 37.2% 24.4% 4.4% 5.4% 0.1% 0.4% 2.7%
Sales 
Workers39% 88.5% 11.5% 3.2% 4.5% 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 2.9%
All Others181% 36.2% 63.8% 54.4% 5.2% 1.1% 0.1% 0.4% 2.6%
Total 66% 54.5% 45.5% 34.7% 4.7% 3.2% 0.1% 0.3% 2.5%Aflac employees are the heart and soul of our company and we do everything we can to keep them as 
part of our growing Aflac family, which is reflected in the existing composition of our diverse workforce 
at every level of the company, from junior staff to senior leaders.
U.S. Workforce Demographics Only: As of Dec. 31, 2019
1Includes EEO-1 categories of administrative support workers, craft workers (skilled), operatives (semi-skilled), laborers 
(unskilled), service workers and technicians 
The Aflac Employee Advocacy Team is tasked with 
ensuring employees have an HR representative with who 
they feel safe discussing workplace issues. In 2019, the new Aflac Employee Advocacy 
team focused on promoting an inclusive, 
engaged work environment where employees 
feel connected and valued. 
This new team builds relationships with 
Aflac’s employees to ensure a fair working 
environment, more standardized practices 
and procedures across the organization 
and a better employee experience through 
appropriate workplace recommendations and 
approachable human resources counseling. The Aflac U.S. Employee Advocacy team keeps 
employees under their wing
Contents 27 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  At Aflac, we view diversity as an integral part of our company because we 
understand maintaining a diverse corporate culture translates into a wide variety of 
different viewpoints and new perspectives at all levels of our company. We are also 
committed to doing our part to not only attract a diverse workforce, but retain our 
valuable employees. To ensure diversity reaches all levels of the company, Aflac 
Incorporated developed the Diversity Leadership Board in 2019 to oversee our 
diversity and inclusion strategy.
Aflac Incorporated provides equitable spousal benefits to all employees, and 
policyholders are able to assign death benefits with insurable interest regardless of 
orientation or gender identity.Supporting the LGBTQ+ communityRecruitment 
• In 2019, Aflac U.S. hired 729 new employees:  58% ethnic minorities   
and 65% women – an increase of 20% and 16%, respectively.
• In 2019, 60%  of our U.S. interns were ethnic minorities  and 
48% were women .
Demographics
Generational diversity:Diversity at Aflac
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report16.8% Boomers<1% Gen Z
47.7% Gen X46% Minority
54% White34.4% MillennialsEthnic diversity:
Contents 28 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmpowering women,
keeping our promises
The Women’s Empowerment Program is designed to encourage women’s advancement in the workplace at Aflac Japan. 
Mio Kodera, an assistant manager at Aflac Japan, is one of 
the many women who have made the most of Aflac Japan’s 
women empowerment program to develop their careers 
and leadership skills.Launched in 2013 by Japan Prime Minister 
Shinzo Abe as a way to promote more women 
into leadership positions, Womenomics is  
meant to encourage women to remain and 
advance in the workplace. Aflac leaders 
designed Aflac Japan’s program around six 
tenets: enhancing the diversity promotion 
framework, ensuring management accountability, 
developing training resources for women, 
encouraging diverse work styles, and applying 
operational evaluation and process visibility. 
Aflac Japan revealed our Women’s 
Empowerment Program in 2014 as part of 
efforts to advance women in the workplace. 
What started as 17.5% of women in leadership 
positions at Aflac Japan in 2014 has grown to 
more than 30% of women in leadership positions 
in 2019, one year ahead of schedule. Aflac Japan 
is also on track to have up to 30% of all line 
manager positions filled by women by 2025. In 
2019, 17% of all line managers were women. Throughout the year, Aflac Japan supports 
employees to ensure they are getting the 
opportunities they need to achieve their vision. 
Training and education are available for female 
employees to learn their own strengths and 
weaknesses as well as the necessary skills for 
taking on a leadership position. 
Aflac Japan also offers unconscious bias  
training in order to help managers understand 
and promote diversity within their areas  
of responsibility.
Contents 29 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Celebrating our differences 
and building inclusivity
Omaha  celebrated Diversity Week by 
highlighting physical, mental, generational,  
social and food diversities as well as what brings 
everyone together.As a fun way to celebrate Aflac’s commitment to diversity, Aflac U.S. and Japan locations arranged a 
slew of enlightening festivities from hosting educational forums, enjoying global sweets and learning 
informative trivia to creating vision boards and discussing different cultures. Aflac’s Diversity Council, 
an employee-driven organization, started the annual Diversity Week to raise awareness and educate 
employees about diverse cultures. 
Columbus leaned into a sports theme with 
activities and trivia involving global sports as well 
as an Aflac World Fair with an information session 
to share experiences with Aflac Japan employees.
Albany  employees embraced their 
differences with a weeklong indulgence of 
Japanese, Middle Eastern, Latin American, 
Mediterranean, Italian and American desserts. New York City’s  Global Investments 
employees began their celebration by 
stuffing and donating 100 backpacks with 
school supplies for local children. Then they 
enjoyed a weeklong feast of tasty snacks 
from different cultures around the world.
Japan  Aflac Japan President and Representative 
Director Masatoshi Koide hosted town hall 
meetings throughout our Japan locations to 
provide an opportunity for employees to learn 
about Aflac Japan’s commitment to diversity 
in the workplace. Topics included workplace 
reform, improving work-life balance and specific 
challenges that employees face in their offices.Columbia  hosted several activities, including 
a painting class, a companywide workout and an 
interactive scavenger hunt.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFrom left to right, Meghan Dunn, Brenda Mullins and Koichiro Yamashita enjoy Diversity Week, where Aflac employees in the U.S. 
and Japan celebrate each other and our cultures. 
Contents 30 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  For 20 consecutive years, Aflac Incorporated was recognized as a great place to work by  
Fortune. We believe in investing in our employees through career development and work-life 
balance opportunities. 
• Aflac Japan’s Leadership Program allows managers to participate in a comprehensive training 
program to learn about innovation and the global business environment. As part of the  
program, this select group also has the opportunity to travel to Aflac’s U.S. headquarters to  
work with their peers. 
• Educational opportunities are available for self-development and growth from the Leadership, 
Learning and Development department to help employees further enhance their technical and 
professional skills.
• The Diversity and Employee Engagement departments create awareness and promote inclusion 
in the work environment and within our community through events and special initiatives. Aflac 
Incorporated also educates company leaders, including senior management, on diversity, 
inclusiveness and engagement.
• More than two-thirds of U.S. employees responded to the 2019 Employee Engagement Survey, 
sharing thoughts on areas where Aflac is excelling and noting areas for improvement: 
• TEACH, Aflac U.S.’s mentoring program, allows employees to “teach what they know and to learn 
what they don’t.”
 ◦TEACH mentors are:
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmployee retention  
through employee engagement
63% ethnic 
minorities75% women94% say they feel proud to be part of Aflac
92% would recommend Aflac as a great place to work
90%  say they are treated with dignity and respect at work
89%  say Aflac values diversity in gender, race, thought and experience
Contents 31 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  One of the ways that Aflac U.S. ensures employees feel valued and are ready for the future of work 
is through upskilling and reskilling. In 2019, Aflac provided 20 different skill-set training programs 
ranging from lean six sigma and agile training to project management and executive coaching. 
Nearly 1,200 employees took advantage of the opportunity to develop new skills. 
Our intention as a company is to advance our technology and invest in our people, so Aflac remains 
a leader in the marketplace. As a result of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Aflac committed $20 
million over four years for improvement and elevation of the current Aflac U.S. workforce. 
Change 
ManagementLean Six 
SigmaAgileProject 
ManagementLeadership 
DevelopmentTop 5 skills trainings
Total investment for employee skills training programs
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportDeveloping our employees’ futures
Aflac has committed to an ongoing investment in our most valuable resource, our people.
$10 million  and 20 skills-based 
classes and programs
Contents 32 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix   ◦Employees engaged in health coaching at all locations cost less per member, per year 
than those not engaged.
 -Columbus  employees with two or more coaching visits have 68% more chronic 
conditions per member yet cost 48% ($3,683) less per employee, per year than  
those with zero visits.
 -South Carolina employees with two or more coaching visits have 150% more 
chronic conditions per member yet cost 47% ($7,175)  less per employee, per year 
than those with zero visits.Aflac Incorporated encourages employees to keep a healthy mind and body. As part of our 
commitment, Aflac provides many tools and resources to help employees stay healthy.
• Our Domestic Partner Leave and our Parental Leave policies include salary continuation for 
parents for both the birth and adoption of a child in the U.S. and Japan. 
• Aflac Japan offers an on-site child care center and provides support for different parenting 
stages: before childbirth, during childbirth/child care leave, and balancing work and  
parental responsibilities. 
• Aflac U.S. offers two on-site child care centers and five on-site fitness centers as well as multiple 
employee health care facilities known as the Aflac Care Clinics at many locations.Supporting family futures  
every step of the way
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report95% patient satisfaction with the services of the 
Aflac Care Clinics
57% of the South Carolina patients with biometric 
values outside of the normal range are making 
measurable improvements
52% of the Columbus patients with biometric 
values outside of the normal range are making 
measurable improvements
Contents 33 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Japan is facing an estimated labor shortage in 2030 of 6.44 million, according to research from 
Persol Research Institute and Chuo University. To fill this gap, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade 
and Industry developed a certification to encourage businesses to support aging employees with 
tactics for better medical care, skills training and life-extending activities.
In response, Aflac Japan developed the Keep in Fit! program to promote a healthy lifestyle for 
employees at home and the office. Benefits include women’s health programs, healthy meal 
options in the cafeteria, fitness programs and smoking cessation support.
Additionally, Aflac Japan has been recognized as a Certified Health and Productivity Management 
Organization by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi (The 
Japan Health Council) for three consecutive years. This certification is awarded for best practices 
in assessing the health management of employees, evaluation of a company working in a strategic 
way and improvement of a socially appreciated environment.A flock that keeps fit together
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Nutritious meal options are just one of the ways that Aflac Japan’s Keep in Fit! program is promoting a healthy lifestyle to improve 
longevity and balance among employees. 
Contents 34 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Japan works SMART
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac Japan is tackling work-style reform with its Work SMART initiative, a program designed to 
promote better work-life balance and maximize the organization’s overall performance. 
SMART is an acronym for:
In 2019, the Work SMART program was responsible for improving work-life balance in  
several critical areas. 
• 10% reduction in overtime  worked by employees from the previous year.
• More than 85% of managers and 87% of employees  took their annual paid leave.
• 100% of employees took their maternity or paternity leave , when applicable.
• 100% of employees teleworked at least once or more in the year.
Parliamentary Vice Minister Yayoi Kimura of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (pictured third from the right along 
with Aflac Japan Director and Executive Vice President Yoko Kijima, who is all the way on the right) visited Aflac Japan to learn all 
about its Work SMART reform and innovation initiatives. 
See the 
big pictureThink 
time valueRespect 
dialogueAct with 
initiativeMaintain
focusS M A R T
Contents 35 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  A commitment to our employees
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportBuilding upon employees’ skill sets and 
equipping them with knowledge to help them 
advance their careers is the goal of Aflac’s Virtual 
Trainer program. And the best part? There’s 
no need for employees to even set foot in the 
corporate headquarters. This program virtually 
brings Columbus trainers and remote trainees 
together to discuss lessons and ask questions.
Established in 2009, Aflac Heartful 
Services, a subsidiary of Aflac Japan, 
promotes the hiring of employees with 
disabilities. Of Aflac Heartful Services’ 
151 employees, 113 have a disability. 
Aflac Heartful Services supports these 
employees with the assistance of 
advisors for long-term career support. Virtual Trainer
Japan Heartful ServicesCareer Success Center
All RibbonsAt Aflac’s Career Success Center, employees 
can meet with career consultants who 
provide mentoring, coaching, résumé writing, 
mock interviews, career consultations, exam 
proctoring and talent assessments.
In 2017, Aflac Japan established All Ribbons, a 
community of employees who are also cancer 
survivors. These employees act as a peer 
support system to one another during difficult 
times. Members of the community help other 
employees who are trying to balance work 
and their treatment. In addition to these 
support activities, All Ribbons also hosts 
panel discussions and a meeting place called 
All Ribbons Cafe for fellow employees and 
provides cancer services information.
Kerry Frazier, Enrollment Vendor Coordinator 
Account System Implementation 
Investing in career success is part of The Aflac Way
“I was speaking generally to my skill 
set versus speaking specifically to the 
job requirements. I learned to speak 
directly to my skills and how they’ll 
impact me in a new role.” 
Contents 36 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  A culture of appreciation
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmployee Appreciation Week
To celebrate 2019 Employee Appreciation Week, each Aflac location in Japan and the U.S. created unique 
themes with coordinating activities like wearing Hawaiian shirts for Tropical Tuesday, winning cash prizes  
for Money, Money, Money Monday, and enjoying funnel cakes and cotton candy during a weeklong 
carnival-style extravaganza. Employee Appreciation Week is designed to be a celebration of Aflac’s 
greatest assets – our employees.
Aflac U.S. and Japan recognized employees for their contributions to the company throughout the year in numerous ways. Each year, 
offices coordinate their own series of activities to show their appreciation of the Aflac family.
Contents 37 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
Keiichiro Ohtsu
Keiichiro joined Aflac Japan in 2005 and currently works as an assistant 
manager in the Policy Administration Planning department. When his wife 
became pregnant with their first child, he wanted to make sure she didn’t 
bear the responsibility of child care alone, so he made the bold choice to 
take eight months of paternity leave in 2019. To encourage work-life balance, 
Aflac Japan welcomes employees to take advantage of paternity leave, 
but eight months of paternity leave was unprecedented. Regardless, his 
supervisor fully supported his decision, believing he would become a role 
model for his peers.
Understanding others with empathy is the way Keiichiro not only does his 
work, but is also part of how he lives his life. 
“Working as a team, I place importance on helping others when 
they are struggling and receiving help when I’m struggling, as well. Fighting an illness, child 
care, caregiving – when team members are struggling with a variety of circumstances, it is 
important to understand, cooperate and work with them,” says Keiichiro.
Keiichiro credits the experience for changing his perspective both personally and professionally and recommends 
other men take paternity leave. In his current role as a leader, he plans to support his colleagues and direct reports 
in their efforts to achieve work-life balance.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCSR Hero
Tokyo, Japan
Angela Kyzer
Angela is a supervisor in Premier Broker and Group Services at Aflac 
Group with 25 years of service at the company. She began her volunteer 
work with Relay for Life, where she served as chairman for her group 
for five years. Her commitment to the community spans numerous 
causes – with March of Dimes, Habitat for Humanity, and the Leukemia 
and Lymphoma Society among them. For the past two years, she has 
served as chair of Aflac’s American Heart Association committee and has 
helped raise almost $10,000 internally for this cause. 
No matter the cause or organization, Angela gives 100%, believing that 
volunteering is a way to bring about change. 
“I’m proud to be part of a company that is involved in its 
communities and cares enough to let us do what we can to help,” she says. 
Angela says Aflac also inspires her because employees are empowered to volunteer with the organizations 
they care about most. For her, involvement in philanthropic efforts is a win-win for employees and the 
company – diverse groups of employees come together for a good cause and the Aflac brand shines in a 
positive light through their work.  CSR Hero
Columbia, South Carolina
Contents 38 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Investing in tomorrow’s talent
Aflac builds in a brighter tomorrow by investing in tomorrow’s talent through scholarship and internship 
programs. To ensure we are following through with our commitment to diversity, Aflac partners with 
community organizations and schools, which includes Historically Black Colleges and Universities as well 
as gender-focused institutions, to recruit diverse candidates.
• To help employees who are seeking an MBA, Aflac Japan provides assistance with obtaining a 
master’s degree at a university overseas . Not only do employees get to obtain an MBA in their area  
of focus, but it is also an opportunity for them to cultivate a global perspective by experiencing  
another country’s culture. 
• The Aflac Summer Internship Program is a hands-on, 10-week paid internship, including corporate 
housing, offered in disciplines such as marketing, IT, finance, accounting, strategic management, ESG 
and corporate communications, compliance and legal. Interns gain first-hand exposure to working in the 
real world with career development tools and job enrichment opportunities to help prepare them for a 
business career. Interns also receive development and engagement sessions with senior leadership as 
well as philanthropic opportunities with Aflac philanthropic partners.
• Aflac offers the  Paul S. Amos Educational Scholarship  for employees attending Columbus State 
University’s (CSU) or Troy University’s undergraduate programs. For employees seeking a graduate 
degree at CSU, the Paul S. Amos Tuition Reimbursement Program  is available. 
• Aflac’s Tuition Assistance Program  offers a full tuition assistance for MBA students attending  
University of Georgia, Auburn University, Emory University, Georgia Institute of Technology or  
University of South Carolina.
• The Information Technology Apprenticeship (ITA) is a two-year rotation program in the field of IT.  
Ethnic minorities made up 33% of our ITA hires for 2019.
• Aflac offers scholarships to employees’ children and grandchildren, including the W. L. Amos 
Dependent Scholarship  for students accepted to a university, college, trade, or technical school and 
the Paul S. Amos Dependent Scholarship  for students accepted to CSU’s undergraduate program.
• The Aflac Leadership and Analyst Program (LeAP) offers top graduates a two-year rotation  
program in their related majors, disciplines and fields of interest. It is designed to provide career 
development and job-enrichment opportunities while allowing candidates to advance into Aflac’s  
next generation of leaders.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn summer 2019, 42 students were welcomed into the Aflac family. Spanning three locations – Global Investments, Columbus 
headquarters and Aflac Group in Columbia – interns worked in 27 business units, bringing new and innovative perspectives to the 
areas and projects they supported. 
Contents 39 Introduction    Governance    Workplace     Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  In Japan and the U.S., Aflac Incorporated believes in doing good 
for future generations. That takes shape in many ways within the 
Aflac family, but most prominently in our dedication to children and 
families facing childhood cancer. As we approach our 25th year in 
partnership with the Aflac Cancer Center, we know it takes more 
than medicine to help children cope with cancer. That’s why Aflac 
delivers My Special Aflac Duck free of charge to children in the U.S. 
and Japan to assist them as they undergo cancer treatments. It’s an 
investment – for the children, their families and their futures.  
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Philanthropy
Contents 40 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Investing in a greater purpose
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportLess than 4% of the U.S. federal government’s cancer research funding goes toward the study of 
pediatric cancer. At Aflac, we believe in investing in the future, which includes children’s health. Through 
the Aflac Childhood Cancer Campaign, the Aflac Cancer Center and now My Special Aflac Duck , Aflac is 
dedicated to providing support, hope, time and resources to children with cancer.
Since 1995, the Aflac Foundation has contributed more than $140 million to the Aflac Cancer and 
Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. Much of Aflac’s support comes from our 
independent sales agents who contribute from their monthly commission checks, as well as Aflac 
employees who contribute each month through payroll deduction. Our commitment to the future is as 
real as the children helped through the support of our Aflac family. We’re in this together. 
“Aflac creates value that can be shared 
with society based on our core values. 
While we support the Aflac Cancer 
and Blood Disorders Center in Atlanta 
as well as Aflac Parents House in 
Japan – among other efforts – these 
aren’t only acts of charity. We focus on 
initiatives that leverage our company’s 
unique expertise and resources to 
meet society’s needs.”“Recognizing the good in Aflac 
takes no more than looking at 
our leadership, employees, and 
rich history of being fair, ethical, 
and having a positive influence 
on the people and communities 
around us.” 
Takashi Osako, senior vice president, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Aflac Life Insurance JapanCatherine Hernandez-Blades, chief ESG and  
communications officer, Aflac Incorporated
Takashi Osako (left) hands My Special Aflac Duck  to Kohsuke 
Yamashita, the chairman of the Children’s Cancer Association 
of Japan. This nonprofit organization supports a variety of 
initiatives to help children with cancer and also operates the 
Aflac Parents House.Chloe and Catherine Hernandez-Blades play with the My 
Special Aflac Duck  at a Children’s Miracle Network event. 
Contents 41 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Creating a better tomorrow: 
2019 philanthropy highlights
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn 2019, Aflac independent sales agents, employees, the Aflac Foundation  
and Aflac Incorporated contributed more than $9 million to the 
Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s 
Healthcare of Atlanta . 
More than 16,000 independent Aflac sales agents  
contribute  regularly to the Aflac Cancer Center from their commission 
checks – consisting of nearly $500,000 each month .
Aflac Japan provided more than $32 million to the Aflac Kids 
Support System  through 2019.
Aflac community giving contributed nearly $7 million  to nonprofit 
causes , including organizations supporting childhood cancer, health  
and education.
Since 1995, Aflac Japan has awarded more than $16.5 million  to 
nearly 3,000 deserving recipients through the Scholarship Program 
for Pediatric Cancer Survivors and Bereaved Relatives  
– a scholarship program for high school students who lost their parents to 
cancer or have experienced pediatric cancer themselves.
My Special Aflac Duck  won the 
2019 SXSW Interactive Innovation 
Award for Robotics and Hardware 
and the People’s Choice Award.
Contents 42 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Shiro’s story: 
My Special Aflac Duck  lands in Japan
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac planned the debut of My Special Aflac Duck  in Japan for 2021, but a letter from a young boy named 
Shiro Eishima changed everything.  Shiro, an elementary school student, saw American kids on the internet 
playing with My Special Aflac Duck , which was introduced in the United States in 2018. Having experienced 
cancer himself at the age of 3, Shiro was familiar with the trials and tribulations that pediatric cancer patients 
faced. He thought the duck could help comfort patients in Japan during difficult times. 
He wrote a letter to Aflac Japan President and Representative Director, Masatoshi Koide requesting that the 
duck be brought to Japan, too. Touched by the letter, Koide and Aflac Incorporated Chairman and CEO Dan 
Amos decided to launch My Special Aflac Duck  in Japan two years ahead of schedule at Aflac Japan’s Gold 
Ribbon Walking event.  
An annual tradition dedicated to pediatric cancer awareness and improving cancer cure rates, the Gold 
Ribbon Walking event welcomed over 4,200 people. The 2019 event included demonstrations of  
My Special Aflac Duck , as well as a play area set aside for children to interact with the duck. Shiro was also 
in attendance to warmly welcome the duck to Japan and receive his own My Special Aflac Duck . 
Masatoshi Koide, president and representative director at Aflac Japan, talks with Shiro Eishima, right, about  My Special Aflac Duck  
which debuted at Aflac Japan’s Gold Ribbon Walking event in April 2019.
My Special Aflac 
Duck  debuted in 
Japan at the Gold 
Ribbon Walking 
event, a tradition 
dedicated to 
pediatric cancer 
awareness. Shiro, right, plays
with his brother 
and his My Special
Aflac Duck .
Contents 43 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  A celebration of courage
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos shows a pediatric cancer patient at Nihon University Itabashi Hospital how the new My 
Special Aflac Duck  can be a friend during treatment. 
Misty DetiveauxCSR Hero
Houma, Louisiana
Misty, a group representative  for Aflac in Houma, Louisiana, has been with 
the company for 17 years. After discovering nearly 700 children in Terrebonne 
Parish were deemed homeless, sleeping in cars, hotels, multifamily housing 
and uncertain about the source of their next meal, Misty felt a call to action 
and wanted to invest in the community she loves. Misty started working with 
her local school system to find a way to provide those children with food for 
the weekends. 
In 2018, she created Bags of Hope. She and other volunteers purchase 
nonperishable food items, pack them in paper bags and deliver those bags 
to schools, where teachers on Fridays discreetly place the bags in the 
backpacks of children identified as being in need. For the 2019-2020 school 
year, Misty expanded Bags of Hope’s impact to 167 students in six schools, 
nearly tripling its reach. Along with food, Bags of Hope feeds the soul with 
inspirational messages in each bag such as “You are loved; you are amazing; you can be anything you want to be.”
“Not knowing the circumstances of these children, the message lets them know someone cares 
about them,” Misty says.
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
Contents 44 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGary OgleSocial Responsibility Activity Office
CSR Hero
Eureka, CaliforniaCSR Heroes
Tokyo, Japan
Gary never thought he would return home to Humboldt County, California, but 
when he did move back from the San Francisco area, he felt a responsibility 
to be a bigger part of his community than ever before. Now he is leading 
others in the pursuit of a better quality of life and health in an area with limited 
medical providers. As board president of the Breast and GYN Health Project, 
Gary led the charge to help secure funding and community support to aid in 
the improved health of more than 400 women in 2019. The nonprofit provides 
women’s health services to those who may struggle with navigating the 
multiple layers of care needed to survive and thrive upon diagnosis of breast 
or gynecological cancer. Services include counseling, wigs, nutrition, financial 
support, appointment scheduling and support groups. 
“It’s more than community service to me or volunteering my 
time. Serving my community is an investment in a better tomorrow for the people around 
me, and I love to help them,” says Gary.
Besides his leadership role at the organization, Gary is also a committee and youth mentor for the Eureka Chamber 
of Commerce Youth Ambassador program, where each year up to 20 high school students are provided with job 
search, public speaking and etiquette training to prepare them for their years in the working world. The connections 
he’s made with the students in the program have been very meaningful, and he loves to see them go on to have 
fulfilling futures. Gary is also an active Rotarian, and serves on the boards of the Fortuna Chamber of Commerce, 
and KEET-TV, a PBS affiliate in Eureka, California.
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
Aflac Japan’s Social Responsibility Activity Office is at the 
heart of Aflac Japan’s philanthropic activities, overseeing the 
company’s efforts to make continuous contributions to society. 
It was a big year for Aflac Japan and the Social Responsibility 
Activity Office, with the team working tirelessly to bring My 
Special Aflac Duck to Japan two years earlier than planned. 
After a successful debut at the Gold Ribbon Walking event, 
the office coordinated with 20 hospitals and childhood cancer 
organizations throughout Japan to deliver more than 300 
ducks to children with pediatric cancer. Through their efforts, 
the duck has made a positive impact on pediatric cancer 
patients and their quality of life. 
At the Social Responsibility Activity Office, the 
mission is to help those with cancer and their 
families. The office values both fulfilling that mission as well as continuing Aflac Japan’s 
contributions to society that support the implementation of creating shared value.
Pediatric cancer support remains the pillar of Aflac’s social contribution activities, and the Social Responsibility 
Activity Office looks forward to delivering more My Special Aflac Ducks and working on its other philanthropic efforts.
Contents 45 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Each new bead that’s added to a child’s necklace is a  
symbol of their bravery during medical treatment. Beads of 
Courage is a program that supports children battling serious 
illnesses by giving them the opportunity to tell their story 
through symbolic beads.More than 7,500 children are treated at the Aflac Cancer and Blood 
Disorders Center each year. The Beads of Courage program offers 
encouragement during challenging medical treatments. 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportLori LombardoCSR Hero
Long Island, New York
An Aflac independent sales agent in Long Island, New York, Lori has devoted 
countless hours to helping those with cancer, a cause close to home for her 
and her family. Lori was diagnosed with breast cancer 13 years ago and she is 
thankful to have been on Aflac’s cancer plan. “It really saved my family,” she says. 
Lori started her Aflac career following her diagnosis and positive experience 
with Aflac’s cancer plan. Previously a preschool teacher for children with 
autism, Lori has always had a heart for helping children, and she enthusiastically 
extends Aflac’s childhood cancer initiatives into her own community in New 
York. She was able to tour the Aflac Cancer Center during her early days as an 
independent sales agent and immediately knew she wanted to be her market’s 
cancer center ambassador once the role became available.
“Seeing these kids and knowing what they were experiencing 
really touched me. I had always wanted to be an ambassador, so 
when the spot became available, I was all in,” says Lori.
This CSR Hero has planned and promoted blood and food drives for Memorial Sloan Kettering, a renowned cancer 
treatment center in Manhattan, as well as several local fundraising events benefiting the Aflac Cancer Center.  
In addition, she is involved with the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, another cause close to her heart after losing  
her son-in-law to multiple myeloma. 
Lori is passionate about helping people both through her job as an independent sales agent and her philanthropic 
involvement. She is thankful the leadership at Aflac has established a culture of giving back, and she encourages other 
Aflac agents to get involved in community service. 
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
Courage knows no bounds
Contents 46 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportTye ElliottCSR Hero
Grand Rapids, Michigan
While Tye grew up watching his dad prioritize community service, his  
passion for giving back crystalized when he started working at Acrisure,  
which works closely with Aflac. After working for Aflac for nearly 20 years,  
Tye learned first-hand the importance of giving back after seeing how 
employees were motivated to work harder when they were involved with 
something larger than themselves. 
“If you look at some of the best leaders who have come up 
through Aflac, those are the people who took the initiative to be 
a part of something bigger than just their business. That’s what I 
think makes the biggest difference at Aflac,” says Tye.
After seeing the inspirational impact of Aflac’s culture, Tye, Acrisure’s 
executive vice president of voluntary benefits, spearheaded his company’s partnership with Children’s Hospital of 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, which included a $15 million donation from Acrisure.
A patient plays with “Fuzzy,” his new My Special Aflac Duck,  which was named to TIME magazine’s list of the 50 Best Inventions for 2018.
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrowA duck with purpose
Contents 47 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac Parents House:  
Serving families and children
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportThe Aflac Japan family cares deeply about 
serving our communities. When a child is 
diagnosed with cancer or other serious 
medical conditions, he or she must travel 
frequently to Tokyo or Osaka from other 
parts of Japan to receive treatment. To help 
those facing such struggles, the first Aflac 
Parents House was established through a 
donation from Aflac Japan in 2001. 
This haven serves as an environment  
where all pediatric patients and their 
families can live together temporarily in 
clean and comfortable accommodations 
while they support their child facing cancer 
or other serious illnesses. The Parents 
House is also utilized as a comprehensive 
support center for consultation and events 
related to pediatric cancer. 
In Tokyo and Osaka, three Aflac Parents House locations have 
supported more than 140,000 children 
and families  over the last 18 years.
All three of these locations are supported by Aflac Japan’s agencies and 70% of our employees who elect 
to automatically donate from their salaries including a corporate matching donation. For 2019, contributions 
totaled more than $1 million.Sachiko Kamada is house manager of the Aflac Parents House, where 
she works with families during their stay and ensures their experience  
is as pleasant as possible. 
Contents 48 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  My Special Aflac Duck : 
Compassion in action 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
My Special Aflac Duck  is a robotic companion 
available via participating hospitals free of charge 
to every child ages 3 and up who has been 
diagnosed with cancer in the U.S. or Japan. 
Designed to provide comforting and entertaining 
experiences during cancer treatment, My Special 
Aflac Duck  uses a compatible web-based app 
that enables children to mirror their care routines, 
including medical play, lifelike movement and a 
range of emotions to engage them throughout  
their treatment journey. It also comforts children 
through interactive music and singing, soothing 
heartbeats and nuzzling. 
My Special Aflac Duck  is an innovative way 
to merge technology with comfort. Child life 
specialists use the social robot to generate better 
results in their patient assessments, evaluations 
and progress goals. My Special Aflac Duck  is 
designed to inspire expression, emotional safety 
and coping strategies for patients and families.• Aflac invests more than $3 million 
annually  into the manufacturing and delivery  
of My Special Aflac Duck .
• In 2019, My Special Aflac Duck  made its  
debut in Japan to a crowd of more than  
4,200 people during Aflac Japan’s Gold  
Ribbon Walking event and was distributed to   
22 hospitals and childhood cancer 
organizations in Japan.
• Aflac distributed more than 6,500  My 
Special Aflac Ducks  to children free of charge 
in hospitals and childhood cancer organizations 
across the U.S. and Japan through 2019.
• My Special Aflac Duck won: 
 ◦Two Cannes Lions PR Silver Medals in 
Technology and Corporate Image.
 ◦The Gold SABRE Award for North America  
in the Trade Show Category.This soft, friendly, nurturing companion 
helps children with cancer feel less alone 
by using interactive technology during 
their cancer treatment. A boy plays with the social comforting 
companion My Special Aflac Duck  at the 
2019 Gold Ribbon Walking event where 
the robotic duck debuted in Japan. Aflac’s goal is to gift each newly 
diagnosed child above the age of 3 in the 
U.S. and Japan with his or her own My 
Special Aflac Duck .
Contents 49 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Moments of Joy: A look at the bravery 
and perseverance of children with cancer
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac and Chispa House, a humanity-focused film company in Georgia, created “ Moments of Joy ,” a 
documentary showcasing stories of children with cancer, with My Special Aflac Duck  featured in the film. The 
documentary spotlights the bravery and perseverance of the nearly 40,000 children in the U.S. impacted by 
cancer yearly, while sharing how small moments can spark joy and change lives.
In September 2019, Chispa House, along with Aflac, released “Moments of Joy.” The film premiered at The 
Atlantic Festival in Washington, D.C., during National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. 
“Strong mind, stronger body. If your head is 
positive and in the right place, your body can go 
through anything, even chemo. I want everyone to 
feel the same as I do – happy. And I want them to 
also feel like they can change the world.” 
- Ethan Daniels, 14
The stars of Moments of Joy celebrate the premiere of the documentary at The Atlantic Festival. 
Contents 50 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Whether they’re working in Albany, New York; New York City; Washington, D.C.; 
Columbus, Georgia; Columbia, South Carolina; or Omaha, Nebraska, our employees 
are known for taking action when there is a need.
Highlighted in these forthcoming pages are just some of those efforts, but they 
represent the numerous other philanthropic efforts undertaken each year by  
Aflac employees.Today’s commitment
2Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Contents 51 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportTo do good for the future
Aflac is committed to doing good. It’s part of The Aflac Way, and our employees are known for taking 
action, no matter the location. From providing backpacks full of supplies for at-risk children to collecting 
food donations for their local food banks – Aflac employees are making their communities and the lives of 
others better today – and for tomorrow. 
Included below are some of the numerous philanthropic efforts undertaken each year by Aflac employees: 
New York City
In New York City, Aflac Global Investments 
employees teamed up to participate in the 
Shatterproof Rise Up Against Addiction 5K Walk/
Run, raising $15,655 for Shatterproof, a national 
nonprofit organization dedicated to reversing the 
addiction crisis in the U.S.
Aflac Global Investments employees modeled 
social responsibility during “Take Your Kids to  
Work Day” by working alongside their children  
to create age-appropriate activity backpacks to 
show children with cancer and blood disorders that 
they are not alone. Thanks to these efforts,  
60 children are more comfortable during their  
time at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders 
Center in Atlanta. Omaha
In Omaha, Nebraska, 20 employees from the Aflac 
Customer Service Center – 20% of the workforce 
in this office – volunteered over a two-day period 
to work on a Habitat for Humanity of Omaha 
home sponsored by Aflac. Between the $37,500 
sponsorship from Aflac and the hard work of its 
employees, a deserving family is enjoying all the 
benefits of affordable homeownership. 
Every year for nearly two decades, Aflac Customer 
Service Center employees have raised funds 
via bake sales, raffles and other events to host a 
holiday party – complete with Santa – for all the 
children with cancer who received treatment that 
year at University of Nebraska Medical Center and 
their families. In 2019, Aflac employees hosted 24 
families, providing a fun-filled day and presenting 
all the children and their siblings with gifts. 
Aflac employees in Washington, D.C., took to the baseball diamond to help raise funds for local charities. 
Contents 52 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Columbia
Thirty Aflac Group employees in Columbia, South 
Carolina, eagerly fielded three teams in the Sixth 
Annual Curing Kids Cancer Fire Truck Pull, where 
they were challenged to pull a 35,000-pound fire 
truck 50 feet in the fastest time. Motivated by the 
story of a child affected by pediatric cancer, the 
three teams dressed as superheroes and soccer 
and baseball players to reflect the passion of their 
child. They raised $3,925 to benefit the Gamecocks 
Curing Kids Cancer endowment at the Children’s 
Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders Clinic in 
Prisma Health Children’s Hospital - Midlands.   
Aflac Group employees hosted a Summer Food 
Drive for the Harvest Hope Food Bank, collecting 
734 pounds of canned goods and nonperishable 
food items – enough food to provide 611 meals for 
those facing poverty and hunger in Columbia. 
Aflac also provided $36,000 for a home build with 
Central South Carolina Habitat for Humanity in 
Columbia, where 60 employees volunteered over 
five days to completely renovate an existing home 
for a single mom of two young girls.  
Albany
In Albany, Aflac New York employees turned their 
passion for running into doing good for others 
by fielding a team in the CDPHP (Capital District 
Physicians’ Health Plan Inc.) Workforce Team 
Challenge. The Aflac team finished 46 out of 411 
teams in the 3.5-mile race. Aflac also served as 
a sponsor of the event, which raised $47,000 for 
the Albany Damien Center and Family Promise of 
the Capital Region, which assists individuals and 
families living with and affected by homelessness.Every year, Aflac New York employees host a 
Charity Challenge, engaging employees in a 
variety of activities where they earn points that 
translate into funds for the Aflac charity partner of 
the individual’s choice. In 2019, over 40% of the 
employees participated in the event, which resulted 
in 12 nonprofits – ranging from Double H Ranch 
to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center – 
receiving $5,245. 
Washington, D.C.  
Aflac Federal Relations proudly co-sponsored the 
2019 Congressional Baseball Game for the third 
consecutive year. Played each summer since 1909 
by members of the U.S. Congress, this bipartisan 
baseball game had more than 20,000 attendees 
and set another fundraising record with over  
$1 million raised for local charities.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Aflac employees in Columbia, South Carolina, pulled fire trucks 
over a 50-foot finish line to raise money for childhood cancer 
research and treatment.
Contents 53 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac Japan: Lending a hand 
in our communities
A young boy smiles as he examines the new robotic My Special Aflac Duck  at Aflac Japan’s Charity Concert.
Aflac Sports Garden
• Aflac Japan regularly partners with the city of Chofu to host community activities such as Aflac Sports 
Garden, which provides a variety of sports and health-related activities for local families to enjoy. After 
exercising, attendees were able to cool off with lemonade at the Pediatric Charity Lemonade Stand, with 
the proceeds going toward pediatric cancer research and treatment.
Aflac Charity Concert
• Held every year, this fundraiser supports children with cancer with a classical music concert, as well as 
informative videos and creations made by pediatric cancer patients. In 2019, 1,430 people attended and 
nearly $8,500 was raised.
One Hundred Club
• One Hundred Club is a way for employees to directly contribute to the company’s philanthropic  
efforts like Aflac Kids Support System and Gold Ribbon Walking. Employees donate a portion of their 
monthly salary to these efforts, and while participation in the fundraising program is completely voluntary, 
70% of Aflac Japan employees take part in the program. Aflac Japan also matches the total amount  
raised by employee donations. At the end of 2019, contributions through the One Hundred Club  
totaled more than $440,000.
tomosnote
• For over two years, Aflac Japan has supported cancer survivors by offering an online support group 
known as tomosnote where they can share their worries and experiences. For those going through  
such a difficult time, tomosnote is one way cancer survivors can feel like they are not alone in  
their cancer treatment.Giving back to our communities is part of Aflac Japan’s corporate culture. Our employees go above 
and beyond to be good citizens and create value for others. In 2019, Aflac Japan completed numerous 
charitable projects as part of our investment in tomorrow.
Contents 54 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac gives back
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportTwo of Aflac’s founding commitments – “Respond Immediately” and “Treat Everyone With Respect and Care” 
– are lived out each year through the volunteer efforts of employees and corporate giving. From raising 
awareness for those fighting addiction, contributing to the Parents Houses in Japan and building activity 
backpacks for children receiving treatment at the Aflac Cancer Center to giving to minority organizations, 
aiding Habitat for Humanity and providing Christmas gifts for kids in need, Aflac employees are coming 
together to make a difference. In 2019, 4,866 employees volunteered in their communities, marking a nearly 
11-fold increase from 2018. They logged a total of 16,466 hours for volunteer work in the U.S. 
In 2019, Aflac has contributed 
nearly $1.7 million to  
organizations supporting minority 
causes and education  such as 
the United Negro College Fund, Boys and 
Girls Clubs of America, Girls Inc., Jack and 
Jill of America, Inc. and United Way of the 
Chattahoochee Valley.Since 1997, Aflac has contributed 
about $19 million to minority 
causes , including the United Way. In 
2019, employee giving to the United Way 
increased by 34.8%. 
Dr. Douglas Graham shows Paisley how My Special Aflac Duck  works with a series of “feeling cards” and a compatible web-based 
app that enables the duck to express a range of emotions. My Special Aflac Duck  is distributed to children with cancer in hospitals in 
Japan and the U.S. free of charge.
Contents 55 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Cancer Awareness Exhibition
Aflac Japan is dedicated to cancer prevention awareness and education. The Cancer Awareness Exhibition, 
an event that teaches the public about the importance of early detection and new treatments, has been 
held 122 times and reached more than 380,000 people. 
Building a bright future  
for all families
Aflac employees invest in a better tomorrow through 
volunteering. Throughout 2019, employees cared for 
homeless animals, read to the elderly, encouraged 
individuals with disabilities, delivered meals, 
mentored youth, rocked babies in the neonatal 
intensive care unit and more.
• One of the biggest initiatives for the Aflac 
family also includes Habitat for Humanity 
home builds. More than 400 employees 
participated in building three homes in 2019. A very Aflac Christmas
It is a season of giving at Aflac U.S. during 
the annual Christmas is for Kids celebration. 
Volunteers come together to raise money so  
Aflac can purchase, wrap and distribute Christmas 
gifts to local children who might not otherwise 
receive toys. 
• 282 families signed up through the Valley 
Rescue Mission in Columbus, Georgia.
• More than 2,050 wrapped gifts were  
distributed in 2019.Special mobile classrooms, like this one for My Special Aflac Duck , help educate the public about the latest cancer treatments  
and innovations. 
Each year, Aflac U.S. employees share holiday joy with children 
around Columbus, Georgia, by donating toys. Many Aflac employees in the U.S. participate every year in 
building a Habitat for Humanity home. 
Building up our communities
Contents 56 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy     Environment    Appendix  At Aflac Incorporated, we’re committed to minimizing our 
environmental footprint and improving our communities, 
our cities and our planet. From e-recycling to energy 
consumption reduction, we make greater strides each year 
toward this promise by promoting a greener tomorrow. 
Everything we do is built on the philosophy that doing good 
for the environment is not only good business, but is also 
required of a good corporate citizen.
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Environment
Contents 57 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  A greener tommorrow – today
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEnvironmental stewardship is a leading facet in Aflac’s corporate social responsibility strategy. From 
reducing our carbon footprint to being a leader in waste reduction, we consider the impact of our actions 
at Aflac and vow to be good community partners and stewards. We aspire to lead the way in energy 
conservation and environmental protection. 
We do it as an investment in future generations. 
It’s now the standard for consumers and businesses to do business with companies that align with their 
values. It’s our promise to be proactive in leaving the world a better place than we found it so you can 
feel good about doing business with us.
Environmental responsibility is interwoven in the culture at Aflac Incorporated, from our SmartGreen strategy to our Environmental 
Management Promotion Council. 
“Aflac is committed to doing 
things the right way, which 
means we’re continuously 
looking for more efficient uses 
of resources and ways we can 
reduce waste even further.”
Alfred Blackmar, vice president of Facilities, Aflac U.S.
Contents 58 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Aflac became the first insurance company in the U.S. to be ISO 50001 
Energy Management System  registered, which represents the 
latest best practice in energy management. 
Through energy conservation efforts, Aflac U.S. has saved more than 
$18 million in energy costs  in the past eight years. In 2019, we 
expanded our goal to include our Japanese buildings and facilities.
In Aflac Japan’s office, about 62% of waste  is recycled and reused.
In Japan, Aflac Square’s carbon emissions decreased by 
approximately 40% since the 2007 baseline.
In 2019, Aflac U.S. employees recycled 64,000 pounds of 
e-waste  and electronics. 
Employees donated 500 pairs of shoes  to the Keep Columbus 
Beautiful Shoe Drive, diverting an additional 750 pounds 
from the landfill in 2019.Being good stewards of our resources: 
2019 environment highlights
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac Japan’s Chofu Square  
and the Aflac U.S. headquarters 
are LEED Gold certified.
Contents 59 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Planning for our future  
the SmartGreen way
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportBusiness 
operationsFacilities 
managementWaste 
managementEmployee 
engagementStrategic sourcing 
and procurementWith LEED Gold-certified buildings in Japan and the U.S. and an Energy Star rating for 86% of our eligible space 
in the U.S., Aflac Incorporated remains committed to making our communities, cities and planet better places. 
The Aflac board of directors’ Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee leads green  
efforts according to the Aflac SmartGreen®. These beliefs pave the way toward becoming a more  
socially responsible company and put us even closer to achieving our goal of reducing our carbon  
emissions by 75% by 2030 in the U.S. and Japan. 
• SMARTGREEN PHILOSOPHY: Wisely choose, use and dispose of the resources we use each day  
and focus these actions in five categories:
To support SmartGreen, Aflac Incorporated has taken measures to ensure this framework is implemented 
throughout the company. 
Aflac Japan built an environmental management promotion system to ensure advocacy throughout our 
workforce. This system has three pillars: 
• The Environmental Management Promotion Committee oversees overall environmental policy 
management throughout the company.
• The Environmental Management Promotion Council is made up of employees who volunteered to serve 
on the council. They plan and carry out environmental policy initiatives by leveraging every member’s 
knowledge and experiences.
• The Environmental Management Advocates are employees located at 20 Aflac Japan locations to 
implement environmental conservation activities.
Additionally, more than 60 employees in the U.S. – aka Aflac Greenbassadors – volunteer to support Aflac’s 
green goals by coordinating events and offering program communication support to business departments. 
This Green Committee also encourages employees to think green not just at work, but at home, as well.
Aflac Japan created an original logo to 
promote Aflac SmartGreen efforts.Aflac Japan created the Environmental Management Declaration in 
2019. In this declaration, Aflac Japan is committed to:
• Environmentally friendly behaviors in its business operations.
• Compliance with applicable laws and regulations related  
to the environment.
• Promotion of environmental education and social contributions. 
• Ongoing promotion of improvements to the environment.
Contents 60 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportDavid’s desire to give back led to the creation of an e-waste program in 
2008 that has had a positive impact not only on the environment, but also 
on the lives of pediatric cancer patients. In fact, it was a team-building field 
trip to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center in Atlanta that inspired 
the strategic sourcing consultant to find a recycling company that would 
donate to charity in return for old company-issued cellphones.
“The dedication and commitment of one individual can lead to 
a greener environment. We all have the ability to make change 
happen,” says David.
Starting in January 2008, every time employe e cellphones were upgraded, 
the old ones were sent to Phones 4 Charity, which gave a donation to the Aflac Cancer Center on Aflac’s behalf. 
In its first six years, the program led to donations totaling more than $14,500. That phone recycling program 
evolved into e-Cycle in 2014, decreasing Aflac’s environmental footprint even more. The e-Cycle program 
destroys sensitive data by micro-shredding the phones’ information storage components and shredding the 
devices in an e-Stewards-certified, EPA-registered facility. Then the e-trash is then repurposed.David GloverCSR Hero
Columbus, Georgia
Aflac’s CSR Heroes: 
Striving for a better tomorrow
As part of its efforts to expand environmental initiatives, 
Aflac Japan established the Environmental Management 
Promotion Council in 2019. The role of the council is 
to promote employee awareness and engagement in 
international environmental issues and Aflac Japan’s 
environmental impact. 
To boost employee engagement, Aflac Japan had an 
open application process for employees who wished  
to volunteer on the council. As a result, the council’s  
24 members are employees dedicated to working on  
the company’s environmental efforts in addition to  
their day-to-day job. 
Fostering employees’ passion and drive, increasing company value and contributing to society – 
by achieving those objectives in a sustainable manner, Aflac Japan will continue its reputation as 
a company on the leading edge of environmental management.
In the short time since its establishment, the council has fully embraced its mission and launched  
several environmental awareness activities and training materials on topics like climate change and 
sustainable resources.Environmental Management 
Promotion CouncilCSR Heroes
Tokyo, Japan
Contents 61 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Energy management
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAflac is ISO 14001:2015 certified in environmental management at its headquarters’ facilities. The certification 
covers Aflac’s environmental planning for support services, strategic sourcing and procurement, information 
technology, facilities, transportation and corporate aviation.
ISO 14001 certified companies have adopted proven environmentally responsible practices and  
conserve resources throughout their business processes. They must also monitor and continually  
improve their performance. 
Key measurements of the ISO certifications include increased prominence of environmental management 
within the organization’s strategic planning processes, greater input from leadership, a stronger commitment 
to proactive initiatives that boost environmental performance, and the development and continual 
improvement of an energy management system.In Columbus, Georgia, more than 500 solar 
panels produce 15% of Aflac corporate 
headquarters’ energy needs while providing an 
opportunity to sell surplus power created over 
the weekends to the energy grid.
Over 500 solar panels are installed on the roof of Aflac headquarters in Columbus, Georgia. 
Contents 62 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEnergy and gas reduction: To invest in a better future, Aflac began 
reducing its electricity consumption in 2007 in the U.S. and will continue to 
reduce it by 50% per square foot by 2025. 
• In the U.S., 86% of our eligible space has earned the Energy Star Rating.
• Total gas consumption decreased by 13.4% since 2009.
• In Tokyo, Aflac Square reduced energy consumption by 53% from 
2007 to 2019.
Carbon emissions reduction:
• There has been a more than 60% reduction in carbon emissions for Aflac 
U.S. since the 2007 baseline.
• There has been a 40% reduction in carbon emissions for Aflac Square in 
Japan since the 2007 baseline.
Waste reduction: By 2025, Aflac U.S. has pledged to increase the 
amount of materials printed on Forest Stewardship Council-certified 
paper to 90%. 
• Percentage of waste recycled increased 
from 3.7% to 65.6% during 2019.
• The waste reduction and recycling 
strategy diverted more than 900,000 
pounds of paper waste from landfills.
• The recycling strategy diverted more  
than 1 million pounds of solid waste  
from landfills.
• Aflac Japan’s IT team launched a 
“No Paper” campaign to encourage 
employees to go paperless and reduce 
the consumption of paper resulting in 
about a 65% reduction in 2019. Aflac 
Japan plans to expand this initiative 
companywide.
• In Aflac Japan’s office, about 62% of waste 
is recycled and reused.Doing our part for  
a better tomorrow
Aflac U.S. recycled 
1,120,156 pounds 
in 201996,224 pounds 
of electronics
906,304 pounds 
of paper117,628 pounds 
of cardboard
Contents 63 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report2019 green activities
Help the Hooch:   
Help the Hooch is the single largest river 
and creek cleanup event in the Southeast 
U.S. Each year, Aflac employees in 
Columbus, Georgia, join their neighbors to 
come together and collect litter along the 
banks of the Chattahoochee River. More 
than 100 employees and family members 
volunteered as part of the Help the Hooch 
annual cleanup.America Recycles Day:  
Aflac staff participated in a recycling 
Facebook contest to show their 
commitment to sustainability and help 
bring awareness to the large percentage 
of garbage tossed out every month.
Christmas tree recycling:   
Aflac employees gave a present to 
the planet by recycling their fresh-
cut Christmas trees. Rather than 
going to the landfills, the trees 
provided mulch for playgrounds, 
local government beautification 
projects and individual yards.Environmental awareness:  
Aflac Japan developed an e-learning 
course to raise more awareness about 
environmental issues for all employees 
across the company and its subsidiaries. 
The course provides updates on our new 
environmental management initiatives and 
current global environmental issues that 
impact Aflac Japan.Throughout the year, Aflac employees pitch in to help clean up their communities. 
Contents 64 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment     Appendix  Narrative Content Group
Paul Bennett John HelmsJared MartinMichael NieceGavin Dunn Curt MansellJoseph StewardsonKen Schneiderman Darcy Brito
Catherine Hernandez-Blades
KWIJon SullivanMeghan DunnMandy FlynnJenny ColemanAlayne GamacheCasie Harbin
Debbie Garnett KWI
Chris Ehrhart
Adrienne BentleyAmy PersonsTod MeisnerTroy MobleyKWI
Photography/VideographyEditor
Contributors
Program ManagerDesign
Digital Creative
About this report
CreditsThis r eport i ncludes fi nancial an d no nfinancial i nformation 
from A flac U.S. an d Aflac Jap an about ac tivitie s, data, 
statistics, awards and accolades related to governance, 
workplace, p hilanthropy an d environmental s ustainability 
for the 2019 c alendar y ear.
The 2019 report marks our fifth year working toward 
adherence to the criteria of the Global R eporting 
Initiative ( GRI), the world’s most widely used sustainability 
reporting framework, and the United N ations S ustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDG) . 
Key reputation drivers in corporate social responsibility 
outlined by RepTrak Company  – governance, w orkplace 
and citizenship – are also linked to Aflac’s 2019 activities 
and data. The Re pTrak Company, considered the gold 
standard i n reputation t racking, c ondu cts research  on 
Aflac’s overall reputation as compared to its peers and the 
RepTrak 1 00 companies. 
An internal steering committee oversaw the report 
preparation with guidance from Aflac’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility/Environmental, S ocial and Governan ce (ESG) 
Committee, e xecutive l eadership an d internal s ubject 
matter ex perts.
We invite you to contact us with questions or requests for 
more information about this report at AflacCSR@aflac.com .
Global R eporting I nitiative an d 
United Nations Sustainable 
Development G oals
The following is in reference to the GRI, the world’s 
most recognized framework for sustainability reporting. 
Aflac h as not sought i ndepen dent v erification f or this 
report but has practices in place to internally validate the 
data. D isclosures t hat fulfill G RI Sustainability  Reporting 
Standards (GRI Standards) are noted in the table in the 
following pages. In addition to GRI, we have also identified 
where Aflac has aligned with criteria for the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG).
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
65 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  C ontentsGRI 
DisclosureDescription Disclosure Information and LocationUN SDG 
Alignment
102-1 Organization name Aflac Incorporated
102-3 Headquarters 
locationColumbus, Georgia, USA
102-4 Operation locations CEO Letter 
102-5 Legal ownership Form 10-K 
102-6 Markets served U.S. and Japan
102-7 Organization scale Aflac Incorporated Proxy Statement 
Aflac Incorporated Aflac U.S.: 43% Aflac Japan: 57%
102-9 Supply chain 
descriptionAflac’s Supplier Code of Conduct
 
  
102-14 CEO letter CEO Letter 
 
102-16 Organization values, 
principles, standards 
and norms of 
behaviorThe Aflac Way 
Aflac Code of Conduct 
 
102-17 Mechanisms for 
reporting 
concerns about 
unethical or 
unlawful behaviorAflac Incorporated’s anti-fraud teams monitor, 
investigate and stop fraudulent claim submissions 
from inside and outside the company. 
In 2019, for example, Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan 
provided ethics training through their e-learning 
program on topics such as Aflac’s Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics to all employees, including 
10,000 employees and executives. 
Aflac Code of Conduct
 
102-18 Governance structure Governance 
 
102-19 Delegation process 
on ESG topicsGovernance 
 
102-20 Executive 
responsibility for ESG 
topicsGovernance
 
Global Reporting Initiative and United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
66 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsGRI 
DisclosureDescription Disclosure Information and LocationUN SDG 
Alignment
102-21 Organizational 
consultation process 
on ESG topics to 
stakeholdersGovernance
 
102-22 Composition of the 
highest governance 
body and its 
committeesAflac Incorporated governance, as described in the 
Proxy Statement, includes corporate responsibility 
oversight by the board of directors’ Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee. The 
committee sets our corporate social responsibility 
(CSR)/sustainability performance objectives, 
monitors implementation and performance of 
objectives, and oversees progress made against 
our social and environmental goals. Operationally, 
our CSR working group is comprised of company 
officers who are integral in steering the strategy and 
performance of the company and also represent 
various Aflac stakeholder groups. 
Aflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
102-24 Criteria used for 
nominating and 
selecting highest 
governance body 
membersAflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
  
102-25 Processes for the 
highest governance 
body to ensure 
conflicts of interest 
are avoided and 
managedAflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
102-26 Executives’ roles in 
the development 
organization’s 
purpose, value or 
mission statements, 
strategies, policies 
and goals related to 
ESGGovernance
 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative and United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
67 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsGRI 
DisclosureDescription Disclosure Information and LocationUN SDG 
Alignment
102-27 Measures taken 
to develop and 
enhance the highest 
governance body’s 
collective knowledge 
of economic, 
environmental and 
social topicsGovernance
 
102-29 Highest governance 
body responsibility 
for ESG topics and 
their impacts, risks 
and opportunitiesGovernance
 
102-30 Governance 
responsibility for ESG 
effectivenessGovernance
 
102-31 Frequency of the 
highest governance 
body’s review of 
ESG topics and their 
impacts, risks and 
opportunitiesAflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
102-32 Committee 
responsibility for 
sustainability reportAflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
102-33 Process for 
communicating 
critical concerns 
to the highest 
governance bodyGovernance: Contact the Board
 
102-35 Remuneration 
policies for the 
highest governance 
body and senior 
executivesAflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
102-37 Remuneration 
transparencySay on Pay
 
102-38 Ratio of the annual 
total compensation 
for the organization’s 
highest-paid 
individuals Aflac Incorporated Proxy Statement
 
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative and United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
68 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsGRI 
DisclosureDescription Disclosure Information and LocationUN SDG 
Alignment
102-43 Report preparation 
processGovernance
 
102-50 Reporting period 
for the information 
provided.2018
102-51 Date of the most 
recent previous 
reportSeptember 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annually
102-53 Report contact Darcy Brito
102-55 GRI disclosures 
referencedThis report references the GRI disclosures noted 
within the disclosure index. 
102-56 GRI disclosures 
referencedThis report has not been externally assured.
204-1 External Asssurannce Governance
 
302-4 Energy consumption 
and reductionThrough sustained and deliberate energy-saving 
measures, the company has reduced its total 
electricity consumption for corporate real estate by 
3.5% this year. Since 2007, electricity consumption 
in Aflac U.S. has been reduced by over 50% KWH 
per square foot. This has saved Aflac U.S. nearly 
$18 million in expenses and successfully marks the 
goal of reducing electricity consumption in the U.S. 
by 50% by 2025 against the 2007 baseline. This 
year, we plan to revise our goal and expand to our 
Japanese buildings and facilities.
 
  
 
306-3 Total waste 
generated and 
recycledEnvironment
 
  
 
404-2 Employee skills 
trainingWorkplace
405-1 Governance diversity Workplace
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative and United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
69 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsGRI 
DisclosureDescription Disclosure Information and LocationUN SDG 
Alignment
405-2 Ratio of the 
basic salary and 
remuneration of 
women to menWorkplace
414-1 Supplier screening 
processAflac’s Supplier Code of Conduct
 
415-1 Political contribution 
reportingPolitical Activity Report
417-3 Total number 
of incidents of 
noncompliance with 
regulations and/
or voluntary codes 
concerning marketing 
communications, 
including advertising, 
promotion and 
sponsorshipIn accordance with Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) requirements, Aflac Incorporated 
discloses all material legal proceedings, other than 
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, 
in its Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q. In 2018, legal proceedings 
and/or losses, if any, associated with marketing 
and communication of insurance product-related 
information were de minimis.
70
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative and United 
Nations Sustainable Development GoalsIntroduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsJean Roberts Amos,  
a pillar of the Aflac family (1928-2019)
Aflac 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportTo know her was to love her. 
It was chilly one late November evening as a 
crowd gathered in Aflac’s Jeanette Avenue 
parking lot to celebrate an annual holiday tradition: 
the Aflac Tower Lighting. Employees and their 
families mingled against a backdrop of festive 
decorations and upbeat music. At the center 
of it all: a large, open tent holding tables and 
chairs, crafts and warm sweets. And something 
more – a steady stream of well-wishers eager 
to say hello to one person in particular. 
Near the edge of the tent, in a spot undoubtedly 
deemed ideal from which to enjoy all the 
sights and sounds of the evening, sat a heart 
of gold dressed in bright Christmas red and a 
smile that shined brighter than the sparkling 
holiday lights around her — Mrs. Jean. 
It wasn’t unusual for Jean Amos to attend Aflac 
events. The wife of one of its founders and 
the mother of its CEO, she radiated sincerity 
and joy when among employees, agents and 
their families, evidence of how much her Aflac 
family meant to her. But even greater was how 
much Mrs. Jean meant to the Aflac family. Charmingly free of pretense in discussion and 
demeanor, Mrs. Jean had the innate ability to make 
everyone she encountered feel special. As one 
Aflac employee reminisced: “You could be one of a 
thousand people in a room with her, but Mrs. Jean 
would make you feel like you were the only two 
people there. When you talked to her, she listened.” 
To know her genuine kindness, compassionate 
heart and delightful sense of humor was a gift. 
Strong willed? Most assuredly. Determined? 
Yes. Opinionated? Delightfully so. That strength, 
intelligence and wit served the Pensacola native 
well as she worked tirelessly beside her husband, 
Paul – first, at their Florida five-and-dime stores 
and, later, when they started and nurtured a new 
life – and Aflac – in Georgia alongside his two 
brothers. Mrs. Jean and her beloved Paul were 
married for 65 years when he passed away in 2014.
Mrs. Jean was beautiful and graceful. Vivacious 
and fun. She loved music and travel, and both, 
she would tell you, were better when shared with 
friends. She possessed a strong commitment 
to purpose, as well as an understanding that 
it’s not what you have that makes you rich 
and successful, but what you give. Countless 
individuals – Aflac employees, included – benefited 
from her and her husband’s quiet philanthropy. 
Anchored in faith, Mrs. Jean led by example. 
Above all, she loved the Lord and her family.
In his mother’s traits and attributes, her only child, 
Dan, no doubt saw the source for many of his own.
Jean Roberts Amos passed away quietly Sunday, 
Nov. 10, 2019, at the age of 90. The loss was felt 
far and wide, but nowhere was it felt more deeply 
than among those at Aflac fortunate enough to 
have called her friend. Her presence is and will 
be missed for many, many years to come. Her 
extraordinary spirit will be a part of Aflac forever.
Because to know Mrs. Jean was to love her.
And the Aflac family loved her so.
Jean Roberts Amos, or Mrs. Jean to many, was a light to all that 
knew her. 
71 Introduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  ContentsZ200452 Exp. 7/21
Learn more and visit: aflac.com/csrreport
@aflac 
linkedin.com/company/aflacfacebook.com/aflac 
@aflacduck 
Individual coverage is underwritten by Aflac. Group coverage is underwritten by Continental American Insurance Company 
(CAIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aflac Incorporated. CAIC is not licensed to solicit business in New York, Guam, Puerto 
Rico, or the Virgin Islands. For groups sitused in California, group coverage is underwritten by Continental American 
Life Insurance Company. For individual coverage in New York or coverage for groups sitused in New York, coverage is 
underwritten by Aflac New York.
WWHQ | 1932 Wynnton Road | Columbus, GA 31999
Continental American Insurance Company | Columbia, SC
72
Thank You! 
Arigatou Gozaimasu
ありがとうございますIntroduction    Governance    Workplace    Philanthropy    Environment    Appendix  Contents
