Table of Contents About This Report
Measurement 
2018 Overview
Message from Dan Amos
Message from Fred Crawford
Governance
Aflac U.S.
Workplace
Philanthropy
Environment
Japan
Global Reporting Initiative
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2This report includes financial and nonfinancial 
information from Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan 
about activities, data, statistics, awards and 
accolades related to governance, workplace, 
philanthropy and environmental sustainability for 
the 2018 calendar year.
The 2018 report marks our fourth year working 
toward adherence to the criteria of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most 
widely used sustainability reporting framework. 
Disclosures that fulfill GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards), are noted 
by indicators at the bottom of the page. 
In addition to GRI, we have also identified where 
Aflac has met criteria for the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
Finally, this report notes how key reputation 
drivers in corporate social responsibility outlined 
by Reputation Institute — governance, workplace 
and citizenship — are linked to Aflac’s 2018 
activities and data.
An internal steering committee oversaw the 
report preparation with guidance from Aflac’s 
Corporate Social Responsibility/Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) Committee,  
executive leadership and internal subject matter 
experts.
We invite you to contact us with questions or 
requests for more information about this report at 
AflacCSR@aflac.com .3
4
6
3130
787
52
908
69
91Purpose... with feathers 
†The following disclaimer is applicable to all One Day PaySM 
references in the 2018 CSR Report. Claims may be eligible 
for One Day Pay processing if submitted online through 
Aflac SmartClaim®, including all required documentation, 
by 3 p.m. ET. Documentation requirements vary by type of 
claim; please review requirements for your claim(s) carefully. 
Aflac SmartClaim® is available for claims on most individual 
Accident, Cancer, Hospital, Specified Health and Intensive 
Care policies. Processing time is based on business days 
after all required documentation needed to render a decision 
is received and no further validation and/or research is 
required.  
Individual Company Statistic, 2019
102-1 102-42018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Purpose... with feathers 
Reputation Institute
United Nations Sustainable Development GoalsAflac works with Reputation Institute, considered the gold 
standard in reputation tracking, to conduct research on the 
company’s overall reputation as compared to its peers and 
RepTrak 100 companies. This research enables the team to 
link reputation with business drivers and to identify seven 
key dimensions of reputation: performance, products and 
services, innovation, workplace, governance, citizenship and 
leadership.
The four CSR elements most relevant to Aflac consumers 
and investors based on our analysis of Reputation Institute’s 
research and analytics are governance, workplace, and the 
citizenship attributes of philanthropy and the environment. 
These pillars are the guiding principles of Aflac’s 2018 CSR 
Report and campaign.
Aflac is committed to investing in a sustainable future to ultimately improve lives for generations to come. Action taken 
today will show impact tomorrow—the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development carry this same sentiment.
Countries around the globe have adopted this set of goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity as 
part of a new sustainable development agenda. Each goal has specific tar gets to be achieved over the next 15 years.
Aflac’s business focuses on five of the 17 SDGs: quality education, gender equality, affordable and clean energy, 
responsible consumption and production, and climate action. Within the five chapters of Aflac’s 2018 CSR Report, our 
actions and initiatives implemented throughout the year align with this set of goals, contributing to a better tomorrow. 
Measurement“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Purpose... with feathers 
At Aflac, corporate social responsibility is how we 
put our purpose into action.
Aflac Gives Back
Aflac is InclusiveAflac was named a World’s 
Most Ethical Company  by 
the Ethisphere Institute for 12 
consecutive years.12“We were founded on a tradition 
of service and customer loyalty. 
When you embrace The Aflac Way, 
you honor the legacy of those who 
paved the way for our success.”
— Dan Amos, Chairman and CEO, Aflac 
Incorporated
Aflac raised more than  
$133 million  to support 
childhood cancer through 2018.
Aflac hired more than 550 new employees .
48% of new hires  
were ethnic minorities
57% of new hires  
were womenIn 2018, 450 employees logged a total of 
15,356 hours  of volunteer work—
Points of Light named Aflac to 
its Civic 50 list of the Most 
Community-minded Companies 
in the U.S . an impressive 29%  increase  in 
total hours logged over the previous year.
Aflac distributed nea rly 
2,000 My Special Aflac Duck s®
for children undergoing cancer treatment 
at more than 100 hospitals.
122018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Purpose... with feathers 
Aflac Protects the Environment
Aflac’s Purpose is International14001:2015In 2018, Aflac received ISO (International Organization on Standardization) 
14001:2015 certification in environmental management  for enhancing 
its environmental performance.
Aflac was the first insurance company to receive the ISO 
50001:2011 certification in recognition for outstanding energy 
efficiency planning, which Aflac has held since 2013.
Aflac Japan continued its Global Women’s Empowerment 
Program to raise the percentage of women in leadership 
positions from 17.5% in 2014 to 30% in 2020 .
At Aflac Japan, 29.8% of leadership roles are 
held by women as of 2018.
2014 202017.5%30%
$
2,600 scholarshipsThe Aflac Scholarship Fund for 
Childhood Cancer Survivors and 
Children of Cancer Victims has 
awarded more thanThe Aflac Parents House provides comfortable 
accommodations for pediatric patients and their 
families during treatment. Supported by generous 
donations from Aflac Japan’s sales agents, 
employees and officers, three Parents House 
locations – two in Tokyo and one in Osaka – have 
assisted more than 130,000 children and families.
in Japan.
Source:  All statistics in the 2018 CSR Report are as of Dec. 31, 2018.102-82018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 6
Dan Amos Sincerely, Purpose... with feathers 
I am on the eve of my 30th year as chief executive officer 
at Aflac. In that time, I have seen the company grow from a 
regional business to a multinational industry leader. We are 
extremely proud of how we have evolved. We take greater 
pride in the fact that we did so without compromising our 
core values.
When the Amos brothers, John, Paul and Bill, created Aflac 
in 1955, they were ahead of a curve. They were practicing 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) before it became a 
term. Their guiding principle was simple to understand: Treat 
people well.
The past three decades have been extraordinary. Innovation, 
technology and transformation have been driving – and been 
driven by – Aflac. Ahead, I see change at the speed of light, 
more rapid than most people can imagine. Indeed, today’s 
pace of change is the slowest it will ever be, but faster than 
it has ever been.
Yet, the one thing that has not changed, and remains 
nonnegotiable, is that founding principle: Treat people well. 
It still rings true, and in today’s ever-changing environment, 
it has become even more important. With unprecedented 
access to immediate information, consumers, investors and 
stakeholders are finely tuned not only to what a company 
produces, but also to who it is and the ideals for which it stands. They base their purchasing or investing decisions, at 
least in part, on these factors.
At Aflac, we stand for giving back – to children with cancer, families in need of a home, our environment — the value of 
diversity and the golden rule of treating others as you would expect to be treated. We created My Special Aflac Duck®, 
which you will read about in this report, with the sole purpose of helping children cope with the challenges of cancer 
treatment. We have instituted practices and procedures that ensure we follow the rules, regulations and expectations of 
our industry and society. That is what we stand for, and it is what we will always prioritize. The community has been good 
to Aflac, and we intend to be good to our community. 
We know caring about others is not just a business decision. It’s the right thing to do.
Message from
Dan Amos 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, Aflac Incorporated
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7Purpose... with feathers 
Success breeds success, the old saying goes. But there is 
another saying that is equally, if not more, true. Action is the 
foundational key to all success. 
2018 was a good year for Aflac, but we cannot rest on 
our laurels. To continue to meet the expectations of our 
investors, our policyholders, and our employees, we must 
remain active and move forward, keeping a firm hold on our 
foundation while continuing our legacy of innovation with a 
clear view of our goals. 
The foundation and goals of Aflac are linked in their 
accountability to our customers, our investors and 
the communities where we live and work. We have a 
responsibility as a corporate citizen to support the people 
we serve and the communities we call home. 
At Aflac, our commitment to corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) comes naturally because it is part of the culture 
established here by the Amos brothers when they founded 
the company and then further enhanced under Dan Amos’ 
leadership. While a commitment to CSR is not new to Aflac, 
we are excited to take that accountability further, reporting 
on environmental, social and governance metrics. This 
will allow us to show an even more intricate view of how 
sustainability and corporate responsibility are woven into our 
culture, our vision and our future.
Not surprisingly, investors look at how well companies treat the people and the world around them. Investors have found 
that companies deeply committed to social responsibility tend to have good cultures, leading to strong and consistent 
performance, and tend to attract and retain talent better than companies that do not. 
Investors find this important when they consider the companies they invest in. They r ecognize corporate social 
responsibility as the glue that holds together the culture of an organization, and strong corporate culture is highly 
correlated to stability and financial performance. Investors are inherently results-oriented and pay particular attention 
to driving measurable results that have an impact. If our annual CSR Report is a yearbook of our culture, then 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics are the report card that provides clarity and connection to our 
corporate citizenship.
As we promote ESG in the year ahead, our efforts will shine brighter, our voice will become stronger and it will become 
even more evident to policyholders, investors and employees that Aflac encourages and inspires success in all we do.
Message from
Fred Crawford 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer, 
Aflac Incorporated
Fred CrawfordSincerely, 
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8“Governance
Corporate social responsibility is the 
glue that holds together the culture of 
an organization, and a strong corporate 
culture is highly correlated to stability and 
financial performance.”
— Fred Crawford, Executive Vice President;  
Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9When asked to define corporate governance, many technical 
terms come to mind — “evaluated practices,” “objective 
framework” and “internal controls to performance,” to name 
a few. But perhaps the best way to describe corporate 
governance is the simplest: Corporate governance is the 
set of rules and practices by which a company chooses to 
conduct its business. 
At Aflac, corporate governance is synonymous with integrity, 
honesty and holding ethical behavior in highest regard. All 
members of the Aflac team — board members, executives, 
independent sales agents and employees — share the 
responsibility of protecting our brand. We recognize that 
maintaining our hard-earned reputation as a company driven 
by uncompromising moral and ethical standards is a top 
priority, and that those principles will guide us to our future 
success.
Aflac measures success not only by the bottom line, but 
also by the difference our products make in the lives of our 
policyholders and the engagement of our employees. As we 
reflect on our accomplishments of 2018, we are all proud to 
say they were achieved honestly and ethically.
Audrey Boone TillmanSincerely, Purpose... with feathers 
 GOVERNANCE
Message from
Audrey Boone Tillman 
Executive Vice President; General 
Counsel, Aflac Incorporated
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10Purpose... with feathers 
Governance with Purpose
Leading on Ethics by 
Example: The Aflac WayFor more than 64 years, Aflac has helped provide financial 
protection and peace of mind to more than 50 million people. 
Though much has changed over the decades, one thing has not: 
Aflac is committed to all our stakeholders and is here to help. We 
make good on this commitment by delivering on our promise to 
be there for our policyholders when an illness, health event or 
life situation occurs — the times when they need us most. This 
promise lies at that heart of what we do, but Aflac is much more 
than the promise we sell each day. 
Aflac is dedicated to empowering people to pursue their dreams 
and careers as employees, independent sales agents and brokers. 
We are committed to our decadeslong track record of creating 
value and rewarding our shareholders for the trust they place in 
us. We are devoted to the cause of children facing cancer. Simply 
put, this is who we are — we are Aflac, and we’re here to help — 
something we could not do without adherence to sound corporate 
governance. 
Our Code of Ethics is based on the same values set forth in The 
Aflac Way — teamwork, respect, fairness, honesty, integrity and 
responsibility. Aflac has treasured these values since the Amos 
brothers founded the company more than 60 years ago. Each of 
us — employees, officers and directors — has a duty to conduct 
business with these tried-and-true values in mind. In doing so, 
we uphold both the letter and the spirit of the Code, ensuring our 
company provides the same genuine, caring and personal service 
our founders set as our standard.
By working for Aflac, we have each pledged to serve our 
company’s various stakeholders — our fellow employees, 
customers, shareholders, business partners and suppliers — 
as well as our communities, the environment and government 
regulators. Our Code shows us the responsibilities we have to 
these stakeholders and how to go about fulfilling them.
GOVERNANCE
Aflac founders, the Amos brothers John (seated), Paul (l) and 
William (r)
Aflac founder John Amos 
102-16 102-172018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11Purpose... with feathers 
A Foundation of Transparency
The Aflac TrustAflac’s commitment to ethical decision-making applies to our Board of Directors as well, and is guided by their 
seven principal committees — Audit and Risk, Executive, Compensation, Finance and Investment, Corporate 
Development, Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability, and Corporate Governance . These committees 
provide a core, values-based framework to guide and manage the company in the best interest of its employees, 
policyholders, investors and communities. We also listen to our stakeholders. In fact, as a result of a shareholder’s 
request, we’ve conducted non-binding shareholder votes for compensating top-level executives at each annual meeting 
since 2008. This initiative is commonly referred to as Say on Pay, and Aflac was the first publicly traded company in the 
U.S. to conduct such a vote. 
Aflac maintains an active role in the public policy arena, and we do so with transparency. In addition to complying with 
all state and federal regulations, we take additional steps to clarify our positions. For example, the company has gone 
beyond SEC requirements since 2012 by posting political contributions on Aflac.com. Our commitment to transparency 
engenders trust and confidence, which is critical to our company’ s reputation.
Fraudulent activity costs the insurance industry, and by association policyholders, billions of dollars each year. The 
Aflac Trust is a companywide effort with a mission to deter, prevent, detect and respond to fraud and abuse. The Aflac 
Trust uses education, system controls, effective and efficient investigations, and aggressive pursuit of violators to help 
eliminate fraud. Our goal is to be the insurance industry’s most trusted and ethical company.GOVERNANCE
102-17 102-43 205-2 102-18 102-44 415-12018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Business Highlights
In 2018, Aflac Incorporated delivered strong operating results.
We generated net earnings of $2.9 
billion . Excluding the significant 
benefit of U.S. Tax Reform in 2017, 
the net earnings increased 10%.
We are committed to achieving a high level of total return for our shareholders. From 
August 1990, when Daniel P . Amos was appointed the CEO, through Dec. 31, 2018, 
the company’s total return to shareholders, including reinvested cash dividends, has 
exceeded 7,502% , compared with 1,664% for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, 1,305% 
for the S&P 500 Index and 793% for the S&P 500 Life & Health Insurance Index.(2)
Total adjusted revenues increased 1.8% to $22.0 billion , reflective of continued growth of 
the in-force business in both the United States and Japan. Total adjusted revenues on a 
currency-neutral basis* increased 0.8% to $21.8 billion .
* Adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding foreign currency impact, total adjusted revenues on a currency-neutral 
basis and AROE are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States 
(GAAP). See the Appendix to this Proxy Statement for definitions of these non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to the 
nearest GAAP measure.
(1) As defined in Item 1. Business in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(2) Copyright © 2019 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global, Inc. All rights reserved.Combined, we generated $2.5 
billion  in total sales(1) in the United 
States and Japan, driven by a 3.2%  
increase in sales in the United 
States and a 2.0%  increase in third 
and first sector protection sales, 
which include cancer and medical 
insurance, in Japan.Adjusted earnings per diluted 
share, excluding foreign currency 
effect,* increased 21.5%  over 2017, 
meeting our objective for the 29th 
consecutive year (including the 
significant benefit of U.S. Tax Reform 
in 2018).
We increased the 2018 cash 
dividend by 19.5% , marking the 
36th consecutive year  of increasing 
the dividend.GOVERNANCE
102-72018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13Purpose... with feathers 
Sharing the Wealth
In January 2018, Aflac announced it would use a significant portion of the funds the company was able to save thr ough 
federal tax reform legislation to increase the company contribution to every employee’s 401(k) by a full percentage point. 
The company also provided a one-time $500 contribution to each worker’s 401(k) and earmarked additional funding for 
innovation as well as several million dollars to the company’s latest philanthropic effort in the area of childhood cancer: 
My Special Aflac Duck .
GOVERNANCE
A young girl receives her My Special Aflac Duck during an event at Prisma Health Children’s Hospital in South Carolina. 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
Innovative Product Solutions
Aflac’s insurance policies pay cash benefits directly to the customer, helping provide a layer of protection against income 
and asset loss associated with a covered illness or medical event. These benefits can be used to help policyholders 
cope with unexpected out-of-pocket costs such as medication, copayments and even household expenses. Our br oad 
portfolio of both individual and group supplemental product solutions is designed to provide our policyholders with 
outstanding value and enable businesses of all sizes to offer their employees an affor dable and enhanced array of 
supplemental benefits solutions. 
Our innovative One Day PaySM† initiative allows us to process, approve and pay eligible claims in just one day, getting 
cash in the hands of our policyholders fast. More importantly, we believe it reinforces our commitment to be there for 
them when they need us most.
In 2018, Aflac reaffirmed its long-standing commitment to help those facing cancer with the launch of our Aflac Cancer 
Protection Assurance plan, designed to better reflect the evolution of patient needs and challenges. Recognizing cancer 
treatments continually evolve, Aflac Cancer Protection Assurance covers modern approaches to prevention, early 
detection and diagnosis, treatment and ongoing care. It provides policyholders with more options through all life stages. 
Aflac also introduced a fresh, innovative perspective in the marketplace by combining its supplemental benefits 
experience with true group fundamentals through the launch of our latest group disability product. This approach created 
greater value for our customers and broker partners by better meeting the needs of certificate holders and providing an 
affordable solution for large employers to offer their employees.
Finally, Aflac enhanced its benefits offerings through the initial launch of its latest lump sum critical illness insurance 
policy, redesigned to include new riders and a wider range of benefits that offer a more holistic approach to recovery and 
care. 
Aflac offers innovative insurance product solutions in Japan and the U.S.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
Aflac Corporate Ventures
To help accelerate innovation, Aflac Corporate Ventures pursues investment opportunities with companies whose mission 
aligns with Aflac’s core business. Priority consideration goes to companies that complement Aflac’s strategic and 
innovative focus and create digital solutions that enhance the customer experience in both the U.S. and Japan. 
In September 2018, the company increased its capital allocation in the Aflac Ventures Fund from $100 million to $250 
million to be invested over three to four years. The Aflac Ventures Fund has invested approximately $52 million in 15 
companies in Japan and the U.S. since its launch in early 2017.
In addition, Aflac Corporate Ventures is the holding company for Empowered Benefits, which Aflac purchased in 2015 
and rebranded Empowered, specializing in benefits administration and powering Aflac’s Everwell enrollment platform in 
the U.S. These enhancements are designed to improve the customer experience and ensure our policyholders receive 
benefits quickly and efficiently.
Aflac recently increased its capital allocation in the Aflac Ventures Fund from $100 million to $250 million to be invested over three to four years.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16Building Our Brand
The popularity of the Aflac Duck makes the Aflac brand one of the most r ecognizable in America. Over the last two 
decades, Aflac has aired approximately 80 commercials featuring our feathered friend. In 2018, the Aflac Duck made 
high-profile appearances at the 60th Annual GRAMMY Awards ceremony, the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and the 
Academy of Country Music Awards. The Aflac Duck also is working diligently not only to emphasize Aflac’s commitment 
to children facing cancer, but also to demonstrate the exceptional value and protection Aflac’s policies help provide, a 
key part of our mission as a responsible company. 
The Aflac brand stays top of mind through events 
including the Academy of Country Music Awards, 
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and other high-
profile venues.
Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
About the Aflac CSR/ESG Committee
Aflac’s Corporate Social Responsibility/Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee consists of company 
officers representing various Aflac stakeholder groups as well as external consultants. Aflac’s internal teams from Japan 
and the U.S. include the chief financial officer, Legal, Human Resources (employees); Facilities (environment); Strategic 
Sourcing and Procurement (suppliers); Social Purpose (society); Government Relations (government) and Corporate 
Communications (the community at large). 
The CSR/ESG Committee is responsible for the ongoing transformation from a CSR-based focus to the more 
comprehensive mission of delivering a robust ESG platform. Recognizing a societal shift wherein a broader circle of 
stakeholders, including consumers, suppliers, investors and regulators, have expressed their interests in the corporate 
community’s footprint and sustainable business efforts as part of their business decision-making. Aflac’s CSR/ESG 
Committee is hard at work developing a programmatic model to improve the company’s overall ESG efforts, with a goal 
of making it a world-class example of leadership of ESG.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
102-182018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 18Purpose... with feathers 
Technology, Innovation and Efficiency
One for All, All for OneThe Aflac Japan Innovation Lab opened its doors in August 2018 to facilitate enhanced cr oss functionality and agility 
between various business departments, including marketing, information technology, sales forecasting, product 
development and other areas that frequently work in unison on initiatives. This uniquely modern and open-concept office 
is designed to drive innovation by encouraging and empowering collaboration to break down any obstacles that may 
exist between business departments within the company. 
Our disciplined risk management and emphasis on improving operating efficiency helped us drive strong profitability in 
2018. We continue to make broad-based investments in digital enhancements and innovation within our U.S. platform 
in response to rapidly changing market trends. Our platform investments are driving innovation that is contributing to 
improved retention of active policies and high customer satisfaction levels. We’ve also increased our agents’ adoption of 
our Everwell® enrollment platform, which is now used by more than 350,000 businesses across the country.
We believe creating and nurturing a diverse, equitable and inclusive (DE&I) working environment isn’t just a corporate 
initiative. It’s a living, breathing way of doing business that represents our values in action. A diverse corporate culture 
includes people who represent fresh viewpoints and new ideas at all levels of the company, including our board of 
directors. We believe fostering and welcoming all forms of diversity in our daily operations, throughout our management 
team and on our board enhances our ability to respond to our constituents the best way we can — The Aflac Way. 
Comparably, a California-based data website, ranks 50 companies on its annual Best Company Culture list based on 
ratings by employees who provided anonymous feedback on a variety of workplace culture questions ranging from work 
environment and compensation to leadership. Aflac ranked fifth in 2018. “Landing in the top five reinforces our long-held 
belief that Aflac is indeed a great place to work, and we are pleased our employees responded to this anonymous survey 
in such a positive way,” said Dan Amos, Aflac Chairman and CEO. 
Employees praised Aflac’s generous profit-sharing program, excellent health care insurance, a 401(k) match, on-site 
childcare and in-house medical services, among other employee benefits.
Also, Aflac’s innovative work environment, where people are challenged daily to stretch their personal and professional 
limits, provides rewards for employees eager to meet the newest challenges in an ever-changing business environment.“Our employees, together with our products, which are both 
second to none, are the engine that enables Aflac to continue 
leading our industry.” 
DAN AMOS, AFLAC CHAIRMAN AND CEOGOVERNANCE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
Founded in 1951 and headquartered in 
beautiful Matsuyama City, Ehime Shinkin 
Bank has an extensive history of helping its 
customers from the community by not only 
offering general banking transactions, but 
also by helping identify insurance solutions 
— including Aflac products — that cater 
to customers’ needs throughout various 
stages of life. Ehime Shinkin Bank money 
advisors (from left to right, Naho Fujioka, Saori 
Miyazaki, Serina Mukai) arrive at work ready 
to take on the day and build relationships with 
customers.
Paola Dunaway joined Aflac’s Hispanic 
Marketing department in 2012, where she 
helped to develop Hispanic consumer and 
recruiting marketing materials, including 
point of sale tools for successful employee 
enrollments. In 2016, she was promoted 
to consumer marketing manager, where 
she has been responsible for supporting 
the entire customer lifecycle, enrollment 
marketing for the work site and growth 
efforts for alternative distribution. 
Throughout her career with Aflac, Paola has 
been committed to maintaining work-life 
balance and enhancing her health through 
fitness and nutrition.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20
Matt has been an attorney with Aflac since 2001. He 
oversees all aspects of governance for the Aflac board 
of directors for the 23 entities under Aflac’s company-
holding system.
As Corporate Secretary, Matt is the liaison between the 
board of directors and the executive team. Focused 
on transparency, he ensures all board and executive 
activities are properly recorded to keep Aflac’s 
reputation intact. He is a champion and defender of the 
integrity of the Aflac brand.
In addition to his job duties, Matt also serves on the 
board of directors for Easter Seals of West Georgia and 
the University of Georgia’s Law School Alumni Council. 
He previously served on the boards of United Way 
of Chattahoochee Valley and the Greater Columbus 
Georgia Chamber of Commerce.Purpose... with feathers 
You can do everything 
right, but one wrong turn 
can undo a lot of integrity 
and brand loyalty.”CSR HERO: Matt Loudermilk
“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 21Purpose... with feathers 
Gender Equity and Why Doing Good 
Means Good Business
In spring 2018, 1,100 American workers, of which 100 were in Human Resources leadership roles, participated in 
Aflac’s annual Corporate Social Responsibility Survey. This external survey was designed to meet several objectives, 
one of which was to gain a better understanding of perceptions of corporate social responsibility, particularly where it 
concerns sexual harassment in the workplace and gender equity.
The survey revealed anti-harassment practices and social responsibility are inextricably linked, with 92% of employees 
saying they believe for a company to be seen as responsible, it is necessary for it to have clear procedures in place 
to address sexual harassment accusations. Clear consequences are also necessary, as well as a process to protect 
individuals who report sexual harassment from retaliation. 
Publicity surrounding the #MeToo movement dominated media channels in 2018. Forty-eight percent of employees 
surveyed reported their company has taken some kind of action since #MeToo, with the most common action 
(according to 28% of respondents) being a reiteration of the company harassment policy. 
Addressing gender equity and equal pay among men and women was seen as necessary by 88%. Millennials surveyed 
were more likely than boomers to believe there are gender equity problems at their company. The senior manager level 
or leadership was more likely to believe there are gender equity problems in their workplace than nonmanagers.
Overall, the 2018 survey results indicated many companies are taking a range of actions to address harassment and 
equity, and employees are generally optimistic that these efforts have been undertaken in good faith and will help to 
resolve these issues.
 
92% of 
employees  
48% of 
employees
reported their company 
has taken action since 
#MeToo.88% of 
employees
believe gender equity and 
equal pay among men and 
women are necessary.believe it is the company’s 
responsibility to have clear 
procedures in place to 
address sexual harassment 
accusations.GOVERNANCE
Source: 2018 CSR Survey, Aflac U.S. Only2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22Purpose... with feathers 
Protecting Our Stakeholders
Cybersecurity is a business imperative and a key governance function for any industry dealing with personal and private 
information. Every employee at Aflac plays a vital role in the security of the company — keeping the organization and 
its clients’ critical data and intellectual property safe. Regardless of their job description or title, all employees support 
Aflac’s team of cybersecurity experts in detecting and protecting the company from potentially devastating data threats.
Tim Callahan, senior vice president and global chief security officer, is at the helm of Aflac cybersecurity. His team of 
experts block potentially harmful cyberattacks on Aflac systems while maintaining a r obust and consistent cyber risk 
awareness program for employees. Every Aflac employee is required to complete privacy and security training, and 
the security team initiates periodic testing of employees’ attention to detail thr ough exercises. For example, anytime 
employees suspect an email is fraudulent, they have easy access to a SAFE button on their computers. Sending the 
suspect email to SAFE allows cybersecurity experts to inspect it, determine if it is a thr eat and, if so, eradicate it before it 
can do damage.
The Aflac security project “Ducking an Identity Crisis with Real-Time Fraud Alerting” further protects Aflac’s policyholder 
information and advances our digital transformation. The Aflac Global Security team leveraged existing security 
technology and integrated real-time channel/servicing data (call center, online, claims and client master) to create a 
flexible analytics platform. This new capability can flag suspect activity in r eal time and alert business partners in fraud 
prevention and security to take corrective action.
To further support the global initiative and stress its importance, Callahan formed the Information Security Oversight 
Committee that brings together senior officers from all aspects of the business to establish security policy and review 
threats and risks. 
Aflac leadership has made our security program a priority, and it is the goal of the cybersecurity team to stay ahead of 
threats and to protect valuable information, which includes health information of our policyholders. Aflac has invested in a 
Global Threat Intelligence Program that provides information regarding global threats, and we engage partners who help 
us put appropriate protections in place. GOVERNANCE
418-12018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23Purpose... with feathers 
One Day PaySM †
“I applied for an Aflac cancer 
insurance policy several years 
ago never expecting to have 
to use it. ...”Aflac is committed to paying claims faster than ever. In 2018, we paid 2.6 million claims through One Day Pay, our 
industry-leading initiative that allows us to process, approve and pay eligible claims in just one day. There is no better 
way to describe the difference One Day Pay makes in the lives of Aflac policyholders than through their own words:
I had a colonoscopy, my first ever. The doctor 
removed eight polyps for testing. The results 
came back positive for Stage 1 colon cancer on 
only one polyp, but this cancer had penetrated 
a blood vessel, so I needed further tests. They 
performed a CEA level test and the results came 
back in the normal range. They also performed 
a CT scan of my abdomen and pelvis. Now I am 
going to meet with an oncologist just to make 
sure that a stray cancer cell has not traveled to 
another part of my body. Not knowing what to 
expect, waiting for results and then worrying 
about how to pay for all of these things was 
extremely stressful. I had just completed the 
annual review of my Aflac policies with my Aflac 
agent, Todd Russell, a few days prior to my 
diagnosis. I applied for an Aflac cancer insurance 
policy several years ago never expecting to 
have to use it, but this proves that you are better 
safe than sorry. Todd helped me fill things out 
and get supporting documents to Aflac. To my 
amazement, Aflac processed my claim in one 
day! I was equally stunned by the amount of the 
benefit. The cash is a great help with the bills for 
testing and treatment. I feel a huge weight has 
been taken off the shoulders of my family. Thank 
you so very much for offering this product for 
people to utilize in their time of need.”
Very gratefully yours,
Terri L. — Indiana“
GOVERNANCE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 24Purpose... with feathers 
I was diagnosed with squamous cell 
cancer in December 2018. I live alone and 
pay all of my bills on my own, so of course 
I was worried about how I was going 
to manage during and after treatment. 
Aflac SmartClaim® made my life so much 
easier! I could file a claim online under 
my Aflac cancer insurance policy, submit 
my documentation and generally had my 
cash benefits processed in one day. With 
help from Aflac, I was able to take some 
much needed time off from work and not 
get behind on my bills. Aflac was truly a 
blessing to me during this very trying time. 
THANK YOU!”
Patricia R. — Florida“GOVERNANCE
“Aflac made my life so 
much easier!”2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 25Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
I applied for my Aflac cancer insurance policy through my 
employer several years ago with hopes of never having to 
use it. In April 2019, I was diagnosed with a squamous cell 
carcinoma on my right hand. I underwent a surgical procedure 
to have it removed and it healed up nicely. I did not think of 
my Aflac policy initially, but when I did, I called my Aflac agent, 
Joe Max Edmiston, and he kindly explained that my policy 
would indeed have a benefit available to me. He also explained 
which forms needed to be submitted and offered to assist 
with submitting the claim. I was able to gather all information 
required in just a couple of hours and submit my claim by late 
afternoon. By the next morning, I had a message stating that 
the claim would be paid. I was pleasantly surprised at the short 
amount of time the process took, and the money received will 
help pay my deductible! Aflac is great and works!” 
Donna H. — Texas“
“Aflac is great and works!”2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 26Purpose... with feathers 
Our Executive TeamGOVERNANCE
Aflac’s leaders are the driving force behind our company’s ability to make an impact on the lives of the men, women, 
children and companies that have put their trust in us. Here is a look at our team:
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac; 
Aflac Incorporated 
Max K. Broden 
Senior Vice President; Deputy Chief 
Financial Officer and Treasurer, Aflac 
Incorporated
Eric M. Kirsch 
Executive Vice President; Global Chief 
Investment Officer; President, Aflac 
Global Investments
Andrew K. Glaub 
Senior Vice President; Director of Sales Bradley E. Dyslin 
Senior Managing Director; Global Head 
of Credit and Strategic Investment 
Opportunities; Co-Head of External 
Management Platform
Virgil R. Miller 
Executive Vice President; Chief 
Operating Officer, Aflac U.S.; President, 
Aflac Group
J. Pete Kelso 
Senior Vice President; Chief Information 
and Technology Officer, Aflac IncorporatedSteven K. Beaver 
Senior Vice President; Chief Financial 
Officer, Aflac U.S. Frederick J. Crawford 
Executive Vice President; Chief Financial 
Officer, Aflac Incorporated 
Timothy L. Callahan 
Senior Vice President; Chief Global 
Information Security Officer 
Audrey Boone Tillman 
Executive Vice President; General 
Counsel, Aflac Incorporated 
June P. Howard, CPA, CFA, CGMA 
Senior Vice President; Chief Accounting 
Officer, Financial ServicesTeresa L. White 
Executive Vice President; President,  
Aflac U.S.
Rich Gilbert
Senior Vice President, Chief Digital 
Information Officer 
Richard L. Williams Jr.
Executive Vice President; Chief 
Distribution Officer Catherine Hernandez-Blades 
Senior Vice President; Chief ESG and 
Communications Officer2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27Purpose... with feathers GOVERNANCE
Thomas P. McKenna 
Senior Vice President; Deputy General 
Counsel, Legal Division Thomas L. McDaniel, Jr. 
Senior Vice President; Chief Compliance 
Officer, Aflac U.S. 
Timothy “Chip” Stevens 
Senior Managing Director; Global 
Head of Macro Investment Strategy, 
Quantitative Research and Trading, 
Global InvestmentsMichel G. Perreault 
Senior Vice President; Chief Risk Officer, 
Enterprise Corporate Finance, Capital 
and Investments
Joey Nichols
Senior Vice President; U.S. Chief ActuaryEric B. Seldon 
Senior Vice President, Shared Services; 
President and CEO of Communicorp 
Stephanie Shields
Senior Vice President, Broker Sales
Teresa Q. McTague 
Senior Managing Director; U.S. Chief 
Investment Officer and Co-Head 
of External Management, Global 
Investments Albert Riggieri 
Senior Vice President; Global Chief Risk 
Officer and Chief Actuary 
Matthew D. Owenby 
Senior Vice President; Chief Human 
Resources Officer Bob Ruff
Senior Vice President, Strategic Growth 
Alex W. Stephanouk 
Senior Vice President, Internal Audit Brad Knox
Senior Vice President; Counsel, Federal 
Relations
Jamie Lee
Senior Vice President; Chief Service 
Officer
Nadeem G. Khan 
President, Aflac Corporate Ventures 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28Purpose... with feathers 
Aflac Life Insurance JapanGOVERNANCE
Hiroshi Yamauchi 
Director, Vice Chairman, Aflac Life 
Insurance JapanAndrew J. Conrad 
Senior Vice President, General Counsel 
and Compliance Officer, Aflac Life 
Insurance Japan; Senior Vice President, 
Aflac International
Koji Ariyoshi 
Director; Executive Vice President; 
Director of Sales and Marketing, Aflac 
Life Insurance Japan Kazumi Atsuta 
Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary, 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan Todd Daniels 
Director and Executive Vice President; 
Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Life 
Insurance JapanRiko Kubo 
Director, Senior Vice President, Human 
Resources, Aflac Life Insurance Japan 
Yoko Kijima 
Director, First Senior Vice President; 
Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Life 
Insurance Japan Yoshiaki Shimada 
Senior Vice President, Sales
Tohru Futami 
First Senior Vice President; Chief 
Information Officer, Aflac Life Insurance 
JapanMasatoshi Koide 
President and Representative Director, 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan Takashi Osako 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Jun Isonaka 
First Senior Vice President, Sales, Aflac 
Life Insurance JapanYutaka Otsuka 
Senior Vice President, Finance, Aflac Life 
Insurance JapanJohn A. Moorefield 
Director and Executive Vice President; 
Chief Transformation Officer, Aflac Life 
Insurance Japan Hideto Yamamoto 
Senior Vice President; Chief Investment 
Officer, Aflac Life Insurance Japan; 
President and Representative Director, 
Aflac Asset Management Japan
Tomoya Utsude, M.D. 
First Senior Vice President, Corporate, 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan Kazunori Saiki
Senior Vice President, Marketing, Aflac 
Life Insurance JapanYoshifumi Murayama 
Senior Vice President; Customer FUREAI 
Support, Aflac Life Insurance Japan 
Charles D. Lake II 
President, Aflac International; Chairman 
and Representative Director, Aflac Life 
Insurance Japan 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 29Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Awards and Honors
Points of Light’s 50 Most 
Community-Minded 
Companies in AmericaEthisphere Institute’s 
World’s Most Ethical 
CompaniesFortune’s World’s 
Most Admired 
Companies
American 
Innovation Index 
Awards
Georgia Trend’s 
100 Most Influential 
Georgians CR Magazine’s 
Responsible CEO 
AwardsGOVERNANCE
Aflac team celebrates Dan Amos being recognized for CR Magazine’s Lifetime Achievement Award.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 30Aflac U.S.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31“Workplace
The organizations that thrive 
are those that are filled with 
curious, lifelong learners who are 
empowered to do much more than 
execute.” 
—Teresa White, Executive Vice President and President, Aflac U.S.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 32
Teresa WhiteSincerely, Purpose... with feathers 
 WORKPLACE
Message fromIf you take care of your employees, your employees will take care of 
business.
I still recall Mr. Paul uttering these very words many times. For John, 
Paul and Bill Amos, this phrase was more than just a saying. The 
founding brothers of Aflac believed so strongly in respecting and 
treating employees fairly that this simple statement became the 
cornerstone around which the company was created in 1955. 
Sixty-four years later, the value we place on our employees is that 
durable thread that weaves throughout our company culture. It tightly 
binds Aflac’s founding principles to the success we know today. From 
providing a workplace that encourages diversity, equity and inclusion to 
offering programs to help protect employee health, we see contributing 
positively to our employees’ overall well-being as not only good 
business, but the right thing to do. 
As we all know, change is inevitable. 
While companies and their employees may find change to be frustrating 
and frightening, it is a driving force behind the growth of a business and 
cannot be ignored. 
So, how do we change to be relevant with the times and not lose our 
great principles? We believe the answer lies in engaging our employees 
along the way. 
With new advancements in digital technology, processes that were once 
instrumental to a business are becoming obsolete. Aflac has committed to training and developing employees in skill sets 
we believe will be needed in the future, giving them the opportunity to increase their competitive advantage, grow with 
inevitable changes at work and hopefully encourage them to stay r ooted as engaged members of the Aflac team. 
As Aflac continues to adjust to changes in how we serve policyholders, we vow to keep the founding principles on which 
we were created unchanged — most importantly, those which keep us deeply committed to treating our employees fairly 
and with respect. 
Change is indeed inevitable. But our commitment to our employees is unwavering.Purpose... with feathers 
Teresa White 
Executive Vice President; 
President Aflac U.S.
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33Purpose... with feathers 
Diversity at Aflac
We believe our employees are the heart and soul of our company, and we do everything we can to keep them as part 
of our growing Aflac family. We are committed to fostering an environment that attracts and retains a diverse workforce. 
The diverse skills, backgrounds and perspectives of our employees at Aflac are the qualities that result in the numerous 
accolades and awards that we have received. Additionally, it drives the best practices and initiatives that we have in place.
In 2018, Aflac hired more than 550 
new employees, with 48.0% of our new 
hires being ethnic minorities and 56.8% 
being women. 
56.8% of all 
new hires were 
women32.74%  of all new 
hires were women and 
ethnic minorities
48.0%  of all 
new hires were 
ethnic minorities
34% of all employees  
are female minorities66% of all employees 
are women28% of all officers  
are womenRecruitment
Retention
Women in the WorkplaceWORKPLACE
405-022018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 34Purpose... with feathers 
Employee Demographics By Position at Aflac
of Aflac’s key senior 
leadership team are 
ethnic minorities 
and/or womenof Aflac’s Board 
members are ethnic 
minorities and/or 
women34% 54%WORKPLACE
Aflac’s emphasis on minority and diversity hiring is reflected in the existing composition of our workforce at every level of 
the company, from junior staff to senior leaders and even to our board of directors. 
*Rows do not add up to 100%, as categories are not mutually exclusive.
ALL EMPLOYEES* MINORITY EMPLOYEES
Women  
(%)White  
(%)Minority 
(%)Black or 
African 
American 
(%)Hispanic or 
Latino (%)Asian  
(%)Pacific 
Islander 
(%)Alaskan 
Native  
(%)2 or More 
Races  
(%)
Executive/
Senior Level 
Officials & 
Managers33.3 74.2 25.8 16.7 3.0 6.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
First/
Mid-Level 
Officials & 
Managers47.7 73.4 26.6 17.2 4.1 2.8 0.3 0.3 1.9
Professionals 58.2 65.1 34.9 21.9 4.5 5.6 0.1 0.2 2.5
Sales 
Workers58.4 78.7 21.3 13.1 3.1 1.4 0.0 1.0 2.7
All Others180.6 38.4 61.6 52.2 5.2 1.4 0.1 0.3 2.5
Total 66.3 55.5 44.7 34.2 4.7 3.1 0.1 0.3 2.4
U.S. Workforce Demographics Only: As of Dec. 31, 2018
1Includes EEO-1 categories of Administrative Support Workers, Craft Workers (Skilled), Operatives (Semi-Skilled), Laborers 
(Unskilled), Service Workers and Technicians
405-01 102-222018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 35Purpose... with feathers WORKPLACE
Equal Pay by Design
As a top employer in the insurance industry, we recognize that a sound 
compensation process is a big part of what makes Aflac an employer 
of choice and ensures that we provide equal pay for equal work. 
Aflac has ensured transparency and fairness in pay for key company decision-makers since 2008 through an annual 
shareholder vote on the compensation of the top executives in the company. 
Considerations for annual raises and bonuses are linked to individual performance at every level. As a result, Aflac is 
able to attract, retain, motivate and reward individuals who have the skills to help manage and grow Aflac’s business. 
Compensation processes are detailed on the following page.In 2018, there were 304 job 
titles  at Aflac U.S. wherein 
the role was held by 3,547 
employees . 
Among those 
positions, the 
salary ratio  
skewed 101.72%  
in favor of women.
405-2 102-8Aflac’s corporate Human Resources division operates a centralized internal 
Compensation function to provide oversight and input to company management 
ensuring compensation is consistent with job scope, duties and r esponsibility. 
To deliver consistency, the Compensation function evaluates new-hire job offers, 
promotions and compensation adjustments to ensure equitable compensation .
Defined annual compensation adjustment processes  help ensure equity across 
the organization by reviewing potential compensation adjustments based on multiple 
factors, including performance, internal equity and market levels.Jobs and incumbents are periodically reviewed modeling the California Equal 
Pay Act  approach to ensure equal pay for equal work . Job levels and associated 
compensation are determined based on market data, job scope, duties and 
responsibilities, ensuring equitability for gender and ethnic minorities.
Compensation partners with nationally recognized compensation consulting firms  
to aide in the review of compensation practices, including the competitiveness of 
pay levels, design structures, market trends, and other technical considerations that 
validate the consistency, legitimacy and equitability of our compensation practices and 
processes.Defined salary structures are reviewed annually and updated utilizing market 
data. These salary structures are published on the company intranet to help ensure 
consistency and provide transparency. These defined salary structures serve as the 
framework and act as guardrails for compensation administration.
Commitment to transparency across all levels is encouraged by our documented 
open-door policy  as well as our formal grievance procedure  in the event an 
employee perceives inequitable pay disparity at any time during the employee’s career. 
These processes are documented and communicated via the Employee Handbook.Annually, the Compensation function participates in, and receives, compensation 
survey results  from multiple nationally recognized compensation consulting firms. 
These surveys help analyze market trends based on key factors such as revenue size, 
asset size, market value, geography and headcount.
The Board-level Compensation Committee, at least annually, reviews the goals and 
objectives of our executive compensation plans , evaluates the performance of the 
executive officers in light of such goals and objectives and, setting their compensation 
levels based on this evaluation, reviews our company’s incentive compensation 
programs  to determine whether they encourage excessive risk taking; evaluates 
compensation policies and practices that could mitigate any such risk; and reviews our 
company’s general compensation and benefit plans to ensure they promote our goals 
and objectives.Centralized 
Function
Annual Review 
ProcessJob Review 
and Analysis
Consulting 
ServicesDefined Pay 
Structures
Grievance 
ProcessSurvey 
Participation
Compensation 
Committee
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 36Purpose... with feathers 
How Aflac Ensures Equitable CompensationWORKPLACE
102-242018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37Inclusion: It’s Our Culture
Diversity means “a range of things.” Well-rounded 
people remain open to diversity and resist closing 
themselves off to people, places and things just because 
they are different. In business, recruiting and retaining 
a diverse group of employees, and choosing from a 
diverse selection of supplier options, broadens the 
company’s access to experiences, insights and ideas 
that help bring the world closer. Such practices make the 
corporation more fully human.
Aflac has long appreciated that making diversity a 
strategic priority helps drive innovation, increase 
creativity, aid in employee recruitment and retention, 
and boost the company’s success. In 2018, Aflac hired 
more than 550 new employees — 48% ethnic minorities 
and 56% women. A diverse internship program is key to 
recruiting future employees. Last year, ethnic minorities 
made up 35% of our interns, and half were women.
But Aflac’s diversity efforts don’t stop at hiring. With the 
help of an employee-driven Diversity Council , we again 
celebrated ethnicities, cultures and heritages that make 
up the Aflac family throughout 2018 with events like Talk 
the Talk, Women’s Tea, Men’s Coffee, Diversity Week and 
Disability Month. 
Diversity Week 2018  gave employees fun experiences 
designed to raise awareness and educate employees Purpose... with feathers 
about Aflac’s diverse culture. The ever-popular  Diversity 
World Fair saw employee participation almost double 
compared to 2017. 
Each year, Diversity Council members collect hundreds 
of items donated by Aflac departments, employees, and 
leaders and host the Diversity Council Silent Auction  
to benefit the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center. 
The online auction raised $14,567 for pediatric cancer 
programs and research in 2018, with the highest bid for 
the fifth consecutive year going to purchase lunch with 
CEO Dan Amos. Since its inception in 2013, the auction 
has raised more than $72,000. 
Aflac hosts Diversity Training  seminars regularly to 
educate new leaders about the company’s commitment 
to inclusiveness and engagement. Training is offered 
through Employee Engagement, as well as the 
Leadership, Learning and Development  team, which 
in 2018 celebrated its third year of providing diversity 
training to help leaders become stronger managers. 
Topics included management fundamentals, compliant 
interviewing, crucial conversations, communication 
styles and more. 
Beyond Our Walls
In 2018, Aflac donated more than 
$500,000 to organizations supporting 
minority events, such as the Boys & 
Girls Club, Girls Inc., and Jack and Jill 
International. In addition, a $750,000 
corporate donation to United Way of the 
Chattahoochee Valley helped support 
organizations throughout the community.WORKPLACE
Aflac supports the Boys & Girls Clubs in Columbus not only through funding, but volunteering, 
as well. Above, Sean Kelly, Aflac senior coordinator of sponsorships, reads to students during a 
company-hosted holiday party held at one of the local after-school centers.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 38Carmen Buckner has been with Aflac for 20 years 
and currently works in the enterprise agility office. 
As a liaison between the executive committee and 
employees, he is part of a team that creates the 
company’s much-anticipated Employee Appreciation 
Week each May. He plans a full week of activities to 
honor the contributions of Aflac’s employees, with 
prize raffles, interactive games and breakfast being 
served by company executives. Carmen believes 
the success of the company is based on a culture of 
employees taking care of each other and by executives 
who show their appreciation. As a result, employees 
are inspired to go the extra mile. In addition to being 
a leader for Aflac’s internal events, Carmen also is 
active in the community, volunteering his time as a 
Little League Baseball umpire and serving as an events 
photographer for the United Negro College Fund 
(UNCF). Purpose... with feathers 
The success of the company 
is based on a culture of 
employees taking care 
of each other and by 
executives who show their 
appreciation.”CSR HERO: Carmen Buckner
“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 39From IT to Aflac Digital Services
Perhaps one of the strongest examples of how Aflac is 
using education and innovation to empower employees 
to excel through change is with initiatives conducted by 
its digital services organization.
To support Aflac’s 2025 Vision and Digital Transformation 
strategy, the division of Aflac formerly known as IT 
aligned with the company’s U.S. Operation Strategic 
Pillars to better support business priorities and increase 
agility across the organization. Now known as Digital 
Services, the division is addressing rapidly moving 
technology and changes in operations, including holding 
a Technology Expo in November 2018 to share the 
skillsets and training needed for digital realignment. The 
Technology Expo provided insight on functions of the 
technology departments, skills needed to support the 
company vision, and training and continuing education 
opportunities available with vendors and universities.
One Digital Aflac’s talent management, comprised 
of summer interns, co-ops and apprentices, is used 
to identify and recruit high-caliber emerging leaders 
and contributors with an aim to attain measurable 
benchmarks and execute various talent succession 
strategies throughout the Digital Services organization. Purpose... with feathers 
The programs provide outstanding professional 
development that helps students apply their education 
and experiences to career goals. In 2018, the apprentice 
program (21 apprentice team members, eight interns 
and five co-ops) had a 95% graduation rate, further 
illustrating Aflac’s commitment to the responsible 
treatment of employees. 
The Digital Services engagement team held more than 30 
events throughout the year, ranging from holiday lunches, 
costume contests, Super Bowl parties and a Diwali 
event. The investment in team members helped drive the 
organization to its highest employee engagement score 
to date –  79%, up 7.5% from 2017 .
In 2018, Aflac earmarked funding obtained through 
federal tax cuts to further enhance training for our 
talented workforce. By giving employees the skills of the 
21st century and beyond, Aflac strives to provide tools 
to help them remain employable in a changing world, 
whether their mission is direct interaction with customers 
or behind-the-scenes programs.
WORKPLACE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 40Purpose... with feathers WORKPLACE
Career success means different things to different people, 
but most would agree that one secret to career success is 
not being afraid to ask for help and knowing where to find 
it when you do. Aflac’s Career Success Centers (CSC) 
in Columbus, Georgia, and Columbia, South Carolina, 
continued their focus on employee success last year, 
adding to the more than 2,600 employees who have 
received career coaching and advice since the first center 
opened in 2014. Of those employees taking advantage 
of the individualized program, nearly 1,300 have received 
promotions and about 200 are in roles better suited for them, where they can apply their skills and passion within 
the company.
Career Awareness Expos hosted by the Career Success 
Center in Columbus and Columbia saw participation by 
nearly 1,765 employees last year. Other 2018 highlights 
included the inclusion of exam proctoring as a CSC 
service, a new focus on leadership coaching, and the 
launching of career insights, sessions designed to provide 
insight, information and exposure to various areas and 
leaders within Aflac. Centered on Career Success
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41Purpose... with feathers 
Real People: How the Career Success Center Helps
Logan Furlong,  
a senior specialist in 
Process Innovation and 
Control at Aflac, believes 
in growth through learning 
and networking. So, it’s no 
surprise he took Aflac up on 
its career-coaching offer and 
visited the Career Success 
Center. 
“I went because I knew I could do more for the company,” 
Furlong says. “It was like meeting with friends and mentors 
who would push me to test the limits I placed on myself and 
showed me I could do more than I thought I was capable of. 
They also showed me how to teach others how to surpass 
self-imposed limits.
“I learned that it isn’t good to only rely on my knowledge and 
that I need to trust the knowledge of others. I’ve learned so 
much from working with others throughout the company. 
I’ve been very active with Aflac International, have prepared 
reports and helped create new procedures for the Call 
Center. Through all of this, I received the promotion I was 
seeking.
“I can’t express my gratitude to the Career Success Center 
for pushing me to pursue my goals and showing me that I 
already had the tools that I needed to take the next step.”Eric Holt   
has been with Aflac 20 
years and knows firsthand 
that changes lead to new 
opportunities if you’re flexible, 
open to growth and willing to 
learn. In fact, Holt was one 
of the first Aflac employees 
to transfer from Columbus, 
Georgia to Columbia, South 
Carolina, a move he saw as an exciting opportunity to 
broaden his knowledge and experience. 
Currently working toward a Master of Business Administration 
in management, Holt’s goal is to become a manager. His 
recent promotion to lead invoice specialist is just the latest 
step in that journey and one in which the Career Success 
Center played a role. Like the others, Eric believes taking 
advantage of the direction and support provided by the 
Career Success Center is key to growing with the company. 
His advice: “No matter your title — specialist, supervisor, 
manager or vice president — everyone can walk away from 
the Career Success Center with something valuable.”
Lisa Berry Mobley,   
a business process analyst 
in Business Technology 
Solutions, credits Aflac’s 
Career Success Center 
with helping her land a new 
position. 
“I initially visited the Center 
in 2016 because I was ready 
for a career change,” Mobley 
says. “I was skeptical at first because I didn’t know enough 
about it and most of my peers hadn’t visited. But I gave 
it a chance and was paired with a Career Success Center 
representative who gave me pointers on how to enhance 
my résumé to reflect my skills, encouraging me to truly take 
ownership of my career development. 
“My representative also assisted me with mock interviews, 
so I was better prepared. I developed a career plan with 
my mentors and I was able to land a new professional-level 
position. 
“I recommend the Career Success Center to anyone who’s 
looking to boost their career development knowledge and 
get the skills they need to be successful at Aflac for years to 
come.”Penny Patton,   
a claims appeal specialist, 
has been visiting the 
Center since early 2017. 
She says the advice she’s 
received there has boosted 
her self-confidence and 
prepared her for new job 
opportunities. “I reached 
out to the Center to acquire 
interview skills and find out how the process works,” 
says Patton. 
Patton took a talent assessment that helped identify her 
top-three strengths and opportunities. “It allowed me to 
concentrate on identifying what roles I could perform and 
also provided a guide to develop other skills,” she says. 
“I also took an assessment to identify my personality/
leadership type, which helped define the path I wanted to 
follow at Aflac and helped me set goals.”
Since then, Patton has learned to tailor her résumé to 
positions for which she’s qualified; how to compose 
herself in interviews; how to understand and best answer 
interview questions; and what to say (and not to say) in 
an interview. Her coach even gave her tips on how to 
dress professionally without breaking the bank.
“Although I’m still looking for that job opportunity, I know 
I’ve gained self-assurance and self-worth,” she says. 
“When the opportunity gets here, I’ll be prepared.” WORKPLACE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 42Aflac’s premier mentoring program, called TEACH, allows employees to teach what they know and learn what they don’t. 
Ethnic minorities make up 65.2% of TEACH mentors and women make up 73.5% . 
Aflac Information Technology developed a reverse-mentoring program that jump-started Aflac’s approach to skill-sharing. 
The program pairs hundreds of seasoned IT employees — whose average age is 48 — with “apprentices,” most of whom 
are recent college graduates. The structure fosters a knowledge exchange about technology, leadership, teamwork and 
office etiquette that is reciprocal. 
Because quality leadership is vital to building and retaining a topnotch workforce, we also devote resources to helping 
team leaders become stronger managers. To that end, 2018 marked three years since we launched our Leadership, 
Learning and Development initiative that teaches key management conflict resolution skills at Aflac’s Columbus location. 
Aflac is exploring how the program can be expanded to other locations. 
Teambuilding and skills-assessment are combined in the Aflac Quest — an interactive activity to reinforce teamwork, 
problem-solving and conflict-resolution skills. This hands-on activity is a fun learning tool that encourages teams to work 
together to resolve problems.
At Aflac, we believe that we set a tone for our commitment to diversity thr ough our internship program. We continue to 
partner with community organizations and local and national colleges and universities to recruit qualified and diverse 
candidates. 
In the summer of 2018, 37 students from 19 colleges and universities were welcomed into the Aflac family. Spanning 
three locations — Global Investments, Columbus Headquarters and Aflac Group — interns supported 34 business 
units, bringing new and innovative perspectives to the areas and projects they supported. In addition to gaining hands-
on career experience, interns participated in a variety of events, volunteer opportunities, learning exercises and team-
building activities designed to help them prepare for their professional futures. 
In this class, 50% were women and 35% represented ethnic minorities .Purpose... with feathers 
Mentorship: TEACH-able Moments for All
Leadership: Never Stop Learning 
The Aflac Quest
Recruitment That Reflects Our CommunityWORKPLACE
Thirty-seven students from 19 colleges and universities comprised Aflac’s intern class of 2018.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 43Interns had several outings during their time with Aflac. A visit to 
the New York Stock Exchange was arranged by Global Investments 
in New York, and Columbus interns toured Children’s Healthcare of 
Atlanta where they visited with patients and experienced firsthand the 
importance of volunteering. 
Aflac’s prestigious internship program gained recognition as No. 7 in 
Best Financial Services Internships and No. 17 in Best Internships for 
Quality of Life on Vault.com’s 2018 rankings of programs for interns.
The following career development tracks were especially diverse:
Aflac’s Leadership and Analyst Program (LeAP) offers an elite 
opportunity for top graduates to obtain divisionwide rotational exposure 
and experience in their related majors, disciplines and fields of interest. 
In some instances, students who worked as Aflac interns go on to the 
LeAP program. 
In 2018, LeAP transitioned to Talent Acquisition under the University 
Relations umbrella and expanded to include divisional project 
participation, peer-to-peer training, competency development, 
mentoring opportunities and lunches hosted by senior executive 
leaders across the company. The year’s rotation welcomed LeAPers 
into Premier Broker and Product Solutions, Communicorp, Customer 
Strategy and Analytics, and Field Contracting and Compensation. As a 
result, 31.1% of our LeAP hires have been ethnic minorities and 53.3% 
have been women.
The Information Technology Apprenticeship (ITA) is a two-year 
rotational program in the field of IT. Ethnic minorities make up 50% of 
our ITA hires, while women comprise 31% of 2018 recruitment. Purpose... with feathers WORKPLACE
Aflac interns visited the New York Stock Exchange, a trip 
arranged by Aflac Global Investments in New York.
Aflac internships are not all work and no play. White-water rafting and a volunteer visit to 
Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta are just two of the interns’ memorable outings.  
Aflac Interns on the Move2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 44Purpose... with feathers 
The LeAP program has given me a chance to further develop 
skills that I learned in school. By working on a variety of 
projects, I have been exposed to more than I would in a 
normal starting position. I have been able to manage my 
own projects as well as participate in management meetings 
that would normally be above my experience level. My team 
members have been a pleasure to work with while I have 
been learning more about the workforce. During group LeAP 
events, I have been given the opportunity to meet with high-
level employees where I would soak in the experience that 
molded their success. I am so thankful that Aflac has given 
me the opportunity to participate in the LeAP program.” 
Coming out of Production, the opportunity to join a program 
such as LeAP was something I could not pass up. My first 
rotation was with Claims Compliance, where I was given the 
chance to develop the skills of a business process analyst. 
Moving forward, my time with the program will be transitioned to 
the operational analyst role for Claims. The people I have worked 
with and the work that I have been tasked with is nothing short 
of exceptional. The soft skills provided through LeAP outings 
have been much appreciated, as they have been applicable in 
everyday scenarios. I am extremely grateful for the opportunities 
and growth that this program has provided and look forward to 
my remaining time with LeAP .” The LeAP experience has been both exciting and challenging. I have 
had to step outside of my comfort zone, which has created a little 
stress but at the same time has allowed me to grow and experience 
the side of our business that I had never seen. I have enjoyed the 
program and meeting my fellow LeAPers.” LeAP for Me
— Bryant Adams, Divisional Analyst, Shared Services
— Cody Walker, Divisional Analyst, Claims— Lashona Sudduth, Divisional Analyst, Product Solutions “
““WORKPLACE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 45Purpose... with feathers 
Corporate Culture with a Heart
Talk the Talk sessions with leadership proved successful again in 2018. Aflac executives Virgil Miller, Rich Williams, Tyler 
Bennett and Brian Abeyta shared their career paths, key factors that helped them and their thoughts on the future of 
Aflac. 
The right mentor can play a valuable role in a person’s career development, and the knowledge-sharing relationship is 
one Aflac values for its employees. Through the TEACH Mentorship  program and Real Talk , employees receive either 
one-on-one or small-group connections with colleagues and leaders.
Inspire Your Heart with Art was a new event implemented by the Employee Engagement team last year . These creative 
art classes designed to foster stress relief and fellowship were a huge hit with employees.
A big part of Aflac’s commitment to its employees is an annual celebration in their honor at each company location. 
Employee Appreciation Week  — aka EAW 2018 — did not disappoint, as the Employee Engagement team pulled out all 
the stops with prizes, entertainment and special activities for Aflac employees and their families. The celebration inc luded 
a special EAW gift for every employee.
Employees were given the choice of four Family Day  adventures, three of which could be enjoyed at their convenience 
during the year — AMC Movie tickets, passes to The Montgomery Zoo, and games at Stars and Strikes. The fourth  
adventure, Aflac Day at Six Flags, was again a huge success. A new event, Launch Trampoline Park, was also added.WORKPLACE
Aflac’s annual Employee Appreciation Week is a celebration of who we are as a company. ‘Tis the Season
Chaplain Check-in
Family First
A Commitment to Continuous Learning
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 46Purpose... with feathers 
The holiday season last year was again highlighted by generous giving and employee fellowship. Employees raised 
$27,879 for Aflac’s Christmas Is For Kids  holiday project, providing funds to sponsor 800 children and 329 families in 
need of extra support. The annual Christmas Is For Kids party for childr en and families again featured Santa, food and 
distribution of donated toys. 
Teams of HQ employees participated in a new Holiday Tree  decorating contest, sparking creativity and friendly 
competition as well as adding variety to decorations around campus. 
The 2018 Aflac Tower Lighting  in Columbus, Georgia, was even more spectacular with the addition of firetruck rides, an 
arctic plunge inflatable slide, a winter snow globe for photos and a new covered eating area. Keeping true to tradition, 
children from Aflac’s Imagination Station child care and learning center sang holiday carols, Santa posed with families for 
photos, and employees and their families enjoyed bounce houses, snacks and dinner .
Six years ago, Aflac introduced the Chaplain Assistance Program through Corporate Chaplains of America as a voluntary 
program to help improve the quality of life of our employees. Through this program, employees have 24/7 access 
to corporate chaplains. Employees can contact our chaplains regarding a broad range of topics or concerns, such 
as personal and family matters, finances, spiritual guidance and moral support — all without a cost. All employees, 
regardless of religious background, are encouraged to use the program.
Improving the workplace also means supporting employees’ families. Our Parental Leave policy includes salary 
continuation for both mother and father for the birth or adoption of a child. Domestic Partner Leave and on-site child care 
centers are other examples of how Aflac strives to meet the needs of employees both off and on the job.
Education, a key theme of Aflac’s commitment to employees, extends beyond learning on the job. Aflac awards 
undergraduate and graduate scholarships to full-time employees to help make their educational goals attainable. 
Scholarships are also available to children and grandchildren of employees. 
WORKPLACE
The extended Aflac family wraps holiday 
gifts for families in need.The Grinch visits East Columbus Boys & 
Girls Club to spread holiday cheer.The annual Aflac Tower Lighting is a 
favorite holiday tradition for employees.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 47Purpose... with feathers 
Kyla Mims, daughter of Dedra and Anthony Mims
Alexandra Santos, Brand and Creative Services CoordinatorIsabel Dieguez, daughter of Renato and Lisette HerreraW.L. Amos Senior Dependent Scholarship
Paul S. Amos CSU Dependent Scholarship
Paul S. Amos CSU Tuition Reimbursement Paul S. Amos CSU Dependent ScholarshipKyla Mims is a 2018 graduate of Columbus High School and a freshman at Columbus State 
University, where she is a member of the Honors College and competitive pre-med program. 
In anticipation of one day attending medical school, Kyla’s mother says it is important to keep 
undergraduate costs at a minimum. “We applied for the Paul S. Amos Dependent Scholarship and 
the W.L. Amos Senior Scholarship in hopes of obtaining some financial relief. We were beyond 
excited to receive notification that our daughter had been awarded both scholarships! Although 
we applied for several local scholarships, the Aflac scholarships were the only two received. It was 
truly a blessing. Both scholarships helped tremendously in defraying costs not covered under the 
Zell Miller Scholarship. Words cannot express our sincere gratitude and appreciation to Aflac for 
investing in the future of not only their employees but their employees’ children. In our book, Aflac 
is simply the BEST!”
“My father joined the military at 17, fresh out of high school. Three daughters, multiple jobs, a dog, 
time and life got in the way of pursuing higher education. He always knew how crucial a college 
degree was, especially for women in the Hispanic culture. Eventually, in his mid-thirties, he went 
back to school. He became very ill and was not able to finish his four-year degree but did obtain 
a certificate. He always pushed me and made me promise that I would not only get a bachelor’s 
degree, but I would also get my master’s. I began my journey with Aflac right after college through 
the LeAP Program. Next year, I will obtain my MBA and I can’t put into words how thankful I am that 
Aflac has given me the chance to fulfil that promise to my dad. If it weren’t for this scholarship, I 
would not have been able to achieve one of my biggest goals. I feel extremely blessed that Aflac 
selected me for the reimbursement and I feel more empowered to be the best Aflac employee I 
can be.”“My wife and I have been working for Aflac for six and 33 years, respectively,” said Renato 
Herrera, father of Isabel. “Aflac has allowed us to grow in our careers but has also allowed 
us to have peace of mind with some important transitions we had as a family. When Isabel 
graduated from high school, Aflac provided the Paul S. Amos Scholarship. This scholarship 
gave Isabel the opportunity to pursue her education in graphic design and animation. Thank 
you, Aflac, for the opportunity to help our daughter make her dream come true. We feel proud 
and honored to be a part of this amazing company.” Scholarship Recipients Say…WORKPLACETaking Wellness to 
The Next LevelAbbie’s Wellness Journey
If asked to define employee wellness even 10 years 
ago, corporations may have mentioned on-site 
nurses or access to continuing education. Today, 
the definition of employee wellness is much more 
robust, and Aflac has kept pace by including a range 
of programs designed to support both physical and 
emotional health. 
By offering tools for financial wellness, mental health, 
healthy diet and exercise, mindfulness, sleep and 
stress management, Aflac has made employee 
well-being a strategic priority. Employees are taking 
advantage of the tools Aflac has to offer, making 
changes that make a difference both personally and 
professionally.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 48Purpose... with feathers 
While visiting the Aflac Care Center, I expressed frustration 
to Wendy Wall, NP , about my unsuccessful attempts to 
lose weight. I was constantly tired, experiencing back and 
leg pain, high blood pressure and a negative self-image. I 
felt there wasn’t anything I could do and had accepted that 
I wasn’t important to myself or others.
Wendy suggested blood work. We went over my numbers 
together and found my cholesterol and blood pressure 
were too high. If not addressed, I was going to have to go 
on medication. I broke down but Wendy assured me I was 
not alone. She reminded me that to instill healthy habits 
in my 4-year-old son meant having them myself. Left 
unchecked, health conditions would keep me from doing 
things with him in the future. That thought of not being 
able to do things with my son really clicked for me.
I adopted a low-carb lifestyle using an app called LoseIt. 
By cutting out unhealthy carbs and processed foods 
and drinks and increasing my water intake, I lost over 
85 pounds. My cholesterol is down and I’m off my blood 
pressure medication. I’ve come a long way in managing 
my relationship with food, learning portion control and 
meal prepping. At home and work, I’m more active, upbeat 
and focused.
I wouldn’t have been able to do this alone. My husband 
and son are so proud and continue to encourage me. 
Likewise, Wendy has been integral in my success. She is a 
wealth of encouragement, empowerment and helpful tips, 
which have made all the difference in the world.“I’ve made a conscious choice to 
take back my health and be aware of 
what I’m putting in my body for fuel.”
- Abbie HubbardWORKPLACE
Nurse Practitioner 
Wendy Wall helped Abbie 
Hubbard advance toward 
her wellness goals. 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 49Purpose... with feathers 
Some key 2018 wellness initiatives:
Aflac Care Centers on campuses nationwide saw more than 9,400 coaching, acute care and lab visits, which 
included approximately 1,200 employees receiving flu shots and another 123 employees receiving hearing tests. 
In addition to acute and preventive care, Aflac Care Centers offer blood pressure and weight checks, health 
coaching, certain cancer screenings, physical therapy, mental health support and no-cost labs and vaccinations, 
among other benefits. 
Aflac sports teams and several community gyms participated in the annual Fitness Fair , giving hundreds of 
employees access to information on exercise and activity opportunities. The Aflac Running Club, comprised of 
30+ employees, helped boost participation by offering free race entries to several runners.
More than 60 vendors and 700 Aflac employees participated in Health and Wellness fairs at Aflac locations 
throughout the country. 
Aflac’s wellness team performed more than 350 ergonomic evaluations of employee workspaces. Since the Aflac 
Ergonomics Program was started in 2015, we have seen a decrease in workers’ compensation claims — from an 
average of 40 annually to 20, which is a savings of more than $430,000. 
Safety training is provided annually to employees in positions of possible increased incidence, such as security 
and those working with machinery. Topics range from hearing conservation and incident report writing to  
hepatitis B and blood borne pathogens training as well as ergonomics and back safety. 
Brown Bag Sessions Special Day for Mammograms Men’s Health
Aflac Care Center nurse 
practitioners offered 65 brown 
bag sessions for employees 
throughout 2018, providing 
78 hours of teaching and 
awareness on a variety of 
health-related topics. A total 
of 571 employees participated 
in sessions, which spotlighted 
such topics as breast cancer, 
mental health awareness, the 
dangers of skin cancer and 
many more. More than 200 employees 
received free breast health 
screenings during the Special 
Day for Mammograms event 
hosted by Aflac Health Services, 
in partnership with St. Francis 
Center for Breast Health, 
Bridgeway Diagnostics and 
Columbus Regional Breast 
Care Center. Giveaways and 
special services were offered to 
employees who attended.November 2018 was reserved 
for Men’s Health awareness, with 
special attention on prostate cancer 
awareness. “Wear Blue Day” was 
promoted at all Aflac locations and 
helped raise awareness of prostate 
cancer by encouraging men to wear 
blue, snap a photo, and post it on the 
My Aflac Experience Facebook Page 
for the chance to win a prize. 
Twenty-six employees participated 
in the 2018 No Shave November 
beard contest for prostate cancer 
awareness, and approximately 60 
men had prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) blood testing at the Aflac Care 
Centers. This test, when conducted 
regularly, can help detect signs of 
prostate cancer in men.WORKPLACE2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 50Purpose... with feathers 
Supporting Diversity in Business
$20.5MM
Taylor CPA Firm: A Partner When It Counts
In 2013, Aflac signed a contract with Taylor CPA & Associates, PC 
(TCPA), a certified Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) offering audit 
and assurance services. Six years later, TCPA remains a valued 
Aflac partner. 
A full-service CPA firm with offices in Columbus and Atlanta, TCPA 
recently celebrated its 20th anniversary of providing assurance, 
tax, management consulting and risk advisory services to regional 
and national clients in both the publicly traded and private sector 
markets. The organization’s founder and managing shareholder, 
William A. Taylor, Jr., built the firm upon a commitment to hiring 
qualified individuals with diverse backgrounds. Professionals 
of African, Hispanic, Asian and Indian American descent are 
represented among the firm’s staff, of which 60% are female. True 
to Taylor’s original goal, the diversity represented in the firm fosters 
innovation and problem solving for its clients.
The Atlanta Tribune named TCPA 2018 Minority Business of the Year. The Greater Columbus Georgia Chamber of 
Commerce named TCPA a Small Business Giant, and Aflac named the firm Partner of the Year in Diversity for two years 
running.
Through personalized and cost-effective client services, TCPA strives to provide consistent resources to Aflac projects, 
to respect the Aflac culture, and to deliver efficient and effective services tailored to the company’s unique needs. TCPA 
fully integrates with Aflac’s Internal Audit Department to provide seamless execution of activities, and the firm constantly 
strives to deliver timely assistance and recommend relevant solutions and opportunities for improvement.
Because of TCPA’s success at Aflac, the firm has created more jobs for local Columbus talent. The dedicated group 
serving Aflac has doubled over the past six years and aptly demonstrated how a commitment to diversity can both serve 
our company and lift the community.
WORKPLACE
Diversity is key at Aflac partner, Taylor CPA & Associates, PC.63%37%~$13MM  to 
female-owned 
businesses
~$7.5MM  
to ethnic 
minority-owned 
businessesAflac’s commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity extends to the cultivation and growth of a diverse supply base. 
In 2018, Aflac spent $20.46 million with small and diverse suppliers, incr easing spend with ethnic minority-owned 
companies by 37% and female minority-owned businesses by 6.6%. 
To engage and support diversity of small business, Aflac continued its partnership with the University of Georgia’s 
Small Business Development Center  in our headquarters city of Columbus, Georgia. Last year, 41 individuals took 
part in 1,136 hours of training through the Center, which focuses on teaching valuable skills in business and strategic 
planning, market analysis and strategies, HR issues, finance, leadership and management, operations and cybersec urity.
102-9 102-3spent with small and 
diverse suppliers2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 51Purpose... with feathers WORKPLACE
 TOP PL ACES
& AGENCY ELI TEWORKTO
AWARDS
20182018 Awards and Honors
Fortune’s 100 Best 
Companies to 
Work For
Latino Leaders’ 
Best Employers for 
LatinosComparably’s 
Best Company 
Culture
Computerworld’s 
100 Best Places to 
Work in ITBlack Enterprise 
Magazine’s 50 
Best Companies 
for Diversity
PR News’ Top 
Places to Work 
in PRVault’s 50 Best 
Internship 
ProgramsLATINA Style’s  50 
Best Companies for 
Latinas to Work for 
in the U.S.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 52Philanthropy
“Expanding the Aflac Duck’s role to that
of a tangible companion through the cancer 
journey of brave and special patients is an 
inspirational story.”
— Kathelen Amos, The Aflac Foundation, Inc. President 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 53Purpose... with feathers 
 PHILANTHROPY
Catherine Hernandez-BladesSincerely, 
Message fromRecognizing the good in someone can be a defining moment. It can be 
the difference between an acquaintance and a dear friend, or one date 
and a 50-year wedding anniversary. 
Now more than ever before, people are turning their attention to the 
heart and conscience of the corporate world, seeking out socially 
responsible companies to define how they will spend their consumer 
and investment dollars — trying to find the same good they want to see 
in people in the corporations in which they do business.
Recognizing the good in Aflac takes no more than looking at our 
leadership, our employees and our rich history of being fair, ethical  
and having a positive influence on the people and communities  
around us. 
By reporting our corporate social responsibility initiatives and our 
environmental, social and governance metrics, we demonstrate to 
our current and potential stakeholders the good that we are doing. 
The story isn’t complete; however, without the faces and voices of the 
children, parents, caregivers and members of the Aflac team who are 
the force behind our philanthropic mission.
Contributing more than $133 million to pediatric cancer research, 
treatment and programs by the end of 2018 was a tremendous 
accomplishment. More tremendous still are the moments of joy created 
for children as they received the very first My Special Aflac Ducks  and 
the stories of how this new companion, designed especially for them, 
helped bring happiness and comfort as they braved long hospital stays 
and intensive treatment protocols. 
From helping provide care and comfort to childhood cancer patients to 
supporting charitable causes throughout local communities where our 
policyholders, employees and agents live and work, Aflac’s philanthropic efforts created many defining moments in 2018. 
We are pleased to be able to share them with you here.Catherine
Hernandez-Blades
Senior Vice President 
and Chief ESG and 
Communications Officer, 
Aflac 
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 54Aflac’s Cancer Story: The Aflac Childhood 
Cancer Campaign™
For 24 years, the Aflac family has been devoted to 
helping children with cancer, providing more than 
$133 million as of year-end 2018 toward research, 
treatment, programs and awareness for a disease 
that affects nearly 16,000 newly diagnosed children 
each year. Focusing our mission on cancer’s 
youngest patients began in 1995 with a $3 million 
commitment and the naming of the Aflac Cancer 
and Blood Disorders Center in Atlanta. Cancer, 
however, has been a part of Aflac’s story from the 
very beginning.
How we began
Aflac was founded more than 60 years ago by the 
Amos brothers — John, Paul and Bill — who lost 
their father to cancer. Among the first products we 
sold was cancer insurance, and since then, the 
company has paid out more than $13.7 billion in 
cancer claims. 
Aflac’s role as a supplemental insurance company allows us to help individuals during a critical time in their lives, but we 
don’t stop there. With each cancer claim, we learn valuable lessons about the disease — how patients are cared for and 
how treatment affects patients, families and even caregivers. We also learned that research and awareness for pediatric 
cancers are vastly underfunded. So, when the opportunity came in 1995 to do something more, Aflac did.
The Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, a part of the renowned Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, became Aflac’s 
North Star and the foundation on which we’ve built the Aflac Childhood Cancer Campaign. Individual contributions from 
Aflac employees and more than 16,000 agents licensed to sell Aflac products account for a great deal of the $133 million 
contributed to the cause. 
Kathelen Amos, President of The Aflac Foundation, Inc., believes one should never underestimate the huge impact that 
individual gifts, no matter how large or small, can make when they’re placed together for a good cause. 
“This has really become part of our culture,” she says. “Giving back resonated with a basic human need to be part of 
something that goes beyond yourself, to have a legacy that goes beyond what you can see and touch. It has had a 
transformational effect on the company.”
Bigger reach, bigger goals
For the Aflac Childhood Cancer Campaign, 2018 was a 
special year of excitement, growth and new beginnings. 
Throughout the year, the public overwhelmingly embraced 
the hashtag #Duckprints and Aflac’s pledge to donate $2 — 
up to $1.5 million — each time it was used on social media.
For the third year in a row, Aflac met its goal of donating to 
The Aflac Foundation, Inc. for pediatric cancer research and 
treatment. 
The annual Aflac Holiday Duck Campaign and a partnership 
with Macy’s to sell the traditional plush ducks allowed us 
to support 50 participating children’s cancer hospitals with 
net proceeds of the plush duck sales. Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals became one of the newest Aflac national 
partners, and the esteemed organization has allowed us to 
reach even more children and their families going through 
cancer journeys across the country.Purpose... with feathers 
 PHILANTHROPY
My Special Aflac Duck provides comfort to children with cancer.
Trystan Jackson’s eyes light up as she receives her very own My Special 
Aflac Duck in Columbia, South Carolina.
413-12018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 55A duck with a purpose
As exciting as all of that is, it was perhaps how 2018 and the Aflac Childhood Cancer Campaign quacked to life tha t 
made last year extra special. In January 2018, My Special Aflac Duck  was introduced to the world at the Consumer 
Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Nevada, garnering worldwide attention and accolades from the public and technology 
press. The debut generated more than 2 billion media impressions as millions of people were clearly intrigued and 
excited by a friendly feathered robot developed by Aflac to help bring joy and comfort to pediatric cancer patients. Time 
Magazine even named My Special Aflac Duck  among its best inventions in 2018. Why? Because children with cancer 
need more than medicine. 
Developed by Sproutel, an innovator of patient-centered products to improve positive health outcomes, this smart, 
comforting companion helps children feel less alone during their cancer treatment. The robotic duck uses interactive 
technology to emulate young patients’ moods. It helps teach childr en about their treatment and even has a port they can 
attach to its chest — so they can pretend to give their duck medicine as they receive their chemotherapy. It quacks and 
nuzzles to help comfort children with cancer, who spend countless hours in treatment and hospital beds. When children 
want to feed or bathe My Special Aflac Duck , they can do so through a free companion app and be entertained by their 
duck’s fun, interactive responses to eating and taking a bath.
From the moment childhood cancer became Aflac’s primary philanthropic focus, the Aflac family has played a role in 
supporting and championing these young patients. Little did one Aflac employee know , but her own daughter’s journey 
through cancer would play a part in the development of My Special Aflac Duck . 
When it hits home
For three years, Aflac employee Jocelyn Sanchez tried 
desperately to read between the lines of her daughter’s 
silence. 
“There were many times when she did not want to talk 
or communicate her feelings,” says Sanchez of now 
7-year-old Jiani, who at age 3 was diagnosed with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone 
marrow. 
She grew tired of the pokes and the questions, and 
instead of communicating with her health care team or 
family, Jiani became withdrawn. Jocelynn recalls wishing 
there was a way to help her daughter tell people how 
she felt. Little did she know, the company where she 
had worked for well over a decade was thinking the 
exact same thing.
Jiani’s treatment at the Aflac Cancer and Blood 
Disorders Center lasted three years and included oral, 
IV and injection chemotherapy, as well as countless 
spinal taps and antibiotics. She completed treatment in 
December 2017 but not before crossing paths with two 
special people, My Special Aflac Duck creators Aaron 
Horowitz and Hannah Chung. During one of several 
research visits to the hospital. Jiani gave some of the 
initial input for the feeling cards, or emojis, used with My 
Special Aflac Duck .
“There were some tough times, but through it all, she 
was a champion,” Sanchez says of her brave daughter, 
who continues to do well. Knowing tough times for other 
children with cancer may be made a little easier with 
the help of Aflac and My Special Aflac Duck  makes this 
mother very happy.
Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
Research with families like those of cancer patient Jiani Sanchez informed 
the design of My Special Aflac Duck. This was the question facing Aaron Horowitz and Hannah 
Chung, co-founders of the design company Sproutel, 
when they started collaborating with Aflac. The company 
wanted to give kids who may face years of isolation and 
overwhelming hospital stays a comforting companion who 
could stick by them all through treatment. 
Aflac’s iconic quacking symbol seemed like a natural object 
of affection. What Chung and Horowitz had to figure out 
was what exactly an animatronic duck could do to make life 
a little brighter for kids facing cancer. 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 56Inventing Joy: The My Special Aflac Duck  
Design Journey
How can a robotic duck help children with cancer?
Kids and Cancer
“Our process involves a lot of collaboration with kids,” says Horowitz, Sproutel CEO. The designers immersed themselves 
in the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, shadowing families as they went through various steps of treatment, as 
well as all the other experiences that shaped their day. 
They talked to children, parents, caregivers, nurses, doctors,  child life specialists and social workers. They looked on as 
patients as young as 3 years old coped with their treatment’s most challenging dimensions: chemotherapy, blood draws 
and the sheer exhaustion of living in a hospital environment. 
My Special Aflac Duck provides comfort and joy to children.
“I don’t think any of us really knew where we were going,” adds 
Horowitz. “And now the thought that these ducks are on their way to 
kids is just incredibly exciting.”Purpose... with feathers 
Comfort and Joy
Sproutel, launched in 2012, previously created Jerry the Bear, an acclaimed teddy-like pal for kids with diabetes. But this 
project felt different for its creators. “Emotionally, it’s the hardest design work I’ve ever done,” says Chung, Sproutel’s 
chief creative officer. “As researchers, you have to stay calm and objective, which isn’t always easy when dealing with 
children with cancer. It took a long time to process and synthesize what we were learning.” 
The designers created mock-ups and rough draft prototypes, including modifying Aflac’s existing holiday-themed 
plush duck with Bluetooth wireless technology. Horowitz stood outside children’s rooms and controlled the prototypes’ 
responses to play. These techniques allowed Chung and Horowitz to learn what worked and what did not. “Kids’ 
feedback changed everything along the way,” Horowitz says.
Through trial and error, the duck’s social skills continued to evolve. An early idea to allow two ducks in close proximity 
to “meet” survived as the designers observed frequent brief encounters between young patients. “Feelings cards” allow 
children to choose an emotional state for their duck — often one that reflects their own. Even concerns discussed with 
the hospital’s infection control staff were addressed. My Special Aflac Duck  has a patent-pending, removable outer cover 
that can easily be washed and dried. 
The designers knew they wanted to craft a responsive, interactive friend. With all of its innovation, the goal of My Special 
Aflac Duck  remains simple: to help provide comfort and joy to children with cancer. PHILANTHROPY2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 57Hospitals around the country began placing orders for My Special Aflac Duck  in September 2018, but not before Aflac 
held a very special duck delivery event at the very hospital wher e it all began: The Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders 
Center in Atlanta. By the time 2018 came to a close, 100 hospitals and childhood cancer car e facilities in the United 
States had ordered nearly 2,000 My Special Aflac Ducks  for children undergoing cancer treatment, and the number 
continues to grow each week. 
Children being treated at other hospitals around the country received their ducks during special delivery events, including 
Palmetto Health (now Prisma Health) in Columbia, South Carolina; MD Anderson Children’s Cancer Hospital in Houston; 
Children’s Hospital in New Orleans; Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tennessee; and 
Children’s Hospital and Medical Center in Omaha, Nebraska. 
In 2018, Aflac has invested more than $3 million toward the My Special Aflac Duck project. Aflac continues to provide 
these comforting companions to hospitals and children around the country free of charge. Purpose... with feathers 
 PHILANTHROPY
Dan Amos and other company executives ring the opening bell at the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange Sept. 10 with two Aflac Cancer Center patients, Emrie, 3, and T ripp, 8.Catherine Hernandez-Blades 
visits with Emrie Buchanan at 
the New York Stock Exchange.
Flying Into the Arms of Children
Child life professional Lindsay Carrick and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta 
patient play with My Special Aflac Duck.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 58Brian Penn is a vulnerability management consultant 
at Aflac and has been an employee for three years. In 
2014, he was reading Auburn University’s fan message 
board and saw a posting about a fellow fan’s nephew 
who was sick and whose family needed financial 
support. He reached out for more details and learned 
about Hayden Parker Qualls, an 8-year-old boy who 
had been diagnosed recently with leukemia. 
Instrumental in starting a GoFundMe site to help pay 
Hayden’s medical bills, Brian to date has helped raise 
more than $75,000. He has developed an ongoing 
friendship with Hayden, his father, Bryan, and sister, 
Bailey. Brian has visited Hayden at the Birmingham 
Children’s Hospital often. He also has actively shared 
Hayden’s story with others, including the Hudson 
Foundation, which was started by retired Major League 
Baseball and Auburn University baseball star Tim 
Hudson and his wife, Kim. Their mission is to identify 
areas of need in the community, including children and 
families in need of physical, emotional and/or financial 
assistance. 
Hayden is a huge Auburn Tigers fan, and because 
of Brian, he has received the VIP treatment from the 
Auburn Tigers, including tickets for his family to attend 
the SEC Championship, a signed jersey from Bo 
Jackson, an autograph from former Heisman winner 
Pat Sullivan and a personal call from football coach 
Gus Malzhan. This support has led to a community 
cheering Hayden on through his cancer journey, 
including four rounds of treatment and a bone marrow 
transplant — providing much needed emotional and 
financial support for a family during challenging times.Purpose... with feathers 
I did it for Hayden. It feels 
good to know that Aflac 
cares enough to honor 
their employees for doing 
something outside of their 
job role.” CSR HERO: Brian Penn
“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 59Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
Aflac and the Academy of Country Music celebrated the healing power of music by naming the first-ever r ecipient of the 
Aflac ACM Lifting Lives Honor. 
The Aflac Duck appeared in a 30-second custom TV commercial alongside country music superstar Chris Young and the 
recipient, Judith Pinkerton, and aired nationally during the 53rd ACM Awards. 
The Aflac ACM Lifting Lives Honor recognizes an individual who has made significant contributions to music therapy 
through education, service, clinical practice or research. It also acknowledges the individual’s long-standing efforts 
toward the development and growth of the music therapy profession.
As the official insurance provider for the Academy of Country Music Awards, Aflac joined ACM Lifting Lives for the 
presentation. ACM Lifting Lives is the Academy’s philanthropic arm dedicated to improving lives through the healing 
power of music. Changing Lives Through Music
Country music artists Chris Young and Chase Bryant bring joy to pediatric cancer patients at the Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at 
Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tennessee, by performing their favorite songs and introducing them to My Special Aflac Duck, a robotic companion 
designed to help children coping with cancer.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 60Lindsay Carrick, a child life professional at the 
Aflac Cancer & Blood Disorders Center, calls the 
opportunity to spend her days with children and 
families dealing with a serious illness a privilege. 
Carrick has been at the Center, a part of Children’s 
Healthcare of Atlanta, since January 2017.
Through the Association of Child Life Professionals, 
Aflac’s Social Purpose team has made connections 
with child life professionals across the country 
who are now using My Special Aflac Duck  to help 
childhood cancer patients cope during procedures 
and express their emotions.Purpose... with feathers 
It’s a privilege to be able 
to walk alongside patients 
on their cancer treatment 
journey, and to help patients 
and families build the 
coping skills needed to 
overcome the challenges 
associated with it.”CSR HERO: Lindsay Carrick
“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 61Tim Wakeman is a special projects coordinator and 
has been licensed to sell Aflac products for nine years. 
He volunteers with ROCA Kidz Club, a weekly after-
school program in Manchester, New Hampshire. The 
club provides a safe and fun environment for children 
and Tim has been involved with the organization since 
it was founded in 2011. Each Thursday night, he drives 
an hour each way to serve a hot meal for the children, 
oversee recreational activities and help them with their 
homework. The program ends with a positive message 
to the kids, many of whom have been directly affected 
by living in a city that is grappling with being ground 
zero for the national opioid crisis.*Purpose... with feathers 
I know a lot of these kids 
come with low self-esteem. 
They just feel hurt. They feel 
tired. They feel rejected.
We’re trying to encourage 
them and tell them that they 
are worth something.”CSR HERO: Tim Wakeman
“
*Center for Disease Control (CDC)2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 62Nanette Stark is a district sales coordinator in Los 
Angeles who has been licensed to sell Aflac products 
for 10 years. She is the daughter of Holocaust 
survivors who instilled in her a responsibility to give 
back. Homelessness has become a growing social 
issue in the Sherman Oaks, California, neighborhood, 
and in 2016, Nanette began hosting volunteer 
teambuilding sessions with fellow agents to make 
and deliver meals to the homeless. To date, they 
have made and delivered 1,000 lunches (250 at each 
quarterly event), along with hygiene kits and socks, for 
the homeless population. Purpose... with feathers 
To have created something 
like this where we’re able 
to give back, to know that 
my co-workers are proud, 
to know that my parents 
looking down are proud that 
we’re doing this, it means 
the world to me.”CSR HERO: Nanette Stark
“2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 63Aflac Employee Volunteers Making a Difference  
Michael Frank and Billy Edmundson gear up for Miracle Riders trip.
Purpose... with feathers 
Aflac employees are making a difference each and every day through volunteering. They don’t have to; they want to. 
Throughout 2018, employees helped build Habitat for Humanity homes, cared for homeless animals, read to the elderly, 
encouraged individuals with disabilities, delivered meals to shut-ins, mentored youth, rocked babies in the NICU and so 
much more. 
Reasons why Aflac employees choose to volunteer their time to causes in their communities may vary , but almost all 
possess the common thread of wanting to make a difference. PHILANTHROPY
Billy Edmundson recently celebrated 15 years with 
Aflac. The senior aviation maintenance technician 
enjoys his job of making sure company aircraft are 
in top shape at all times. The large aircraft he works 
on, however, are small in comparison to the passion 
he feels for the work of the Miracle Riders, a group 
of motorcycle riding enthusiasts that has raised more 
than $1 million for local children’s causes over the 
past eight years. Edmundson and Michael Frank , 
Aflac business analytics manager, took part in the 
group’s ninth annual motorcycle ride in September 
2018, bringing awareness and raising funds for 
charities that benefit children in the Columbus area.
Matthew Hammers , customer service specialist in 
Aflac’s Omaha office, says he volunteers not only 
to give a helping hand to those in need, but also 
because it builds character and teaches his children 
— ages 16, 14 and 1 — that having compassion for others is important. “The world seems to be full of so much negat ivity 
that even a little bit of ‘light’ goes a long way,” says Hammers. “I like to teach my kids to be the candle in a room full of 
darkness and to care about other people.” Hammers has helped build homes for Habitat for Humanity, coached baseball, 
served meals at a homeless shelter, played Santa Claus for underprivileged children and even shoveled snow for those 
who were unable to themselves. 
In 2018, 450 employees 
logged a total ofThis is an impressive
hours for volunteer work.in total hours logged over 
the previous year.15,35629%
increase
413-12018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 64Outstanding Volunteers 
of the YearPurpose... with feathers 
Aflac asks employees across the company to track and log 
volunteer hours each year. Employees logging the highest 
number of hours for 2018 were:
• Theresa Aderhold
• David Bailey
• Craig Boaz
• Michaela Coleson
• Lea Craig
• Sherricka Day
• Billy Edmundson
• Michael Frank
• Dianne Gleason 
• Kevin Murphy 
• Tara Rotthoff
• Mark Shreve
Each employee received a $1,500 donation made in their name 
to the charity of their choice.PHILANTHROPY
Aflac employees supported organizations ranging from Boy Scouts of America and Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals 
to the Humane Society and our beloved Aflac Cancer and Blood Disor ders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta.
Employees are able to select organizations that align with their personal passions to help make an impact on what 
matters most to them. 
Aflac leaders celebrated the 2018 Top-12 Outstanding Employee Volunteers, who give their time and talent unselfishly in big ways and small 
ways. These exemplary volunteers truly are the heartbeat of our Aflac family.The holidays at Aflac in Nebraska provided an extra dose of cheer as employees again hosted their annual holiday party 
for childhood cancer patients being treated at University of Nebraska Medical Center. Twenty-five employees and their 
families joined 20 patients and their families at the hospital for lunch, entertainment and fun. In pr eparation for the event, 
Aflac Call Center teams raised $2,800 through a variety of fundraisers, including baked goods and teddy bear-gram sales, 
employee jeans days and a Mexican fiesta lunch. Proceeds were used to purchase gifts for patients and their siblings, 
which were handed out during the party along with a 2018 Aflac Holiday Duck for all attendees. My Special Aflac Duck  
also made a surprise appearance. 
Omaha
Employees provided encouragement and animal 
“quackers” — aka crackers — to walkers participating 
in the 2018 March for Babies Walk in Omaha 
benefiting March of Dimes. Several employees 
enjoyed the brisk spring morning walking the route 
with their families, as well.
Leaders from the Call Center and Human Resources 
spent time at the Food Bank of the Heartland, where 
they packaged weekend lunches to be distributed to 
children in need. The citywide effort sponsored by the 
Omaha Chamber of Commerce was part of Omaha’s 
Day of Impact. 
Omaha employees join the March for Babies Walk.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 65Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
Employees kick in to spread holiday cheer for children with cancer at the 
University of Nebraska Medical Center. Employees Giving Back2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 66Aflac Group
Employees at Aflac Group in Columbia, South Carolina, 
logged more than 400 hours of volunteering in 2018 and 
ended the year with a December Volunteer Fair on campus, 
during which they visited with representatives from area 
nonprofits and learned even more ways to share their time 
and talents. 
Throughout 2018, Group employees donated hundreds of 
items for the Salvation Army’s Back to School drive, stockings 
for the Salvation Army at Christmas, and gave blood 
donations to the American Red Cross. 
In addition to raising money, employees lent muscle to the 
Curing Kids Cancer cause when they participated in the 
Firetruck Pull fundraiser in April.
Albany, New York
Employee participation in the Aflac Albany Charity Challenge 
program grew in 2018. Each year, community service 
volunteers in the New York office design a series of games 
that both in-house and telecommuting employees can 
participate in to win donation dollars for the charity of their 
choice.
Also in 2018, the Workforce Team Challenge proved popular 
once again, as teams of co-workers from across the Capital 
District competed in a run for local charities. Employee teams 
also helped with the Making Strides Walk and represented 
Aflac at both the Light the Night and Walk to End Alzheimer’s 
events. 
During the holiday season, employees donated gifts to 
the Adopt a Family program run by the Albany County 
Department of Youth and Family Services and collected 
nonperishable food items for the Regional Foodbank of 
Northeastern New York’s Holiday Hunger Appeal. They 
wrapped up the holidays by raising money and wrapping gifts 
at local malls to support the Wrapping Up Cancer program.Washington, D.C.
In summer 2018, the Aflac Federal Relations team 
in Washington, D.C., sponsored the March of Dimes 
Gourmet Gala. This reception-style tasting event 
featured approximately 50 members of Congress 
as chefs. More than 750 attendees and raised $1.2 
million toward March of Dimes’ mission to improve the 
health of babies by preventing birth defects, premature 
birth and infant mortality. As a sponsor, the Aflac 
Federal Relations team served as sous chefs to three 
members of Congress and presented an award to the 
congresswoman who won the healthiest recipe award. 
Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
Employees in South Carolina put muscle into their giving for area charities.
Employees in New York state capital, Albany, work with various charities 
to help make a difference in the community.Aflac SVP , Federal Relations, Brad Knox (r) with Senator Tim Scott from South 
Carolina at the March of Dimes Gourmet Gala, which raised $1.2 million to 
improve the health of babies.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 67While the ways they chose to use volunteer time varied somewhat at each Aflac location, employees acr oss the U.S. took 
the opportunity to help build hope and decent housing for families in need by working with Habitat for Humanity . More 
than 200 employees throughout the Aflac family in Columbus, Georgia; Columbia, South Carolina; Omaha, Nebraska; and 
Albany, New York, worked on homes sponsored by Aflac in 2018. Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
Employees Help Build Hope and Homes with 
Habitat for Humanity
CES Innovation Awards: 
Tech For a Better WorldCES Showstoppers Best in 
Robotics and DronesEngadget Best of CES: Best 
Unexpected Product
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 68Purpose... with feathers PHILANTHROPY
2018 Awards and Honors
The Holmes Report’s 
North America 
SABRE Awards
American Business 
Awards’ Gold StevieAmerican Business 
Awards’ Silver StevieThe Holmes 
Report’s Global 
SABRE Awards 
PR News CSR 
Awards
Time Magazine’s  
Best InventionsPRSA’s Silver 
Anvil Awards
PRSA Phoenix 
AwardsPR News Platinum PR 
Awards
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 69“Environment
Being a conscientious member of our
ecosystem requires a companywide effort
to be responsible and accountable.”
— Alfred Blackmar, Vice President and Employee 
Green Committee Chairman, Aflac U.S.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 70Purpose... with feathers 
 ENVIRONMENT
Alfred BlackmarSincerely, 
Message fromEnvironmental stewardship is an important component to Aflac’s 
leadership in corporate social responsibility, as our efforts to limit the 
company’s carbon footprint impacts Aflac’s reputation and, in turn, 
company success. 
From the materials we use in our daily operations to the construction 
and management of our facilities, we carefully consider the 
environmental impact of our actions — not only today, but in the years 
to come. Our ultimate goal is to help make our communities, our cities 
and even our planet a better place.
Now more than ever, businesses look to do business with other 
companies that reflect their values, and consumers come to expect 
preventative and proactive methods that leave the world better than we 
found it.
Our promise to the businesses and policyholders that work with Aflac: 
we will be good community partners and stewards of the land so you 
can feel good about doing business with us. 
I invite you to learn more about Aflac’s focus on environmental 
measures in this chapter, including our goals, education and actions 
that have earned our company recognition for our best practices. Alfred Blackmar, 
Vice President of Facilities, 
Aflac U.S.
102-14The Aflac Board of Directors’ Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee leads green efforts according 
to the Aflac SmartGreen® philosophy: to wisely choose, use and dispose of the resources we use each day and focus 
these actions in five categories:
Our goal is to reduce our carbon emissions by 75% by 2030. Since 2007, Aflac has increased its square footage by 
more than 10% while consistently lessening our carbon footprint. To date, Aflac has reduced Scope I and II emissions 
for a combined reduction of 61%. 
Aflac has earned ENERGY STAR recognition for 80% of all eligible corporate property, including the building that 
houses our data center. Since 2007, Aflac’s Energy Star score has increased 56%, and facilities perform in the top 
25% of similar facilities nationwide. Aflac’s Data Center was the 10th data center in the U.S. to earn Energy Star 
certification.
Aflac followed the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED for Commercial Interiors guidance in the renovation of a five-
story main campus building and received gold-level certification upon completion.Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 71
Business 
OperationsFacilities 
ManagementWaste 
ManagementEmployee 
EngagementStrategic Sourcing 
and ProcurementProtecting Our PlanetENVIRONMENT
302-42018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 72Purpose... with feathers ENVIRONMENT
Reducing Our Footprint
Aflac is the first insurance company in the United States to be ISO 50001:2001 Ener gy Management System registered, 
which represents the latest best practices in energy management. Aflac met the criteria through implementing energy-
saving measures to new and existing buildings. In 2017, Aflac installed 500 solar panels to one of its buildings in 
Columbus, Georgia. This solar array produces 15% of the building’s energy needs, while creating an opportunity to sell 
surplus power created over the weekends back to the energy grid. 
ISO Certification — Much More Than Numbers
In 2018, Aflac received ISO (International Organization on Standardization) 14001:2015 certification in environmental 
management at its headquarters facilities in Columbus, Georgia. The certification covers Aflac’s environmental planning 
for support services, strategic sourcing and procurement, information technology, facilities, transportation and corporate 
aviation. 
The recent accreditation complements Aflac’s certification for outstanding energy efficiency planning, an ISO 50001:2011 
certification Aflac has held since 2013. ISO 14001 certified companies have adopted pr oven environmentally responsible 
practices and conserve resources throughout their business processes. They must also monitor and continually improve 
their performance.ISO 14001:2015Aflac installed an array of 500 solar panels on top of one of its buildings in Columbus, Georgia, which saves energy and pr ovides cost-savings to the company.Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 73Aflac received ISO 50001:2011 certification in July 2013 after meeting seven major components of a sustainable 
corporate energy management system. In 2014, Aflac became the first insurance company in the United States to be 
ISO 50001 Energy Management System registered. As a result of implementing cultural changes, tracking program 
success, and planning and achieving targets and goals, a surveillance audit of the system completed in April 2018 
reported zero nonconformance or management issues, and certification was extended.ISO 50001:2011Sustaining Our Environment
ENVIRONMENT
“The importance of sustainability for both Aflac and the 
communities where our employees live and work is paramount in 
our corporate planning,” said Blackmar.“Finding more efficient use of resources and reducing waste allow Aflac to gain not only a competitive, cost-saving 
advantage in our day-to-day operations, but also the trust of our stakeholders as they recognize our strong commitment 
to minimizing our environmental footprint,”said Alfred Blackmar, vice president of facilities support for Aflac U.S.
Key measurements of the ISO certifications include increased prominence of environmental management within the 
organization’s strategic planning processes, greater input from leadership, a stronger commitment to proactive initiatives 
that boost environmental performance, and the development and continual improvement of an energy management 
system.
Aflac’s environmental and energy management plans include controlling greenhouse gas emissions, while supporting and 
promoting a robust recycling program for employees.Reducing Waste 
and RecyclingPurpose... with feathers 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 74The majority of Aflac’s marketing materials and other 
mass-produced literature is printed on paper certified 
by the Forest Stewardship Council, but increased 
reliance on electronic-based transactions also has 
delivered significant environmental and cost-saving 
impact. Using Everwell, our proprietary online 
enrollment tool, we continue to increase the number 
of new accounts processed digitally. The switch from 
paper to electronic transactions also saves on costs 
of photocopier toner, printer ink and postage — not to 
mention using less storage and filing space — proving 
how going green can actually save the company some 
green, as well.
In Aflac’s on-site cafeteria, an ORCA food digester 
turns food waste into grey water, which can be 
disposed of through the city sewage system. The food 
digester diverts 25,000-30,000 pounds of food waste 
from the landfill each year. 
To further put things into perspective, 
for the Columbus, Georgia, campus 
alone, Aflac recycles:What’s Old is New Again
Part of a being a sustainability-conscious corporation 
means keeping an eye on the trash — literally. 
Recycling is ingrained in Aflac’s culture, and these 
efforts tallied up to 63% — or approximately 1 million 
pounds — of our solid waste being diverted from the 
landfill in 2018.
In addition to paper and cardboard, Aflac also 
recycles:
• Newspaper.
• Fluorescent lamps.
• Toner and ink jet cartridges.
• Microfilm and recording tape.
• Ceiling tiles.
• Computer equipment.
• Pallets.
• Plastic bottles.
• Aluminum.
• Copper.
• Steel.
• Iron.
• Batteries.
• Carpet.
• Polystyrene.
Thankfully, a good bit of what we no longer need 
finds a new, useful life through collaboration with 
companies that help Aflac stay true to its green 
commitment.
Through a partnership with Dart Corporation, 
Aflac’s used No. 6 foam food containers, including 
cups, plates, bowls and boxes with hinged lids, 
are condensed and remade into new products like 
CD jewel cases, rulers and landscaping material. 
Since the program started, Aflac has recycled more 
than 15,000 pounds of condensed polystyrene food 
containers.NEARLY 1 MILLION 
POUNDS OF 
PAPER100,000 POUNDS 
OF CARDBOARD
306-2Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 75
ENVIRONMENT
From e-Trash to Treasure
What do a field trip, cellphones and philanthropy 
have in common? Each is an important chapter 
in the story of how one Aflac employee’s desire 
to give back turned into a business decision that 
continues to make an impact over a decade later.
It was during a team-building field trip to the Aflac 
Cancer and Blood Disorders Center in late 2007 
that Strategic Sourcing Consultant David Glover 
began thinking about how he could help make a 
difference in the lives of the children and families 
he met on the hospital floor that day. 
“It was the first time I had toured the facility, 
and seeing what the children and their families 
go through, I kept thinking, ‘Wow, what if that 
was my child?’” recalled Glover of the tour he 
took with about 15 of his colleagues from the 
department now known as Strategic Sourcing and 
Procurement. The Columbus father of five came 
home with not only an increased sense of pride 
in Aflac’s commitment to helping children with 
cancer, but also a yearning to do even more. 
Because he worked with Aflac’s wireless contracts, Glover knew there was a need to find a better way to recycle 
company-issued cellphones when it came time for upgrades. Why not, he thought, find a r ecycling company that would 
donate to charity in return for the outdated equipment? 
Glover’s idea was put into motion, and starting in January 2008, each time employee cellphones were upgraded, the old 
ones were sent to Phones 4 Charity, which in turn gave a donation to the Aflac Cancer Center on Aflac’s behalf — with 
the donations totaling over $14,500 in the first six years.
Then, in an effort to increase information security and decrease Aflac’s environmental footprint even more, the phone 
recycling partnership was moved to e-Cycle in 2014.
Donations to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center continue, but e-Cycle goes further and destroys sensitive 
data by micro shredding the phones’ information storage components and shredding the device itself in an e-Stewards-
certified, EPA-registered facility. The then-clean e-trash is repurposed. According to the e-Cycle Foundation, its zero-
landfill policy for all commercial material has kept more than 550,000 pounds of toxic electronic waste out of landfills, 
greatly reducing unnecessary carbon emissions and energy waste. 
Since Glover’s phone recycling idea became reality, the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center has received more than 
$39,900 to support the top needs of pediatric cancer patients in their car e — $13,400 of that in 2018 alone — proving 
once again that being green can put more green where it really matters.Aflac partner e-Cycle has kept more than 550,000 pounds of toxic electronic waste out 
of landfills.
“This program is a win across the board, helping 
children while protecting the environment and 
the company,” said Glover. 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 76Sharon Baker works in Policy Service and has been an 
Aflac employee for more than 20 years. She has served 
as the volunteer chair of Aflac’s green event committee 
since 2017. Sharon and the committee are responsible 
for all programming around Aflac’s annual Earth Day 
event each April, which includes an educational forum 
and celebration to inform employees of ways to 
incorporate sustainability into their everyday activities. 
Aflac’s Greenbassadors volunteer program launched 
in 2017 and has more than 60 volunteers who work 
across the company’s locations to make a positive 
difference. With Sharon’s leadership, they organize 
employee events like tree plantings, river cleanups and 
partnerships with organizations like Keep Columbus 
Beautiful.
Sharon’s interest in the environment began when 
she learned about Aflac’s efforts and the impact the 
company’s recycling and natural resource conservation 
efforts have had on the environment. Now she is an 
avid champion for recycling and waste diversion from 
landfills and enjoys sharing what she’s learned with 
fellow employees while brainstorming on ways to make 
a difference. Purpose... with feathers 
You have the power. 
When it comes to the 
environment, it only takes 
one commitment to a habit 
and to stick to it. Once 
you do that, you see the 
progress, and if everyone 
did that, we’d have a 
better world.”CSR HERO: Sharon Baker
“ENVIRONMENTEngaging Employees: Take Only Memories, Leave 
Only Duckprints 
To engage employees in green education and bring greater awareness to companywide sustainability activities, Aflac’s 
grassroots sustainability campaign “Take only memories, leave only duckprints” continued throughout 2018. Employee 
Communications shared videos highlighting and documenting key green activities, such as Earth Day, recycling initiatives, 
awards and recognitions Aflac received for its environmental efforts. 
An extensive network of more than 60 employees — aka Aflac Greenbassadors — are tasked with supporting Aflac’s 
green goals, coordinating events and offering program communications support to business departments. The Green 
Committee also serves as key support during the annual e-waste recycling event and the Earth Day vendor fair, both 
opportunities encourage employees to think green not just at work, but at home, as well. Purpose... with feathers 
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 77
Employees Go Green
Arbor Day Tree 
GiveawayKeep Columbus 
Beautiful Shoe DriveHelp the HoochE-waste events/  
E-stewards programShredding events
Aflac partnered with 
Trees Columbus and 
the National Arbor Day 
Foundation to give 
away more than 900 
trees to employees. Aflac staff diverted 
more than 1,300 
pounds of waste from 
the landfill by donating 
883 pairs of gently 
used shoes during 
this community event 
supporting the Keep 
Columbus Beautiful 
initiative.Many Aflac employees 
and family members 
collected litter along 
the banks of the 
Chattahoochee River 
as part of the October 
2018 Help the Hooch 
annual cleanup in 
Columbus.Aflac held two electronic 
recycling drives to divert 
local and company 
electronic waste to 
proper recycling facilities. Held biannually in 
2018, these shredding 
events allowed 
employees to discard 
confidential paperwork 
from home and work 
safely. Materials are 
then recycled. ENVIRONMENT2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 78
“Aflac Japan
Aflac Japan’s CSR activities are based on the 
concept of creating shared value. Taking advantage 
of our strength as an insurance company that has 
been selling cancer insurance for more than four 
decades in Japan, we are strategically working in 
areas where we can achieve synergies with our 
core business.”
— Takashi Osako, Senior Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility,
Aflac Life Insurance Japan2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 79Purpose... with feathers 
 AFLAC JAPAN
Takashi OsakoSincerely, 
Message fromFor 44 years, Aflac has been conducting business in Japan. While we 
have been honored to serve Japanese families and individuals during 
this time, Aflac and our employees also have had the privilege to be 
of service to communities through various alliances, programs and 
sustainability efforts. That’s because corporate social responsibility is, 
and always has been, part of Aflac’s culture.
Corporate social responsibility is an integral part of the way we do 
business. We truly care about people, society and the environment, and 
we want to make a positive impact throughout Japan. On the pages 
that follow, we share more about our commitment, our community 
outreach, and business practice improvements and how they are 
making a difference. You’ll see our purpose in action. 
You’ll discover how we have worked with other entities to empower 
women and ensure diversity and diverse talents are valued in the 
workplace. You’ll learn how Aflac Japan is increasing awareness of 
childhood cancer and helping those who have been affected by cancer . 
You’ll also read about some of the measures we’ve taken to reduce our 
energy consumption and expand upon our sustainability efforts. 
Not only am I proud of the work Aflac Japan has done, but I am 
also inspired. I hope you will be too by the initiatives captured in the 
following chapter. Takashi Osako
Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
102-142018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 80Purpose... with feathers 
Keeping Aflac’s Promise in Japan
Women in the Workplace
Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe first launched a national call to action to pr omote more women into leadership 
positions at companies in Japan in 2013. The campaign, referred to as “Womenomics,” encourages and empowers 
women to stay and advance in the workplace. The campaign requires public and private firms with more than 300 
employees to set and disclose diversity targets and reveal a wealth of other gender data, including hours worked, 
duration of employment and the ratio of men to women in management, all aimed at expanding opportunities for women 
in the workplace. 
For Aflac,  Prime Minister Abe’s Womenomics reaffirmed our position that female leaders should be celebrated 
and have equal opportunities for promotions.
In fact, at its inception in 1974, nine of the 16 founding members of Aflac Japan wer e women. Twenty years later, Aflac 
became the first life insurance company in Japan to name a woman to an executive management position. Since then,  
the company’s executive management team has consistently included women, all promoted from within. Today, six 
women serve as members of Aflac Japan’s executive management team, and two of those officers also serve on Aflac 
Japan’s eight-member board of directors. 
In 2014, in response to Prime Minister Abe’s call to action, Aflac Japan launched its Women’s Empowerment Program. 
This has successfully helped raise the percentage of women in leadership positions from 17.5% in 2014 to 28.9% as of 
September 2018. By 2020, Aflac Japan’s goal is to achieve 30% female leadership at the company through six areas 
of focus. These are top-down commitments from Aflac leaders: enhancing the diversity promotion framework, ensuring 
management accountability, developing training resources for women, encouraging diverse work styles, and applying 
operational evaluation and process visibility. 
The company’s efforts have been noticed. 
To date, Aflac Japan has received several 
accolades and has been involved in 
numerous initiatives:
Aflac Japan received the Gender Equality 
Bureau Cabinet Office’s Minister of State for 
Gender Equality Award  in fiscal year 2018. 
Established in 2014, this award commends 
companies that lead in empowering women 
in the workplace with a view toward 
promoting environments where women can 
succeed. The award honors companies that 
have made prominent policy contributions 
and efforts to promote women to officer and 
managerial positions and that disclose such 
information.
Aflac Japan received a Minister’s Prize 
for Equal Employment/Work and Family 
Harmonization Excellence Award  in the 
Family-Friendly Enterprises category in 
fiscal year 2018. This award, sponsored 
by the Ministry of Health, Labour and 
Welfare, is given to companies making active efforts to promote female workers and with robust frameworks to support 
harmonization of work, child-rearing and nursing.
Aflac Japan received the highest-level Eruboshi certification  in recognition of its efforts to promote the active 
participation of female employees. Based on the Act to Promote the Active Participation of Women in the Workplace 
established April 1, 2016, the Eruboshi certification system evaluates companies’ plans in this ar ea and awards one of 
three levels of certification.AFLAC JAPAN
Aflac Japan is a leader in welcoming women to its ranks.
405-012018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 81Purpose... with feathers AFLAC JAPAN
Charles Lake 
honored with Order 
of the Rising Sun, 
Gold Rays with Neck 
Ribbon
Aflac Japan Wins Nadeshiko Brand InitiativeThe Japanese government selected Charles Lake, 
president of Aflac International; chairman and 
representative director of Aflac Life Insurance Japan, 
to receive one of its highest awards, the Order of the 
Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon.
Established in 1875 and awarded by the Emperor 
of Japan to those who have made distinguished 
achievements in their respective fields, it is 
comparable to the U.S. Presidential Medal of 
Freedom.  
The Japanese government decorated Charles for 
his contributions to both the development of the 
insurance and financial services industries and 
strengthening economic relations with and friendship 
and goodwill between Japan and the United States.
The Nadeshiko Brand is an initiative that the Ministry of Economy , Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock 
Exchange (TSE) have jointly undertaken to select and publicize outstanding enterprises that encourage women’ s success 
in the workplace since its inauguration in the 2012 fiscal year.  
Through this program, METI and TSE introduce certain TSE-listed enterprises that are outstanding in terms of encouraging 
the empowerment of women in the workplace as attractive stocks to investors who are looking for improvement in 
corporate value in the mid- and long term, thereby promoting investment in such enterprises and accelerating efforts to 
encourage women’s success in the workplace.   
Nadeshiko Brand enterprises are selected from 27 industrial classifications. Aflac Incorporated has been selected among 
companies in the Insurance and Other Financing Business classification. 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 82Purpose... with feathers AFLAC JAPAN
2018 Awards and Honors
The Minister of State for Gender Equality 
Award honors companies that have 
made prominent contributions in the 
advancement of women in the workplace. 
It was established by the Gender Equality 
Bureau Cabinet Office to improve and 
promote worksite environments where 
women can be successful.
Aflac Japan demonstrated support 
for employee work-life balance 
by joining the Japan Ikuboss* 
Declaration Project, which is 
supported by the Ministry of 
Health, Labor and Welfare. 
*An “Ikuboss” is a manager who values and supports employees’ 
work-life balance as vital to career and personal growth.The Nikkei Dual Ranking 
recognizes companies that 
support the child-rearing efforts 
of dual-income couples.The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 
recognizes companies for its work-life 
balance programs in the workplace.Aflac Japan received the highest-
level Eruboshi certification in 
recognition of its efforts to promote 
the active participation of female 
employees, based on the Act to 
Promote the Active Participation of 
Women in the Workplace.This special diversity award 
honors management’s 
commitment to promoting 
women in leadership, engaging 
all levels of the company in 
meaningful efforts to advance 
women and enhance the 
business culture. Eruboshi 
certificationJapan Women’s 
Innovative Network
Japan Ikuboss 
Declaration ProjectThe Nikkei 
Dual RankingGender Equality Bureau Cabinet 
Office’s Minister of State for 
Gender Equality Award
Minister’s Prize for Equal 
Employment/Work and Family 
Harmonization Excellence Award
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 83Aflac strives to provide not only peace of mind 
for its policyholders, but also compassionate help 
to employees. Aflac Japan pioneered a volunteer 
community called All Ribbons  that consists of 
employees who experienced cancer. At All Ribbons, 
members provide support to their colleagues battling 
cancer and struggling to balance treatment and work 
by leveraging their own unique experiences and 
by presenting opportunities, such as archiving and 
posting of “Experiences for Cancer/Job Balancing 
Talks” or “Employee Consulting Services.”
Emiri Tsuji , who works in Aflac’s Shop Support 
Section, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 
September 2016. Tsuji shared, “Aflac has various 
work and leave systems that can be flexibly utilized to 
cope with cancer treatment. After my diagnosis, my 
supervisor advised me again and again how I could 
make the most of such systems in order to minimize 
the physical burden and to continue my job. As a 
result, I could balance the cancer treatment and my job 
by working from home, working part time and working 
flexible shifts. I deeply appreciated this, and as a way 
of showing how grateful I am, I joined All Ribbons in 
April 2018 to share my personal experience.”
Looking back, she says she feels receiving empathetic 
support from her boss and the company truly helped 
her get back on her feet and back in the office.
All Ribbons  is a unique and compassionate Aflac 
initiative that currently consists of more than 20 
employees who volunteered to join the group after 
experiencing cancer. Through All Ribbons, members 
offer a support system to fellow employees during 
their cancer journey, with the goal of creating an 
environment that balances cancer treatment and work 
while also supporting the development of products 
and services that leverage the experiences of cancer 
treatment.Purpose... with feathers 
Members of All Ribbons 
guide employees with cancer 
to available resources to 
help balance personal and 
professional lives.CSR HEROES: Japan2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 84Purpose... with feathers 
The Aflac Global Diversity Conference was held 
Nov. 15, 2018, in Tokyo as a part of promoting 
diversity with the purpose of nurturing a corporate 
culture where diverse talents can be successful. 
About 500 U.S. and Japan employees, officers and 
directors attended the conference. The keynote 
speech by an outside expert was on the theme 
of diversity, and U.S. and Japan officers held a 
panel discussion. After that, they made their own 
action declaration during a group discussion by the 
participants. 
Since 2016, Aflac has sponsored the annual 
Ethisphere, Business Ethics Leadership Alliance 
roundtable in Tokyo, where ethics leaders from 
companies across Japan gather to discuss the 
latest trends and best practices in business ethics. 
In April 2017, Aflac Japan embraced the action 
declaration of Male Leaders Accelerating 
Women’s Empowerment expressing male leaders’ 
support of women in the workplace. In pursuing 
this declaration, Aflac Japan’s management 
members visited operation bases nationwide and 
held discussions directly with employees about 
women’s empowerment. 
In 2017, Aflac Japan demonstrated support for employee work-life balance by joining the Japan Ikuboss* Declaratio n 
Project, supported by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and by joining the Alliance of Ikuboss Companies, 
established by nonprofit Fathering Japan. 
The Aflac Global Diversity Conference 2018 was held as part of Aflac Japan’s efforts to 
nurture diversity in the Japanese workplace.
AFLAC JAPAN
Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos 
addresses audience at 2018 Aflac Global 
Diversity ConferenceAflac Life Insurance Japan President 
Masatoshi Koide spearheads Aflac’s Global 
Diversity Conference.Aflac U.S. Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer Thomas McDaniel and 
Aflac Japan Senior Vice President  and General Counsel Andrew Conrad present Aflac’s 
position on maintaining a world-class ethics program in an international environment 
with Ethisphere EVP Stefan Linssen.
Employee work-life balance is a key component 
of Aflac Japan’s commitment to families. Diversity and Ethics Go Hand in Hand2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 85Purpose... with feathers 
A Commitment to End Childhood Cancer
Raising Funds and AwarenessThe Aflac Parents House
Part of being a well-respected and trusted company includes 
being a compassionate company. Aflac Japan recognizes social 
responsibility as an important element of its purpose, and it 
cares deeply about its communities. When a child is diagnosed 
with cancer or other serious medical conditions, he or she often 
must travel to Tokyo or Osaka from other parts of Japan to 
receive ongoing treatment.
To provide assistance to those facing this struggle, the first 
Aflac Parents House was established in 2001 through a 
donation from Aflac Japan. The Aflac Parents House is a 
home away from home where pediatric patients and their 
families can live together temporarily in clean and comfortable 
accommodations. It also serves as a comprehensive support 
center for consultation and events related to pediatric 
cancer. Supported by generous donations from Aflac Japan’s 
sales agents, employees and officers, three Parents House 
locations—two in Tokyo and one in Osaka—have benefited 
more than 130,000 people, including children battling serious 
diseases and their family members who support them.
Aflac Parents Houses proudly host families 
in need, providing a bit of comfort to 
children and families.
Aflac’s Classic Charity Concert draws hundreds of attendees to 
Tokyo Opera City with proceeds benefiting hospitals, research and 
childhood cancer support groups.The Gold Ribbon Campaign originated in the U.S. to help promote 
childhood cancer awareness and raise funds for pediatric cancer 
research. Now, Aflac Japan friends have adopted the same spirit. 
AFLAC JAPAN
413-12018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 86Purpose... with feathers 
Scholarships for Childhood Cancer Survivors and 
Children of Cancer Patients
Cancer Awareness and PreventionThe Aflac Scholarship Fund for Childhood Cancer Survivors and Childr en of Cancer Victims was established to provide 
financial assistance to high school students who have lost a parent to cancer. The program distributes funds to recipients 
who meet a specified level of academic achievement to assist with educational and living expenses until high school 
graduation. 
Aflac Japan is proud to have awarded this scholarship to more than 2,600 students.
Aflac Japan’s partnerships with national and local 
governments and organizations reinforce its dedication 
and commitment to helping communities. Through these 
alliances, Aflac Japan increases cancer awareness, 
promotes early detection and provides education to the 
public on prevention and treatment. 
Since 1999, Aflac Japan has been hosting a Classic 
Charity Concert to support children affected by childhood 
cancer and their families. Held in Tokyo every year, 
this event features an array of talented entertainers. 
In exchange for their generosity, patrons who make 
a donation at the concert receive a plush Aflac duck 
as a small token of gratitude. In 2018, nearly 1,200 
people attended the concert and approximately $7,300 
(approximately ¥800,000) was raised, all of which was 
used to fund hospitals, research efforts and childhood 
cancer support groups. 
Since 2006, Aflac Japan has supported Gold Ribbon 
Activities to raise awareness about children facing 
pediatric cancer and to contribute to treatment 
improvements through an annual walking event and 
donations. Through its engagement in Gold Ribbon 
Activities, Aflac Japan has broadened the support circle 
for children facing cancer. 
Since 2007, an annual walking event has raised 
awareness and provided support for children with cancer. 
In April 2018, approximately 4,000 people took part in 
the event, which was held at Odaiba Symbol Promenade 
Park in Koto City, Tokyo.
Aflac Japan has also conducted cancer awareness 
education in elementary schools, junior high schools and 
high schools nationwide to share knowledge related to 
cancer and deepen understanding of cancer patients. The first education session on cancer was held in 
December 2018 at a junior high school in Chofu City. The 
lecturer of this special class was Toru Kishida from NPO 
Cancer Notes. Kishida, a survivor, had developed cancer 
in his entire body at the age of 25. To all the students 
who gathered in the gymnasium, Kishida strongly 
communicated the importance of “living positively in your 
own way regardless of what happens” and talked about 
his experience of fighting against cancer.
This cancer education class had a ripple effect, extending 
to the families of the students. A survey conducted 
with the students and their families after Kishida’s 
class showed families developed deeper awareness 
and understanding of cancer, as well as realized the 
importance of cancer screening.AFLAC JAPAN
Aflac Japan is proud to be the primary sponsor of “Gold Ribbon Walking” 
events that raise awareness for childhood cancer, bringing together a small 
community in a big way.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 87Purpose... with feathers 
Engaged in the Community
Aflac Japan remains dedicated to giving back to the community. Since 1993, Aflac Japan employees have devoted 
time and personal resources to various charitable activities. One such charity is the One Hundred Club, through which 
the company matches contributions of employees. Funds are allocated to the Parents House, Gold Ribbon Campaign 
support groups, and global and environmental organizations. 
Approximately 80% of Aflac Japan employees participate in the One Hundred Club, with about $446,000 (¥49 million) 
donated in 2018. 
In addition, Aflac Japan employees and agents selflessly give their time thr ough various volunteer initiatives. Aflac 
Japan has participated in blood drives since the 1995 Kobe earthquake, and the Aflac Sports Gar den, planned by 
Aflac Japan’s CSR team and supported by staff volunteers, which draws nearly 25,000 attendees annually from local 
neighborhoods in Chofu City.AFLAC JAPAN
Manekineko Duck and Ichiban Duck welcome attendees to a day of fun at the Aflac Sports Gar den.2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 88Purpose... with feathers 
Going GreenAFLAC JAPAN
Since the revision of the 2009 Japanese Energy Conservation Act, Aflac Japan has implemented various measures 
to reduce its use of energy, especially in the Aflac Square Building. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake in 
2011, Aflac Japan further reduced its energy consumption and implemented additional measures to reduce its use of 
consumables and paper resources:
From 2018, Aflac Japan has expanded its sustainability efforts by implementing additional measures:
To recycle waste , materials are sorted into 17 categories. Most importantly, recycled 
plastics are used for power generation and recycled paper is reused, earning Aflac Japan 
a 68% recycling rate. 
To reduce gasoline consumption, by increasing the ratio of hybrid cars used by sales 
employees, Aflac Japan has reduced gasoline consumption by approximately 15%.
To reduce paper consumption,  applicants have the option to receive policy-related 
documents electronically rather than by paper. Aflac Japan saw a significant increase in 
policyholders choosing electronic documentation, which helped reduce Aflac Japan’s 
paper consumption and printing costs.To encourage green behavior , Aflac Japan prioritizes the purchase of business supplies, 
such as recycled paper and printer toner, carrying the Eco Mark and Eco Leaf logos in 
accordance with the Green Purchasing Act. Aflac Japan’s green purchasing accounts for 
more than 86.3% of office stationery supplies.
302-4 306-22018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 89Purpose... with feathers 
Credits
Darcy BritoMother Nature Network 
Jerry Ballas 
Paul Bennett 
Ana Brubaker 
Gavin Dunn 
Curt Mansell 
Michael Niece 
Amy Persons
Oz Roberts 
Joe StewardsonMandy Flynn
Catherine Hernandez-Blades
Jami Buck-Vance
Paul Dusseault
Kathy Shand
Carole Siracusa
Jon Sullivan
Casey Tate Debbie Garnett 
Sarah Duff
Chris Ehrhart
Tod Meisner
Troy Mobley
Natalie ScovilleDirector Photography/Videography
Editor
Contributors
Program Manager
Design
Digital Creative2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 90Purpose... with feathers 
Global Reporting Initiative
The following is in reference to the GRI, the world’s most recognized framework for sustainability reporting. Aflac has not 
sought independent verification for this report but has practices in place to internally validate the data. To download a 
copy of the GRI Standards, visit globalreporting.org.
Name of the organization.
Number of countries where the organization operates and the names of countries where 
it has significant operations.
A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, 
or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and 
its strategy for addressing sustainability.
A description of internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice about ethical 
and lawful behavior and organizational integrity; reporting concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior and organizational integrity.
Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, region or employment type.
Scale of the organization, including total number of employees; total number of 
operations; net revenues; quantity of products or services provided.
A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior.
Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 
governance body; committees responsible for decision-making on economic, 
environmental and social topics.
Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and 
indirectly by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary.
The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 
engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the 
engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.
Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, including how the 
organization has responded to key topics and concerns; stakeholder groups that raised 
each of the key topics and concerns.
Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer 
privacy categorized by complaints received from outside parties; if the organization has 
not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-
corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to.
Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including 
whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved; diversity is 
considered; independence is considered; expertise and experience relating to economic, 
environmental and social topics are considered.
Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 
assessments and/or development programs.
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by executive or 
nonexecutive; independence; tenure on the governance body; number of each 
individual’s other significant positions and commitments and the nature of the 
commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social groups; competencies 
relating to economic, environmental and social topics; stakeholder representation.
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, 
by significant locations of operation.Disclosure
102-14 6, 7, 9, 32, 53, 70, 
79
102-17 10, 11
102-8102-1
5, 352
102-7102-4
122
102-16 10
102-18 11, 17
415-1 11
102-43 11
102-44 11
418-1 22
205-2 11
102-24 36
413-1 54, 63, 85Description Page Number
102-22 34
405-2 33, 35Location of the organization’s headquarters.
Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies by gender, age 
and employee category.
A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they 
relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products and services.
Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation 
and efficiency initiatives.
Total weight of nonhazardous waste, with a breakdown by reuse and recycling.
2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 91Purpose... with feathers 
Disclosure
102-9 50
302-4 71, 88
306-2 74, 88Description Page Number
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Goal 4:  Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning.
Goal 5:  Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
Goal 7:  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.
Goal 12:  Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
Goal 13:  Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.Obtaining a quality education is the foundation to improving people’s lives and sustainable development. 
Major progress has been made toward increasing access to education at all levels and increasing enrollment 
rates in schools, particularly for women and girls. Basic literacy skills have improved tremendously, yet 
bolder efforts are needed to make even greater strides for achieving universal education goals. 
While the world has achieved progress toward gender equality and women’s empowerment under the 
Millennium Development Goals, women and girls continue to suffer discrimination and violence.
Providing women and girls with equal access to education, health care, decent work, and representation in 
political and economic decision-making processes will fuel sustainable economies and benefit societies and 
humanity at large.
Energy is central to nearly every major challenge and opportunity the world faces today. Be it for jobs, 
security, climate change, food production or increasing incomes, access to energy for all is essential.
Sustainable energy is opportunity – it transforms lives, economies and the planet.
Sustainable consumption and production aims at “doing more and better with less,” by reducing resource 
use, degradation and pollution, while increasing quality of life. It involves different stakeholders, including 
businesses, consumers, policy makers, researchers, scientists, retailers, media and development 
cooperation agencies, among others. Its implementation helps to achieve overall development plans, reduce 
future economic, environmental and social costs, strengthen economic competitiveness and reduce poverty.
People are experiencing the significant impacts of climate change, which include changing weather patterns, 
rising sea level and more extreme weather events. Without action, the world’s average surface temperature 
is projected to rise over the 21st century and is likely to surpass 3 degrees Celsius—with some areas of the 
world expected to warm even more. Affordable, scalable solutions are now available to enable countries to 
leapfrog to cleaner, more resilient economies. The pace of change is quickening as more people are turning 
to renewable energy and a range of other measures that will reduce emissions and increase adaptation 
efforts.405-1102-3
34, 8050We first met Teryn Buster in 2017. She was a patient at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, and 
the very first research was underway for an exciting new Aflac project. In between treatments for a rare germ 
cell ovarian cancer, this sparkling little girl with a beautiful smile shared how she thought we could help bring 
children with cancer comfort and joy. As a result, Teryn helped developers with some of the most important 
features of the project we would come to know as My Special Aflac Duck .
Throughout the next two years, Teryn became a treasured member of Aflac’s extended family. Her wisdom 
and grace extended far beyond her years, yet she helped us to see her world through the eyes of a child.
Teryn received one of the very first My Special Aflac Ducks  at a celebration in September 2018. “He’s going 
to help children with cancer feel happy and calm,” she said.
She named her duck Miracle.
Over the next 11 months, Teryn and her family would receive good news and not-good news about her 
cancer. She would undergo surgeries and treatment, but throughout it all, she kept her sweet, uplifting spirit.
She loved music and even wrote a song.
Teryn passed away July 24, 2019. She was 12-years-old.
She was so much more than a young girl with cancer. She was an incredible daughter, granddaughter, sister, 
student and friend. She loved Skittles and sparkles and to dance in the car. She liked to play with Barbies 
and on her computer. And she loved the colors pink and purple. They were her favorites. 
Teryn was an inspiration. She was the girl with the beautiful smile. She was our friend.
Our hearts may feel broken, but our determination to help bring an end to childhood cancer is stronger than 
ever because of Teryn and many other children whose journeys through cancer continue.A precious reminder
This world is so dark, dark like the night. But we have love in 
our hearts. And it’s our job to bring some light.”“- TERYN’S SONG
This report is 
dedicated to Teryn 
Buster, whose spirit 
and unwavering 
optimism inspired 
love and goodness 
for Aflac and all 
who knew her. 
Teryn Buster
March 22, 2007 – July 24, 2019@aflac 
linkedin.com/company/aflacfacebook.com/aflac 
@aflac Thank You! 
Arigatou Gozaimasu
ありがとうございます
Learn more and visit: aflac.com/csrreport
Aflac’s family of insurers includes American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  and/or American Family Life Assurance 
Company of New York and/or Continental American Insurance Company and/or Continental American Life Insurance Company.  
Aflac WWHQ | 1932 Wynnton Road | Columbus, GA  31999
Exp. 9/20 Z190889      