CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT : THE AFLAC WAY
AFLA C 2014
TABLE OF CONTENTS
In Loving Memory – Paul S. Amos  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Message from the Chairman & CEO  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Governance the Aflac Way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Promises Made, Promises Kept: Serving Customers the Aflac Way            5
The Aflac Way: Pioneering, Protecting and Prospering since 1955 . . . . . .  7
If You Take Care of the Employees, They Will Take Care of the Business    13
Serving Our Communities the Aflac Way                                        15
Protecting Our Environment the Aflac Way                                     21
The Aflac Way: Aflac Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Aflac 2014 Service and Recognitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
This publication is for informative purposes only and is not intended to be a solicitation.1PAUL SHELBY AMOS
“MR. PAUL”
1926 - 2014
IN LOVING MEMORY
Paul “Mr. Paul” Shelby Amos was one of the three founding brothers of Aflac. Beloved by all who knew him, Mr. 
Paul was the heart and soul of the company. He was not only a consummate businessman, but an eternal optimist, a philanthropist and a straight shooter. With Mr. Paul, integrity was non-negotiable.  
Respected throughout the industry, Mr. Paul left a huge footprint on the landscape of voluntary insurance. He 
pioneered Aflac’s innovative “cluster selling” strategy, in which the company’s sales representatives approach businesses to make sales pitches to groups of employees rather than to individuals. Cluster selling was cited by 
the New York Times in 2014 as a reason for Aflac’s growth into a “giant that insures more than 50 million people, 
and has $121 billion in assets and 185,000 agents worldwide.” It remains a standard strategy for sales today. 
Mr. Paul and his wife Jean touched the lives of many through their community service, endowments and scholarship 
programs. He was described as both a gentleman and a gentle man. He will be missed, but his legacy lives on 
through a company that remains committed to his values and dedicated to the proposition that honesty and accountability matter.
2When Aflac was founded 60 years ago, 
it was founded on a bedrock of ethics, 
integrity, kindness and fairness   Those 
tenets were outlined in a simple, leath -
er-bound book titled “The Aflac Way  ” 
Today, six decades on, every new Aflac 
employee receives a copy of this small 
but powerful book that outlines how we 
treat our customers, employees and the 
communities we serve   
In my 25 years as Aflac’s CEO, we’ve done 
our best to keep the promises outlined in 
“The Aflac Way  ” One way is by paying our 
policyholders’ claims as quickly as possible   
Now, you might ask, “Isn’t that what every 
insurance company is supposed to do?” Indeed it is   But, sadly, not every insurance 
company focuses on paying claims, and certainly not at the speed at which Aflac pays them   In fact, we recently introduced 
the industry-leading One Day Pay
SM 
initiative   The goal? To process eligible 
claims in just one day, a speed that’s almost unheard of in our industry   
If you’re wondering why we think it’s 
so important to pay eligible claims so 
rapidly, the reason is simple: We want 
our customers to focus on what’s most 
important – getting well – and not on how they’ll pay the bills   And the good news 
is that it’s working   Take, for example, 
policyholder Debra Dodson, who suffered 
a ruptured disc in her neck: “Having 
Aflac helped to take away the stress of 
worrying about how I was going to pay my bills. With the amount of money I got 
back from Aflac, I was able to pay my bills for six months. What shocked me so much 
about Aflac was how speedy they were.”Then there’s Michael Nyland, whose 
wife was critically injured in a motorcycle accident: “Our liquid assets were quickly 
consumed by out-of-pocket expenses, copays, coinsurance, etc. Several weeks 
after the accident, it dawned on me that 
I had Aflac. My Aflac agent promptly 
engaged the claims expert in her office 
to assist. Three days later, I had a direct 
deposit in my account that caught us up 
and continues to give me the assistance 
to help provide home care for my wife.”
When Debra and Michael paid their 
premiums, they purchased our promise 
to be there for them in the worst of times   
They and thousands of other individuals and families know that at our company, a promise made is a promise kept – because 
that’s the Aflac Way   What’s more, doing 
business the Aflac Way has blessed us with remarkable success   Our annual revenues 
have grown from less than $3 billion to more than $23 billion, we employ nearly 
5,000 people in the U  S, and more than 70,000 independent agents and brokers 
sell our products   Our workforce is diverse 
– women comprise about 70 percent of 
our staff, and more than 40 percent of our 
employees are minorities   We’ve been on 
Ethisphere’s list of World’s Most Ethical 
Companies since 2007 and Fortune’s 
list of 100 Best Places to Work for 17 
straight years   
While we take pride in those external 
accolades, it’s the letters of thanks from 
our customers that are our greatest reward   
This report tells our story and explains why 
we receive those letters daily   We hope 
you’ll enjoy learning more about corporate 
citizenship – the Aflac Way   
Daniel P. Amos
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Aflac, Aflac IncorporatedLETTER FROM  
DANIEL P. AMOS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO
“We recently introduced 
the industry-leading One 
Day PaySM initiative. The 
goal? To process eligible 
claims in just one day, 
a speed that’s almost 
unheard of in our industry.”
3
GOVERNANCE
THE AFLAC WA Y  4Governance the Aflac Way
As a Fortune 500 company (appearing in the top 150 portion 
of the list) with annual revenues of $23  9 billion, Aflac places a 
premium on ethics and integrity   We call this doing business the 
“Aflac Way  ” We have high expectations of all employees – from 
the longest tenured to the most recently hired – and those expectations are outlined in our company code of conduct   
You’ll find it on our website, Aflac  com  
Our spirit of responsibility, caring and compassion is also illumi
-
nated in our Seven Commitments to Customer Service   These 
commitments are the ultimate examples of doing business 
the Aflac Way   The tenets may sound simple – they include 
communicate regularly, know your stuff, shoot straight and cover the customer, not your behind – but they’re courtesies 
rarely found in today’s hard-driving business world     
Aflac’s commitment to ethics, sustainability and transparency goes beyond just our employees; it extends to the board level, 
which includes seven principle committees   These include 
the Audit, Executive, Compensation, Pension, Acquisition, 
Sustainability and Corporate Governance Committees:
• The members of the Audit, Corporate Governance and 
Compensation Committees are independent directors   
• In addition to maintaining a Sustainability Committee helmed by the board of directors, company employees 
lead Aflac’s Green Committee   This group serves in an 
advisory capacity and reports to the board several times 
each year   Aflac’s sustainability reporting is informed by 
Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI, index guidelines   
• Aflac maintains several other employee-led committees 
that provide up-to-date information to the CEO and 
board of directors in a timely fashion   These include 
committees focused on corporate social responsibility as well as on diversity and donations  Aflac has numerous primary stakeholders   In addition to our 
environment and the communities in which we live and work, 
these stakeholders include our policyholders, shareholders 
and bondholders; suppliers; employees; agents; brokers and 
the employers who offer Aflac to their workers   We regularly 
communicate with these individuals to ensure they’re informed 
about our latest initiatives and the strength of our company   
We also listen to them   In fact, as a result of a shareholder’s 
request, we’ve conducted shareholder votes at each annual 
meeting since 2006 to consider our processes for compen
-
sating top-level executives   This initiative is commonly referred 
to as Say on Pay, and Aflac was the first publicly traded 
company in the United States to conduct such votes    
Aflac maintains an active role in the public policy arena, and we do so with an eye to complete transparency   In addition 
to complying with all state and federal regulations, we take additional steps to ensure that the public and regulators remain 
fully informed   For example, beginning in 2012 the company 
went beyond SEC regulations by posting political contributions on Aflac  com  
We are proud of our record for maintaining a strong reputation 
for corporate governance and integrity   In fact, the Ethisphere 
Institute, which gauges corporate ethics, has seen fit to bestow upon Aflac its World’s Most Ethical Companies award for nine 
consecutive years   In fact, Aflac is the only insurance company 
 
in the world to receive this award every year since its inception in 2007  
At Aflac, we believe in doing business the right way. In fact, walk the 
halls of Aflac’s corporate headquarters and you will see constant  
reminders about what it means to conduct business the Aflac Way.
Aflac Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications 
Catherine Blades and Senior Manager of Corporate 
Communications Jon Sullivan accept Ethisphere’s World’s Most 
Ethical Companies award from Ethishere CEO Tim Erblich (middle).
5When families and individuals elect to do business with 
Aflac, they’re putting their faith in a promise – in our word 
that we’ll be here to help support them during some of the 
most emotionally and financially difficult times of their lives   
Over the past 60 years, generations of Americans have 
learned that Aflac makes good on its obligations and that 
we mean it when we say we’re committed to doing business 
in a compassionate, caring and trustworthy manner    
We receive more than 100 letters each month from 
people whose faith in our company has been justified   
While we’re blessed to receive numerous honors from 
industry experts each year, it is these letters from all 
corners of the United States that demonstrate just how 
rewarding our work can be   
Lois Grigg, Arkansas – “Aflac employees ... are one  
of a kind” 
I am writing this letter to let everyone who reads it 
know how much I appreciate what Aflac did for me 
when I was at the worst and darkest point in my life. 
I was given the news that I had breast cancer, and I 
was also going through a divorce. I was unable to work 
and unsure how I was going to make it on my own. 
Aflac sent me a benefit check after processing my 
claims on my Aflac cancer insurance policy. This 
helped to take the stress of the financial burdens off 
of me, and let me focus on my health and recovery. I could not believe how well I was treated by the 
Aflac employees; they really are one of a kind. You 
never know when your life will change, and I am so 
thankful to have had them in my life at that time. I 
have told everyone I care about and love that 
they need to apply for Aflac insurance policies. 
Thank you for everything you did for me when I needed  
you the most.
PROMISES MADE, PROMISES KEPT : SERVING CUSTOMERS  
THE AFLAC WA YGovernance the Aflac Way
Continued page 66Sandra Mitchell, Wyoming – “Thank goodness for  
the Aflac Duck”
I was diagnosed with breast cancer in August 2007. 
Although I had been having yearly mammograms for 25 
years, they did not detect the cancer; I did. It was already 
locally advanced, having spread to 10 of 14 lymph nodes 
with a mass over an inch large in the left breast.
My treatment was rough. It included a mastectomy, 16 
weeks of chemotherapy and 36 daily radiation treat -
ments. Making matters even more challenging was that 
the treatment center is three hours from my home over 
snow-packed and icy roads in the winter and spring.
My health insurance covered most of the medical costs 
after the out-of-pocket expense, but it didn’t help me with  
my living expenses. Without Aflac’s help, I would 
never have been able to keep up with my basic living 
expenses. I had to take eight weeks off work, move to 
Salt Lake City, rent an apartment there, and still maintain 
my monthly mortgage and utility payments at home.
Without Aflac, I don’t know what I would have done. Thank 
goodness for the Aflac Duck! 
  
 
 
 
 Steve Kemp, Illinois – “Some of the best money  
we’ve ever spent”
We had a bad car accident. My wife was treated and 
released, and I was hospitalized for two weeks. Without 
our Aflac policies, we would have been in trouble. 
We received benefits on our accident policy, which helped 
us to pay the deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses 
on our health insurance policies. I was off work for three 
months from the injuries I sustained, which were seven 
broken vertebrae, six broken ribs and a broken sternum. 
The disability policy helped us to pay our bills while 
I was off work, which kept us from bankruptcy. The 
benefits allowed my wife to work her normal schedule 
and care for me without concern for my lack of income. 
We were lucky to have survived this accident and 
because of these policies, we were able to stay 
afloat and we were able to give back to the fire 
department who gave so much for us that day. 
Aflac policies are some of the best money we’ve  
ever spent.
Continued from page 5 7
PIONEERING,  
PROTECTING AND PROSPERING
THE AFLAC WA Y  8Pioneering, Protecting and Prospering Since 1955  
The Aflac Way
How do people describe a company like Aflac? It usually 
involves words like insurance, liability, deductible and even 
indemnity   But if we at Aflac were asked to describe what 
we do, we’d use very different descriptions   We’d say we’re 
pioneers, protectors and even prosperers   Here’s why:
• We are among the pioneers  of our industry   Now, some 
people hear the word “pioneer” and think of dusty trails 
and covered wagons   But it applies to anyone who’s 
first at something   Consider, for example, business 
pioneers like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Steve Jobs of Apple, Jeff Bezos of Amazon – even Michael Jordan, 
who built a billion-dollar-per-year corporation and 
pioneered an era in which athletes make more money 
endorsing products than they make playing sports   
 At Aflac, we’re pioneers and always will be   Think about it: We helped invent an industry – a whole new marketplace   
We help bring supplemental insurance to the world   That is 
an amazing thing   Not many companies can claim that they 
were on the ground floor at the start of an entire industry    
• We’re protectors  – and by that, we mean we help 
protect the dreams of thousands of individuals and families whose lives and livelihoods are threatened by 
illness or injury   And, internally, we protect and support 
each other as we strive to achieve our own dreams  
• Finally, we prosper.  We prosper collectively as a company 
and individually as employees and agents representing 
one of the top insurers in the world   We help our 
policyholders maintain their prosperity through ownership of our products, and we help our shareholders, who 
rely on our growth and success to affirm the trust and 
confidence they’ve afforded us through their investments    
At Aflac, we’ve done all these things – pioneered, protected and prospered – since 1955   These are powerful words 
that add up to a powerful statement   And we’d like to add 
one more “P” word to the list: pride   We’re proud of what we’ve achieved together, year in and year out, not only 
for ourselves, but for those who look to us for strength 
and stability during some the worst times of their lives    
Let’s take a closer look at what we do at Aflac, starting 
with our roles as pioneers: When brothers John, Paul and 
Bill Amos founded Aflac back in 1955, they weren’t just 
traveling the road less taken – they were the insurance 
version of Lewis and Clark, exploring products and sales 
strategies that were off the grid…way off the grid   
These men helped pioneer supplemental insurance before many of us were even born   In their first year of 
business, they sold a respectable 6,426 policies   But they 
weren’t interested in being one-hit wonders – they kept the innovation going in 1958 by developing their ground-
breaking cancer expense insurance policy, and then they 
followed it up by pioneering cluster-selling techniques 
(work site sales)   They stepped it up again with policies 
sponsored by employers and funded by payroll deductions   
And they had another huge idea in 1974 – Aflac became just the 
third American company licensed to sell insurance in Japan   We 
offered a product – cancer insurance – in that country at a time when cancer awareness was growing   A mere decade later, 
Japan accounted for two-thirds of our revenue and approximately  
70 percent of our earnings   Today, it accounts for about 75 percent   
Combine 60 years, more than 70,000 associates and an 
unquantifiable amount of blood, sweat and tears and it’s 
no surprise that a whopping 50 million people worldwide 
are covered by Aflac, Aflac Group and Aflac Japan    
You know, a lot of companies come up with one good 
idea and use that one concept – that firing of a single 
synapse – as the cornerstone of an entire business   But 
at Aflac, we’re always in the business of pioneering   
We know a company that doesn’t continuously innovate – a company that rests on its laurels – will eventually become  
irrelevant   For example, there are newspaper 
executives who didn’t see the warning signs posed 
by the Internet, finding themselves not only holding 
the presses, but shutting many of them down    
At Aflac, we continue to ask ourselves whether we’re resting on our laurels, whether we’re staying too long at our own  
party    And, we’re pleased to say, irrelevance isn’t part  
of our vocabulary   
We’ve certainly been part of pioneering how and what 
we sell, but we’ve also help pioneer – and set the standard 
for – the servicing of business once it’s on the books   
We’re forerunners in claims handling and recently became the first voluntary insurer to introduce One Day Pay
SM  
We believe good service is how we fulfill our promise to be there for our policyholders in their times of need   From humble beginnings back in 1955, Aflac became a pioneer in the 
voluntary insurance industry, protecting its policyholders while on its 
way to becoming a prosperous, $23 billion Fortune 500 company.
9
Like Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs were  
to technological innovation, the Amos brothers,  
Paul, John  and Bill, were among the pioneers in the  
insurance industry.10Customer Service
We take our customer service promise and build 
on it by continuously examining our customers’ 
needs – by assessing and reassessing our 
product portfolio to ensure that the businesses, 
individuals and families who rely on us to help 
protect their financial security have access to the products they want and need. In fact, our goal is 
to figure out what they want and need before they 
have any idea that they want and need it. 
As one of the industry’s pioneers, Aflac continues 
to innovate, now offering customers One Day 
Pay
SM with Aflac SmartClaim® – which allows 
eligible claims to be paid in just one day!
One Day PaySM available for most properly documented, individual claims submitted online through Aflac SmartClaim® by 3 PM ET. Aflac SmartClaim® not available on the following: Short Term 
Disability (excluding Accident and Sickness Riders), Life, Vision, Dental, Medicare Supplement, Long Term Care/Home Health Care, Aflac Plus Rider and Group policies. Aflac processes most 
other claims in about four days. Processing time is based on business days after all required documentation needed to render a decision is received & no further validation and/or research is required. Individual Company Statistic, 2015. 11In Disability 
insurance , where 
we became the 
first company to offer a true guaran -
teed-issue product.  
 In Hospital insurance , 
where we created the concept of specialized benefits.  In Dental  insurance , 
where we pioneered open networks.  
   In Vision insurance,  
where we were  
the first to offer benefits for eye diseases, eye surgery and progressive blindness.And in the creation of Intensive Care 
insurance  as well 
as in step-down coverage.
Over the Years, We’ve Been Way Out Ahead of 
our Rivals in a Mind-boggling Number of Ways
Our entrepreneurial spirit, our drive to be industry 
pioneers, hasn’t faded over time   We’re risk-takers and 
deal-makers   We even took a risk by introducing the 
Aflac Duck – a risk that has paid off in name and brand 
recognition that’s almost unimaginable   But there’s more:
• We pioneered SmartApp®, making Aflac the first company to allow customers to electronically 
become policyholders (and, in the process, 
receiving the Computerworld Smithsonian 
Award for Excellence in Technology)   
• In 2007, Aflac became the first publicly traded 
company to give its shareholders “Say on Pay,” 
which meant they had the unprecedented power to 
determine whether our executives’ compensation 
was appropriate relative to company success   
Most companies are afraid of failure   As Aflac CEO Dan 
Amos has said so many times, success requires risk   
It also requires acceptance and understanding that not everything we try is going to work out the way we expect or want it to   At Aflac, we take calculated risks   And most of the time, those risks pay off    In the rare 
instances that they don’t, we move forward quickly   
Next, let’s talk about protecting   In many ways, Aflac is 
in the business of helping protect dreams – those of our 
agents, our employees, our policyholders and the accounts 
we do business with   That’s a good thing, because as 
Eleanor Roosevelt once said, “The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams  ”  
We wish we had records of claims going back to the year Aflac was founded, because the comparison between 
1955 and today would be absolutely mind-boggling   We 
can tell you this, though: In 1971, we paid out just over $2 million in claims   In 2014, the total had grown to nearly 
$13 billion   And how did that $13 billion help protect the 
dreams of those who were counting on us? It went toward 
paying monthly mortgages and keeping roofs over families’ heads   It went toward electric bills and keeping children 
warm at night   It went toward grocery bills that kept food 
on tables   It went toward car payments, airline tickets and 
hotel bills that ensured adults and children could travel to get treatment for heart disease, cancer, burns, leukemia and any number of other serious illnesses and injuries that 
have the power to destroy lives – to destroy dreams  
Continued page 1212When we talk about the protection Aflac helps provide, 
we usually speak in terms of terrible diseases – illnesses 
whose very names have the power to terrify   But 
sometimes even seemingly minor injuries have the power to trigger financial devastation   Our policies sometimes 
help folks who find themselves in very unusual situa -
tions   Not just the routine broken leg or sprained wrist 
we’re accustomed to, but strange circumstances like: 
• The claimant who was attacked by a bush hog   
• The horse and buggy driver whose vehicle  
 tangled with a car  
• And the claimant whose car was hit by a cow   
These situations might not be as life-altering as 
a cancer diagnosis or a heart attack, but those 
people needed us too   And we were there to 
help protect them, just as we’d promised   
How grateful are our policyholders for the protection we 
help provide? Extremely – and we receive about 100 letters 
each month from those eager to express their appreciation   
Some letters are sad, like those from policyholders who 
want to thank us for easing their burdens in their final days   
Others are intentionally self-deprecating, like the letter from the woman who fell in her high heels or the one from 
the grandmother who injured herself while roller skating   
No matter how grave the illness or how serious the injury, we’re charged with helping protect policyholders’ 
finances and dreams   When you think about it, isn’t 
that a wonderful responsibility to bear? It’s an honor 
to know that on any given day, there’s a chance we’ll 
write a policy that can help a family maintain its lifestyle, 
overcome adversity or help protect its dreams   
Finally, let’s talk about prosperity   Sometimes, especially 
during tough times – times when a stumbling economy, 
changes to health care laws or other external challenges 
make goals seem impossible to attain – it’s easy to forget 
about the prosperity Aflac has brought to so many people, 
including our company’s agents, brokers and employees   
But what about the prosperity of those who’ve put their 
faith and their financial futures in Aflac’s hands by investing 
in our company?  Aflac’s initial shareholders, those who 
saw our company’s potential when it was in its infancy and purchased 1,000 shares of stock, paid $11,000, or $11 per 
share, for their investments   After 28 stock dividends or 
splits – the last in 2001 – 1,000 shares have grown to more than 1  8 million shares, excluding reinvested cash dividends  
What does all of that mean in plain English? It means that those forward-thinking shareholders – those who in 1955 
had the foresight to envision the prosperity Aflac could bring 
them –received about $3 million last year in cash dividends 
alone   It means that at the close of trading on April 30, an 
$11,000 initial investment was worth an incredible $119 million  
Of course, our lawyers insist we remind you that past performance is no guarantee of future results, but we think 
you would agree that those numbers represent prosperity 
by anyone’s definition of the term   We also think you would 
agree that our continued efforts to remain at the top of our industry point to the probability that Aflac will grow 
stronger and more dominant in the decades to come   
So, there you have it: pioneering, protecting and prospering since 1955   These are the words – the 
actions – that have defined us for six decades and will 
continue to do so for generations to come   
 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14$-$0.20$0.40$0.60$0.80$1.00$1.20$1.40$1.60ANNUAL CASH DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE*
*Aflac 2014 Year in Review
Because of Aflac’s smart stewardship of the company’s  
assets, shareholders have prospered through 32 consecutive years of increased dividends. Continued from page 1113So how do you get your employees to honor the company’s 
pioneering, protecting and prospering ways? At Aflac, the 
secret sauce has always been in the way we treat the people 
who keep the business going   As our founders often said, 
“If you take care of the employees, they will take care of the business  ” It is a creed upon which Aflac was built, and it holds 
just as true today  
That’s why Aflac not only pays competitive wages for 
employees, but every single worker is a profit sharer earning 
annual bonuses based on personal and company performance   
That’s everyone, from the CEO down to the newly hired worker   
In fact, Aflac was a true pioneer when in 2008 the company held the first-ever shareholder vote on executive compen
-
sation, often called “Say on Pay  ” This nonbinding vote was 
unique in that it was the first such election held at a publicly 
traded company in America  
And in May, Aflac opened its Career Success Center, a new, fully staffed career counseling office that has been warmly 
received   To date, more than 300 people have held appoint
-
ments with career counselors, and remarkably, almost 25 percent of those individuals have seen their career path 
enhanced, often with promotions  
Speaking of “protecting,” Aflac also helps protect the ones we love: our children   Aflac offers the largest on-site child 
care facility in corporate Georgia at its facilities in Columbus   
The company also houses fully equipped exercise facilities 
and several miles of walking trails at its campuses to help 
employees maintain their personal well-being as they help 
maintain the overall health and wellness of our business  There is nothing in the rule book that says pioneering, 
protecting and prospering can’t also be pleasurable   Each year, 
Aflac rewards its employees with a giant celebration called Employee Appreciation Week, or EAW   For five work days, the 
company holds raffles for prizes such as high-tech electronics, 
gift cards and trips to special places   It all culminates with a big 
party with even more prizes and more entertainment   To see 
firsthand what EAW week looks like, paste this address into 
your Internet browser and have a look: http://www.mnn.com/
food/healthy-eating/sponsorvideo/all-its-quacked-up-to-be-
aflac-recognizes-workers-with-employee.Aflac believes in protecting the dreams of its employees so that the 
employees can help protect our policyholders and our shareholders. In 
May 2014, Aflac President Teresa White and Senior Vice President of 
Human Resources Matthew Owenby cut the ribbon for the company’s 
new mentoring center called the Career Success Center where 
employees can come to seek advice about their careers. Thousands 
of Aflac employees have taken advantage of this new way to help advance their careers by contributing to the company mission.
IF YOU TAKE CARE OF THE EMPLOYEES,  
THEY WILL TAKE CARE OF THE BUSINESSPioneering, Protecting and Prospering since 1955 the Aflac Way14Employee diversity the Aflac Way
Aflac was founded on the principles of caring, respect, dignity 
and fairness   Our commitment to diversity is an extension 
of those principles   We take pride in the fact 67 percent of 
our corporate workforce is comprised of women, that 43 percent of Aflac employees are minorities – and, perhaps 
most impressively, that 33 percent are minority women   
In 2014, Aflac continued its drive for diversity 
and our efforts did not go unnoticed: 
• 
For the fifth consecutive year, we were honored to be 
included among LATINA Style’s Best Companies for Latinas   
• We were once against listed on Hispanic Business Magazine’s list of Best Companies for Diversity   • Black Enterprise Magazine listed Aflac as a Top 40 Best Company for Diversity for the ninth time  
• The Human Rights Campaign, which works to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  
Americans, awarded Aflac a score of 85 out of a possible  
100 on its Best Places to Work 2015 Corporate  
Equality Index  
It’s not just external accolades that inspire us, however   We 
promote diversity internally through the activities of our Diversity 
Council   In 2014, we continued to celebrate the richness of our 
differences   During our annual Diversity Week, for instance, 
well-received activities such as our “Quacktastic Race” and 
“Taste of Diversity” increased awareness and appreciation of 
our varied backgrounds and cultures   We also continued our 
monthly “Take 5” intranet series, which features members of our executive-management team addressing various diversity-related 
topics   Here’s a look at Aflac’s diversity by the numbers:Aflac has achieved a variety of accolades for its remarkable 
diversity, which is a significant priority at the company. 
Seen here is the employee-led Diversity Committee 
along with CEO Dan Amos in front, third from left.
67% 
Aflac employees are Women
43%
Aflac employees are  
Minorities33% 
Aflac employees  are  
Women Minorities
22%
Aflac officers are Minorities28%
Aflac officers are Women
Supplier Diversity:  
 the Aflac Way
Aflac has always been a major supporter of workforce 
diversity and that support 
naturally extends to the 
companies we do business 
with  While diversity isn’t 
our only consideration when assessing new and existing 
vendor relationships, it plays 
a major role in our decision-making process   
Our nation’s demographics are changing and Aflac is reaching out to an increasingly diverse set of accounts, customers and communities   
After all, if we want these individuals and groups to do business with Aflac, we must also do business with them   Identifying capable 
and qualified minority- and women-owned businesses isn’t difficult: Georgia, the state in which Aflac’s home office is located, is ranked 
first in the nation for growth in women-owned firms and second in the 
number of African-American owned businesses   
 At Aflac, we want to be known for the support and mentoring of suppliers through our Supplier Diversity Program   To that end, 
we experienced significant gains in our diverse-supplier spend, increasing it from 8 percent in 2013 to 10 percent in 2014   In 2015, we 
will launch a supplier diversity section on our Internet site, Aflac  com  
We not only commit to supplier diversity financially, but also by 
participating in trade shows and sponsoring business-development 
events   Our efforts, however, don’t stop there: Aflac for several years 
has participated in the Mentor Protégé Connection Program, which is sponsored by the Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council   In 
2014, Aflac was the first company to participate in an interview on the council’s Business Radio X, which broadcasts in the Atlanta area   In 
addition to reaching out to women and minorities, Aflac also reaches out to the LGBT community through strategically placed advertising campaigns and events   
Aflac was founded on the principles of care, respect, dignity and fairness   Our commitment to diversity is an extension of those 
principles   Our involvement in diversity outreach strengthens 
our culture, allows us to develop relationships within new and 
underserved markets, and positions us as a provider of choice for 
Americans of all ages, genders and backgrounds    
Aflac Director of Strategic 
Sourcing and Procurement along 
with Josie Alexander, Esq. of 
Alexander and Associates.
15Twenty years ago, a young mother named Vicki Reidel reached 
out to Aflac CEO Dan Amos for help   Vicki’s baby, Ansleigh, 
was undergoing leukemia treatment at what is now Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta   The floor on which children like Ansleigh 
received cancer treatment was in serious need of renovation, and Vicki asked for $25,000 to get the job done   Amos mulled 
over Vicki’s request and came up with a better solution: Instead of contributing $25,000, he pledged $3 million and asked that 
the treatment center be renamed the Aflac Cancer Center    
Aflac reinforced its commitment to fighting childhood cancer in January 2014, when the company pledged to surpass $100 
million in contributions to the Aflac Cancer Center by the end 
of 2015   The effort is well ahead of schedule: Contributions reached the $95 million mark last year and are amassing quickly   
Much of the growth is attributable to the generous spirit of 
Aflac’s independent sales agents   More than 16,000 agents 
donate a combined $425,000 each month to the Aflac Cancer 
Center directly from their commission checks   
Cancer is the primary death-causing illness among children under the age of 15, but less than 5 percent of government 
medical funding is allocated to children’s cancer research   
Aflac believes men and women who dedicate their lives and Then and now: Ansleigh Riedel, who inspired Aflac to join the 
fight against childhood cancer, today is as a nurse at Children’s 
Healthcare of Atlanta.
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES  
THE AFLAC WA YPioneering, Protecting and Prospering since 1955 the Aflac Way
Continued page 1616
Hall of Fame baseball pitcher Tom Glavine was among the 
honorees at a 2014 Duckprints event in Atlanta. 
Four honorees from the Duckprints 
event in Sacramento, California, 
pose with the Aflac Duck.Center: Aflac Group COO Dan Lebish 
unveils a new Duckprints plaque at 
Palmetto Children’s Hospital  
in Columbia, South Carolina.careers to the research and treatment of children’s cancer are 
true heroes   That’s why we celebrate these special individuals 
through our ongoing Duckprints initiative   In 2014, Aflac 
conducted Duckprints-related fundraising and awareness 
events in Columbia, South Carolina; Atlanta; Houston; and 
Sacramento, California    
The use of the hashtag #Duckprints on social media rose 
by a whopping 2,000 percent and there were nearly 
500,000 social media engagements   The company drove 
the Duckprints message home by conducting real-time Twitter “parties” to build awareness and raise funds as well as 
continued its Aflac Holiday Duck program   Since 2001, Aflac 
has partnered with Macy’s to produce and sell the Holiday Duck   2014’s version was modeled after the Aflac Duck that 
appeared in the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City  Sales of the 6- and 10-inch replicas increased by nearly 
10 percent over 2013 and raised more than $250,000 for the fight against childhood cancer   
To help raise funds and awareness about childhood cancer and its Duckprints campaign, Aflac donates $2 to the Aflac 
Cancer Center for Duckprints-related mentions on social 
media   Aflac also maintains the aflacduckprints  com website, 
where users can nominate unsung heroes in their communities 
who have made differences in the lives of children and families 
facing cancer   
Check out Mother Nature Network’s coverage of the Aflac Duckprints event in Columbia, South Carolina, right here :
 
http://www.mnn.com/food/healthy-ating/sponsorvideo/
heroes-in-the-fight-against-childhood-cancer-honored-at-
aflacs.
Continued from page 1517Aflac Duck Gives Parade-Goers a Turkey Day Treat
The Aflac Duck once again took part in the Macy’s Thanksgiving 
Day Parade i n 2014  E leven-year-old c hildhood c ancer s urvivor 
Austin Freeman from the Aflac Cancer Center in Atlanta was 
selected to enjoy the trip of a lifetime and was on hand to 
see the Duck “balloonicle” cruise down New York City’s 6th 
Avenue  He also toured the Macy’s Parade Factory in New York 
City, where he learned how the iconic balloons are made, and 
was invited to Balloonfest, where Macy’s introduce s its latest 
creations to the media  
The 2014 balloon was designed to look like the Aflac Holiday 
Duck, which the company sells every year with all of the 
proceeds going to the fight against childhood cancer  
To see a video account of Austin’s big trip to New York City, 
visit http://www.mnn.com/food/healthy-eating/sponsorvideo/
austin-s-balloon-adventure-childhood-cancer-survivor-vis -
its-macy-s.
In October, Pink is the Word
In addition to crusading against childhood cancer, Aflac 
supports the efforts of the American Association for Cancer 
Research  Founded in 1907, the AACR is the world’s oldest 
and largest professional organization dedicated to advancing 
cancer r esearch and t o preventing and c uring t he disease   
In 2014, Aflac introduced its “This Duck Wears Pink” campaign, 
a national b reast c ancer a wareness p rogram t hat ran 
throughout the month of October, or Breast Cancer Awareness 
Month  Nearly 11,000 visitors to the campaign pagelearned about the campaign, donated to the effort and 
purchased This Duck Wears Pink merchandise, including a pink-
clad Aflac Duck  Sales totaled $50,000, with 100 percent of the 
net proceeds going to the AACR   
Aflac’s fi rst-year c ommitment t o Breast C ancer A wareness 
Month and the American Association for Cancer Research was 
a great success in 2014, thanks to a multifaceted campaign:  
•A
 dedicated website, www  t
hisduckwearspink  c
om,
provided campaign information and promoted merchandise
sales, raising nearly $50,000  
•A
n internal campaign encouraged employees to support
the effort by purchasing This Duck Wears Pink-relate d
me
rchandise  
•A
flac agents received This Duck Wears Pink-themed kit s
a
nd collateral to use during their fall enrollments  
•A
flac sponsored the AACR Conference  
•S
ocial and traditional media communications efforts
included a press release leveraging #thisduckwearspink onTwitter and Facebook
 
•T
his Duck Wears Pink advertising ran in People Magazine ,
W
omen’s Health, Fit Pregnancy, the Food Network an d
E
veryday with Rachael Ray  
•T
his Duck Wears Pink was tagged in Aflac’s broadcas t
a
dvertising during October  
Childhood cancer patient Austin Freeman introduces the 
Aflac Holiday Duck to his much larger balloonicle buddy!
Women of Aflac, touched by breast cancer, stand arm in arm, making 
it very clear that when it comes to fighting breast cancer, this duck  
wears pink! 
18Building our Communities the Aflac Way
In 2014, the employees at Aflac’s headquarters in Columbus, 
Georgia, built their ninth house for Habitat for Humanity   
Meanwhile, the team at Aflac Group in Columbia, South Carolina, renovated its first Habitat home   
Aflac prioritizes community involvement and encourages employees to reach out to those in need   Perhaps that’s why 
participation in our Habitat for Humanity builds is so popular: Lotteries are held to determine who will get the chance to hone 
their construction skills, and more than 1,800 members of Aflac’s 
dedicated team have strapped on their hard hats since 2007    
This year, a family of four in Georgia moved into their newly 
built home just prior to the holiday season   The house was built 
in 18 days by crews working full eight-hour shifts   
Commitment throughout the country
Aflac on Wall StreetWho knew that growing a beard could have a major 
impact on children with cancer? The men on Aflac’s Global 
Investments team in New York City dropped their razors in November and raised a whopping $11,336 for the Aflac 
Cancer Center   The funds will be used to help improve the 
treatment and research of children’s cancer  
Aflac in Albany
Not to be outdone by their colleagues at headquarters and 
Aflac Group, 2014 marked the first collaboration between Aflac 
in Albany, New York, and Habitat for Humanity   Thanks to the 
hard work of volunteers, the Aflac House was completed in late 2014 and the crew is looking forward to picking up its hammers for another build   
 
Also new in Albany last year was the Charity Challenge, in which employees competed to win money for the charities of 
their choice   Contributions went to organizations such as the 
Wounded Warrior Project, HH Ranch, the Regional Food Bank of Northeastern New York, the American Cancer Society and 
the Alzheimer’s Association    
The annual Habitat for Humanity build is a source of great pride 
to our headquarters staff in Columbus, Georgia. Each year 
there is a waiting list of employees wanting to do their share.
Stop shaving to help cure children’s cancer? Seems like a great 
investment – and these guys know a lot about investing!
Anything you can do I can do better ... Aflac New York has 
its own plan to build a Habitat House for a family in need.
19Aflac New York also continued its standing partnerships with 
the American Cancer Society, the Albany County Department 
of Youth and Family Services, the Literacy Volunteers of 
Rensselaer County, the Make-a-Wish Foundation and the 
Regional Food Bank of Northeastern New York  
Aflac in the Heartland
Aflac employees in Omaha, Nebraska, turned into 
construction workers by breaking ground on their first  
Habitat for Humanity home   Construction began in 2014  
and was completed in April 2015   
The team also conducted quarterly fundraisers to help raise money for children and families fighting cancer at the University 
of Nebraska Medical Center   
The office made the holidays happier for area children by 
selling passes allowing employees to wear jeans to work, 
holding traditional bake sales, and organizing raffles and lunches   Through these activities, employees raised money to 
purchase more than 250 gifts for 51 children   But their chari
-
table efforts didn’t stop there: The Nebraska Charity Challenge provided another opportunity for Omaha employees to give to 
their community   Over a three-week period, employees earned 
Aflac Foundation dollars for the charitable organizations of their choice   These dollars were awarded based on job perfor
-
mance, overtime hours and the outcomes of several challenges 
organized by the Human Resources team   
Each week, employee dollars were added up and the total was donated to charities including the Wounded Warrior Project, 
the Omaha Public Library, Big Brothers and Big Sisters, and the 
Urban League   
Aflac Group in Columbia, South Carolina
Aflac’s commitment to childhood cancer extends beyond the 
Aflac Cancer Center in Atlanta   In fact, in 2014, Aflac Group 
Insurance in Columbia, South Carolina, made a five-year, $500,000 commitment to Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital 
for the endowment of a chair for their Pediatric/Hematology 
unit  In 2013, Children’s had 4,354 encounters with children with 
cancer and various types of blood disorders, with 880 patients either on active therapy or in follow up   Of that total, 428 were 
Hematology/Oncology patients and 452 were patients with 
Sickle Cell disease   Each year, an average of 40 to 45 new 
oncology patients are diagnosed at Palmetto Children’s  
Aflac Nebraska says, “Not so fast.” Just like their 
colleagues in Columbus and New York, they put their 
pens and pencils down for a few days and helped build 
a family’s future through Habitat for Humanity.
Six-year old Matthew Dinslage, a cancer patient at 
the Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha, gives a full 
inspection of the 2014 Aflac Holiday Duck. Word is that 
the plush version met all of Matthew’s specifications.
Continued page 20
Dr. Ronnie Neuberg (second from left) poses with 
the Teal family and MSNBC anchor Craig Melvin, who 
served as master of ceremonies at the 2014 Duckprints 
event held at Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital.20The team at Aflac Group in Columbia, South Carolina, 
renovated their first Habitat for Humanity Home in 2014   In 
addition to enjoying the satisfaction that comes from helping others, employees delighted a family of three by remodeling 
a bathroom, replacing flooring, painting, making minor repairs 
and adding a porch to their home  
Aflac Group also showed its compassion for children in need by serving as the leading sponsor for the Midlands March of 
Dimes   Jeans week, bake and breakfast sales, change buckets 
and other activities helped the company raise more than 
$37,000   Aflac Group received several awards for its efforts, 
including New Large Company Raising the Most Money and 2015 Presenting Sponsor   In addition, Aflac Group Accounting 
Specialist Tiara Jenkins was named 2015 Midlands March of Dimes Team Captain of the Year  
Aflac Group Insurance in Columbia South Carolina also supported educational programs in 2014, including the 
EdVenture Children’s Museum, which brought a new exhibit 
called Dinosaurs: Land of Fire and Ice™ into town   The program 
was sponsored by Aflac, opened on June 7 and was initially scheduled to run through September 14  The very popular 
exhibit was extended through October, giving children and adults alike the opportunity to see what life was like when the T  rex and raptor roamed the earth  
Aflac Execs Would Never Duck a Great Cause
The Ice Bucket Challenge spread virally on social media in 
2014, and Aflac executives joined in   Led by CEO Dan Amos, 
nine of Aflac’s executive officers chilled out for a great cause   
The Aflac Duck even got in on the act by successfully challenging his fellow marketing icon, the Geico Gecko, to 
take a shivery shower   
No need to worry, though   The water poured onto the Aflac 
Duck came right from his pond – and there was no ice, of course   But like the true star he is, the Duck emerged unruffled    
Aflac made a donation to the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Foundation, or ALS, to help find a cure for what is commonly 
known as Lou Gehrig’s Disease   
 
Aflac CEO Dan Amos (middle) is all wet! But it was for a 
great cause. The Ice Bucket Challenged helped raise more 
than $115 million for the treatment and research of ALS.
Aflaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaac!Continued from page 19
Accounting Specialist Tiara Jenkins proudly named March of  
Dimes Team Captain of the Year21Aflac SmartGreen®
Just as we at Aflac strive to be good stewards of our business, 
we also strive to be good stewards of our planet   The Aflac 
SmartGreen® philosophy outlines our corporate commitment to wisely choosing, using and disposing of the resources we 
use each day   Although Aflac’s environmental impact is minimal 
due to the nature of our business, we’re always looking for innovative ways to reduce that impact   
As a large, publicly traded company, Aflac recognizes its 
responsibility for leading the way in eco-friendly business 
initiatives   From the materials we use in our daily operations to 
the construction and renovation of our facilities, we carefully consider the environmental footprints our actions will leave – 
not only today, but in the years to come   In recognition of our 
efforts, Aflac is proud to have been included on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for four consecutive years  
The Aflac Board of Directors Sustainability Committee leads our SmartGreen efforts and is committed to doing business in an environmentally conscious manner that includes not only 
streamlining our business operations, but also reducing paper 
consumption by communicating and delivering our services 
online whenever possible     Online Services
• Aflac provides reports, invoices, statements, policies and 
other customer communications electronically for our 
home office employees, sales associates, policyholders 
and payroll accounts   
• In 2014, we introduced direct deposit for our policy -
holders’ claims payments   By doing so, we reduced the 
expenses incurred in printing and shipping claims checks   
As an added bonus, our customers receive their claims payments more quickly – just when they need them most      
 Offering direct deposit also aligns with Aflac’s efforts to reduce its carbon footprint and supports “Go Green” 
efforts   If just 20 percent of our customers elect to receive 
claims payments by direct deposit, we’ll save more 16,000 pounds of paper; prevent 153,000 gallons of wastewater 
from discharging into streams, lakes and rivers; and keep 18,000 pounds of solid waste out of landfills  
• Aflac encourages its customers to do business online   This 
includes using our electronic submission and servicing 
tools   These efforts save millions of sheets of paper and 
hundreds of thousands of dollars annually   Additionally, our 
e-Policy system, which enables policyholders to receive 
policies electronically, saves Aflac nearly $1 million  
 
Pioneering, Protecting and Prospering since 1955 the Aflac Way
Continued page 22PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT  
THE AFLAC WA Y22• Aflac’s sales force uses Aflac SmartApp® Next Generation 
software to process 94 percent of new-policy applications   
More than 72 percent of this new business is processed and issued with no manual assistance from corporate 
employees   Not only does this save paper, but it also 
streamlines service for our policyholders  
• More than 84,000 sales associates receive their 
commission statements electronically and more than 76 
percent of system-generated reports are designed to be 
viewed online rather than printed  
Teleconferencing
In 2014, an average of 3,300 meetings per month took place via Web-enabled teleconferences   Teleconferencing not only 
helps the company save on travel costs, but it also increases the productivity of teams spread out across the U  S  and Japan by 
encouraging frequent communication  
Carpool, Telework and Alternative Work Schedules
Aflac partners with the Clean Air Campaign to encourage “clean commuting  ” Employees receive incentives to share rides or 
reduce trips to office buildings   These include designated 
special parking spaces on each campus for carpoolers, motor
-
cycle riders, and hybrid or electric car owners   
Print Operations
Marketing brochures and mass-produced literature is printed 
on paper from Forest Stewardship Council-certified forests   
In 2014, 83 percent of our printed materials were printed on FSC-certified paper, which puts us well on the way to reaching 
our goal of 90 percent     
Facilities Management
• Aflac continually monitors and reduces resource and utility 
consumption   We have earned ENERGY STAR recognition 
for 84 percent of all eligible corporate property, including the building that houses our data center   Additionally, 
we followed the U  S  Green Building Council’s LEED for 
Commercial Interiors guidance in the renovation of a 
five-story main campus building and received gold-level 
certification upon completion  
• Ernst & Young audited Aflac’s Scope I and II emissions reports and certified them with a letter of attestation   To 
improve our standings, we have subscribed to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project to allow us to benchmark our resource 
use against the world’s largest collection of self-reported 
climate-change data    
 
ISO 50001
Aflac was the first insurance company in the U  S  to be 
ISO 50001 Energy Management System-registered   ISO 
50001 represents the latest best-practice thinking in energy management   The international standard outlines top 
energy-management practices and helps organizations develop policies for more efficient use of energy, identify targets and 
objectives to meet those policies, use data to better understand 
and make decisions about energy use, measure their results 
and continually improve energy management    
Energy Savings
Through sustained and deliberate energy-saving measures, 
Aflac has reduced its energy consumption by 38 percent per 
square foot since 2007   We’ve achieved this by: 
• Implementing energy-saving strategies as buildings are remodeled   For example, we’ve installed LED lighting 
fixtures; task-light motion sensors in cubicles; and motion sensors in restrooms, copier rooms and parking garages   
• Powering down heating and cooling systems, parking-lot lights and nearly 5,000 computer monitors during off hours   
• Virtualizing 80 percent of our server environment   
This allows for fewer physical servers, better space management, reduced power consumption and significant 
cost savings   In addition, our IT department raised the 
temperature in the data center, reducing energy usage 
 
and costs associated with air cooling   
Nothing is more important to Aflac than the safety and security of 
our employees. Aflac recently installed LED lighting in its parking 
lot at the Aflac Support Center in Columbus, Georgia.  The 
results are in, and not only is our parking lot brighter and more 
secure, but there are other benefits as well, including:
•  $17,500 in annual savings.
•  Annual energy savings of more than 166,000 kWh.
•  Reduced load by 76 percent, or 49 kW.
•  Reduction equivalent to 120 metric tons of CO2 emissions annually.
•  Reduction equivalent to growing 3,000 tree seedlings for 10 years.Continued from page 2123Waste Management and Recycling
• Aflac works to minimize the amount of waste generated 
by our operations and to recycle much of the waste we 
produce   Our recycling efforts have increased from 57 
percent of all solid waste in 2009 to 70 percent in 2014, and we annually divert approximately 1  5 million pounds of 
waste from landfills  
• Aflac partners with DART, our polystyrene food-container 
supplier, to lease a foam densifier   Employees and the 
cafeteria management on the Columbus campuses separate polystyrene food and drink containers from the waste stream   They are compacted into 40-pound cores 
and shipped to Michigan, where they are reduced to pellets and reused to make hard plastic products such as CD 
cases, rulers, outdoor furniture and decking  
• Aflac uses an ORCA food digester that turns food waste 
from the company’s cafeteria into gray water, which can be disposed of through city sewage systems   The food 
digester diverts up to 40,000 pounds of food waste from landfills each year  
• Aflac’s print operations team uses a vacuum system that vents paper cuttings from the workroom floor to a paper 
baler on the loading dock   The system frees up floor 
space and helps maintain a clean production environment, supporting the company’s lean manufacturing 5S initiative   
It also increases recycling revenue, generating three to four 
bales of scrap every day that weigh approximately 1,200 
pounds each    
• Aflac also recycles plastic, aluminum, paper, newspaper, magazines, ink cartridges, batteries and fluorescent 
light bulbs   
Recycling by the Numbers 
Recycling is an important pollution-prevention activity that reduces our burden on the environment and makes Aflac a 
better, more responsible neighbor in our communities   Aflac 
encourages employees to recycle paper products and much 
more, including:
• Newspaper  
• Cardboard  
• Fluorescent lamps  
• Toner and ink jet cartridges  
• Microfilm and recording tape  
• Ceiling tiles  
• Computer equipment  
• Pallets  
• Plastic bottles  • Aluminum  
• Copper  
• Steel 
• Iron  
• Batteries  
• Carpet  
• Polystyrene  Our recycling program is already reaping rewards for our 
business and the environment   Not only does it help us reduce 
our business costs, but it also generates significant savings:  •  1,169,791 pounds (522 tons) of paper
•  9,534 barrels of oil
•  4,094,268 gallons of water
•  35,094 pounds of air pollution 
•  1,930 cubic yards of landfill space
•  2,398,072 kWh of electricity — enough to power 
 
 the average home for 82,140 days
Employees: Going Green the Aflac Way 
Aflac’s Green Committee, now in its seventh year, is made up of employees from each of the company’s corporate offices   
The committee is responsible for developing programs and initiatives that raise employee awareness of Aflac’s commitment 
to the environment   It sponsors events throughout the year that 
educate and encourage environmentally friendly and respon
-
sible lifestyles    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
At the annual Earth Day Celebration, local organizations and 
businesses at all four major Aflac office locations introduce products, 
tools and community programs that make green living a little easier.  
Continued page 2424 
Each year for the past four years, the committee has hosted an 
Arbor Day Tree Giveaway in cooperation with Trees Columbus   
The giveaway provides free trees to employees -- more than 2,500 trees to date   The initiative helps Trees Columbus 
fulfill its mission to build and maintain the tree canopy in the city   Employees in more than 20 locations outside of 
headquarters also received free trees from the National Arbor Day Foundation   The semiannual Free Cycle Event enables 
employees to donate, trade and reuse office supplies, saving dollars and redistributing inventory   Since the initiative began in 
2009, Aflac has saved more than $60,000 on office supplies  
E-Waste Recycling Drives, held frequently at the Columbus and Nebraska offices, encourage employees to appropriately 
dispose of personal electronic waste, keeping more than 
14,000 pounds of electronic waste and potentially hazardous 
materials out of landfills   Additionally, the IT Division recycled 
more than 60,000 pounds of electronic equipment in 2014   
Help the Hooch is an annual cleanup day to beautify 
streambeds and prevent garbage from contaminating the Chattahoochee River   Employees and their families participate 
in this Columbus community event as an Aflac team  
To assist in green initiatives, the Green Committee enlists 
volunteers from the Green Team, a larger group of employees 
dedicated to the sustainability initiatives developed by the 
Green Committee   The Green Team volunteers at various 
programs and events, offers ideas to committee leaders and provides an on-site sustainability presence in all of Aflac’s 
buildings   
Aflac was rated in the well above the industry average for 
supply chain management and operational eco-efficiency in the 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index survey   
“We are proud to have secured a place on the Dow Jones Sustainability-North America Index for the fourth consecutive 
year,” said Alfred Blackmar, Aflac’s vice president of Facilities 
and chair of the Green Committee   “This recognition 
validates that operating a strong business and focusing on 
social responsibility go hand in hand  ”
Aflac is a founding member of the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council   The group supports and recognizes 
purchasing leadership that accelerates the transition to a prosperous and sustainable future   Aflac’s engagement with the 
council’s members and programs helps Aflac purchasers better understand the social, environmental and economic impact 
of their purchases   SPLC also helps Aflac identify and apply 
existing leadership standards and approaches to improve its 
purchasing behavior and benchmark its progress    
During the company’s annual Earth Day celebration, Aflac 
gave away several nice prizes. Chief among them was a 
free home energy assessment from Georgia Power. Paste 
the link below into your browser and see how Aflac’s 
Sharon Baker found out how she could save money while 
conserving energy in her home.
http://www.mnn.com/food/healthy-eating/sponsorvideo/
saving-energy-at-home-georgia-power-outreach-pro -
gram-educates-aflacContinued from page 2325AFLAC JAPAN  
THE AFLAC WA Y  
26
27Aflac Japan’s Commitment to Philanthropy
In 2014, Aflac Japan celebrated its 40th anniversary and 
remained passionate about its commitment to corporate 
citizenship   Aflac Japan is deeply committed to numerous 
philanthropic programs and its employees are good stewards both within their communities and on behalf of the 
environment    
Aflac Japan’s Commitment to Fighting Cancer  
Aflac Parents HouseThe first Aflac Parents House was established in 2001, and 
since then the facility has continued to provide cheerful 
and spacious accommodations to pediatric patients and 
their families   When children are diagnosed with cancer or 
other serious medical conditions, they often must travel from other parts of Japan to Tokyo or Osaka to receive treatment   
Through generous donations from Aflac Japan’s sales agents 
and employees, two Aflac Parents House locations in Tokyo 
and one in Osaka have helped more than 10,000 families of 
children battling cancer and other serious diseases   These 
facilities are a home away from home while patients battle cancer or other serious medical conditions   
“You have cancer,” are devastating words no one – especially 
not a teenager – ever expects to hear   But unfortunately those 
were the words an oncologist said to Yuta Ietsuka (pictured with his mother) and his family 10 years ago when he was 
diagnosed at the tender age of 16   The news meant it would 
be necessary for Yuta to leave the picturesque and familiar mountain town of Kamisuwa in Japan’s Nagano prefecture 
to undergo a series of treatments in Tokyo, which is about 
three hours away by train   Yuta was no stranger to taking 
on challenges; as an avid baseball player, he was used to playing to win and would accept nothing less   But he would 
be in for the fight of his life as he took on this life-threatening 
disease   With sheer determination, outstanding medical care, 
spirituality; and support from friends, family and the Aflac Parents House, Yuta won his battle with cancer and remains 
in remission   Even while he was undergoing many difficult 
treatments, he remained optimistic about his ability to recover   
To provide comfort and encouragement for himself and other 
patients staying at the hospital, he turned to music and played 
his favorite red guitar   
Throughout a very challenging year of treatment in Tokyo, the encouraging smiles and unending support of the staff at the 
Aflac Parents House helped provide a setting in which Yuta, his 
parents and two siblings summoned the strength to overcome 
his treatment journey   Today, Yuta is a successful, hardworking 
young man who is living his dream of playing baseball and 
making music   
TOMODACHI Initiative In January 2013, Aflac announced its participation in the 
TOMODACHI Initiative, a public-private partnership led by the 
U S -Japan Council and the United States Embassy in Tokyo   
The initiative invests in the next generation of Japanese and Americans through educational and cultural exchanges as well 
as leadership programs   The goal is to strengthen relationships 
between the United States and Japan over the long term   
Aflac’s involvement in the TOMODACHI Initiative is in the area of pediatric cancer research and treatment   Beginning in 
June 2013, Japan-based pediatric cancer specialists arrived at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s 
Healthcare of Atlanta on a rotational basis to observe and share best practices related to the care and treatment of 
children with cancer   The pediatric specialist program lays 
the foundation for broader understanding of research and treatment protocols for childhood cancer, enhancing commu
-
nication and cooperation between U  S  and Japan cancer 
specialists  
Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Cancer Orphans 
Not only is Aflac Japan committed to children with cancer, but 
it also supports those who have lost a parent to cancer   The 
Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Cancer Orphans was established to help high school students who have lost a 
Children’s cancer doesn’t recognize borders, which is why Aflac has 
established the TOMODACHI initiative that brings the best and brightest from Japan and the U.S. together to help improve the way we treat and research terrible disease that impacts too many families on both sides of the world.
Continued page 2828parent to cancer better afford the cost of attending high 
school   Each year, the program allocates funds to eligible 
recipients who have faced economic hardship and have met specific scholastic requirements   Upon receiving the 
scholarship, students are given ¥25,000 per month until their graduation from high school, with the funds desig
-
nated for education and living expenses   More than 2,000 
students to date have received this scholarship  
Cancer Awareness and Prevention Aflac Japan’s partnership with national and local govern
-
ments and organizations strengthens its commitment to helping communities   Through these alliances, Aflac Japan 
increases cancer awareness, promotes early detection and educates the public on prevention   
Each year since 1994, Aflac Japan has hosted a benefit concert to support children and their families who are 
fighting childhood cancer   The event is held in various 
locations in Japan and features an array of talented entertainers   Those who donate at the concert receive an 
Aflac Duck in gratitude   So far, more than 140,000 people 
have participated in these concerts and approximately ¥58 million has been raised   All proceeds go to hospitals, 
research efforts and childhood cancer support groups   
Aflac Japan has also contributed to exhibitions focusing on 
cancer prevention and treatment    Since 2004, exhibi
-
tions sponsored throughout Japan by the Gold Ribbon Campaign have featured informative displays and videos 
as well as pediatric cancer patients’ artwork   The Gold 
Ribbon Campaign is an initiative established in the United States to help promote awareness about pediatric cancer 
as well as to raise funds for pediatric cancer research   The 
initiative is in its early stages in Japan, but support from organizations and companies is increasing  
Dementia Prevention Awareness 
Aflac Japan sponsors the Symposium on Dementia Prevention, which was founded in 1989 by the Mainichi 
Shimbun and the Dementia Prevention Foundation   This 
event provides citizens with the opportunity to openly discuss long-term care issues and features a panel 
discussion with local government officials as well as 
lectures by dementia experts  In addition, Aflac Japan sponsors the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation, which hosts forums throughout the country 
that promote the creation of local networks to help the aging   This foundation pioneered a system in which people 
earn credits for helping senior citizens in their commu
-
nities   They can exchange those credits for help with their 
own elderly relatives in distant locations or for themselves 
in times of need   
As part of the annual Chronicles competition sponsored by the Japan Medical Association and the Yomiuri Shimbun, 
Aflac presents the Aflac Award to individuals who write 
outstanding essays about their own health care or medical 
experiences or those of their families  
Social Contribution Activities 
Aflac Japan is dedicated to giving back to the community and believes doing so has contributed to its successful 
reputation   Since 1993, Aflac Japan employees have 
devoted their time and resources to various fundraising activities    
One such activity is the “One Hundred Club,” in which the company matches the amount employees specify 
they wish to have deducted from their monthly salaries   
Funds are allocated to the Aflac Kids Support System, Gold Ribbon Campaign support groups, and global and environmental organizations    Approximately 80 percent of 
Aflac Japan employees participate, and approximately ¥23 million was donated in 2014    
In addition to financial donations, Aflac Japan employees and agents give selflessly of their time through various 
volunteer initiatives   For example, Aflac Japan has 
participated in blood donation initiatives since the 1995 Kobe earthquake   Through these initiatives, Aflac Japan 
employees volunteer to help blood donation campaigns 
throughout the country, especially during the month of 
February when Japan’s blood supply is limited   
Continued from page 2729AFLAC 2014  
SERVICE AND RECOGNITIONS
30
Daniel P. Amos, chairman and CEO, has seen Aflac revenues grow during his 25-year tenure from $2.7 billion to $22.7 billion 
as of December 31, 2014. Mr. Amos is responsible for launching the company’s national advertising program featuring the popular Aflac Duck, making Aflac a top national brand that has been named by FORTUNE magazine as one of America’s Most 
Admired Companies 14 times. Aflac has also attained the distinction of being the only insurance company to appear for 17 
consecutive years on FORTUNE’s list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For. In 2014, Aflac CEO Dan Amos was recognized by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the 100 Most Influential People in Business Ethics. It is the second time Mr. Amos has received this honor. Dan currently serves on the board of directors of the House of Mercy in Columbus, Georgia.
Paul S. Amos II, Aflac president, served on the board of directors for the Turner College of Business at Columbus State 
University, the Brookstone School Board of Trustees, the board of the Georgia Research Alliance and the Duke University Divinity Board of Visitors.
Kriss Cloninger III, president; chief financial officer, has been named three times as the Best CFO in the Insurance/Life 
category in America by Institutional Investor magazine. He is a member of board of directors Precept Ministries and is a 
Fellow of the Society of Actuaries.
Teresa White , president of Aflac U.S., was honored in 2014 with three very special awards: She was included on the 
Network Journal’s list of 25 Influential Black Women in Business, received the 2014 Woman in Healthcare Leadership 
Award from the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA) and was honored by Insurance Networking News as one 
of the Top 10 Women in Insurance Leadership. Teresa is a fellow at the Fellow Life Management Institute.
Charles D. Lake II, president of Aflac International and chairman of Aflac Japan, serves as a member of the board of 
directors for the U.S.-Japan Business Council; president emeritus, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan; director, America-Japan Society; member and board of directors, Peterson Institute for International Economics; member and board of directors, Coalition of Service Industries; member and board of directors, Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation; 
member and board of governors, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; member and board of 
directors, Japan Center for International Exchange; councilor, International House of Japan; member, advisory board, Graduate School of Public Policy at the University of Tokyo; trustee, Japan Association of Corporate Executives (Keizai Doyukai); and member, Antimonopoly Study Group of the Japan Fair Trade Commission.
Audrey B. Tillman,  During her tenure at Aflac, Executive Vice President and General Counsel Audrey Boone Tillman 
has been selected by The Network Journal as one of their 25 Influential Black Women in Business awardees. She was 
named one of the Top 100 Blacks in Corporate America by Black Professionals magazine for two consecutive years and received the Office Depot Visionary Award, which recognizes her dedication, leadership ability and commitment to achieve business success, shape the direction of her community and help improve the lives of women.
Susan Blanck,  Aflac executive vice president, Corporate Actuary, serves on the board of the Society of Actuaries and 
as president of President of Kids Cambodia, Inc., which is a nonprofit organization supporting children, families and 
communities in Cambodia.
Eric Kirsch, Aflac executive vice president, Global CIO, serves as a trustee of the Jersey Shore University Medical Center 
Foundation and sits on the board of directors at the Baruch College Fund.
Dan Lebish,  Aflac executive vice president, chief operating officer, Aflac Group, sits on the board of trustees for Claflin 
University, the board of directors for Palmetto Health Foundation, the board of directors for Central Carolina Community 
Foundation, the board of directors for SC Chamber of Commerce and the board of directors for SC Urban League.
31
Laree Daniel,  chief operations officer, was honored with 
Black Enterprise Magazine’s  award or the 50 Most Powerful 
Women in Corporate America.
Eric Selden , president of Communicorp and senior 
vice president of Business Services, currently serves on 
the Columbus Regional Health Foundation Board, The Chattahoochee River Club Board and the Harris County 
High School Council.
Tom Giddens,  Aflac senior advisor, serves on the board 
of directors for the Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta 
Foundation.
Todd Daniels,  Aflac senior vice president, serves on the 
board of directors for Midtown Inc., which works to build 
community, to sustain and revitalize neighborhoods, and to grow and strengthen the MidTown business community 
in Columbus, Georgia.
Alexander Stephanouk,  Aflac senior vice president, 
Internal Audit, serves on the board of directors of  the 
Family Center of Columbus as treasurer as well as the board of the  Institute of Internal Auditors Columbus, GA Chapter.
Catherine Blades, Aflac senior vice president of 
Corporate Communications, serves as chairperson of the national board of directors for Operation Homefront, a not-for-profit organization that provides emergency 
financial and other assistance to the families of those 
deployed and wounded warriors. 
Andrew J. Conrad, senior vice president and general 
counsel, Aflac Japan, serves as a trustee for Run for the Cure 
Foundation, a trustee for the American School in Japan, 
vice president for the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan and as a member of the board of governors for the National Center for APEC.
June Howard,  Aflac chief accounting officer, was recog
-
nized by ExecRank as a Top Chief Accounting Officer in 
2014 following two years of research and feedback from evaluation committees and top chief accounting officers.
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For 
and World’s Most Admired Companies are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under License.  FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not 
affiliated with and do not endorse products or 
services of Aflac.
Z150544 6/15aflac com  |  706 596 3264 or 800  235 2667 
Aflac Incorporated  |  1932 Wynnton Road  
Columbus, Georgia 31999
