Act Like A Duck2012 corporate   
citizenship report
Z120259 5/12Contents
Letter From Dan Amos
A Bird’s-Eye View
Take Care of Your Flock
Give a Quack
Be Kind to Your Pond
Swim the Good Swim
Ducks Without Borders
Make a Splash12
5
9
16
21
24
272012 corporate citizenship report // 1  //
Letter From The CEO
Like any company, Aflac survives on 
profits, but we thrive on principles. 
Our reputation defines us, which is why I am proud we were again recognized by Ethisphere magazine as one of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies, the 
only insurance company on this list for 
six consecutive years. 
Our diverse employees are the corner -
stone of our business model, making us 
all proud to land a place on FORTUNE’s 
Best Companies to Work For ranking 
for an amazing 14 straight years. We 
have also been on FORTUNE’s  Most Admired Companies list 11 times, Black 
Enterprise’s list of 40 Best Companies 
for Diversity and LATINA Style’s list of 
Best Companies for Latinas, seven and 
11 times respectively. 
2011 saw a significant accomplishment 
in Aflac’s sustainability credentials as 
we were named to the Dow Jones Sus-
tainability Index (DJSI) North America 
list for the first time, demonstrating our obligation to social responsibility.  We 
also soared 100 places in Newsweek’s 
annual green rankings and once  
again, our employees volunteered  
their valuable time to construct a  
home for a family in need with Habitat 
for Humanity in our hometown of  Columbus, Georgia.Giving is second nature at Aflac. In fact, in 2011 we surpassed $70 million 
in contributions to treat and research 
pediatric cancer. Through the Aflac Cancer Center in Atlanta, the sale of 
our annual plush Holiday Duck, and 
various fundraising events we made a 
difference in the lives of families facing 
this terrible disease. Proudly, our inde-pendent sales associates contribute 
more than $425,000 every month from 
commission checks, bringing hope 
to families and resources to scientists 
searching for a cure.
In March, when Japan was battered by 
a terrible tsunami, destroying everything 
in its path, Aflac and its employees 
stepped up again. In response to heart-
break Aflac and employees contributed 
more than $1.25 million to help the 
people of Japan, where Aflac conducts more than two-thirds of its business.
I have been CEO at Aflac for 22 years 
and have never seen our people more determined in their commitment to 
community. Yet no matter how many 
accolades or awards we receive, we 
know that our reputation is only as 
strong as what we do tomorrow. 
To that end, we will continue our tradi-
tion of transparency and rigid business 
ethics by enacting a program called The Aflac Trust; a companywide effort with a mission to deter, prevent, detect 
and respond to potential fraud and 
abuse. We’re expanding our volunteer efforts by providing altruistic employ-
ees and associates with a mechanism 
to find volunteer opportunities in their 
communities. We are committed to 
making a difference and are honored to demonstrate that you can be a suc-
cessful business without sacrificing 
principles.
Daniel p . amos
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at aflac, we understand that consumer and shareholder trust can only be earned through 
years of ethical behavior — but can vanish in an instant. it is this knowledge that helps 
guide our decisions and consolidates our companywide commitment to our long-held  
values that include taking care of employees, prioritizing customers and remaining honest 
in business dealings. in this report we will focus on the events of 2011 through March 31, 
2012 that have helped demonstrate aflac’s commitment to our principles.
2012 corporate citizenship report // 2  //
aflac’s core product is a promise: a promise to help our 
policyholders in their time of need, should it ever arise. Keeping that promise is the cornerstone of our business, and guides all aspects of our operations. integrity is not an afterthought at aflac; it is our reason for being. our entire company culture — our relations with our employees, our suppliers, our communities, our natural surroundings and our investors — is designed to support and reinforce the promise we make to our customers.
A Bird’s-Eye View2012 corporate citizenship report // 3  //
aflac was founded as the american Family Life  
insurance company on november 17, 1955 by three 
brothers: John, paul, and Bill amos. in its first year  
of operation, aflac had 6,426 policyholders and 
$388,000 in assets. t oday, aflac is a thriving Fortune 
500 international insurance company listed on the new York stock exchange. our company insures 
more than 50 million people worldwide, and had more than $117 billion in annual assets and more than $22 
billion in annual revenues as of December 31, 2011. even with this tremendous growth, the trust and 
dedication typical of a family-owned business still characterize our workforce and govern our decisions. 
insurance of a Different Feather
Aflac is not a typical insurance company, and it  never has been. For more than five decades, Aflac 
insurance policies have helped provide policyholders with financial protection against loss of income and assets by 
paying cash benefits directly to the insured if a specified 
health event or life situation occurs. Individuals can use the 
cash to help pay for unexpected expenses resulting directly 
from illness or injury, or for everyday things like groceries, utilities, and house and car payments. Aflac’s individual 
insurance policies include accident,  cancer, short-term 
disability, hospital intensive care, hospital confinement 
indemnity, hospital confinement sickness indemnity, critical 
care and recovery (specified health event) , life, lump sum, dental, and vision.numbers to Quack about
  As of March 1, 2012, Aflac was rated AA–  
by Standard & Poor’s, Aa3 by Moody’s  
Investors Service, A+ (Superior) by A.M. Best for financial strength, and AA- by R&I for financial strength, which exemplifies our ability to pay claims. 
Despite the challenges that faced the life and health  
insurance industry as a whole in 2011, Aflac generated 
solid financial performance for the year. Although net  
earnings were negatively impacted by larger investment 
losses in 2011 than in 2010, declining 16.2% to $1.96 
billion, total revenues rose 6.9% to $22.2 billion, benefiting 
from strong sales through banks in Japan and a stronger 
yen/dollar exchange rate. 
For the 22nd consecutive year, we achieved the primary financial objective we use internally to assess the growth  
of our business—the growth of net earnings per diluted 
share, excluding currency. We believe this measure best 
exemplifies our management and business performance, 
and that achieving it is the principal driver of creating value 
for our shareholders over the long term. We also increased 
cash dividends for the 29th consecutive year: our cash dividend payments in 2011 were 7.9% higher than in 2010. 
In addition, for 2011, we targeted a risk-based capital  
(RBC) ratio in the range of 400 to 500% and at the end of 
the year, we had achieved an RBC ratio was 493%.promise2012 corporate citizenship report // 4  //
A Duck with  
International  Appeal
Since his introduction in 2000, the 
Aflac Duck has received many 
accolades, including being named as one of the Top 25 Power Brands in the United States by Forbes magazine 
in 2004, being enshrined on Madison 
Avenue’s Walk of Fame in 2005, and most recently being inducted into the 
PR News Public Relations Hall of Fame 
in 2011. The Aflac Duck also made his 
first appearance in the Macy’s Thanks-
giving Day Parade in New York in 2011. In both the United States and Japan, nine out of ten people recognize the 
Aflac Duck. In Japan, the Aflac Duck’s 
persona has assumed a slightly quieter side as he adapts to local norms of 
behavior, but in both countries, he is 
sensible, reassuring and honest. He has 
proven to be an excellent representative 
of Aflac’s corporate culture and values. honesty2012 corporate citizenship report // 5  //
although aflac has grown a great deal since the three 
brothers founded it in 1955, we try not to stray from our core family values of trust, loyalty, candor and compassion. We believe that if our employees are treated with respect and kindness in the workplace, they will reflect those values to our customers. t o that end, we offer excellent benefits, 
competitive salaries, award-winning training, advancement opportunities, on-site child care, college scholarships,  and employee appreciation events and awards.
Take Care of Your Flock2012 corporate citizenship report // 6  //
Keeping everyone afloat
For 14 years in a row, FORTUNE magazine has named Aflac to its list of the 
100 Best Companies to Work For. To help employees balance work and fam-
ily, we offer flextime, compressed workweeks, and telecommuting. We also fund high school, college, and graduate school scholarships for employees and their  
children and grandchildren.
All of our employees receive a comprehensive benefits package that includes 
health, dental, and life insurance, plus they have a range of other insurance  
policies available to them. In addition to running our two on-site acute care clinics, our Health Services department sponsors an annual health fair, flu shots, weight 
loss programs, and health screenings for employees and their families. Our  
campuses offer miles of scenic walking trails, fitness centers, and cafeterias 
stocked with a wide variety of nutritious selections.
We provide a generous 401(k) plan, an employee stock-purchase program,  
profit-sharing bonuses, and rewards for tenure and superior performance. 
loyalty2012 corporate citizenship report // 7  //
The Aflac Bright Ideas pro-
gram empowers employees to submit ideas that could reduce waste, reduce our carbon footprint, increase morale and save money for the organization.integrity
Growth and Development
All employees are given a copy of  
The Aflac Way, the book which 
reflects Aflac’s founding philosophy and culture, reminds us of the promises we 
make to every customer, and outlines 
the specific actions we must take to 
keep those promises. In addition, our 
publication Employee Matters features stories that illustrate what Aflac strives 
to be and reinforce the value that the 
company places on integrity. Each year 
during Employee Appreciation Week 
our workforce is reminded of what it  means to be part of the Aflac family. Our company celebration includes  significant prizes and awards that  
recognize our employees and their 
commitment to Aflac’s guiding  
principles.
All 4,500 employees of Aflac Incorpo-
rated now have access to a learning 
tool from one of the most recognized names in leadership—Harvard Busi-
ness Publishing. With audio downloads, 
video clips, interactive activities and other tools, Harvard ManageMentor 
gives users instant access to practical 
information that can be used imme-
diately to address issues. In addition, more than 19 need-based courses 
are offered for professional, technical, 
and administrative employees. These 
courses include computer training, 
job-specific training, industry educa-
tion to encourage career advancement, and a multi level management training 
program. Courses are free, exam costs 
are reimbursed, and courses are offered 
online for optimal ease and accessibility. 
In addition, cash awards are provided 
to employees as an extra incentive to 
expand their knowledge. 2012 corporate citizenship report // 8  //
strength in Diversity
Our commitment to diversity has been recognized by 
magazines such as Black Enterprise, LATINA Style, 
and Hispanic Enterprise. The statistics of Aflac’s workforce, 
however, best reflect our commitment to a strong,  
diverse team:
   Women account for 49% of Aflac’s man-
agement (supervisor level and above).
   Roughly 67% of Aflac employees  are women.
   Women account for about 24% of our  senior executives (VP and above).
   Minorities make up about 39% of   Aflac’s workforce.
Aflac understands the benefit of extending our diversity  
initiatives to suppliers, and our efforts have been recog-
nized. Not only has Hispanic Enterprise repeatedly included 
Aflac in its annual listing of the Top 50 Corporations for 
Supplier Diversity, but DiversityBusiness.com has also 
named Aflac as a leader among corporations providing a 
noteworthy amount of business to women- and minority-
owned companies.
Aflac is a proud member of the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC), a nonprofit organization chartered to increase opportunities for minority businesses. 
To encourage small and minority business development, 
we have implemented many outreach efforts and training 
programs for minority, women, and small-business owners.
diversity2012 corporate citizenship report // 9  //
in January 2012, Dan and Kathelen amos received a 
Business to Business annual a ward for their philan-
thropy in atlanta. their efforts were matched by the contributions of the aflac workforce. our commitment to community service, goodwill, and generosity starts at the top and extends throughout the company.
Give a Quack2012 corporate citizenship report // 10 //
storm recovery
Aflac was the first company to donate to the Red  
Cross for the victims of the Great Earthquake of  
Japan of March 2011, giving ¥100 million (about $1.2  million). Aflac U.S. employees raised an additional 
$120,000 through the sale of blue friendship wristbands 
featuring the Aflac Duck and “together” written in  Japanese and English. Aflac matched the first $100,000  
in wristband sales, bringing the combined donation  
from the wristband fundraiser to $220,000.
Aflac New York employees collected nearly 300 pounds  
of cleaning supplies, toiletries and baby care items for the 
victims of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee, which 
had caused serious flooding in August and September. 
Inspired by the employees’ efforts, the Aflac Foundation 
contributed $20,000 to assist area residents affected  by the storms. 
Aflac was the first company  
to donate to the Red Cross for the victims of the Great Earth-quake of Japan of March 2011, and Aflac New York employees collected nearly 300 pounds  of cleaning supplies, toiletries  and baby care items for the  victims of Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee.inspire2012 corporate citizenship report // 11 //
Aflac also donated one dollar to the Aflac Cancer Center 
and Blood Disorder Service when individuals took any of 
the following social media actions: 
 Checked in to NBC’s coverage of the 85th Annual 
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade on a leading social  
network for entertainment, GetGlue.com (543,890 
check-ins raised $543,890).
 Checked in with Foursquare - a leading location- based social application that allows users to check in 
with friends about where they are - while at any Macy’s  
Department store between Thanksgiving Day and  December 24th (99,112 check-ins raised $99,112).
 Posted a photo on facebook.com/aflacduck that was related to Aflac’s promotions supporting the Aflac  
Cancer Center or any of Aflac’s philanthropic  
promotions being conducted with Macy’s. 
 Retweeted a tweet from the Aflac Duck (@aflacduck) about how to join the fight against childhood cancer 
(12,979 retweets raised $12,979).attacking cancer
We’ve passionately supported the fight against child-
hood cancer for 17 years. Throughout that time, 
the extended Aflac family has given more than $70 million to childhood cancer through our relationship with the Aflac 
Cancer and Blood Disorders Center. The Atlanta-based 
children’s center is a national leader among childhood 
cancer, hematology, and blood and marrow transplant 
programs, serving infants to young adults. Recognized as one of the top childhood cancer centers in the country by 
U.S. News & World Report, the Aflac Cancer and Blood 
Disorders Center treats more than 370 new cancer patients 
each year and follows more than 2,500 children with sickle 
cell disease, hemophilia and other bleeding disorders. No relationship has been more meaningful to Aflac than the 
one we’ve established with the Aflac Cancer Center. 
In 2011, Aflac partnered with Macy’s for the 11th consecu-
tive year to sell the special limited edition Aflac Holiday Duck. Since sales began in 2001, the Aflac Holiday Duck 
has raised over $3 million for the fight against childhood 
cancer. Funds this year were donated to 56 participating 
children’s hospitals across the country. 
Aflac Holiday and philanthropy partnership promotions 
involving Macy’s include four key elements: a new Aflac 
Duck balloonicle that made its inaugural appearance in the 
85th Anniversary Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade; the sale 
of the 2011 plush Aflac Holiday Duck at 694 Macy’s stores across the nation, with all proceeds going to the treatment 
and research of childhood cancer; the Macy’s “Believe” 
Santa Tour that brought holiday happiness to cities across 
the country at a variety of local events, including the 25-city 
bus tour and stops at 11 local pediatric cancer hospitals; and the Macy’s Holiday Tree Lightings and Holiday Fes-
tivities in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia and San 
Francisco.
The Macy’s “Believe” Santa Tour,  
Columbia, SC.
believe2012 corporate citizenship report // 12 //
Under the auspices of Friends of a Feather, Aflac commit-
ted to match up to $2 million dollars in donations during 
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, September 2011. 
During this time, an Aflac plush duck purchased for $10 
triggered an additional $20 donation to the Aflac Cancer 
Center. We sold almost 13,000 ducks and, with Aflac 
matching grants included, raised more than $516,000. 
Aflac also designed a car with duck feathers painted from 
front to back, inscribed with the names of some of the unsung heroes who have gone the extra mile for 12-year-
old Hannah Layfield. Hannah, like so many children facing 
cancer, has an army of people that have stood by her and 
her family during her cancer journey. During Childhood 
Cancer Awareness Month, Aflac wanted to recognize the many people who join together to support children and their families battling cancer.
Aflac’s executive management is a strong ally in the achieve -
ment of the Aflac Cancer Center’s long-term strategic vision 
under the leadership of Dr. William Woods, recipient of the 
Daniel P . Amos Chair endowed by Aflac in 2000. 
In addition, last year, Aflac was instrumental in funding  strategic research initiatives in the Aflac Cancer Center, 
which was recently designated as a Phase I research cen-ter.  Additionally, Aflac funds Aflac Cancer Center Fellows — 
training tomorrow’s pediatric cancer physicians today, and 
supporting family support team positions, including social 
workers, chaplains, schoolteachers and child life specialists 
who play a vital role in the childhood cancer journey.support
2012 corporate citizenship report // 13 //
Aflac knows that care does not stop once a child’s cancer 
treatment ends. To provide ongoing care to children who 
are considered cancer-free but who still face issues such  
as learning disabilities or reproductive challenges, Aflac 
funded the Cancer Survivor Clinic in 2001. Today, it is  
one of the nation’s leading programs focusing solely on 
post-therapy issues of cancer survivors. In 2007, Aflac  
presented a $1.5 million Kathelen V. Amos Children’s Chair for Cancer Survivorship to Dr. Lillian R. Meacham of the 
Aflac Cancer Center.
As part of the more than $70 million that Aflac has contrib-
uted to the Aflac Cancer Center, Aflac sales agents have 
contributed tens of millions of dollars toward ending pediat-
ric cancer and helping its young victims and their families. 
In fact, more than 16,000 independent Aflac national sales 
agents contribute more than $425,000 from their commis-
sion checks each and every month. Aflac sales agents have 
also funded the Aflac Field Force Children’s Chair for Sickle Cell Disease, and the Chair for Experimental Therapy.
Aflac employees have rallied around the Aflac Cancer 
Center in many ways. Every month, Aflac employee vol-
unteers visit the Aflac Cancer Center, play Bingo with the 
patients and distribute prizes supplied by Aflac. Throughout 
the year, employees also hold toy drives, organize sports 
tournaments and direct other fundraisers to generate thou-
sands of dollars to help support the Aflac Cancer Center. 
Through Aflac’s relationship with Children’s Oncology 
Group, Aflac extended its cancer support to adolescents and young adults (AYA) with cancer, an age group that has 
been overshadowed by national and local efforts over the 
past half century to assist children and older adults with cancer. Aflac is supporting a national initiative to investigate 
why this age group has not fared as well as younger and 
older patients in improving the cure rate and quality  
of survival. 
As a result of Aflac support of AYA cancer research, a greater national awareness of the needs of this age group 
has developed, and other organizations, including the  
federal government and comprehensive cancer centers, 
are joining the cause.
Since 2004, Aflac has provided financial support to the 
Child Life Therapy Program at the Morrell Center for Child-hood Cancer and Blood Disorders housed in the Children’s 
Hospital at the Albany Medical Center.
Since 2003, Aflac has worked with the University of  
Nebraska Medical Center to establish the Aflac Fund for Childhood Cancer Patients and Families to support the 
pediatric hematology-oncology and bone marrow trans-
plantation multidisciplinary team, a vital component of the 
transplantation experience for patients and their families.
In 1999, Aflac became a founding sponsor of the American 
Association of Cancer Research (AACR) and continues  
to work to expand the travel awards program and other  
initiatives designed to meet the needs of early career  
cancer investigators.
More than 16,000 independent Aflac national sales agents 
contribute more than $425,000 from their commission checks each and every month toward ending pediatric cancer and helping its young victims and their families.2012 corporate citizenship report // 14 //
Several woman from 
Aflac’s Claims and 
IT units made hats 
and delivered them 
to the children at the 
Aflac Cancer Center 
for the holidays.Aflac has registered thousands of 
individuals as potential donors dur -
ing several bone marrow registration drives, some of which have produced 
positive results. In November 2009, 
the National Marrow Donor Program 
honored Aflac’s efforts by presenting 
President of Aflac and Chief Operating Officer of Aflac U.S. Paul Amos with the Admiral Zumwalt Corporate Award for 
the corporation that best demonstrates 
a commitment to bone marrow registra-
tion and education.
Aflac also uses its advertising spon-
sorships to spotlight pediatric cancer. 
Every year Aflac sponsors several trips 
to Major League baseball parks to give 
pediatric cancer patients a chance to get away from the hospital and out to a 
ballgame. 
Keeping it Local
Aflac offices are a vital part of their 
communities. Here are some of the lo-
cal causes to which our regional offices 
and employees contributed in 2011.
Georgia office:
American Association for Cancer Research
(AACR)
Children’s Miracle NetworkGirl Scouts of Historic Georgia, Inc. 
(formerly Girl Scouts of Concharty Council)
House of HeroesArthritis FoundationColumbus HospiceAlzheimer’s AssociationBeads of CourageUnited Way of the Chattahoochee ValleyUrban League of Greater Columbus, Inc.Big Brothers Big SistersNeighborWorks ColumbusShepherd CenterChildren’s Healthcare of Atlanta 
Foundation
ATLCF Collections LLCChattahoochee Valley Regional LibraryNational Infantry FoundationColumbus State UniversityPhenix City Public Library
Columbus Technical College
American Red Cross — West Central 
Georgia Chapter
Columbus Area Habitat for Humanity, Inc.American Red Cross of NE NYChildren’s Oncology Group FoundationTrust for the National MallBMT Infonet
American Red Cross of East AL
Georgia CORENCCS — The National Children’s 
Cancer Society
Be the Match FoundationHemophilia of Georgia, Inc.
 
new York office:American Cancer Society
Regional Food Bank
Adopt-a-FamilyJuvenile Diabetes Research FoundationUnited WayBeads of CourageThe Children’s Hospital at Albany 
Medical Center
nebraska office:American Heart AssociationMarch of Dimes
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
United WayUniversity of Nebraska Medical Cente
r
south carolina office:American Cancer Society Relay for LifeSpecial OlympicsHarvest Food Bank
In 2011, Aflac employees volunteered 
approximately 13,750 hours. Through 
the Aflac Cares program, we honor 
their efforts. We name a Volunteer of 
the Month to recognize the time an em-
ployee spends helping his or her charity 
of choice. During Employee Apprecia-
tion Week, we present the Volunteer of the Year Award and make a cash 
donation in the winner’s honor to their 
favorite charity.2012 corporate citizenship report // 15 //
honor
honoring america’s heroes 
In 2005, Aflac made a gift of $1 million toward the 
construction of a national memorial commemorating 
the life and work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. That same year, Aflac presented a check for $1 million to the Smith-
sonian Institution for the building of the National Museum 
of African-American History and Culture—the only national 
institution devoted exclusively to the documentation of 
African-American life, art, history, and culture. Aflac  continues to support these institutions.Aflac also provided $1 million for the development of the National Infantry Museum and Heritage Park in Georgia,  
and continues to support the museum and Fort Benning.  
In February 2012, Aflac’s Dan Amos was himself honored  
to be the guest speaker at the graduation ceremony of  
Foxtrot Company, 2nd Battalion, 19th Infantry Regiment  
at Fort Benning. 2012 corporate citizenship report // 16 //
aflac believes that being a good neighbor means that 
we should always respect our environment and show consideration for everyone who shares our planet. We’ve made great strides in our commitment to sus-tainability. in fact, aflac was included in the 2011/2012 Dow Jones sustainability index (DJsi) north america for the first time, and is among just three U.s. insurers on this prestigious list.
Be Kind to Your Pond2012 corporate citizenship report // 17 //
sustainability in Facilities
Over a four-year period, Aflac signifi-
cantly reduced electricity usage in its 
major buildings despite a 24 percent 
increase in square footage. From 2007 
through 2011, electricity usage was re-
duced by 21 percent. By implementing 
energy-saving measures, the company 
avoided nearly $3.5 million in electricity expenses over five years.  
Some of the energy-saving initiatives 
implemented in 2011 include install-
ing LED lighting in the parking lots and 
switching to LED lights for our holiday 
display, replacing lights in the parking 
garage, and adding motion sensors  
so parking garage lights are illuminated 
only when needed. 
Over a four-year  
period, Aflac significantly 
reduced electricity usage 
in its major buildings  
despite a 24% increase  
in square footage. 
Virtualization of our servers
Significant energy savings are realized by the virtualization of our computer serv-
ers. Our computing platforms use virtualization concepts as a tool to optimize 
capacity utilization while controlling energy consumption. As of January 2011,  
we had 727 physical servers and 1091 virtual servers to support our operations. 
See savings calculator below for estimated cost savings.
per VMW are calculator the savings are as follows based on their stated assumptions.2012 corporate citizenship report // 18 //
Aflac cracked the top 15 percent for overall green score 
and is ranked fourth in the insurance industry in the  category of Environmental Impact with a score of 87.63recycling efforts
Recycling at Aflac continues to improve as the grass-
roots green movement catches on. Our recycling rate 
in 2011 was 75.2 percent, compared to 72.2 percent in 2010. We recycle our aluminum, plastic, office paper, card-
board, polystyrene, batteries, electronics and fluorescent 
light bulbs. Polystyrene food containers are condensed 
using a densifier and stored until we have a full load go to 
the recycling plant. We recycled almost 9,000 pounds of polystyrene in 2011.
2011 recognitions
energy star rating
Our data center received the prestigious Energy Star Rating from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, making it 
only the 10th data center in the nation to become Energy 
Star labeled. The Energy Star Rating is a national mark of 
excellence in energy performance, and facilities that earn 
this rating are operating with a smaller carbon footprint. 
Additionally, our Information Technology Center, Aflac’s third 
largest facility, also received the Energy Star Rating in 2011.
Aggressive energy conservation measures taken since 
2007 raised Aflac’s Energy Star portfolio average from a baseline score of 49 to 74. Over 80% of Aflac’s portfolio is 
Energy Star certified. Through 2011, the Portfolio Adjusted 
Percent Energy Use has been reduced by -23.4 percent. Keep columbus Beautiful
Keep Columbus Beautiful recognized Aflac for our  dedication to the environment and our efforts to prevent 
litter in our community. Among the reasons cited for our 
selection were: our internal efforts to improve environmental 
awareness through Facilities and the Green Committee, 
as well as our assistance with the annual Help the Hooch 
riverway cleanup effort.
newsweek
Aflac has fortified its growing reputation as an environ-
mentally friendly business, moving up 100 spots from last 
year’s ranking of green businesses in America by News-
week. Aflac cracked the top 15 percent for overall green 
score and is ranked fourth in the insurance industry in the 
category of Environmental Impact with a score of 87.63. 
The environmental impact score measures a company’s 
worldwide footprint based on more than 750 metrics.  
Dow Jones sustainability index
The 2011/2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America list named Aflac as an honoree. This is the 
first time Aflac has participated in the DJSI survey, and  
our company is among just three U.S. insurers on the  
prestigious list.  Aflac scored above the industry average  
in the following categories: Environmental Footprint, Codes 
of Conduct, Corporate Governance, Brand Management, 
Corporate Citizenship & Philanthropy, Labor Practices  Indicators and Stakeholder Engagement.
2012 corporate citizenship report // 19 //
2011 Green committee events 
electronic Waste recycling Drives
Our semi-annual electronic waste recycling drives are 
another big win for the Green Committee. In 2011, we 
collected seven TV’s, 36 PC’s, 51 monitors, and additional 
electronics; diverting 3,855 lbs. from the landfill.
arbor Day t ree Giveaway
Aflac partnered with nonprofit organization, Trees Colum-bus, to provide free trees for Aflac employees. Trees Co-
lumbus provided 250 trees for Columbus-based employees 
to assist in greening our town. The Green Committee held 
a sign-up for interested tree owners and then randomly  
selected winners. Reports continue to pour in about 
healthy thriving trees.
recycling station and Kick the can campaign – october
At the Paul S. Amos campus, more than 100 employees 
have kicked the can – the garbage can – to support  
Aflac’s green efforts. Aflac challenged workers in Policy 
Service to give up their workstation garbage cans and 
instead use a new centrally-located recycling center.  
Participating employees gathered garbage cans from  
break areas, conference rooms and empty work stations 
and returned them to inventory.  
The new recycling station is a one-stop center for  
recycling materials from aluminum cans and plastic  bottles to newspapers and magazines.
other Green committee projects:
Earth HourEarth Day
Bike to Work Day
Freecycle Office Supply Exchange
Help the Chattahoochee-riverway cleanup
recycle2012 corporate citizenship report // 20 //
Looking ahead
Here are some specific sustainability goals for 2012: 
  Purchase a digester to consume thousands of  
pounds of food waste at Paul S. Amos campus.
 Create formalized energy and water plans.
  Evaluate and implement ISO 14001 environmental  management standards. 
  Begin Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting.
  Implement the Hara Energy and Sustainability  System software platform for energy and  
sustainability management.
  Install electrical sub-meter to better track the  
effectiveness of system upgrades.
It’s recycling day at headquarters in Colombus.2012 corporate citizenship report // 21 //
honesty and integrity are the backbone of the trusting 
relationships that aflac has developed during nearly 60 years of serving clients, policyholders, sales associates, and shareholders. in fact, abiding by a strong code of eth-ics and compliance is second nature to aflac employees, reinforced by constant formal and informal reminders of the principles that have created a Fortune 500 company from the humble beginnings of a family-owned business.
Swim the Good Swim2012 corporate citizenship report // 22 //
Aflac is commited to serving our policyholders,  
certificate holders, shareholders and employees in  an atmosphere of Trust, Caring, Honesty, Integrity,  Loyalty, and Respect.From the Beginning
At Aflac, ethical behavior starts 
on Day One. Once hired, new 
employees attend a mandatory semi-nar designed to welcome them into 
the Aflac family and to provide them 
with information they will need to be 
successful. Everyone receives a copy 
of Aflac’s publication, The Aflac Way, which contains a collection of guiding 
principles and nuggets of Aflac wis-
dom that sums up the way we have 
done business over the last 50 years. 
The Aflac Way serves as a continual reminder to each employee of the promises we make to every customer and the specific behaviors needed to 
keep those promises. The behaviors 
outlined in The Aflac Way are reinforced 
with an incentive reward system called 
Aflac Way Honors. 
In addition to The Aflac Way, the com-
pany provides employees with its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which 
is also posted on the company intranet. 
Every employee, regardless of position, is expected to honor this code and 
conduct business accordingly. Aflac 
also requires all employees—within 
thirty days of beginning employment and every year thereafter—to complete 
and pass an online course on privacy 
issues.
It is not enough that Aflac employees 
behave ethically internally. The compa-
ny also has a clear code of ethics with 
regard to suppliers and employee inter -
action with suppliers. All contracts and 
agreements entered into by Aflac and 
its subsidiaries must be in compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations. The Aflac Purchasing and Procedures 
Manual covers the detailed policies 
under which all purchasing activities  
are to be conducted.2012 corporate citizenship report // 23 //
From the t op
Chairman and CEO Dan Amos sets the tone for Aflac  
employees to follow, consistently sending a strong mes-
sage that ethics come first. When the actor who voiced  
the Aflac Duck made offensive comments following the 
terrible tsunami in Japan, Dan was decisive in severing ties 
and announcing a nationwide casting call for a new voice. 
Despite the many challenges involved in an unplanned 
overhaul, doing the right thing outweighed the costs  associated with change.
In 2008, Dan and Kriss Cloninger III, Aflac Incorporated 
President and Chief Financial Officer, both voluntarily re-
duced their earned bonuses, and in 2009, Dan announced 
that he would dispense with components of his separation 
of service package (Golden Parachute), turning away up  
to $13 million should he separate from the company.
As a publicly traded company, Aflac prides itself on  
incorporating transparency into everything it does, including 
compensation. In 2008, Aflac made business history by  
being the first public company in the United States to adopt an advisory shareholder vote on compensation. Since then 
many companies have followed Aflac’s lead.From all angles
The Aflac Trust was established and staffed in the fourth 
quarter of 2011 to uphold and preserve Aflac’s commit-
ment to serving our policyholders, certificate holders, 
shareholders and employees in an atmosphere of Trust, 
Caring, Honesty, Integrity, Loyalty, & Respect. The Aflac 
Trust deters, prevents, detects and responds to fraud  
and abuse by:
    Setting standards for the enterprise and 
the field that are aligned with regulatory requirements.
    Educating employees through effective 
fraud awareness programs (for instance, the “Acting With Integrity” online  training course for agents).
   Implementing analytical tools to identify trends and patterns.
   Employing effective product, process  and system controls.
   Investigating and settling fraud referrals efficiently and effectively.
   Aggressively pursuing violators.
    Communicating and reporting to appro-
priate internal and external entities.
The Aflac Trust was founded to make sure Aflac always 
lives ups to its reputation as the Insurance Industry’s most 
trusted and ethical company.
 
2012 corporate citizenship report // 24 //
aflac Japan is equally committed to fulfilling its responsibility  
as a corporate citizen, striving to meet shareholder expectations, and giving customers, business partners and other associates the peace of mind they deserve. aflac Japan respects its  employees, provides a great workplace, and actively promotes social contribution activities.
Ducks without Borders2012 Corporate Citizenship report // 25 //
Cancer a wareness and prevention 
Aflac contributes to the Gold Ribbon Campaign, which 
raises awareness of and research funds to fight pe-
diatric cancer. While the initiative is still in its early stages, support from organizations and companies are gradually increasing.
Since 1994, Aflac Japan has hosted a charity concert to 
support children who are fighting childhood cancer and their families. Those who donate more than ¥10,000 to the fight against childhood cancer at the concert receive an Aflac Duck. A total of approximately ¥38 million has  been raised to date. The charity concert is held in various locations and casts a variety of talented entertainers,  with proceeds going towards families affected by cancer, 
hospittals and childhood cancer support groups. 
Since 2004, Aflac has contributed to exhibitions focusing on 
cancer prevention and treatment held around the country. The exhibitions feature eminent keynote speakers, informative displays and videos, as well as pediatric cancer patients’ artwork sponsored by the Gold Ribbon Campaign.
Long-t erm Care and Dementia prevention 
awareness 
Aflac Japan is one of the sponsors of the Symposium on Dementia Prevention, founded in 1989 by the 
Mainichi Shimbun and the Dementia Prevention Founda-tion.  This event provides the opportunity for citizens to discuss long-term care issues and features a panel discus-
sion with local government officials as well as lectures by 
dementia experts. 
Aflac Japan also sponsors the Sawayaka Welfare Founda-
tion, which hosts forums throughout the country that pro-mote the creation of local networks to help the aging, and which pioneered the creation of a system whereby people earn credits by helping seniors in their community which they can then exchange for help for their own elderly rela-
tives in distant places or for themselves in times of need.
As part of the annual Chronicles competition sponsored by 
the Japan Medical Association and the Yomiuri Shimbun, Aflac presents the Aflac Award to individuals providing outstanding health care and long-term care. aflac Japan Fights Cancer
Aflac Japan established a philanthropy program called Aflac Kids Support System and works closely with 
the Aflac Parents House and Aflac Cancer Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Orphans. We also engage in com-munity-based and educational activities related to cancer, 
funded by donations from employees and associates. 
aflac parents house 
When children are diagnosed with cancer or other 
serious medical conditions, they often must travel 
to Tokyo or Osaka from other parts of Japan to receive ongoing treatment in their arduous journey back to health. Founded in 2001, the first Aflac Parents House has pro-
vided cheerful and spacious accommodations where these 
pediatric patients and their families can stay together in a home-away-from-home environment while they battle cancer or another disease.
Through generous donations from Aflac Japan’s sales 
agents and employees, two Aflac Parents House locations in Tokyo and one in Osaka have helped thousands of chil-dren battling serious diseases including cancer.
In September 2005, Aflac Parents House was recognized 
by Asahi Newspaper and received the Asahi Corporate  Citizen Award. In December 2010, Aflac Parents House, Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Cancer  Orphans and the Gold Ribbon Campaign were recognized by the Japan Philanthropic Association and received  the Philanthropy Award.
aflac Charitable t rust scholarship Fund for 
Cancer orphans 
Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Cancer Orphans is a scholarship program for high school 
students who have lost a parent to cancer. The selection process is based on the recipient having faced an econom-ic hardship and meeting specific scholastic requirements. 
Recipients of the scholarship are given ¥300,000 per year 
towards education and living expenses. generosity2012 corporate citizenship report // 26 //
Volunteer activities 
one hundred club
Employee fundraising activities started 
in 1993. Employees specify an amount 
that they wish to have deducted from 
their monthly salaries toward Aflac 
Kids Support System, Gold Ribbon 
Campaign support groups, and global 
and environmental organizations. 
Approximately 80% of employees participate and the company donates 
a matching grant.
Valentine’s Day Blood Donation
Since the Kobe earthquake that  
took place in 1995, Aflac Japan has 
participated in blood donation initia-
tives. With the help of Aflac’s agents, 
Aflac volunteers help blood donation 
campaigns throughout the country,  
especially during the month of  
February when blood supply in  Japan is limited. 
aflac heartful program
In 2011, Aflac Japan established  a department called Aflac Heartful 
Program to help develop the talents, 
abilities, and independence of  
individuals with mental and physical 
challenges. Through the guidance  
of team coaches, Aflac Heartful  
Program provide opportunities for these employees to handle special 
projects that support Aflac Japan 
operations. 
commitment to environmental issues:
Aflac Japan launched an initiative to promote energy conservation in April 
2010, and continues to promote en-
ergy saving and resource conservation 
through measures such as these:
action plan Major initiatives
Appropriate temperature setting  Recommended cooling temperature in the  
summer: 28 °C (82.4 °F)
 Recommended heating temperature in the  
winter: 23 °C (73.4 °F)
 Business casual
 Opening and closing of the blinds
Power savings  Reduce work overtime
 Turn PC off while you are away
 Turn off power in absence zones (within the  warehouses or locker rooms)
 Promote the use of stairs
Water savings Introduce automatic flush toilets and sinks
Use of eco-car for gasoline savings Fuel-efficient vehicles (limit emissions from  commercial vehicles; up to 1,500 cc)
 ECO drive recommended
Use of eco-products Purchase green office supplies
 Sale of household goods for associates
 Reuse of consumable household items
Waste reduction and recycling  Promotion of waste separation and recycling
 Reduce paper consumption2012 corporate citizenship report // 27 //
aflac consistently makes a big splash in the community, 
winning many awards from being a great place to work, an ethical standout, to being admired by our peers.  it’s part of  what makes aflac the leader in our industry, a company that cares, and a brand people can trust.
Make a Splash2012 corporate citizenship report // 28 // In March 2012, Ethisphere magazine included Aflac in its 
list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the sixth consecutive year.
 In March 2012, FORTUNE magazine named Aflac to its list of America’s Most Admired Companies for the eleventh year. 
 In January 2012, FORTUNE magazine named Aflac to its list of 100 Best Companies to Work For for the fourteenth consecutive year.
 In January 2012, Dan and Kathelen Amos received a Business to Business Annual Award for their Atlanta Philanthropy.
 In October 2011, Aflac was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability List North America for first time.
 In September 2011, the Aflac Duck was inducted into the PRNews Public Relations Hall of Fame.
 In September 2011, Aflac soared 100 places on Newsweek’s Green Rankings list of America’s 500 largest companies for the second consecutive year. 
 In August/September 2011, Latina Style magazine placed Aflac in the top five of the 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work For in the United States. Aflac has been included on this annual list for eleven of the list’s twelve years. 
 In September 2011, InformationWeek included Aflac in its annual list of the 500 most innovative users of corporate technology. Aflac has been listed on this list for the past nine years. 
 In July 2011, Black Enterprise magazine included Aflac in its list of the Top 40 Best Companies for Diversity for the seventh consecutive year. 
 In June 2011, Computerworld magazine placed Aflac on its list of the 100 Best Places to Work in IT. Aflac has been included on this annual list since 1999. 
 In May 2011, Aflac ranked number 125 on the FORTUNE 500 list of America’s largest corporations.
 In February 2011, Aflac was awarded two Communitas Awards for excellence in community service and corporate social responsibility. 
 In 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded Aflac’s ASC building with the Energy Star, the national symbol for superior energy efficiency and environmental protection.  In December 2010, the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) awarded Aflac with its Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design-Commercial Interior (LEED) Gold certification for the renovation of the company’s CSC office building. 
 In February 2010, Training magazine included Aflac in its Top 125 list of companies with outstanding workforce development programs for the tenth consecutive year. 
 In September 2009, BusinessWeek magazine included Aflac in its list of Best Places to Launch a Career for the 
second consecutive year. 
 In September 2009, The Atlanta Tribune: The Magazine 
named Aflac as one of Georgia’s Best Employers for  Minorities. 
 In 2009, the Reputation Institute in its Global Reputation Pulse report named Aflac as the most respected company in the global insurance industry for the second consecutive year. 
 In 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded Aflac’s two largest buildings with the Energy Star, the national symbol for superior energy efficiency and environmental protection. 
 In April 2009, the Profiles International Research Institute included Aflac in its America’s Most Productive Companies Best of the Best list. 
 In April 2009, Institutional Investor magazine named Aflac as the best in the Insurance/Life category for investor relations. 
 In April 2009, City Business Journals Network selected Aflac as the top brand in the insurance and financial services industry, capturing the American Brand Excellence Award. 
 In March 2009, Aflac Investor Relations shared the award for best investor relations website at IR Magazine’s U.S. Awards dinner. This was the eighth year that Aflac has been honored by IR Magazine. 
 In January/February 2009, Corporate Responsibility Officer magazine named Aflac to its list of 100 Best Corporate Citizens for 2009. 
 In February/March 2008, Hispanic Enterprise magazine named Aflac as one of the 50 leading companies for supplier diversity for the third consecutive year.