2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
65 Years of the Aflac Way
Making a difference while balancing purpose and profit.
1
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  A Message from Daniel P. Amos, Aflac 
Incorporated Chairman and CEO
As we embarked on 2020, we at Aflac were eagerly anticipating a year celebrating an array of significant milestones for the 
company: first, the 65th anniversary of Aflac’s founding; the Aflac Duck’s 20th anniversary; the 25th anniversary of the Aflac Cancer 
and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta; the 38th consecutive year that Aflac Incorporated has increased 
the annual dividend to our shareholders; and my 30th year as CEO of Aflac Incorporated. What none of us – at Aflac or elsewhere – 
expected, was to find ourselves in the midst of a global pandemic in the first quarter of the year.
But, that became the reality. Through sound risk management, agile planning and acting swiftly, Aflac was well positioned to respond 
when the unthinkable happened: a seemingly unstoppable global pandemic. We acted swiftly in order to safeguard the health and well-
being of our workforce, policyholders and communities in both Japan and the United States because, after all, our greatest commitment 
to our policyholders lies in our promise to be there for them in their time of need … and in order to do that, we knew we had to act 
quickly. We ensured business continuity through setting up virtual emergency command centers, initiating work-from-home initiatives, 
enriching benefits relative to COVID-19, and providing financial support to agents and agencies, as well as our communities.
2
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  As a result of our extensive presence in Japan and insight from 
Dr. Barbara Rimer* and other medical experts, we gained early 
insight into the possible implications of the pandemic as well 
as guidance, expertise and insight at the Aflac Incorporated 
Board level. This early insight and already-established business 
continuity protocols helped us to pivot to more than 95% 
remote working in the United States and over 70% at times in 
Japan, ensuring that Aflac would be positioned to deliver to on 
our promises to our shareholders.
In examining the business impact of the pandemic, clearly 
the lack of face-to-face opportunities significantly limited our 
avenues for new sales, which put pressure on our earned 
premium and revenues, prompting us to pivot to virtual 
and digital sales methods and accelerate related digital 
investments. I could not be more proud of Aflac’s workforce 
and sales force in both countries for their resilience, innovative 
thinking and actions, and commitment to excellence and 
ensuring business continuity.
In the face of the pandemic, we reported net earnings per 
diluted share of $6.67 and adjusted earnings per diluted share 
of $4.92, excluding the impact of foreign currency**. This 
latter measure of profitability is one of the principal financial 
measures used to evaluate management’s performance 
and allows us to continue fulfilling our purpose as a socially 
responsible corporation that benefits shareholders and 
stakeholders alike over the long term. We are continually 
working on our foundation of sustainable growth, especially 
related to leveraging these particular strategic areas of focus:
• Strong capital position marked by stable earnings and 
strong cash flows
• Industry-leading market share and scale in Japan and the U.S.
• Product innovation and customized, high-quality service
• Recognized, trusted and powerful brand
• Diverse and productive distributionFortunately, we were prepared as we entered this pandemic 
in a strong capital liquidity position. At the same time, we were 
forced to accelerate investments in the growth or our business, 
balanced by the continuation of capital deployment in the 
form of share repurchase and dividends. One remarkable 
achievement we saw in 2020 was the 38th consecutive year 
of increasing our dividend, and we were proud to be able to 
continue that long track record even amid the backdrop of a 
global pandemic.
Throughout this site/report, you will read about some of 
our many achievements in our environmental, social and 
governance initiatives, as well as Aflac Incorporated’s financial 
performance. So much has occurred over the last 30 years, and 
over the years you have been accustomed to reading our Y ear 
in Review, Corporate Social Responsibility Report, and most 
recently our ESG Report on this site. For 2020, we decided 
to consolidate these reports into one, Aflac Incorporated’s 
Business and Sustainability Report, in an effort to make it easier 
for shareholders, customers and other stakeholders to learn 
about our efforts alongside the Form 10-K and Proxy Statement. 
We hope that you will enjoy what you find on the pages of this 
site and report, as well as future updates.
Dan Amos  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
* Aflac Incorporated Board member Dr. Barbara Rimer is Dean and Alumni Distinguished Professor of the Gillings School of Global Public Health at The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Chair of the Board’s Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee.
** Adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of foreign currency is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. See Glossary for a definition of this measure and 
a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, net earnings per diluted share.
In this document, we may refer to Aflac Incorporated's businesses collectively as "Aflac" or the "Company," the Company's U.S. businesses as "Aflac U.S." and the 
Company's Japan businesses as "Aflac Japan."3
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Fred Crawford Discusses 
Aflac Incorporated’s 
ESG Program
Fred Crawford, Aflac Incorporated President and Chief 
Operating Officer: “The number one reason ESG is important 
to us is, it’s extremely consistent with the corporate culture we 
have at Aflac in driving a company’s growth and profitability, 
balanced with an eye toward doing right by our employees, 
doing right by our policyholders and, of course, proper 
governance and doing right by our investors.
It’s brought a level of formality of specific measurement 
and expectations in the eyes of the governance side of our 
institutional investors, index funds who have been very out in 
front of driving that initiative worldwide around climate, social 
justice and just strong governance overall.And then it’s also becoming very important to constituencies, 
such as the rating agencies, regulators and legislators, whether 
it be in Washington DC or the legislatures that we work with in 
Tokyo. That has made it absolutely strategically vital for us to 
be achieving a level that is considered top tier.
And we think that’s important in order to attract capital to our 
company, such that we can continue to grow and then circulate 
that growth and the profits and capital we generate off that 
growth back into ESG efforts. And so, it’s always important to 
balance those two – balance the purpose and the profit. We’ve 
always had purpose, but now we have the measurement tools 
and the expectations to bounce off against that.”
4
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Environmental Overview: 
Managing the Environment 
Responsibly
David Young, Vice President of Investor and Rating 
Agency Relations & ESG: “For Aflac and probably for a lot of 
companies, the greatest challenge is around the environmental 
aspect because there is a lot of science behind it, and making 
sure that you’re looking at the scientific information and 
data and conducting the right studies to ensure that you are 
approaching the risks related to the environment.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “I think of it as an 
ecosystem that a company lives in. We have to care as 
organizations – as companies. We have to care about our 
environment because we exist in that environment. Our 
employees exist in that environment.”Yoshinari Kobori, General Manager of the General Affairs 
Department at Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “We 
believe that climate change has an impact on human life. And 
in the life insurance business, disease and death can make our 
benefit liabilities increase. How we design our products can 
have a huge impact; therefore, we believe it’s important to pay 
attention to climate change.”
Max Brodén, Aflac Incorporated Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer: “So our business is a function 
of the economy that we operate in. If we don’t manage the 
environment properly, there will be additional expenses to 
society long term and lower growth in the markets where we 
operate, and ultimately lower profit for us as a company.”
Eric Kirsch, Executive Vice President and Global Chief 
Investment Officer: “When we think about the business 
of Aflac, which includes investments, that we want to have 
purpose and do good for the greater world, and in that 
light there’s many ways to do it. Some of it is through the 
environment as we think about climate change and we think 
about technologies that are being developed to improve our 
5
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  climate. Well, we’re interested in that, and we have the capital 
and resources to do that.”
Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “ ‘E’ matters to 
all groups, including investors. With investors, they’re looking 
for companies that are sustainable – sustainable, being they 
are going to be here a long time, and the ability to make smart 
decisions. And Aflac has always been thinking about the future; 
our investors think to the future, not the present. And that’s 
where Aflac wants to be. We want to be a leader today and a 
leader in the future on all things environment.”
Rob Holleman, Manager; Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “Our approach to sustainability from day one has 
been what we call ‘Smart Green.’ ” In other words, not investing 
money just to invest money in technology. It has to make sense 
financially for the company.”
David Young, Vice President of Investor and Rating Agency 
Relations & ESG: “It’s really balancing the profit with the eye 
toward doing what’s right when it comes to the environment.”
Eric Kirsch, Executive Vice President and Global Chief 
Investment Officer: “Well, you can’t just sort of hide in 
a corner and say, ‘Oh, that happens over in Europe.’ It 
happens worldwide.”Yoshinari Kobori, General Manager of the General Affairs 
Department at Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “In order 
to meet the expectations of our customers and shareholders, it 
is very important for us to take a leadership role in addressing 
environmental issues that are becoming global problems as 
well as in our business.”
Eric Kirsch, Executive Vice President and Global Chief 
Investment Officer: “The good majority of companies, 
particularly public companies, are global. And if you’re a global 
company, you’re most likely impacting the environment or 
you’re making investments in your company that have some 
impact to the environment or social good, and it’s only gaining 
momentum and becoming more stronger and important as we 
go forward.”
Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “It’s important 
that Aflac not rest on what it’s done. It’s important that we 
continue to build upon what we’ve done to expand it. This is 
all part of the decisions that we’re making today will impact the 
future, and we understand that.”6
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Environmental 
Responsibility in 
Action: Reducing our 
Environmental Footprint
Sharon Baker, Supervisor: “Once you get in and start working 
for Aflac, you realize there’s a culture here like nowhere else.”
Rob Holleman, Manager; Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “We’re always looking for ways to put that caring 
into action.”
Sharon Baker, Supervisor: “In addition to taking care of 
policyholders, we want to make sure our environment is in a 
good place.”
David Glover, Strategic Sourcing & Procurement Consultant: 
“Aflac being a family-oriented company, this kind of stuff comes 
easy, because you always want to do the right thing.”Rob Holleman, Manager of Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “When I first got to Aflac, we had begun to do 
some simple things like recycling of our paper and cardboard. 
Over time, we began to increase that focus; increase our 
recycling efforts. Fast forward to today – we cut our energy 
usage on a square foot basis by 50%.”
Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “We understand 
the importance of having a carbon neutral policy. Increasing the 
amount of solar helps us get there.”
Rob Holleman, Manager; Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “Our solar initiative culminated in 2017, when 
we installed our solar array on top of our customer service 
building, and that was truly a partnership between Aflac, 
Georgia Power and at the time, Hannah Solar.”
Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “We are 
focused on the future. What can we do to continue to 
reduce the amount of energy that we use in our facilities, to 
increase renewables?”
7
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “Somewhere 
between 12% and 15% of our overall consumption of this 
building has come from the solar panels, and we’re currently 
in negotiations for a much larger project out at our Corporate 
Ridge facility.”
Alfred Blackmar, Vice President of Facilities: “We’re 
looking to the future, and that’s where Aflac wants to be. We 
want to be a leader today and a leader in the future on all 
things environment.”
Sharon Baker, Supervisor: “It goes well outside of Aflac. It’s 
our world. The main responsibility of the Green Committee is to 
bring attention to Aflac’s green activities, our intention of doing 
things to make our environment better, our recycling efforts that 
we have within our buildings. Then we have other events that 
continue to encourage them to bring in their waste. We also 
have a place where they could bring electronics; what we call 
our e-waste.”
David Glover, Strategic Sourcing & Procurement Consultant: 
“E-cycle is our current supplier, and they’re e-Steward 
compliant. What that means is that when they destroy the 
devices, they do it in an environmentally safe and effective 
way. We get a percentage back of those funds, and then those 
funds go over to the Aflac Cancer Center so they can use 
them. It’s been a good thing all around.”
Rob Holleman, Manager; Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “Even today, we’re continuing to look at ways to 
reduce our energy further.”David Glover, Strategic Sourcing & Procurement Consultant: 
“At the end of the day, it’s the right thing to do.”
Sharon Baker, Supervisor: “Overnight, you’re not going to 
become this person that just wants to save the world, but as 
you become more and more educated – and that’s really what 
the premise of the Green Ambassador program was is the 
education, because a lot of people don’t do things because 
they don’t know.”
David Glover, Strategic Sourcing & Procurement 
Consultant: “It’s been a great opportunity to help Aflac, you 
know, reduce their environmental footprint, their carbon 
footprint. So, if we can make those small incremental changes 
at Aflac, then those things eventually lead to big changes. 
And, you know, for Aflac to be out front, so that way other 
companies can say, ‘Well, you know, hey, if Aflac is doing that, 
then we can do the same thing, too.’ ”
Rob Holleman, Manager; Facilities, Maintenance & 
Construction: “On a personal basis, I’m a grandfather. I’m 
vested in the future of this community, and I’ve got an 11-year-
old grandson and 18-year-old granddaughter. And it gives me 
pleasure to know that we’re playing a small part in making 
the future better for them than we’ve enjoyed over the last 30 
years here.”8
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Social Responsibility 
Overview
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “Social is the way we 
treat people. It’s the way we interact with the communities 
around us. It is truly the outward manifestation of our values.”
Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: “Well, 
probably part of it is just my family. We’ve always been 
inclusive. That’s always been an important part of our life, and I 
don’t know how to explain it to you other than it’s the way I’ve 
lived and the way I was brought up.”
Brenda Mullins, Vice President of Human Resources; Chief 
People Officer: “We have been supportive in the community 
and trying to do the right things, the fair things, the just things 
for decades.”
David Young, Vice President of Investor and Rating Agency 
Relations & ESG: “Yes, it starts with our founders who were 
involved with the Civil Rights movement and goes from there. 
And really, it’s reflected from our Board through executive 
management down to our ranks.”Brenda Mullins, Vice President of Human Resources; Chief 
People Officer: “How do we permeate diversity throughout 
this organization? Because we have to mirror the community in 
which we live.”
Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: “Diversity 
is important, because you’re selling to a diverse group of 
people. In my staff meeting, if I’ve got a bunch of 60-year-old 
white guys, then I really don’t have what’s going on in America.”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: “From 
the head of the boardroom and you look around the table 
and everyone looks like you, you don’t have diversity, which 
means you can’t have diversity of thought, which means you 
can’t have diversity built into your system or your company, 
which means you’re missing opportunities to actually engage 
more people.”
Max Brodén, Aflac Incorporated Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer: “If we are not a reflection of society, we 
cannot produce products that are viable and economical.”
9
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “People want to invest 
in companies that are socially responsible, but certainly, they 
don’t invest to lose money.”
Max Brodén, Aflac Incorporated Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer: “Aflac’s core customer base is the 
middle class in the United States and in Japan. We have a true 
economic interest to make sure that that middle class is strong 
and growing.”
Yukari Hashimoto, General Manager, Diversity Promotion, 
Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “The business 
environment is changing dramatically, and customer needs are 
diversifying. If we don’t flexibly adapt and respond to these 
changes, we will not be able to win as a company.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “If we don’t think that 
all of that’s not connected, we’re fooling ourselves. And we 
can’t, as a corporation, sit outside of that and say, ‘That’s not 
our problem.’ ”Brenda Mullins, Vice President of Human Resources; Chief 
People Officer: “Let’s look and let’s see how we can continue 
to be more inclusive. What are the things that we need to 
continue to focus on to make sure that we’re being equitable, 
to make sure that we’re being inclusive, because of our 
diverse environment.”
Yukari Hashimoto, General Manager, Diversity Promotion, 
Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “A diverse workforce 
that is able to express their opinions and work actively and 
vibrantly, I think it is important to create such a workplace.”
Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: 
“That’s always been important to us, and I don’t think it’s any 
coincidence that it’s one of the reasons we’ve been successful 
as a company.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “I think it’s important 
that we continue to be a leader because it allows other people 
to see that you can do the right thing and be profitable. I don’t 
want this to be a moment. I need this to be a movement.”10
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Social Responsibility 
in Action
James Mailman, Field Liaison Manager: “Well, a lot of people 
go to work for a paycheck. That’s it. They don’t care about 
anything else. Aflac cares about everything else. When I first 
got out of the Navy, I came here, and I applied to several 
different places. And I was hoping to get on at Aflac for the 
simple reason that they take care of people. When I found out 
their philanthropic deal with the Cancer Center, I just thought 
that was amazing. They support the Beads of Courage. They’ve 
purchased a little NASCAR for the kids. They’ve bought video 
games, backpacks, books, you know, just things that the kids 
need for day to day. And it’s really, really took off.”
Kim Huddleston, Experience & Diversity Consultant: “The 
diversity council was birthed, if you will in 2001, at the request 
of our CEO Dan Amos, and the main focus of the diversity 
council was just to carry out the focus on diversity initiatives, 
whether it was internally or externally.”Sherricka Day, Consumer Response & Resolution 
Coordinator: “We all look different. We all have different 
backgrounds, and we come from different areas. And so you 
have to acknowledge that and allow for that platform so that we 
can have those conversations.”
Kim Huddleston, Experience & Diversity Consultant: “A lot of 
the work that they do comes through the way of education. It 
also comes in the way of events.”
Sherricka Day, Consumer Response & Resolution 
Coordinator: “When school rolls around we’re doing bookbag 
drives and school supply drives. We’re on the front lines. When 
there’s a disaster or different things that happen, Aflac is a part 
of that with giving food and goods. Aflac is really known for its 
philanthropy, and I’m proud to be a part of that.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “It’s very important that 
we keep a pulse on what’s going on outside of this company.”
Brenda Mullins, Vice President of Human Resources; Chief 
People Officer: “When you have things that happen, like the 
injustices that happened this year, it’s difficult sometimes to stay 
11
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  ahead of those things. But when you have a company, they 
hear it and get it. They’re on board immediately. We’re able to 
make a difference.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “We’re trying to look at 
fair representation across the board.”
Brenda Mullins, Vice President of Human Resources; Chief 
People Officer: “We have our DC team who’s sitting at the 
table with us trying to figure out, ‘Who do we need to have 
conversation with to talk about these policies and practices that 
we need to address?’ ”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: “My 
job here is to really represent Aflac’s interests in Washington 
– that’s from the White House to the Capitol buildings. We’re 
responsible to make sure that we can see ahead and protect 
those policyholders, our employees, our shareholders, all those 
things that matter to the company.”
Teresa White, President of Aflac U.S.: “We have various 
Senators from different areas come in and talk about how 
they see social justice, and what they’re doing from a 
government perspective on diversity. I’m not asking people 
to vote any way, one way or the other. I’m just asking people 
to be informed and giving people a platform to be able to ask 
the questions they have.”Kim Huddleston, Experience & Diversity Consultant: “We had 
such a strong foundation that when turbulent times hit, that we 
pivot. And we do it as a team and as a company and we make 
it work.”
James Mailman, Field Liaison Manager: “They work so hard 
to take care of not just the policyholders and people who work 
here and the field force, but then they give millions of dollars 
to the Cancer Center. Cancer runs rampant in my family. I 
appreciate that more than I can tell you.”
Kim Huddleston, Experience & Diversity Consultant: “It’s a 
beautiful thing that you just don’t find with many companies, and 
it’s one of the beauties of Aflac is their commitment to diversity.
James Mailman, Field Liaison Manager: “Aflac cares about 
everybody. Aflac cares. That’s the bottom line.”12
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  My Special Aflac Duck®
Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: “I think it 
symbolizes all the things we are and want to continue to be, and 
that is to help kids and to try to make a difference in their lives.”
Jon Sullivan, Director of Corporate Communications: “Well 
you know, children are like consumers in a way in that when 
you give them something that they like, they want to see it 
advance year in and year out. So, we are constantly adding 
things to the program.”
Buffy Swinehart, Senior Manager, Corporate Responsibility: 
“So, this year we actually did a child life care kit.”
Aaron Horowitz; Co-Founder & CEO of Sproutel: “We built 
a suite of physical medical tools: a stethoscope, an injector, a 
pulse oximeter, a temporal thermometer. We designed an MRI 
carry case – an MRI CT scan carry case. All of these tools that 
can help child life specialists continue this physical medical 
play with children.”Buffy Swinehart, Senior Manager, Corporate Responsibility: 
“We love those items so much. Going forward, we want every 
child who gets a My Special Aflac Duck to also get those 
medical accessories.”
Aaron Horowitz; Co-Founder & CEO of Sproutel: “Some of 
the really fun aspects come in app improvements, so we built 
into the app something that we call the Music Maker feature. 
Kids can go in. They can customize all sorts of different music, 
and when they hit a button, their duck starts to dance along to 
the music as it’s being performed.”
Lindsey Carrick, Aflac Cancer Center Child Life Specialist: 
“It’s a really unique position to be in to have not only, you know, 
the support of the hospital, but to have the support of the Aflac 
corporation behind us. It is so powerful knowing that they are 
constantly seeking to create tools to make our jobs easier and 
better. It’s kind of beyond words for me.”
Buffy Swinehart, Senior Manager, Corporate Responsibility: “It 
was always the plan to expand to Japan, but we definitely had 
to move up the time frame once we got a letter from a little boy 
in Japan who had seen the My Special Aflac Ducks here in the 
United States and wanted one himself.”
13
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Jon Sullivan, Director of Corporate Communications: “When 
we saw that, our CEO Dan Amos said that we’re going to have 
to accelerate the program, and we’re going to have to bring it 
to Japan.”
Buffy Swinehart, Senior Manager, Corporate Responsibility: 
“And so we decided, why wait? Let’s go ahead and launch in 
Japan. It’s been very successful there as well.”
Haruka Itoh, General Manager, Social Responsibility Activity 
Office, Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “We were able 
to donate about 300 units through about 20 hospitals and 
organizations. At the hospitals that received it, we heard that 
the children were very happy to play with it, and that it made 
them smile more than before.”
Aaron Horowitz; Co-Founder & CEO of Sproutel: “We’re so 
excited that Aflac has kicked off a bit of work for this coming 
year to create really a special package and support materials to 
use My Special Aflac Duck with patients with sickle cell.”Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: “The 
African American community plays an enormous role in the 
success of our company, so the ability to be able to help with 
sickle cell has been very important.”
Jon Sullivan, Director of Corporate Communications: “No 
child should have to face a diagnosis of cancer, but until we get 
to that day, Aflac is committed to ensure that terrible diagnosis 
will be eased as much as we can have that sort of an impact. 
And the My Special Aflac Duck is having that impact.”
Haruka Itoh, General Manager, Social Responsibility Activity 
Office, Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “I want to help 
as many children as possible who are suffering from painful 
treatments. We hope to expand our efforts to bring My Special 
Aflac Duck to more hospitals.”
Dan Amos, Aflac Incorporated CEO and Chairman: “It’s just 
our way of giving back and telling people, ‘We love you and we 
want your kids healthy.’ And really, the best gift is the gift to us 
of being able to give it away.”14
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Governance Overview: 
The Aflac Way
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General Counsel, 
Aflac Incorporated: “Well, it absolutely started with the founding 
of the company, and the founders, and their approach to 
business, and their approach to just life and decency. People 
want to do business with companies that do things the right way.”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: “I 
think you start with asking the question, ‘What’s the right thing 
to do?’ When you ask that question first, these other things sort 
of fall in line.
What assets do we have in place that make sure we can do the 
right thing?”
Audrey Boone Tillman, Executive Vice President; General 
Counsel, Aflac Incorporated: “Governance, as I see it, is really 
how you do things – and how the employees and the leaders 
go about conducting the business of the company.”Matt Loudermilk, Vice President; Corporate Secretary: 
“The methodology – it’s the framework, it’s the structure that 
governs your business practices. It’s making sure that decisions 
are made properly.”
David Young, Vice President of Investor and Rating Agency 
Relations & ESG: “It’s making sure that you have the right 
oversight and controls in place to make sure that the business 
is running as it should.”
Tomoya Utsude, Director; First Senior Vice President, Aflac 
Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “The management team has a 
responsibility to our customers and society as a whole to ensure 
that governance is carried out properly. I think it is important 
for people to know that a company is actively engaged in such 
initiatives. That’s why many investors choose to invest in our 
company. We believe that by appealing to people in society, 
in addition to investors, to think about the importance of these 
issues is a major element of ESG activities.”
Audrey Boone Tillman, Executive Vice President; General 
Counsel, Aflac Incorporated: “There’s also a really strong 
cultural piece. We always want to get to our employees with 
the thought that the Aflac Way is to do the right thing.”
15
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: 
“Leadership is top down. Culture is top down, and you can’t 
say we as a company believe ‘X’ when it’s not reflected in 
the leadership.”
David Young, Vice President of Investor and Rating Agency 
Relations & ESG: “Our original founders were focused on 
doing what’s right, and that included a sense of corporate 
social responsibility. That has given us a head start, I would say, 
because for the last 65 years, it’s been a part of the fabric of 
Aflac Incorporated.”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: 
“It’s the right thing, right? Making sure that we’re transparent 
in what we do and how we operate. People want to invest 
in something they can trust, and governance is an important 
piece of that.”
Max Brodén, Aflac Incorporated Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer: “If we have strong governance 
in terms of processes, procedures, to do things right, it should 
manifest itself in lower risk for the company, i.e., you are making 
less mistakes.”Yoshinari Kobori, General Manager of the General Affairs 
Department, Aflac Japan (in Japanese subtitles): “I believe 
that this is one of the most important factors in our business 
activities, and I believe that by firmly implementing this system, 
we will be able to increase the value of the company and 
provide value to our customers, which in turn will benefit all of 
our shareholders.”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: 
“We’ve been in the conductor’s seat from the beginning. We 
have been doing those things that, you know, investors are 
looking for. These things come down to what sustainable 
processes have you put in place to make sure that this 
continues beyond a particular person.”
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General Counsel, 
Aflac Incorporated: “I’m grateful for the focus in the industry 
and in corporate America, but it’s not anything new for Aflac. It’s 
what we do and what we will continue to do.”16
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Governance in Practice
Ken Janke, Senior Advisor; retired: “You can’t operate in 
a vacuum. Aflac is part of a community. You can define it as 
narrowly as Columbus, Ga., but I think everyone would tell  
you that Aflac’s community is every market that it operates 
in. Governance can apply to a lot of aspects of Aflac or 
any business.”
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General 
Counsel, Aflac Incorporated: “We’ve got lots of policies 
and lots of guidelines that we utilize when conducting our 
business, but it absolutely started with the founding of the 
company and the founders.”
Brad Knox, Senior Vice President of Federal Relations: 
“We have a culture where we can have a conversation with 
business leaders and say, ‘Hey, are you being intentional about 
your new hires? Are you being intentional about the money 
that you’re spending with vendors? Are you being intentional 
about the dollars that you’re investing?’ And, because we are 
able to have those conversations, no one is put off by it. In fact, 
now, it’s expected.”Matt Loudermilk, Vice President; Corporate Secretary: 
“One way to look at governance is: It is the framework 
around which you build your business. It is the structure that 
governs your business practices, making sure that decisions 
are made properly.”
Ken Janke, Senior Advisor; retired: “We always did the right 
thing. We did the right thing by the customers, you know, 
by our policyholders, our claimants, our employees and our 
shareholders. And that’s just the tone that’s set to the top and 
it works its way throughout the entire organization. It morphed 
into the Aflac Way, which is code of conduct starts really at 
the top. And if you don’t have it there, you’ll never have it 
throughout the organization.”
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General Counsel, 
Aflac Incorporated: “The Aflac Way is a series of principles that 
guide every employee. It just sets, in a very formal way – but 
plainspoken –what the expectations of all of us are. Nobody is 
immune from what we say good governance, good teamwork, 
good work is.”
17
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Ken Janke, Senior Advisor; retired: “So it’s definitely evolved 
and it’s broadened to not just speak to the integrity of the 
financial statements, but social responsibility and the community 
and a lot of other things, all of which are important not only to the 
company and the community, but its shareholders.”
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General Counsel, 
Aflac Incorporated: “We have our Code of Conduct that 
everyone has to have training on every year, and it goes 
through and it spells out what the expectations are specifically 
with respect to certain policies. And it’s in furtherance of the 
Aflac Way, and a lot more detailed than the Aflac Way. Both of 
those documents – between the two of them – you have a very 
real understanding of what the expectation is of you as an Aflac 
team member.”
Matt Loudermilk, Vice President; Corporate Secretary: “The 
company is managed for the long term, so long-term investors 
should be aligned with the business strategy. That has always 
been really the focus is those ... those long term shareholders.”Ken Janke, Senior Advisor; retired: “That’s the thing that 
needs to be remembered that when you’re dealing with 
investors, they’re actually owners, so they have to be treated 
with respect. There were some individuals that I had known 
for 20 years. They had an investment in Aflac that was part of 
their retirement plan. You have relationships with them, and you 
have relationships with portfolio managers and analysts and 
again, what they expect is just the truth.”
Matt Loudermilk, Vice President; Corporate Secretary: “Why 
is it important to have a skeleton, you know? Why is it important 
to have rafters on your roof? It holds the company together. I 
mean, without it, the decision process breaks down. You’re not 
funneling information in the right way in order for a decision to 
be made.”
Audrey Tillman, Executive Vice President; General Counsel, 
Aflac Incorporated: “Integrity, honesty and transparency, along 
with the policies that support that around the company, it’s 
everything. “It starts there, and everything else we do bills up 
on that.”18
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  65 Years of The Aflac Way: 
Paddling with a Purpose
The Aflac Way embodies the core values that our company 
established more than 65 years ago, and it’s how we 
operate today. It is living up to the policyholders, employees, 
shareholders and other stakeholders. It is not just the way we 
work. The Aflac Way embodies putting the core values we 
prioritize in action to ensure we fulfill the promises we make to 
those who rely on us. Even long before the Aflac Duck came 
along, the people of Aflac were already building our brand 
name through action and service The Aflac Way.
Seven Commitments of The Aflac Way
Commitment #1: Communicate Regularly.
Commitment #2: Respond Immediately.
Commitment #3: Know Your Stuff.
Commitment #4: Treat Everyone With Respect and Care.
Commitment #5: Your Problem Is My Problem.
Commitment #6: Shoot Straight.
Commitment #7: Cover the Customer—Not Your Behind.Our Promise
For more than 65 years, Aflac has had the unique privilege 
of helping to provide financial protection and peace of mind 
to now more than 50 million people. While many things have 
changed over the decades, one thing that has not wavered 
is Aflac’s commitment to all of its stakeholders. Each and 
every day, we deliver on this commitment to be there for our 
policyholders when an illness, health event or life situation 
occurs — those challenging times when our policyholders need 
us most. We are dedicated to championing people’s pursuit 
of their dreams and careers as employees, independent sales 
agents and through our diverse distribution networks. We are 
committed to our decades-long track record of creating value 
for our shareholders for the investment and trust they place in 
Aflac Incorporated. We consider ourselves privileged to be in a 
position to give back and help improve our communities where 
we can with our philanthropic commitments, including helping 
children who are facing cancer and other serious illnesses.
Aflac Incorporated’s Goal
To provide customers with the best value in supplemental 
insurance products in the United States and Japan.
RELEV ANT
PRODUCT SCUST OMERSEXPANSIVE
DISTRIBUTIONsold
throughyields
Aflac Incorporated's Long-term Growth Strategy19
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  About this Report
After publishing our first ESG Report in 2020, we took the 
additional step of consolidating our Year in Review, Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report and the ESG Report to produce 
one consolidated report. This report captures our ongoing 
efforts to further balance purpose with profit.
This report includes financial and nonfinancial information 
from Aflac Incorporated and its operating segments, Aflac U.S. 
and Aflac Japan, about activities, data, statistics, awards and 
accolades related to governance, and sustainability for the 
2020 calendar year, unless otherwise noted. In this report, 
the terms “Aflac,” “we,” or “our” refer to Aflac Incorporated.  
American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus. The 
term “Aflac U.S.” refers collectively to the Company’s United 
States insurance subsidiaries, American Family Life Assurance 
Company of Columbus and its wholly-owned subsidiary 
American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac 
New York); Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), 
branded as Aflac Group Insurance; and Tier One Insurance 
Company (TOIC); as well as Argus Dental & Vision, Inc. (Argus), 
a benefits management organization and national network 
dental and vision company. The term “Aflac Japan” refers 
to Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. The term “Aflac Global 
Investments” refers to our asset management subsidiary, Aflac 
Asset Management LLC and its management subsidiary in 
Japan, Aflac Asset Management Japan Ltd.  The term “Aflac 
Global Ventures” refers to our corporate venture subsidiary 
Aflac Global Ventures LLC and its subsidiaries.
The following is in reference to the GRI, the world’s most 
recognized framework for sustainability reporting. Aflac has not 
sought independent verification for this report but has practices 
in place to internally validate the data. Disclosures that fulfill 
GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are 
noted in the table in the following pages. In addition to GRI, 
we have also identified where Aflac is striving to achieve or 
promote the mission set out by the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs).
This 2020 ESG report integrates various reporting frameworks, 
namely the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Disclosures that fulfill these standards are noted by indicators within the report and 
in the ESG Reporting Index. We invite you to contact us with 
questions or requests for more information about this report at 
esg@aflac.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a 
"safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective 
information, so long as those informational statements 
are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied 
by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those included in the forward-looking statements. The 
company desires to take advantage of these provisions. 
This document contains cautionary statements identifying 
important factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those projected herein, and in any other 
statements made by company officials in communications 
with the financial community and contained in documents 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical 
information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial 
results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking 
information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and 
uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such 
as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," 
"should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," 
"potential," "target," "outlook" or similar words as well as 
specific projections of future results, generally qualify as 
forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such 
forward-looking statements. For a discussion of assumptions, 
risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the 
forward-looking statements, see our most recent reports on 
Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.
This Report uses certain terms, including those that the 
reporting frameworks — GRI, SASB, TCFD, SDG, - refer to as 
"Material Topics," to reflect the issues of greatest importance 
to Aflac Incorporated and our stakeholders. Used in this 
context, these terms should not be confused with terms, such 
as "material" or "materiality," as defined by or construed in 
accordance with securities law or as used in the context of 
financial statements and financial reporting.20
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a globally recognized 
framework for sustainability reporting. Aflac Incorporated has 
not sought independent verification for this report but has 
practices in place to internally validate the data.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
The purpose of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) is to establish industry-specific disclosure standards 
across environmental, social and governance topics that 
facilitate communication between companies and investors 
about financially material, decision-useful information.Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The TCFD is an industry-led initiative created to develop a set 
of standards for voluntary climate-related financial disclosures. 
These are aimed at all financial actors, from companies and 
investors to asset owners and managers, as the goal is to 
provide consistent and transparent information to global markets.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Aflac Incorporated is committed to investing in a sustainable 
future to ultimately improve lives for generations to come. 
Action taken today will show impact tomorrow—the 17 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development carry this same sentiment. 
Countries around the globe have adopted this set of goals to 
end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity as part of 
a new sustainable development agenda. Each goal has specific 
targets to be achieved over the next 15 years.
21
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
Celebrating 20 Years 
of the Aflac Duck
In 2020, The Aflac Duck celebrated his 20th year as Aflac’s 
feathered – and most famous – sales agent. We knew his 
presence would be familiar and calming as families dealt 
with the emotional toll of the pandemic, so we put him 
to work. The Aflac Duck rose to the occasion, delivering 
needed freshness, familiarity and relevance. In the United 
States, he even made a cameo appearance on “Family Guy,” 
the popular animated series. At the same time, our U.S. 
advertising continued to build familiarity with what “Aflac 
Is” – a company dedicated to being here for policyholders 
when we’re needed most. We emphasized that unexpected 
medical bills are the norm, not the exception, and worked to 
normalize the fear, anxiety and embarrassment of struggling 
to pay out-of-pocket expenses. Our goal? Establishing Aflac 
as a solution to the health care crisis in America with a 
repeated refrain: “We help pay expenses health insurance 
doesn’t cover.”
While the Aflac Duck was first introduced in the United 
States in 2000, Aflac Japan began using the Aflac Duck 
in its advertising in 2003, and his popularity continues 
to reach customers today. Aflac Japan has established 
a strong, trusted brand in Japan, and the Aflac Duck has 
been instrumental in commercials that help remind potential 
policyholders of the importance of supplemental insurance 
to protect against rising copays, deductibles and other out-
of-pocket expenses arising from a medical event.
22
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2000 First Commercial: Parkbench
In 2000, the Aflac Duck debuted to immediate praise, 
as a USA Today/Harris Poll recognized it as one of the 
best-liked campaigns of 2000.
2010 Toy  Story
May 2010: Aflac produced its 50th commercial in 
partnership with Disney Pixar celebrating the Aflac 
Duck and “Toy Story 3.”
2012 Commercial: Boat
Debuting January 2012, Aflac’s 54th commercial 
shows the Aflac Duck taking a boat ride with 
two men who are discussing their insurance and 
finances. When the boat springs leaks, the Aflac 
Duck saves the day by plugging holes with his 
wings, feet and beak. The advertisement conveys 
the message that Aflac products can cover any holes 
in standard insurance policies.
2011 Macy’s Day Parade Balloonicle
The Aflac Duck appeared in the Macy’s Thanksgiving 
Day Parade for the first time.
2011 Voice of the Aflac Duck
Dan McKeague from Hugo, Minnesota, was named 
the new voice of the Aflac Duck.
2012 Holiday Duck
2012: Monica Sandoval, a 16-year old leukemia 
patient, was the first child from the Aflac Cancer 
Center to design the Aflac Holiday.
2015 NY Stock Exchange
Dec. 4, 2015: Aflac executives, family and friends 
rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange 
to celebrate Aflac’s 60th anniversary serving 
policyholders in their time of need.2015 Grammy
Feb. 6, 2015: Aflac launched the first official 
GRAMMY® station on Pandora.
2015 Hajimete/Pioneer Commercial (Japan)
A tribute to Aflac’s three brothers, was featured in the 
“Hajimete”/”Pioneer” commercial in 2015.
2018 Macy’s Day Parade Balloonicle
2018 marked the eighth consecutive year that the 
Aflac Duck has appeared in the Macy’s Thanksgiving 
Day Parade.
2018 CMA Awards
Here, the Aflac Duck walks the red carpet at the 52nd 
annual CMA Awards in November 2018.
2018 Commercial: Not that Kind
Aflac’s “Not That Kind” commercial, in which the 
Aflac Duck suddenly appears when he believes 
policyholders need help, debuted in March 2018.
2018 My Special Aflac Duck®
My Special Aflac Duck®, a social robot designed to 
help children cope with cancer, was introduced at the 
Consumer Electronics Show in January 2018 and was 
awarded the Best in Show Award as well as the Tech 
for Good.23
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
24
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Selected Financial Data
(In millions, except for share and per-share amounts)
For the Year (In millions, except for share and per-share amounts) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Revenues
Net Premium, principally supplemental health insurance $ 18,622 $ 18,780 $ 18,677 $ 18,531 $ 19,225
Net investment income  3,638 3,578 3,442 3,220 3,278
Realized investment gains (losses)  (270) (135) (430) (151) (14)
Other  157 84 69 67 70
Total Revenues  22,147 22,307 21,758 21,667 22,559
Benefits and expenses
Benefits and claims, net  11,796 11,942 12,000 12,181 12,919
Total acquisition and operating expense  6,192 5,920 5,775 5,468 5,573
Total benefits and expenses  17,988 17,682 17,775 17,649 18,492
Pretax earnings  4,159 4,445 3,983 4,018 4,067
Income taxes expense (benefit)  (619) 1,141 1,063 (586) 1,408
Net Earnings $  4,778 $ 3,304 $ 2,920 $ 4,604 $ 2,659
Share and Per-Share Amounts
Net earnings (basic) $  6.69 $ 4.45 $ 3.79 $ 5.81 $ 3.23
Net earnings (diluted)  6.67 4.43 3.77 5.77 3.21
Items impacting net earnings
Net investment (gains) losses $  0.32 $ 0.02 $ 0.38 $ -$ (0.10)
Other and non-recurring (income) loss  0.04 - 0.10 0.08 0.16
Income tax (benefit) expense on items excluded 
from adjusted earnings (0.10) - (0.11) (0.03 ) (0.02 )
Tax reform adjustment  -   (0.01) 0.02 (2.42) -
Tax valuation allowance release  (1.97) - - - -
Dividends paid per share $  1.12 $ 1.08 $ 1.04 $ 0.87 $ 0.83
Shareholders’ equity  48.46 39.84 31.06 31.50 25.24
Weighted-average common shares used to 
calculate basic EPS (in thousands) 713,702 742,414 765,588 790,042 822,942
Weighted-average common shares used to 
calculate diluted EPS (in thousands) 716,192 746,430 744,650 797,861 827,84125
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  At Year End 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Assets
Investments and cash $ 149,753 $138,091 $126,243 $123,659 $ 116,361
Other  15,333 14,677 14,163 13,558 13,458
Total Assets $ 165,086 $152,768 $140,406 $ 137,217 $129,819
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Policy liabilities $ 114,391 $106,554 $103,188 $ 99,147 $93,726
Income taxes  4,661 5,370 4,020 4,745 5,387
Notes payable  7,899 6,569 5,778 5,289 5,360
Other liabilities  4,576 5,316 3,958 3,438 4,864
Shareholders’ equity  33,559 28,959 23,462 24,598 20,482
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 165,086 $152,768 $140,406 $ 137,217 $129,819
Supplemental Data
Stock price range
High $  53.46 $ 57.18 $ 48.19 $ 44.91 $ 37.25
Low  23.07 44.28 41.41 33.25 27.29
Close  44.47 52.90 45.56 43.89 34.80
Yen/dollar exchange rate at year-end (yen) ¥ 103.50 ¥ 109.56 ¥ 111.00 ¥ 113.00 ¥ 116.49
Weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rate (yen)  106.86 109.07 110.39 112.16 108.70
Prior-year amounts have been adjusted for the two-for-one stock split of the company’s common stock in March 2018.
Key Operational Metrics 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Aflac Japan
Policies and riders in force*  39,064  39,559  39,747  39,717  39,059 
Annualized premiums in force** ¥ 1,426,546 ¥1,489,320 ¥1,527,056 ¥ 1,552,169 ¥ 1,606,110 
New annualized premiums** ¥ 50,852 ¥ 79,697 ¥ ¥95,894 ¥ 94,851 ¥ 11,3721 
Aflac U.S.
Policies and riders in force* 13,145 13,437 13,264 12,971 12,692
Annualized premiums in force** $ 6,099 $ 6,301 $ 6,231 $ 6,052 $ 5,896
New annualized premiums** $ 1,093 $ 1,580 $ 1,601 $ 1,552 $ 1,482
*In Thousands
**In Millions26
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Aflac Incorporated (NYSE: AFL) Investor Facts
Total Return to Shareholders
2020 marked the 38th consecutive year Aflac Incorporated increased its annual dividend. Including reinvested cash dividends, 
Aflac’s total shareholder return decreased 13.6% in 2020. This compares with total shareholder return of a 9.5% decrease for the 
S&P Life & Health Index, an 18.4% increase for the S&P 500 and a 9.7% increase for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
For many years, we have managed our business with a long-term view in mind. As a result:
• Over the last three years, Aflac’s total shareholder return, including reinvested dividends, was 8.8%.
• Over the last five years, Aflac’s total shareholder return, including reinvested dividends, was 67.2%.
• Over the last 10 years, Aflac’s total shareholder return, including reinvested dividends, was 101.9%.
AFL Shareholder Mix*
Number of registered shareholders 86,637
Percentage of outstanding AFL shares owned by institutional investors 69%
Percentage of outstanding AFL shares owned by individual investors 31%
* Approximate as of 12/31/2020
First Shareholders
Cost of 100 shares purchased in 1955 when Aflac was founded $1,110
Number of shares those 100 shares grew into (after 29 stock dividends and splits) 375,960 shares
Value at 12/31/20 (excluding reinvested dividends) $16.7 million
Dividends paid in 2020 $421,07527
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Strong Capital Profile Supports Our Promise*
Insurer Financial Strength Ratings AM Best S&P Moody’s JCR R&I
Aflac of Columbus A+ A+ Aa3 AA AA-
Aflac of New York A+ A+ - - -
Continental American Insurance Company A+ - - - -
Aflac Life Insurance Japan, Ltd. A+ A+ Aa3 AA AA-
As part of our regular assessments, we pay close attention to our capital adequacy to ensure that levels remain strong, against even 
extreme economic scenarios. Aflac Incorporated’s subsidiaries hold among the highest financial strength ratings in the industry. 
These important ratings reflect our ability to pay claims. We’re proud that rating agencies continue to recognize the strength of our 
balance sheet.
*As of 3/1/21; for both primary insurance subsidiaries: Aflac of Columbus and Aflac Life Insurance Japan, Ltd
Annual Cash Dividends Paid Per Share**
Aflac Incorporated has increased its annual dividend for 38 consecutive years. Total cash dividends paid in 2020 were 3.7% higher 
than in 2019.
$1.08
2018 20191.04$1.12
2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20170.570.6150.670.710.750.790.830.87
**Adjusted for stock splits.28
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return*
Among Aflac Incorporated, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Life & Health Insurance Index
$250
200
50100150
0
12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 12/15
Aﬂac Incorporated S&P 500 S&P Life & Health Insurance12/20
* $100 invested on 12/31/15 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
Copyright © 2021 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.
Comparison of 10-Year Cumulative Total Return*
Among Aflac Incorporated, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Life & Health Insurance Index
$400
350
300
250
200
50100150
0
12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 12/10 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15
Aﬂac Incorporated S&P 500 S&P Life & Health Insurance12/20
* $100 invested on 12/31/15 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
Copyright © 2021 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.29
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2020 Accolades & Engagement
At Aflac, we believe that helping our stakeholders and the people in our communities have a better quality of life is not only the right 
thing to do, but that it also makes good business sense and gives people – customers, employees, sales professionals and investors 
– a greater desire to be a part of our company. Ultimately, we believe this is a more sustainable approach to business and one that 
will continue to increase shareholder value.
Aflac is one of the 
first signatories of the 
Hispanic Promise, a 
pledge to hire, promote, 
retain and celebrate 
Hispanics in the 
workplace
Aflac U.S. employees, 
its independent sales 
agents and The Aflac 
Foundation, Inc. have 
donated more than $150 
million to childhood 
cancer treatment and 
research. 
CEO
FOR DIVERSITY
& INCLUSION15 Years
 2 Years
$150 Million 
Donated
3 Years
14X R ecognized
 21 Years
 20 Y ears
30
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Aflac Japan
Introduction to Aflac Japan
In Japan, we are proud to insure one in four households. Japan’s life insurance market is the second largest in the world behind the 
United States. In 2020, Aflac Japan once again emerged as the leading company in Japan’s growing third sector, which includes 
cancer, medical and income support insurance. Aflac Japan generated solid overall financial results for the year, with a stable profit 
margin of 21.2% and extremely strong premium persistency of 95.1%. The relaunch of our new cancer rider drove a sequential 
improvement in both cancer insurance and total sales in the fourth quarter. As a result, total sales were down 22.2% for the quarter 
and 36.2% for the year. In January 2021, we introduced our new medical product, and even up against the difficult comparisons of last 
January’s pre-COVID sales, its positive launch exceeded our expectations. We are encouraged by its reception by both consumers 
and the sales force.
While these sales results represent sequential improvements relative to last quarter, the effects of reduced face-to-face activity are 
evident, and we continue to promote virtual sales. Our goal in Japan is to be the leading company for “living in your own way.” This 
is a declaration of how we tailor our products to fit the needs of customers during the different stages of their lives and reach them 
where they want to buy through agencies, strategic partners, and banks.
2020 Aflac Japan Financial Highlights
(in Yen and in Dollars)
*Total net premium is net of reinsurance.
** Adjusted earnings are the profits derived from operations. The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is net earnings. Adjusted earnings are adjusted revenues less 
benefits and adjusted expenses. The adjustments to both revenues and expenses account for certain items that cannot be predicted or that are outside management’s 
control. Adjusted expenses are U.S. GAAP total acquisition and operating expenses including the impact of interest cash flows from derivatives associated with notes 
payable but excluding any nonrecurring or other items not associated with the normal course of the Company’s insurance operations and that do not reflect the 
Company’s underlying business performance.
Dollar amount reflects impact of foreign currency.Total net premium* 
decreased 2.8% to 
¥1.4 trillion. Pretax adjusted 
earnings** 
decreased 2.0% to 
¥347.9 billion. Adjusted net 
investment income** 
increased 4.4% to 
¥283.1 billion.Pretax profit 
margin** decreased 
10 basis points to 
21.2%
Total adjusted 
expense ratio** 
increased 50 basis 
points 21.2%Total benefit ratio 
increased 40 basis 
points to 69.9%Third sector benefit 
ratio increased 40 
basis points to 59.7%Pretax segment 
adjusted earnings 
increased 0.1% to 
$3.3 billion.
Total net premium* 
decreased 0.8% to 
$12.7 billion.Total adjusted 
revenues** increased 
0.4% to $15.4 billion.Pretax adjusted 
earnings** increased 
0.1% to $3.3 billion.31
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Distribution that Reaches 
Japanese Consumers
Introduction to Aflac Japan
Aflac recognizes that it is vitally important to be where people 
want to make their insurance-purchasing decisions, and 
we believe our multifaceted distribution platform remains 
one of the strongest in Japan. Aflac is proud to insure one 
in four Japanese households, but we believe there are still 
opportunities to reach even more consumers. Our solution 
to that lies in product innovation and leveraging our powerful 
brand and broad distribution networks. Aflac Japan’s traditional 
channels, which include individual agencies, independent 
corporate agencies and affiliated corporate agencies, remain 
key to our success, once again representing a significant 
portion of our sales in 2020. Our strategic partnership with 
Japan Post unites Japan Post Group – which includes the 
largest nationwide distribution network in Japan – with Aflac 
Japan, the industry leader in cancer insurance. Aflac Japan 
is the only provider of cancer insurance distributed through 
post offices nationwide in Japan, and our cancer insurance is 
offered through more than 20,000 postal outlets and Kampo’s 
76 directly managed offices.
The COVID-19 pandemic and state of emergency declarations 
that ensued early in the year significantly impacted Aflac 
Japan’s sales activity. In keeping with Japan’s ability to quickly 
adapt to changing landscapes, Aflac Japan has employed 
technology allowing it to expand upon its traditional face-to-
face sales activities. In order to facilitate more non-face-to-
face sales, Aflac Japan accelerated the creation of a virtual 
sales system that leveraged digital technology to permit sales 
during state of emergency declarations and various stages of 
lockdown throughout the year. In October of 2020, Aflac Japan 
also implemented a new virtual sales tool that enables online 
consultations and policy applications, making Aflac Japan the 
first major life insurer to roll out such a virtual sales tool.Aflac Japan Distribution Channels
Traditional Sales Channel*
Aflac Japan was represented by more than 8,500 sales 
agencies at the end of 2020, equating to nearly 111,900 
licensed sales associates employed by those agencies, 
including individual agencies.
Strategic Alliances
Dai-ichi Life 
Our alliance with Dai-ichi Life was launched in 2001, and 
approximately 40,000 Dai-ichi Life representatives offer Aflac’s 
cancer products.
Banks 
Aflac Japan was represented by 361 banks at the end of 2020, 
or approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan.
Japan Post Group 
In 2020, the number of post offices selling Aflac’s cancer 
product totaled more than 20,000. Kampo (Japan Post 
Insurance Company Ltd.) offers Aflac cancer products through 
its 76 directly managed offices.
Daido Life 
In September 2013, Aflac Japan and Daido Life Insurance 
entered into an agreement for Daido to sell Aflac’s cancer 
insurance products specifically to the Hojinkai market, which is 
an association of small businesses.
* Includes independent agencies, independent corporate agencies and affiliated 
corporate agencies32
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Growth Strategy Overview
Citizens of Japan are covered by a national health care 
insurance system that provides a standard level of medical 
insurance. Amid Japan’s rapidly aging population and declining 
birthrate, the national health care system has faced increasing 
financial strain, leading to an increasing level of financial 
pressure on consumers from increasing health care costs. As 
a result, consumers have had to increasingly assume more 
financial responsibility for out-of-pocket health care expenses 
and medical care. Most Japanese consumers turn to private 
third sector insurance to help offset some of these expenses. 
Aflac’s trusted brand and valued products are a solution to help 
alleviate that financial burden. The foundation of Aflac Japan’s 
product portfolio is third sector products, which include cancer 
and medical insurance (see product chart). Aflac continually 
customizes its products to respond to and even anticipate the 
evolving needs of Japanese consumers, advances in medical 
treatments and modifications to Japan’s national health care 
system.  While third sector products are our focus, Aflac Japan 
also offers its customers first sector protection policies to 
provide comprehensive coverage.
Third sector policies are more profitable and less interest rate 
sensitive than life insurance or savings-type products such as 
WAYS or child endowment. Looking to 2021 Aflac Japan’s product strategy is to create 
value for policyholders through four core initiatives. The first 
of those is the launch of a new medical insurance product, 
EVER Prime, in the first quarter of 2021, which provides 
extensive protection and enhanced coverage for short-term 
hospitalizations and Japan’s three most dreaded diseases: 
cancer, heart attack and stroke. Second, in response to a 
growing need for more comprehensive coverage among 
Japan’s middle-aged demographic, Aflac Japan will enhance 
promotion of its ALL-in cancer insurance rider, which offers 
consumers a wide array of cancer coverage options. Third, 
Aflac Japan is developing its life cycle product approach 
to address increasing uncertainty and heightened concern 
about income stability and nursing care among Japan’s aging 
population, which is especially important as more and more 
citizens are living to the age of 100 and beyond. Finally, 
Aflac Japan will utilize small-amount, short-term insurance in 
areas that are difficult to cover with our existing products and 
services. One example includes medical insurance designed 
for those not eligible for nonstandard medical insurance, which 
will enable us to reach new customers.33
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Aflac Japan 
Insurance Products
Third Sector Insurance
• Cancer
• Medical
• Income Support
Cancer Insurance
In 1974, Aflac pioneered the cancer product in Japan, and we 
remain the number one provider of cancer insurance today. For 
45 years since Aflac introduced Japan’s first cancer insurance, 
we have revised our cancer insurance products to match the 
changing medical environment, the potential financial burden 
that serious illnesses can bring and the advancement of health 
care and medical technology. In keeping with our commitment 
to provide our customers with innovative, relevant and 
valuable products, in April 2018 Aflac Japan launched “Days 
1 – Cancer insurance for daily living,” and “Days 1 Plus,” which 
targets existing policyholders seeking to upgrade their cancer 
insurance for more up-to-date protection. In 2020, Aflac Japan 
launched “Days 1 ALL-in Cancer Insurance for Daily Living”, a 
rider to expand coverage with multiple benefits in a way that is 
easier for the policyholder and agent to understand.
Medical Insurance
In early 2002, Aflac introduced EVER, a standalone, whole-
life medical product, as a solution to help Japanese citizens 
with rising copayments related to Japan’s universal health 
care coverage. Within one year of the introduction of EVER, 
Aflac became the leading seller of medical insurance in 
Japan. In October 2018, Aflac Japan introduced a new health 
promotion medical insurance product exclusively sold online 
that will encourage policyholders to maintain a healthy 
lifestyle by rewarding them with partial premium refunds if the 
policyholder’s health age is lower than his or her actual age. 
In January 2021, Aflac Japan introduced its new EVER Prime 
product, which offers enhanced coverage through a wide 
range of riders based on the customer’s life stage.
Income Support Insurance
In July 2016, we launched a new third sector product, Income 
Support Insurance, designed to provide cash benefits when insureds are unable to work due to illness or injury. These 
benefits complement coverage within the social security 
system, including the disability pension provided by the 
Japanese government.
First Sector Insurance
Life insurance products, including:
Protection type:
• Term life
• Whole life
• GIFT
Savings type:
• WAYS
• Child Endowment
Term Life and Whole Life
Aflac first introduced term-life and whole-life insurance products 
in 1996. These products have smaller face amounts and provide 
death benefits. They are available as stand-alone policies and 
riders. Aflac Japan also launched Prepare Smart Whole-Life 
Insurance in 2018, with lower cash surrender value and lower 
premium for non-smokers. This product also enables Aflac Japan 
to provide agents with a full range of product offerings.
GIFT
In February 2017, we introduced a revised version. Upon the 
death of the insured, this product provides beneficiaries, 
typically family members, with a monthly benefit until the 
insured would have reached a predetermined age.
WAYS*
In 2006, WAYS was introduced. WAYS can be converted to a 
fixed annuity, medical coverage or nursing care benefits when 
the policyholder reaches a predetermined age.
Child Endowment*
In 2009, Aflac introduced a child endowment product that pays 
a lump-sum benefit at the time of a child’s entry into high school 
and an educational annuity for each of the four years of college.
*  Aflac Japan currently curtails sales of first sector savings-type products due to 
persistent low interest rates in Japan.34
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Technology and Digital Investments Drive Productivity, 
Service and Value
Aflac Japan is moving forward with major digital transformation, or DX, initiatives. In 2020, Aflac Japan rolled out a virtual sales system 
consisting of web consultations and online application functions. It also expanded online group sales. In group, or worksite, sales, 
Aflac Japan is establishing a sales structure through corporate clients’ intranet sites to expand sales. The goal is to establish an 
online presence that will lead to opportunities during and post pandemic, as consumers adapt to the new normal and an increasing 
number of employees continuing to work remotely. Aflac Japan is also exploring innovative ways to maximize use of artificial 
intelligence (AI) to analyze sales activity results; identify customers who have a strong need to buy insurance; and maximize the 
efficiency of solicitation approaches. Aflac Japan will also begin a new initiative to identify customers previously unable to purchase 
policies due to their claims histories.
Furthermore, Aflac Japan is leveraging AI for data analysis to help achieve improved sales results, as well as a reduction of 
IT infrastructure costs by moving to a private cloud platform and leveraging cloud services as an AI and machine learning 
infrastructure. These efficiencies, in addition to driving strong margins and profitability, will also enhance the value and experience 
we provide our customers.35
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2020 Accolades - 
Aflac Japan
Osaka Mayor’s Commendation for Leading Company for 
Women’s Active Participation
Aflac Japan received the highest rank award called “FY2019 
Osaka Mayor’s Commendation for Leading Company 
for Women’s Active Participation.” The city of Osaka has 
been focusing on encouraging women to accelerate their 
participation at workplaces and in their communities. As 
part of this effort, since October 2014, Osaka has rewarded 
companies proactively promoting a workplace environment 
that encourages women to actively participate in business. 
Aflac Japan was recognized for achieving its goal of increasing 
ratio of women in leading position to 30% one year ahead 
of plan, reducing overtime work by 10% year over year for 
four consecutive years since 2015, and achieving the rate of 
employees taking childcare leave at 100% for women and 
96.4% for men.Received Award for “Work Life Balance Promotion” from 
City of Asahikawa
Aflac Japan’s Asahikawa sales office received FY2020 award 
for “Work Life Balance Promotion” from City of Asahikawa, 
to be given to companies working on developing pleasant 
working environment. The city established this award in FY 
2016 in order to draw attentions to work life balance and to 
promote development of environment where men and women 
can enjoy working together. Aflac Japan was appreciated for 
its activities through “Aflac Work SMART” to promote diverse 
work style regardless of time and place and to support career 
building of women.
Received Award for “Promotion of Gender Equality in 
Workplace” from Kumamoto Prefecture
Aflac Japan’s Kumamoto sales office received FY2020 
award for “Promotion of Gender Equality in Workplace” from 
Kumamoto prefecture. The prefecture established this award 
in FY 2002 in order for the governor to recognize companies 
proactively working on gender equality and to stimulate 
other companies to work on similar initiatives. Aflac Japan’s 
Kumamoto sales office was appreciated for its activities in 
reducing working hours and work from home initiative to help 
36
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  employees engaged with child and nursing care by providing 
remote devices, among other.
Association of Consumer Affairs Professionals (ACAP) 
Award for “Consumer-Oriented Activities”
Aflac Japan was awarded a “Consumer-Oriented Activities 
Medal” at the 5th ACAP Awards in recognition of its activities 
related to the Aflac Parents House with its longstanding 
contribution to support children with cancer and other serious 
diseases, and their families. The award recognizes Aflac 
Japan’s activities that exemplify its founding philosophy of 
lifting the financial burden of those battling cancer.
Certified as “Health and Productivity Management 
Organization” for three consecutive years
For the third consecutive year, Aflac Japan was certified as 
a “2020 Health and Productivity Management Organization 
– White 500 (large corporate segment),” which is a system 
managed by the Japan Health Management Forum together 
with Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). 
This system aims at highlighting the efforts of companies 
that strategically prioritize employees’ health as an important 
managerial issue, and to enhance the environment where they 
will be fairly evaluated by employees, job seekers, affiliated 
companies and financial institutions.Received Bronze Award for “Innovation in 
Insurance Awards”
Aflac Japan was awarded the Bronze Award for “Innovation 
in Insurance Awards” in the “Global Innovator” category. This 
award is of co-hosted by Efma and Accenture and recognizes 
companies that are continually promoting current and future 
innovation. Aflac was recognized for its various initiatives 
to leverage digital transformation, including an immediate 
claims payment system to use biometrics authentication for 
certain benefit (as soon as five minutes), services that enable 
customers to withdraw refunded premiums at ATMs without 
bank accounts, and an artificial intelligence search engine to 
quickly find digitized business and operation manuals from vast 
internal archives.
Ranked #1 in Life Insurance Sector of NTTCom Online NPS 
Benchmark Survey
Aflac Japan was ranked first among 13 life insurance companies 
in the NTTCom Online NPS® Benchmark Survey for 2020. 
Through the survey, Aflac Japan was highly evaluated by 
customers and ranked first for categories including: good 
corporate and brand image; corporate approach to attending to 
customers and valuing customer voices; and user-friendliness 
of policyholder websites.
This ranking and recognition by the NTTCom Online NPS® 
Benchmark Survey is a testament to Aflac Japan’s employees 
and their hard work and dedication, highlighting the fact that, 
37
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  as a company, our number one priority is to be there for our 
policyholders when they need us most.
Recognized at “Insurance Asia Awards 2020”
Aflac Japan received the award for “International Life Insurer of 
the Year-Japan” for its “Agile@Aflac” and “Insurance Initiative of 
the Year-Japan” for its “cash receive service” at “Insurance Asia 
Awards 2020.” The “Insurance Asia Awards” were established 
in 2016 by Charlton Media Group, a major business media 
group based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Philippines to reward 
Asian companies who are making cutting-edge innovations 
and extending products and services that impact the insurance 
industry. The “International Life Insurer of the Year-Japan” 
recognizes insurance companies with excellent track records 
and innovation, and “Insurance Initiative of the Year-Japan” 
recognizes projects that significantly impact the insurance 
industry and adapt to changes with agility.Aflac Japan Awarded the Nikkei Smart Work Award, Power 
of Personnel Utilization segment
The Nikkei Smart Work Award recognizes companies 
advanced in work style reform to achieve higher productivity 
and sustainable growth. Aflac Japan achieved the award by 
gaining top-ranked scores in various categories around the 
leveraging of human capital, including high evaluations for its 
work-life balance and advances in diversity and flexible work 
style. This is reflected in the establishment of an environment 
where, just like women, male employees are allowed to 
easily take childcare leave. It is also reflected in Aflac Japan’s 
high ratio of flex time workers. Aflac Japan was also highly 
recognized for the promotion of diversity-related activities, 
which contributed to Aflac Japan’s board members who 
include foreign national and female, in addition to diversity in its 
composition of managers.
38
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Aflac U.S.
Introduction to Aflac U.S.
As part of Vision 2025, we seek to further develop “a world where people are better prepared for unexpected health expenses.” The 
need for the products we offer is as strong or stronger than it has ever been. At the same time, we know consumer habits and buying 
preferences have been evolving, and we are looking to reach them in ways other than traditional media and outside the worksite. 
This is part of our strategy to increase access, penetration and retention.
In the United States, Aflac once again earned the distinction of being the leader in supplemental insurance sales at the worksite.* 
Aflac U.S. 2020 financial results for the year reflected lower sales due to the lack of face-to-face sales activities as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and elevated expenses as a result of ongoing investments in our platform, distribution and customer experience.
2020 Aflac U.S. Financial Highlights
(in Dollars)
*Total net premium is net of reinsurance.
** Adjusted earnings is the profits derived from operations. The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is net earnings. Adjusted earnings are adjusted revenues less benefits 
and adjusted expenses. The adjustments to both revenues and expenses account for certain items that cannot be predicted or that are outside management’s control. 
Adjusted expenses are U.S. GAAP total acquisition and operating expenses including the impact of interest cash flows from derivatives associated with notes payable but 
excluding any nonrecurring or other items not associated with the normal course of the Company’s insurance operations and that do not reflect the Company’s underlying 
business performance.Total net premium* 
decreased 0.9% to 
$5.8 billion.Pretax adjusted 
earnings** 
decreased 0.3% to 
$1.3 billion.Pretax profit 
margin** decreased 
10 basis points to 
19.3%
Adjusted net 
investment income** 
decreased 2.1% to 
$705 million.Total adjusted 
expense ratio** 
increased 190 basis 
points 38.6%Total benefit ratio 
decreased 140 basis 
points to 48.0%
39
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Aflac U.S. 
Marketing Strategy
Amid the national COVID-19 lockdown in March, Aflac U.S. 
developed two new TV spots – “Aflac is There,” and “Gratitude” 
– that debuted during the NFL draft in April and aired 
throughout the summer. In September, we continued our 2019 
football-centric campaign by launching two new spots featuring 
the Aflac Duck and Alabama Coach Nick Saban. “Go Time” and 
“Film Room” ran through the end of 2020, and we started 2021 
strong with “Swim Meet,” which debuted in early January.
In the midst of lockdowns pandemic conditions, we pivoted to 
alternative solutions to connect with customers and employees 
through new channels: audio with podcasts on iHeart Radio’s 
“Stuff You Should Know;” ads on Spotify and Pandora; and 
relationships with other, less traditional, media partners such as 
Amazon and National Geographic. This was critically important 
as consumers flocked to non-ad-supported platforms like 
Netflix. Aflac also finalized a three-year contract with the NCAA, 
with content to debut in March 2021.
The 2020 open enrollment season required products to drive 
understanding and engagement with accounts in a virtual world. 
Aflac’s cohesive open enrollment campaign delivered more than 
60 elements to help achieve that objective, creating consistency 
in messaging with a digital-first approach, including customizable 
emails and videos. All sales support materials were housed in a 
new one-stop-shop: the Aflac Sales Marketplace.
In a year in which consumers re-examined every monthly cost, 
demonstrating Aflac’s value to existing policyholders was more 
critical than ever. A campaign to drive understanding and use 
of our wellness benefits offered some financial support to 
policyholders in uncertain times and also drove persistency.Relevant Products + 
Expansive Distribution = 
Customers
Aflac’s supplemental insurance policies pay cash benefits 
directly to the customer to help provide a layer of protection 
against income and asset loss associated with an illness or 
medical event. Policyholders can utilize these benefits to help 
cope with unexpected out-of-pocket medical expenses such 
as medication, copays and even household expenses. Our 
broad portfolio of both individual and group product solutions 
is designed to provide our policyholders with outstanding value 
and enable businesses of all sizes to offer their employees an 
affordable and comprehensive array of benefits solutions.
Aflac U.S. Products
Individual Group
Cancer*  Hospital 
Accident* Accident
STD STD 
Critical Illness* Critical Illness
Hospital Indemnity LTD
Supplemental Dental Supplemental Dental
Supplemental Vision Supplemental Vision
Term Life Network Dental 
Whole Life Network Vision
Term Life
Whole Life
* Insurance products on the Consumer Markets platform.
The COVID-19 pandemic heightened awareness of what 
people may be missing in their benefits portfolios. Aflac 
updated its existing BenExtend product to include several key 
benefits solutions in one product. BenExtend for Diseases® 
provides benefits related to COVID-19 or a number of other 
illnesses with coverage that follows the entire care journey, 
from testing to hospital confinement and recovery.
40
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  We continue to see a significant need for Aflac benefit 
solutions in the marketplace, and we are well positioned to 
capitalize on that opportunity. Health care costs continue to 
rise with minimal wage growth, and Aflac is here to help solve 
the significant challenge of coming up with cash for out-of-
pocket expenses. Within the U.S. workforce of approximately 
160 million workers, Aflac has access to less than one third of 
them, and the majority of our business is in the small business 
segment. It takes a broad distribution reach to capitalize on the 
market opportunity, and we intend to maintain our leadership 
position by growing the number of producers who work with 
Aflac and expanding our value proposition to support the 
evolving landscape.
In 2020, we also maintained our focus on expanding our 
distribution and reach through our traditional field force of 
independent agents. Additionally, we continued to establish 
and nurture relationships with our broker sales team on local, 
regional and broader national levels to improve our access 
to businesses in each market segment. Finally, we made 
meaningful progress in our ability to meet workers where they 
are, including the growing portion of contingent workers who 
are not at the traditional worksite in the U.S.
We have also been investing in new distribution opportunities 
with the expansion of Aflac’s product portfolio through recent 
acquisitions and alliances. This included our 2019 acquisition 
of Argus, which paved the path to introduce Aflac Dental 
and Vision, a network dental and vision products, with a 
measured rollout in 2020 and an anticipated national rollout 
in 2021. It also included our 2020 acquisition of Zurich North 
America’s U.S. Corporate Life and Pensions (Group Benefits) 
business, which consists of group life, disability and absence 
management products. Aflac intends to build upon the strong 
framework created by Zurich by continuing to grow the group 
benefits business and provide a more holistic product set to 
brokers and employers. Our expansion into network dental and 
vision and group benefits further enhance Aflac’s presence 
on the “front page” of the benefits enrollment process for 
employees while at the same time deepening relationships 
with employers and policyholders. From there, we believe 
Aflac’s powerful brand and wide-reaching distribution will boost 
our access and opportunities to provide more solutions and 
protect more policyholders.Additionally, in November of 2020, Aflac announced its 
exclusive distribution alliance with Trupanion, Inc., a leader 
in the quickly growing market of medical insurance for cats 
and dogs. This alliance leverages Aflac’s strong brand and 
broad U.S. worksite distribution network, including its digital 
Consumer Markets channel, and Trupanion’s expertise and 
leadership in pet insurance. This alliance combines Aflac’s 
brand recognition and broad worksite and direct to consumer 
distribution in the U.S. with Trupanion’s brand and strong 
reputation within the pet insurance industry. It also enhances 
sales opportunities by appealing to consumers who are 
seeking to be prepared for unexpected medical expenses. We 
will continue to develop these opportunities in 2021.
Our growth strategy remains consistent and is strongly aligned 
to the market opportunity. We continue to make strategic 
advancements to our business model and are pleased with the 
progress we have made.
41
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Technology Drives Value 
and Efficiency
Our disciplined risk management and emphasis on improving 
operating efficiency helped us drive strong profitability in 
2020. We continue to make broad-based investments in digital 
enhancements and innovation within our U.S. platform, in 
response to rapidly changing market trends. We believe our 
platform investments will contribute to improved persistency 
and high customer experience and satisfaction levels. We 
have also accelerated our One Digital Aflac strategy to create 
a digital experience across the employee, customer and 
distribution lifecycles. Digital makes it easy for customers 
to buy from Aflac; for the distribution team to sell Aflac; for 
employees to work at Aflac; and for the Aflac promise to be 
fulfilled. We’ve also increased our agents’ adoption of our 
Everwell 2.0SM enrollment platform, which is now being used 
by more than 350,000 businesses across the country.Aflac Global Investments
Aflac Global Investments is made up of Aflac Incorporated’s 
asset management subsidiaries responsible for investing 
approximately $129 billion on behalf of our insurance 
subsidiaries in Japan and the U.S. This team contributes to 
Aflac’s long-term success by seeking to maximize long-term 
returns and preservation of capital based on an investment 
foundation of strategic asset allocation and a conservative asset 
and liability management approach that focuses on making 
investments across a diversified portfolio of high-quality assets.
The Aflac Global Investments team now has more than 
133 investment and support professionals in New York and 
Tokyo who work to find investment opportunities around the 
globe. The investment teams are organized around asset 
class specialists and have expertise in corporate credit, 
infrastructure, middle market loans, transitional real estate, and 
currency hedging, as well as a growing alternatives portfolio of 
private equity and real estate investments. We also leverage 
the capability of our External Manager Platform where our team 
identifies specialized strategies and third party asset managers 
that can meet our return and diversification standards. In 
addition, our teams have a major presence in the U.S. and 
Japanese investment markets, matching investments against 
our policyholder liabilities denominated in both yen and dollars.Net investment 
income increased 
1.7% to $3.6 billion.42
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  As part of our investment strategy to identify and invest in 
new asset classes, Aflac Global Investments seeks to take 
strategic equity interests in third party asset managers whose 
strategies fit our investment objectives and whose business 
growth will benefit from our asset deployment. In January of 
2020, we announced a strategic partnership with Varagon a 
middle market lender, where we committed to deploy $3 billion 
of assets over three years while retaining a significant minority 
equity stake. We enjoy the benefits of a higher returning asset 
class along with additional equity income, helping to grow 
Aflac’s Global Investments business.
During 2020, in the face of a highly volatile market resulting 
from the pandemic and extremely low interest rates, our 
investment results stood out. Net investment income benefited 
from continued expansion of floating rate loan and alternative 
investments, which served to combat persistently lower interest 
rates in both Japan and the U.S. Net investment income also 
benefited from our decision to hedge against falling interest 
rates, net of locking in hedge costs; tactical asset allocation 
decisions; and a significant increase in call income as issuers 
redeemed bonds due to lower refinancing rates. The credit 
quality of our portfolio held up very strongly, with a low level of 
impairments and losses demonstrating the effectiveness of our 
credit underwriting and strong risk management discipline.Aflac Global Ventures
Aflac Global Ventures was established in 2016 with a 
mission to help Aflac Incorporated enhance its strategic and 
innovative focus globally and to enhance and defend long-
term shareholder value. As part of Aflac’s continued focus on 
growth, Aflac Global Ventures strives to pursue investment 
opportunities in digital and innovative technological solutions 
that simplify and enrich the sales and distribution process 
while providing an optimal and efficient customer servicing 
experience. Aflac Global Ventures also continues to partner 
with Aflac Global Investments in seeking and investing in 
nascent technologies in the asset management space. 
Additionally, Aflac Global Ventures’ $400 million fund has 
investments across the globe in disruptive technologies with 
enhanced focus on properties in new and emerging markets 
such as Southeast Asia and India for growth and additional 
revenue. It has become the vehicle for international exploration 
leveraging our domain assets and expertise while focusing on 
advanced digital and ecosystem oriented opportunities.
Since the fund’s inception four years ago, Aflac Global Ventures 
has seen some of the early direct investments complete follow-
on rounds of capital raise and, in some cases, exit the portfolio 
via sale, resulting in modest gains. Singapore Life remains 
Aflac’s largest direct investment through the fund and part of 
the broader effort to further explore Southeast Asia. In 2020, 
Singapore Life announced the acquisition of Aviva Singapore, 
gaining access to 1.5 million customers.
In 2020, Aflac Global Ventures continued to capitalize on its 
global partnership with Plug and Play for its success with the 
Aflac Ventures Lab, a 10-week accelerator program for startups. 
Aflac Ventures Lab provides an unparalleled opportunity 
for startup companies to work with Aflac’s key business 
43
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  leaders and innovation teams to co-develop and customize 
solutions to accelerate innovation across the insurance value 
chain, including digital solutions that enhance the customer 
experience. The second cohort is currently underway with the 
expectation that a subset of startups would move into the pilot 
phase for further development.
As part of its global strategy, Aflac Global Ventures also 
incubates a variety of companies in the U.S. and Japan, 
designed to pursue digital and disruptive solutions and 
methods for experimentation and adaptation. In the context 
of rapidly changing social and individual needs, Aflac Global 
Ventures is actively engaged in developing new products 
and services leveraging Aflac’s market-leading position and 
extensive experience in cancer insurance consistent with 
Aflac’s core capabilities and values.Governance
Corporate governance extends beyond compliance and 
regulation. At Aflac Incorporated, it is an ethical commitment 
to create a better tomorrow for our customers, shareholders, 
employees, communities and other stakeholders. It is the 
foundation of following the highest ethical principles is 
our true north, providing the framework with which we will 
continue to succeed.
Balancing Purpose and Profit
“At Aflac, being an ethical company is the only way we 
do business, and how we accomplish that is through an 
uncompromising corporate governance system built on 
integrity, which began with our founders. True governance 
is measured through transparency, shared responsibility, a 
commitment to protecting stakeholders and our communities, 
the difference our products make in the lives of our 
policyholders and the engagement of our employees. We 
believe this is a more sustainable approach to business and 
one that will continue to increase shareholder value. Simply 
put, we believe in making a difference while balancing purpose 
and profit.” Audrey Boone Tillman, executive vice president and 
general counsel of Aflac Incorporated.
44
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Anticipating and 
Responding to the 
Pandemic
COVID-19 Efforts
Aflac Incorporated took early action when news of the 
COVID-19 coronavirus broke. The company benefited from 
is footprint in Japan, which provided a very early window 
into potential response efforts, as the Japanese response 
was about three weeks ahead of the U.S. in combating the 
spread of the virus. Additionally, Aflac had the unique benefit 
of significant Board expertise, specifically director Dr. Barbara 
Rimer, who is Dean and Alumni Distinguished Professor of the 
Gillings School of Global Public Health at The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Early on at the outbreak of the 
virus, Dr. Rimer advised Aflac about the emerging threat of 
the virus, which prompted us to immediately implement travel 
restrictions, shift to working remotely, and instate several social 
distancing measures both in Japan and the U.S.
Aflac Incorporated took immediate action to ramp up work-
from-home staffing models with more than 70% of onsite 
employees in Japan and more than 90% of onsite employees 
in the U.S. working remotely by the end of April 2020, which 
ensured business continuity with little disruption in operations. 
In addition, Aflac adjusted its approach to employee benefits 
to accommodate the need for extended paid leave and to 
account for school closings.In the midst of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Aflac Japan 
President and Representative Director Masatoshi Koide invited 
department managers to online “town hall” style meetings to 
facilitate direct communications virtually. In total, 78 managers 
representing 60 departments participated. During this time of 
crisis, these sessions were designed to enable Mr. Koide to 
hear from managers on the front line, provide reassurance, and 
share his sincere thanks for their sense of purpose in fulfilling 
the promises we make to policyholders, even during difficult 
times. In response to request from employees working at Aflac 
Japan’s operational center located in Chofu, acrylic partitions 
were swiftly installed to prevent infection.
In order to best deliver on our promise to be there for our 
policyholders amid the growing pandemic, Aflac expanded 
its claims payment protocols to include a broader definition of 
hospitalization, accepting telemedicine diagnosis from doctors 
and easing documentation requirements in order to help 
get funds in the hands of policyholders when they needed 
Aflac most. To that end, Aflac also offered premium payment 
grace periods with no risk of cancellation and following any 
regulatory guidelines or suggested practices.
In April of 2020, Aflac Incorporated donated a total of $5 million 
to two organizations in the U.S. that are providing assistance for 
health care workers on the front lines of the COVID-19 global 
pandemic. The $5 million donation included $2 million for the 
Global Center for Medical Innovation (GCMI), a comprehensive 
innovation center using innovative 3D printing to help support 
medical device shortages, particularly as it relates to ventilators 
and protective masks. GCMI works in collaboration with 
Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta Pediatric Technology Center. 
Additionally, $3 million was given to Direct Relief, a humanitarian 
aid organization providing personal protective equipment (PPE) 
and essential medical items to health workers responding to the 
coronavirus. Direct Relief is active in all 50 states.
45
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  In the midst of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Aflac Chairman 
and CEO Dan Amos sent Aflac masks to all Aflac U.S. and Aflac 
Japan employees. To engage employees and lift spirits during 
a difficult time, Aflac Japan held an internal campaign called 
“Share your picture wearing an Aflac mask.” This lighthearted 
approach to a serious topic garnered participation from 385 
employees representing 37 departments.
Similarly Aflac Japan also made a charitable contribution in 
the yen equivalent of approximately $5 million to the Japan 
Medical Association (JMA) and identified local municipalities 
in support of medical professionals on the front lines fighting 
COVID-19. With this donation, Aflac Japan’s goal was to 
help foster treatment improvements and enhance the 
work environment for medical institutions and healthcare 
professionals in Japan.
Aflac Incorporated also made a $1 million donation to Crisis 
Text Line, a global not-for-profit organization established in 
2013 specializing in mental health intervention. Crisis Text Line 
provides free, 24/7, confidential support to people in crisis via 
SMS texting. Aflac’s donation helped to fund the organization’s 
campaign, For the Frontlines, aimed at helping individuals 
battling the COVID-19 crisis in the U.S. Crisis Text Line responds 
to thousands of texts each day from individuals experiencing 
mental or emotional distress and has reported an increase 
in communication with frontline workers and their family members impacted by the pandemic. Individuals seeking crisis 
counseling who text FRONTLINE to 741741 are connected to 
trained counselors who provide support in dealing with issues 
such as anxiety, stress, fear and isolation and help them identify 
coping strategies and other resources. In addition to the $6 
million in COVID-19 related donations (Direct Relief, GCMI, 
and Crisis Text Line), Aflac donated more than $6.2 million to 
charities serving communities around its offices in Columbus, 
Ga., Columbia, S.C., New York and Nebraska.
Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, new employees 
at Aflac Japan started their respective careers with remote 
training from home. During training sessions, new employees 
gained the knowledge and skills required to be a successful 
Aflac Japan employee and professional, including information 
about Aflac Japan’s core values, VISION 2024, mid-term 
business strategy and products.
46
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Corporate Social 
Responsibility & 
Sustainability Oversight
As noted, the Company has a dedicated, Board-level committee, 
which oversees the Company’s policies, procedures, and 
practices with respect to corporate social responsibility and 
sustainability (CSR&S). Specifically, the Board, through this 
committee, receives updates on the business’ focus on certain 
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, environmental initiatives, 
workplace diversity and inclusion efforts, and philanthropic 
activities. The Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee also monitors the preparation of the Company’s 
annual Corporate Social Responsibility report, reviewing such 
report before it is published.
Aflac Incorporated’s governance includes corporate 
responsibility oversight by the board of directors’ Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Sustainability (CSR&S) Committee. 
The committee sets our corporate responsibility/sustainability 
performance objectives, monitors implementation and 
performance of objectives, and oversees progress made 
against our social and environmental goals.
Aflac’s CSR/Environmental, Social and Governance
The ESG Working Group, which is comprised of employees 
and chaired by the chief operating officer, sets ESG and 
sustainability performance objectives, monitors implementation 
and performance of objectives, and oversees progress made 
toward our social and environmental goals. ESG is strategically 
integrated throughout all of Aflac.
The board oversees an enterprise-wide approach to risk 
management designed to achieve organizational and 
strategic objectives, to improve long-term performance and 
to enhance shareholder value. Risk management requires 
more than just understanding the risks we face and the steps 
management takes to manage those risks. The board also 
must understand what level of risk is appropriate for the 
Company. The directors are equipped to make all of these 
determinations because they are integral to the process of 
setting the Company’s business strategy.Ethical Company and 
Ethics Training
At Aflac, our values form the foundation on which we build 
relationships of trust with our customers, shareholders, 
business partners and suppliers, government regulators, and 
fellow employees. These values—Teamwork, Respect, Fairness, 
Honesty, Integrity and Responsibility—are the same values 
upon which the Aflac co-founders built our Company. This 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (our “Code”) shows us 
how to apply these values to our everyday business conduct.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (code) is based 
on the same values that constitute The Aflac Way: teamwork, 
respect, fairness, honesty, integrity and responsibility. These 
values were instilled in the company more than 65 years 
ago, and it’s our duty to conduct business with them in mind. 
In doing so, we uphold both the letter and the spirit of the 
code, ensuring our company provides the same kind of 
genuine, caring and personal service that our founders set 
as our standard.
Aflac Incorporated’s anti-fraud teams monitor, investigate 
and stop fraudulent claim submissions from inside and 
outside the company.47
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Transparent Information 
and Fair Advice for 
Customers
With a wide range of customers, our employees use data 
and technology to inform policyholders and improve their 
experience. Recently, we expanded the digital capabilities of 
our website and mobile device applications and implemented 
voice recognition in our call centers. Other steps taken include:
• Aflac U.S. accelerated our One Digital Aflac strategy to 
create a digital experience across the employee, customer 
and distribution lifecycles. Digital makes it easy for 
customers to buy from Aflac; for the distribution team to 
sell Aflac; for employees to work at Aflac; and for the Aflac 
promise to be fulfilled.
• Aflac Japan’s Innovation Lab serves as an accelerator, 
designed to meet customer needs with digital tools, and 
as an incubator, which explores future opportunities for 
innovation and potential startup partners.
• Aflac Japan leveraged a payment app called LINE Pay to 
help customers pay premiums in cash anywhere anytime.
• Customer convenience enhancements, such as the 
provision of Braille forms for the visually impaired and 
sign language translation services for hearing impaired 
customers in Japan and the United States.
• Convenient retail insurance locations called Aflac 
Consulting Shops where customers meet with Aflac Japan 
representatives for face-to-face consultations to determine 
possible insurance needs.
• Artificial intelligence, such as optical character recognition, 
which will automate more than 500,000 data entry 
transactions per month by 2021 for Aflac Japan teams.In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission 
requirements, Aflac discloses all material legal proceedings, 
other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the 
business, in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q .
Aflac Japan employs FinTech to respond to customer 
comments and suggestions. Aflac Life Insurance Japan is the 
first in Japan’s life insurance industry to provide a 24-hour, 
365-days-per-year cash receipt service at convenience stores 
when returning premiums to insurance policyholders.
Through our independent agents in the U.S., MyAflac 
Resource Center, MyAflac App and other supplemental 
insurance product videos, we continuously educate, engage 
and inform our customers.48
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  How Aflac Ensures 
Equitable Compensation
Centralized Function
Aflac’s corporate Human Resources divisions operate a 
centralized internal compensation function to provide oversight 
and input to company management, ensuring compensation is 
consistent with job scope, duties and responsibility. To deliver 
consistency, the compensation function evaluates new-hire job 
offers, promotions and compensation adjustments to ensure 
equitable compensation.
Job Review and Analysis
Current and prospective job roles are periodically reviewed, 
modeling the California Equal Pay Act approach to ensure 
equal pay for equal work. Job levels and associated 
compensation are determined based on market data, job 
scope, duties and responsibilities, ensuring equitability for 
gender and ethnic minorities.
Defined Pay Structures
Defined salary structures are reviewed annually and updated 
utilizing market data. They serve as the framework and 
guardrails for compensation administration.
Survey Participation
Annually, the compensation function participates in and 
receives compensation survey results from multiple nationally 
recognized compensation consulting firms. These surveys help 
analyze market trends based on key factors, such as revenue 
size, asset size, market value, geography and headcount.
Annual Review Process
Defined annual compensation adjustment processes help 
ensure equity across the organization by reviewing potential 
compensation adjustments based on multiple factors, including 
performance, internal equity and market levels.Consulting Services
Human Resources partners with nationally recognized 
compensation consulting firms to assist in the review of 
compensation practices, including the competitiveness of pay 
levels, design structures, market trends and other technical 
considerations that validate the consistency, legitimacy and 
equitability of our compensation practices and processes.
Grievance Process
Commitment to transparency across all levels is encouraged 
by our documented open-door policy as well as our formal 
grievance procedure in the event an employee perceives 
inequitable pay disparity at any time during the employee’s 
career. These processes are documented and communicated 
via the employee handbook.
Compensation Committee
The board-level Compensation Committee, at least 
annually, reviews the goals and objectives of our executive 
compensation plans, evaluates the performance of the 
executive officers and, setting their compensation levels 
based on this evaluation, reviews our company’s incentive 
compensation programs. This determines whether the 
incentive compensation program encourages excessive risk 
taking and evaluates how to structure compensation policies to 
mitigate risk as well as ensures the compensation and benefit 
plans promote our goals and objectives.49
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Protecting our 
Customers and Data 
with Cybersecurity
We leverage robust data protection strategies to protect 
against insider threats and external breaches that could 
result in the exposure of regulated data. Data at rest is 
protected through strong access controls such as multi factor 
authentication, denying all access unless explicitly permitted, 
access only as needed for job function, and robust encryption 
protocols. All Aflac data storage for production data is held 
on encrypted DASD devices. This includes mainframe and 
distributed database solutions. Furthermore, Aflac mobile 
devices and laptops use disk encryption solutions. The use 
of data encryption at rest solutions is based heavily on the 
following factors: criticality of data, accessibility, related entity 
type (Customer, Partner, Internal), practicality of encryption 
solution and on premise/cloud exposure. Transparent 
Database Encryption (TDE) is applied against most SQL Server 
databases containing personally identifiable information. 
Additionally, internal traffic between locations processing 
significant policyholder information is encrypted by the network 
infrastructure using link level encryption.
When business processes dictate the need to transmit 
sensitive data outside the Aflac network, Aflac has methods 
in place to ensure the protection of the information. These 
methods include but are not limited to:
• The use of software to encrypt files sent via email.
• The persistent encryption of all emails sent to a specific 
email domain through the use of Transport Layer 
Security (TLS).
• An ad-hoc email encryption/secure file transfer solution.Reducing Risk Through Enhanced Cybersecurity 
and Privacy Training
As part of our ongoing investment for a better tomorrow, Aflac’s 
Global Threat Intelligence Program provides critical information 
regarding global cybersecurity threats and recommends 
action plans to protect policyholders’ information. A dedicated 
information security team detects and blocks millions of data 
attacks each month, protecting policyholders and employees. 
Aflac regularly conducts cybersecurity drills with Aflac U.S. and 
Aflac Japan teams to ensure policyholder data is protected 
globally. Every Aflac employee is required to complete privacy 
and security training, and the security team initiates periodic 
testing of employees’ attention to detail through exercises. 
While phishing attempts may continue as the world becomes 
more connected, Aflac employees are making substantial 
efforts to protect our informational assets with the help of 
Aflac’s accountability model.
The accountability framework for employees is detailed  
as follows:
If an employee fails a fishing test:
• Once, they can voluntarily take a training class.
• Twice, they receive a written warning and must complete 
an instructor-led training class.
• Three times, they receive a second written warning and 
are suspended from work for a certain amount of time.
• Four times, their employment is terminated.
Aflac Japan employees are also subject to an accountability 
model. Phishing exercises are being formalized and aligned 
globally, and the related metrics will be collected and reported 
as benchmarking is complete.
Learn more about the Aflac Incorporated’s Cybersecurity 
Disclosure policy.In 2020 Aflac 
employees passed 
98% of phishing 
attempt awareness 
tests.50
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Political Activity Report
Aflac has a long history of participating in the democratic 
process; as an entity that is regulated at the federal and state 
levels, it’s important that we engage with elected officials to 
help us keep the Aflac promise to our policyholders.
Read the Political Activity Report51
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Workforce Overview
We know doing good is good for business, and we do that 
every day by investing first in our Aflac family. In both Japan 
and the United States, the Company strives to develop an 
engaged employee culture by developing programs including 
career development support and programs, emphasizing work 
life balance, engaging our employees, and ensuring we show 
our appreciation for their hard work. Our overarching human 
capital philosophy is, “If you take care of your employees, your 
employees will take care of the business.”Workforce: Aflac U.S.
Employee Wellness and Work/Life Balance
The company encourages employees to keep a healthy mind 
and body. As part of our commitment, Aflac provides many 
tools and resources to help employees stay healthy. To assist 
with Aflac U.S. offers two on-site child care centers and five 
on-site fitness centers as well as multiple employee health care 
facilities known as the Aflac Care Clinics at many locations.
Aflac U.S. Health and Wellness, a training and service program, 
works to enhance organizational health, encourage healthy 
lifestyles among all U.S. employees, provide diverse wellness 
programs to meet a wide range of personal health needs, 
recognize employees for participating in healthier lifestyles 
activities, and support a positive corporate culture that is 
focused on celebrating and improving the quality of life for all 
U.S. employees.
Employee Appreciation
Employee Appreciation Week is designed celebrate and 
recognize Aflac’s greatest assets – our employees! In the U.S., 
EAW is held the first week of May as a week-long celebration of 
Aflac’s greatest assets – its employees. From daily drawings to 
enjoying snacks and food, each day of Employee Appreciation 
Week is designed to show employees how much Aflac 
appreciates them every day of the year.
Employee Engagement, Training and Development
From Employee Appreciation Week to the Diversity World 
Fair, we prioritize a workplace that is an environment where 
employees feel valued and look forward to their future  
with Aflac.
Aflac U.S. regularly partners with civic leaders and other 
organizations to help develop and inform public policy that 
assure fair laws and diverse representation that can lead to 
meaningful change. Called “Continuing the Conversation,’’ 
these classes seek to build the trust and comfort needed to 
tackle difficult subjects candidly.
At Aflac U.S., in response to the social unrest that erupted 
around the world in the summer of 2020, our senior leaders 
held a series of virtual town halls, “Our Future, Our Voice.” In 52
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  these sessions, leaders transparently talked about their own 
experiences showing how racism has touched their lives. After 
those town halls, leaders across the U.S. organization were 
encouraged to continue the dialogue around race and social 
injustice. Leaders were provided with a series of development 
classes that covered issues related to diversity and inclusion. 
The “Continuing the Conversation” series of five facilitated 
trainings focusing on fostering an understanding of one’s 
biases, building trust, having challenging conversations and 
change. This curriculum intends to better equip leaders for 
difficult conversations in light of challenging times. Launched 
in August, over 75% of the target audience have participated in 
this program. We are continuing this program in 2021 and will 
cascade it throughout our U.S. employee population.
Career Success Center
At Aflac’s Career Success Center, Aflac U.S. employees can 
meet with career consultants who provide mentoring, coaching, 
résumé writing, mock interviews, career consultations, exam 
proctoring and talent assessments. In 2020, the Career 
Success Center virtually hosted the Career Awareness Expo 
which included 18 various informative webinars each week 
from July 14 through August 6, promoting various business 
areas of interest, career development and progression, and 
educational partners. Over 1,200 employees participated in the 
various sessions.
TEACH
TEACH, Aflac U.S.’s mentoring program, allows employees to 
“teach what they know and to learn what they don’t.”
TEACH mentors are:COVID-19 Response
In early March, we shifted to a work from home environment for 
97% of our employees. At this time, to ensure employees did not 
lose pay due to COVID-19, we implemented a pandemic leave 
policy for employees infected with COVID-19, having to care 
for a family member with COVID-19 or to assist with childcare 
since daycares and schools were closed. We waived co-pays 
for virtual health care to encourage employees and their families 
to utilize the medical service in the safety of their homes. We 
adopted changes to our 401k plan and benefits programs to 
allow more flexibility. We also implemented virtual wellness 
sessions and focus groups to help employees navigate the 
challenges of remote work and juggling priorities. Our On-site 
Care Clinics, which include behavioral health coaches, provided 
drive-through flu shots, shifted to virtual services to maintain the 
ability to assist our employees, and offered safe and secure, 
CDC-compliant in-person consultations for the limited number of 
on-site essential workers.
48%
Ethnic Minorities64%
Women48%
Ethnic Minorities64%
Women53
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Voting Initiatives
Aflac has always encouraged participation in elections as 
part of the democratic process, however in 2020 we hosted 
a voter education and registration program to ensure our 
employees and agents were prepared to cast their vote 
even during a pandemic. Our efforts led to more than 2,000 
individuals registering to vote or confirming their registration 
status. To support this vital work beyond Aflac, we were proud 
to sponsor National Voter Registration Day in September, with 
approximately 30 volunteers staffing booths at two voting 
locations in Columbus to provide drinks and snacks to voters. 
National Voter Registration Day is a nonpartisan civic holiday 
that celebrates our democracy where an estimated 1.5 million 
new or updated voter registrations were completed across the 
country. To help employees act on this important civic exercise, 
employees are offered flexible schedules on election day(s).
2020 U.S. CENSUS initiative
Aflac was an official partner of the 2020 U.S. Census, which 
occurs every 10 years and counts every individual living in the 
United States only once and at the correct address. On April 
1, 2020, the nation observed Census Day. Aflac employees 
were encouraged to become advocates for the program 
and spread the word to neighbors and family. Aflac created 
cobranded Aflac/Census logos for this initiative and shared 
information with its employees through the employee intranet, 
internal Facebook page activities, incentive items with letters 
from Aflac Incorporated’s general counsel, two lunch-and-
learn sessions with the regional census director and digital 
signs at all Aflac campuses.At Aflac Incorporated’s headquarters in Columbus, Ga., 
representatives of the Diversity Council assisted with the effort 
by distributing information materials in English and Spanish 
at the regional Tri-City Latino Festival and distributing Census 
2020 materials at the annual Tuskegee-Morehouse Football 
Classic. Additionally, Aflac purchased time on three billboards 
in Columbus, again cobranded with the Census, to encourage 
the community to “be counted.”
54
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Workforce: Aflac Japan
Employee Wellness and Work/Life Management
The company encourages employees to keep a healthy mind 
and body. As part of our commitment, Aflac provides many 
tools and resources to help employees stay healthy. Aflac 
Japan is certified as a Health and Productivity Management 
Organization by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry. This certification is awarded for best practices in 
employee health management, strategically focused work style 
and development of a socially appreciative work environment. 
Aflac Japan has also developed a program to promote healthy 
lifestyles for employees at home and the office, with benefits 
including women’s health programs, healthy meal options in the 
cafeteria, fitness programs and smoking cessation support.
Aflac Japan offers an on-site child care center and provides 
support for different parenting stages: before prenatal, 
during childbirth/child care leave, and balancing work and 
parental responsibilities.
Japan Work SMART
Aflac Japan promotes workstyle reform through its “Aflac 
Work SMART” initiative. This initiative aims at maximizing 
organization-wide performance through such activities 
as review of employee workstyles, support for work-life 
management via a system where employees can work without 
being limited by “time” or “place”.
The Aflac Work SMART acronym stands for:
Aflac Japan has instilled the “Five Principles of Work SMART” not 
only to reduce overtime, but also to promote healthy workstyles 
and maximize performance of the organization as a whole.Realizing a better balance between work and home:
Flexible schedules
Aflac Japan offers every employee a flexible work schedule 
through utilization of shift work and flex-time, as well as paid 
days-off on an hourly basis. For those utilizing child or nursing 
care, Aflac Japan offers reduced working hour system where 
eligible employees can choose work hours from ten options 
with a combination of shift work.
Remote Work
Aflac Japan provides a working system and environment that 
enables every employee to work from home. The Company 
provides remote workers with notebook PCs and/or a USB 
device that enables privately owned PCs to work as work 
computer. Aflac Japan has also created a work environment 
where employees are able to work at home as they do 
from the office via web conferencing. This mobile work 
environment also allows easy access to internal information 
system through tablet devices or smart phones. In addition, to 
encourage flexible work styles, employees and departments 
are encouraged to share their experiences or ideas by posting 
comments on Aflac Japan’s intranet forum.
This flexible work style enabled Aflac Japan to rapidly shift to a 
remote environment and still maintain business operations as 
the COVID-19 pandemic spread.
In 2020, the Work SMART initiative contributed to workstyle 
reform across the Company.
• Despite the change of environment due to COVID-19, level 
of overtime work was unchanged as compared to the 
previous year.
• 84% of managers and employees took their annual 
paid leave.
• 100% of employees took their maternity or paternity leave, 
when applicable.
Aflac Japan provides an annual survey to employees to assess 
their work styles, and in 2021 Aflac Japan plans to conduct a 
more comprehensive employee survey.S
See the
Big PictureM
Maintain
FocusA
Act With
InitiativeR
Respect
DialogueT
Think
Time V alue
55
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Implemented “Keep in Fit! My Best Program beyond 2020”
From April 20 to July 26, Aflac Japan implemented “Keep in 
Fit! My Best Program beyond 2020” connected to the planned 
2020 Olympics and Paralympics.
In Aflac’s health management, “Keep in Fit” is an initiative 
that demonstrates an ideal work-life cycle for employees to 
enjoy healthy work/life management where they prioritize 
their journey toward wellness. Although the 2020 Olympics 
and Paralympics were postponed due to the global 
pandemic, this program was implemented to increase 
immune strength and provide good opportunities to connect 
with one another. In total, 1,700 employees participated in 
this program.
Employee Appreciation
Employee Appreciation Week is designed to celebrate and 
recognize Aflac’s greatest assets - employees! To coincide with 
the anniversary of Aflac Japan’s establishment, each November 
Aflac Japan holds its annual Employee Appreciation Week. 
From daily drawings to enjoying snacks, food and family events, 
Employee Appreciation Week is designed to show employees 
how much Aflac appreciates them every day of the year.Employee Engagement, Training and Development
Driven by passion, collaboration and innovation, One Aflac is a 
voluntary employee group established at Aflac Japan to cultivate 
employee connections and culture within Aflac the spirit of 
continual personal and professional improvement. It is open to all 
Aflac Japan employees at every level, and members are invited 
to attend many different types of events from self-development 
seminars about mindfulness to gatherings on career 
development and having internal employees as lecturers, among 
many others. In 2020, its activities centered on exchanging 
information outside of Aflac Japan with major corporation 
volunteer groups. Members held monthly sessions with “ONE 
JAPAN,” a consortium of more than 50 volunteer groups with 
spirits similar to One Aflac, and in October 2020, held an on-
line conference among those involved. The goal of One Aflac 
is to create a virtuous cycle where each employee voluntarily 
takes on challenges through which new value is created for 
Aflac. They share this vision with others to help underscore One 
Aflac’s venues for growth where members are committed to 
motivating each other, drawing out each other’s best qualities 
and expanding horizons in a free and vigorous manner.
56
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Workforce Diversity
Aflac was founded in 1955 with a simple philosophy: if we take care of our people, they will take care of the business. Our 
commitment to diversity and inclusion goes back to the early days of the company when our principal founder, John Amos, a 
supporter of the Civil Rights movement, encouraged dialogue between blacks and whites. Though time has passed, our commitment 
continues to this day. Our employees are the bedrock of our company and we greatly benefit from their diverse backgrounds, 
experiences and ideas.
Aflac is also mindful of the communities in which we operate striving to be reflective of the diversity and actively working to mirror it. 
We recognize that our success is often defined by what we do each and every day when others aren’t looking. It’s how we treat all 
people. It’s the opportunity we give to all people. It’s about how we embrace diversity and encourage dialogue and inclusiveness. We 
are committed to doing even better and to continuing to make a difference.
Diversity continues to play an important role at Aflac, as it has for decades. Fostering diversity isn’t only the right approach to take; it 
also makes good business sense. In order to accomplish our goals and serve the communities where we have a presence, we must 
surround ourselves with a group of people who bring different perspectives to the table.
Over the years, we have brought this same inclusive spirit to Japan where we have boosted our diversity promotion efforts by 
increasing the number of women in leadership positions.
At Aflac, our commitment goes beyond talking about diversity to actions that foster equity and inclusion. It is reflected in the makeup 
of our workforce, the equity of our pay policies and the initiatives we continually undertake to make every person feel welcomed and 
valued. There is no doubt that we are building a stronger company, but we recognize there is more that we can do. Still, we believe 
we are on the right path.
The Company’s corporate culture reflects its commitment to diversity and inclusion at all levels of the Company. For example, 
at the end of 2020:
In 2020, through its Women’s Empowerment Program, Aflac Japan surpassed its goal of reaching 30% 
of women in leadership positions (assistant manager or higher) one year ahead of schedule, and more 
progress is being made. Aflac Japan has now raised the bar and is on pace for a new target of 30% of 
manager or higher positions to be filled by women by the end of 2025 and has achieved a milestone of 
20% by the end of 2020 as planned.46% of Aflac’s U.S. 
employees were 
minorities and 65% 
were women.23% of our U.S. 
senior officers (VP 
or higher) were 
minorities and 30% 
were women.64% of our Board 
were minorities 
or women (36% 
of our board were 
minorities and 36% 
women).44% of Aflac U.S. 
new hires were 
ethnic minorities and 
56% were women.57
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Employee Demographics by Position (CSR)
Please Note:
• Rows do not add up to 100%, as categories are not mutually exclusive
• U.S. Workforce Demographics Only: As of Dec. 31, 2020
• Includes EEO-1 categories of Administrative Support Workers, Craft Workers (Skilled), Operatives (Semi-Skilled), Laborers 
(Unskilled), Service Workers and Technicians
All Employees Women White Minority
Executive/Senior Officials & Managers 18.4% 73.7% 26.3%
First/Mid-Level Officials & Managers 51.3% 68.1% 31.9%
Professionals 60.0% 60.6% 39.4%
Sales Workers 38.2% 87.8% 12.2%
All Others 81.4% 34.4% 65.6%
Total 65.1% 57.3% 46.3%
Minorities (Part A)Black or 
African 
American Asian Hispanic
Executive/Senior Officials & Managers 15.8% 5.3% 2.6%
First/Mid-Level Officials & Managers 19.1% 5.5% 5.2%
Professionals 24.2% 6.0% 5.8%
Sales Workers 3.4% 1.0% 5.2%
All Others 54.5% 1.2% 6.9%
Total 33.5% 3.7% 6.1%
Minorities (Part B)Native 
Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific 
IslanderNative 
American or 
Alaska NativeTwo or 
More 
Races
Executive/Senior Officials & Managers 0.0% 0.0% 2.6%
First/Mid-Level Officials & Managers 0.1% 0.2% 1.7%
Professionals 0.1% 0.4% 2.9%
Sales Workers 0.0% 0.0% 2.6%
All Others 0.2% 0.3% 2.6%
Total 0.1% 0.3% 2.6%
To learn more about Aflac Incorporated’s Statement on Human Rights, Human Capital Management, Diversity and Inclusion and Supply Chain Approach, 
please visit https://esg.aflac.com/policies58
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Diversity Councils
In both the U.S. and Japan, we have created diversity councils 
that include employees from various levels that meet each 
quarter to discuss activities and initiatives. The councils are 
designed to create avenues in which people can communicate 
and appreciate one another’s differences.
Heartful Services
Established in 2009, Aflac Heartful Services Co., Ltd. (Aflac 
Heartful Services), a special subsidiary of Aflac Japan, 
promotes the hiring of employees with disabilities. Aflac 
Heartful Services has established a work environment and 
provides, among other things, specialized training, specially-
trained supervisors and development opportunities to 
support those with disabilities. In addition, with or without 
a disability, it offers job assistance for those who have 
experienced pediatric cancer. Of Aflac Heartful Services’ 146 
employees as of December 31, 2020, 116 have a disability 
and five experienced pediatric cancer. Aflac Heartful Services 
supports these employees with the assistance of advisors for 
long-term career support.Philanthropy
Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center
2020 marked an important milestone for the Aflac Cancer and 
Blood Disorders Center at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta: 
the 25th anniversary of its establishment. Since its doors first 
opened in 1995, the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center 
of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta has become nationally 
renowned as one of the leading childhood cancer, hematology, 
and blood and marrow transplant programs in the United 
States. With innovative research programs and cutting-edge 
treatment options, the five-year survival rate for childhood 
cancer has improved dramatically, from 20% in 1965 to greater 
than 80% today. This worthwhile cause is very near and dear 
to the heart of the Aflac family, including the Aflac Foundation, 
Inc., our executives, employees and the field force, whose 
generous contributions help to provide a steady flow of funding 
for research. In total, Aflac’s contributions to the Aflac Cancer 
Center have exceeded the $150 million mark. This generosity 
has greatly contributed to the Aflac Cancer Center’s success 
and distinction in research, which has earned the Aflac Cancer 
Center recognition as one of the top pediatric cancer programs 
in the United States by U.S. News and World Report.
“The Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center has been a 
constant North Star for our company for 25 years and continues 
to instill pride for our employees and our independent field 
force, which gives so generously so that these precious 
children receive the highest level of care that they need and 
deserve,” said The Aflac Foundation, Inc. President Kathelen 
Amos. “From its beginnings in 1995 as a fine regional pediatric 
cancer program, the Aflac Cancer Center, whose dedicated 
doctors, nurses and health care professionals work tirelessly 
to innovate and improve care for children and their families, 
59
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  is now one of America’s top-10 childhood cancer facilities, 
according to U.S. News and World Report. This National 
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month we pledge to continue 
our ongoing commitment to finding cures and providing more 
hope to more families.”
As part of its month-long celebration, Aflac paid tribute to 
frontline workers helping children facing cancer, beginning 
with the Aflac Childhood Cancer Foundation awarding 
$2,500 grants to 10 child life programs across the U.S. to 
commemorate Aflac’s 25-year history of supporting the cause. 
The grants, which are in addition to Aflac’s ongoing $150-plus 
million support for childhood cancer, are the result of careful 
selection of recipients chosen among nearly 60 applicants.
To further commemorate National Childhood Cancer 
Awareness Month, Aflac is celebrated its 25th year of 
supporting childhood cancer by celebrating 25 childhood 
cancer heroes through its “25 for 25” Facebook campaign. 
The company also recognized four special pediatric cancer 
survivors treated at the Aflac Cancer Center and who are now 
health care providers at the very hospital at which they were 
treated as children.
As part of the 25th anniversary celebrations, The Aflac 
Childhood Cancer Foundation, Inc. saluted the important role of 
the child life specialist in the health and well-being of children 
going through treatment for cancer by awarding $25,000 in 
total funding to 10 child life programs at hospitals across the 
country. For this second year of the awards, the Foundation 
increased not only the number of awardees, but also the total 
grant amount in honor of Aflac’s 25th year of commitment to 
pediatric cancer treatment and research.The ten awardees were selected from a pool of 57 applicants 
requesting funding for projects, activities and supplies used in 
their work providing psychological and emotional support not 
only to pediatric cancer patients, but also to their siblings. The 
10 grant recipients for 2020 each received $2,500 for their 
proposed use.
Aflac recognizes that as frontline workers who have incredible 
resolve in their mission to make each child’s experience better, 
child life professionals are among the many unsung heroes in 
the fight against childhood cancer, and that their impact on the 
pediatric oncology family support system is immeasurable.
Aflac Parents House
A large part of being a well-respected and trusted company 
includes being a compassionate and socially responsible 
company. Aflac Japan recognizes that social responsibility is 
an essential element of our purpose. As a company, the Aflac 
Japan family cares deeply about our communities, and it is our 
privilege to help where we can. When a child is diagnosed with 
cancer or other serious medical conditions, he or she often 
must travel to Tokyo or Osaka from other parts of Japan to 
receive treatment, which is often an ongoing process. To help 
provide a level of assistance, the first Aflac Parents House, 
which was established in 2001 through a donation from Aflac 
Japan serves as a home-away-from-home where pediatric 
patients and their families can temporarily live together while 
they support their child’s battle with cancer or numerous 
other serious illnesses. Parents House is also utilized as a 
comprehensive support center for consultation and events 
related to pediatric cancer. Supported through generous 
donations from Aflac Japan’s sales agents, employees and 
officers, the three Parents House locations (two in Tokyo and 
one in Osaka) have helped to provide assistance to more than 
140,000 people.
60
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Donation to Support Pediatric Cancer
In 2020, Aflac Japan and the National Association of Aflac 
Associates donated ¥46 million to help groups supporting 
pediatric cancer who are facing fundraising difficulty as a result 
of the pandemic.
COVID-19 has dramatically changed the environment for 
pediatric cancer patients and their families. In addition to 
the direct anxieties of contracting COVID-19 during cancer 
treatment, pediatric cancer patients and their families 
face added financial pressure by having to avoid potential 
COVID-19 exposure, such as by taking taxis and other non-
public modes of transportation rather than crowded trains. 
Patients and their families are also incurring greater hotel 
and accommodation expenses due to issues such as support 
facility temporary closures and reduced flights. In addition, 
cancer support groups are struggling with reduced amount of 
donations due to the lack of face-to-face fund raising activities 
and charity event opportunities.
To address these circumstances, Aflac Japan has called for 
donation from its officers and employees as well as from the 
National Association of Aflac Associates. Aflac Japan matched 
the donations and contributed to the total to the Gold Ribbon 
Network and Children’s Cancer Association of Japan.
Cancer Awareness Classroom
Aflac recognizes the duty and responsibility that comes with 
being the pioneer and leading company for cancer insurance. 
As the pioneer of cancer insurance, consumers have placed 
their trust in our company and our products. We work hard 
each day to be good stewards of that trust. At Aflac Japan, 
for example, we are actively engaged in cancer prevention 
awareness and education regarding the importance of early detection and seeking out the latest treatments through our 
partnership agreements with all 47 prefectures in Japan. We 
held the cancer awareness exhibitions 101 times and have 
welcomed more than 320,000 visitors since 2004. In recent 
years, Aflac cancer awareness exhibitions have focused on 
dynamic classroom settings to ensure that as many citizens as 
possible take part. 21 such exhibitions have taken place across 
Japan, reaching more than 60,000 visitors.
Aflac Japan All Ribbons
Aflac strives not only to provide peace of mind to our 
policyholders, but also compassionate help to our employees. 
With that in mind, in 2017, Aflac Japan pioneered a volunteer 
peer-based employee community called “All Ribbons” for 
employees who experienced cancer. At All Ribbons, members 
themselves provide support to employees who are battling 
cancer and struggling to balance treatment and their jobs by 
leveraging their own unique experiences and by presenting 
opportunities such as archiving and posting of “experiences for 
cancer/ job balancing talks” or “employee consulting services.” 
In addition to these support activities, All Ribbons also hosts 
panel discussions and a meeting place called All Ribbons Cafe 
for fellow employees and provides cancer services information.
61
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Volunteer Hours by Location (Japan and U.S.)
Aflac’s steadfast philanthropic initiatives and volunteerism are 
grounded in “leaving our duckprints.” In the U.S., employees 
and independent sales agents have donated more than $150 
million to support pediatric cancer research and treatment and 
the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center through 2020.
In Japan, we support those facing childhood cancer through 
initiatives such as the Aflac Parents House, where children 
being treated for diseases such as childhood cancer and their 
families can stay at a low price; scholarships for high school 
students who have lost their parents to cancer or who have 
experienced childhood cancer themselves; and supports the 
Gold Ribbon activities and more, including initiatives to improve 
the cancer screening rate in Japan.
In the U.S., more than 10,900 volunteer hours were logged 
by 167 employees in 2020
Red Cross
In 2020, the Aflac Foundation contributed $25,000 to help 
purchase a much-needed biomedical vehicle used to conduct 
blood drives in the Columbus metropolitan area, where Aflac 
Incorporated’s worldwide headquarters is located. This vehicle 
transports equipment and supplies and takes local blood 
donations to Red Cross processing, testing and storage facilities.United Way
Through employee, retiree, and corporate contributions, in 
2020, Aflac donated more than $900,000 to United Way of the 
Chattahoochee Valley to support the local community.
62
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  My Special Aflac Duck®
In Japan and the U.S., Aflac Incorporated believes in doing 
good for future generations. That takes shape in many ways 
within the Aflac family, but most prominently in our dedication to 
children and families facing childhood cancer. We know it takes 
more than medicine to help children cope with cancer. That’s 
why Aflac delivers My Special Aflac Duck free of charge to 
children in the U.S. and Japan to assist them as they undergo 
cancer treatments. It’s an investment – for the children, their 
families and their futures.
In addition to supporting the treatment and research of 
childhood cancer, Aflac wanted to do more. We wanted to give 
children with cancer something they could literally hold on to…
something that would give them joy and help them on their 
journey. Aflac delivered on this commitment with My Special 
Aflac Duck, our smart comforting companion that helps children 
feel less alone by using interactive technology during their 
cancer treatment. A compatible web-based app enables children 
to mirror their care routines, including medical play, lifelike 
movement and emotions to engage and help bring comfort to 
children during their cancer care journey.
Each year, more than 15,000 children are diagnosed with 
cancer in the United States, and Aflac’s goal is to gift each 
newly diagnosed child in the United States, above the age of 
three, his or her very own My Special Aflac Duck completely 
free of charge. By the end of 2020, Aflac had delivered more 
than 10,000 My Special Aflac Duck units to children across 
the U.S. and Japan. Through the Aflac Childhood Cancer 
Campaign, Aflac Cancer Center, and now, My Special Aflac 
Duck, Aflac is committed to providing support, hope, time and 
resources to children with cancer.Pay Equity
Aflac Japan is reforming its human capital management system. 
Starting in 2021, a new system for management was introduced 
and from 2022 a new system for general employees will 
be established. Under the new system, jobs are assigned 
specific grades according to the respective position duties and 
responsibilities. Factors such as gender, age and race are not 
used in determining a job grade, and every job provides an 
equal opportunity for all employees. Aflac Japan’s total reward 
system provides competitive market-based compensation to 
acquire and retain talent. Aflac Japan’s Human Capital Policy 
Committee, which is led by the Aflac Japan president and 
consists of senior management, conducts annual monitoring of 
the personnel system for equity and fairness and evaluates job 
grades and compensation for consistency and adequacy.
In 2020, 340 job titles held by both men and women at Aflac 
U.S. were reviewed, accounting for 3,458 employees. Among 
those positions, the salary ratio (compensation for women 
relative to men) was par; 99%.63
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Logan Cheadle, Aflac U.S. 
Sales Agent
Independent Aflac Sales Agent and District Sales Coordinator 
Logan Cheadle knows the value of teamwork, hard work and 
service. After earning a full football scholarship, Logan attended 
the University of Missouri, majoring in health science and 
becoming the first person in his family to graduate from college. 
It was during his senior year that he was recruited and hired 
to participate in a regional internship with a local independent 
Aflac sales agent. Fast forward four years, and Logan is still with 
Aflac, but these days he is mentoring other sales agents in his 
role as district sales coordinator.
As a former cornerback with the Mizzou Tigers, Logan knows 
how to work as part of team, pivot quickly and go the extra 
mile to deliver a win. When the COVID-19 pandemic struck, 
Logan and his team pivoted quickly to try to keep the ball 
moving in terms of navigating pandemic conditions. Beginning 
in early 2020, Logan was instrumental in Aflac’s U.S. national 
pilot program, helping to develop long-term best practices 
to assist the U.S. sales force with navigating the pandemic. 
Leveraging technology and experience in the field, the pilot 
team helped create unique tools and resources for the sales 
force to leverage nationwide, including auto scheduling, 
account landing pages, direct marketing tools and tactics, 
and enhancing remote enrollment capabilities and options for 
Aflac’s independent sales agents across the U.S.
“Being there for policyholders now, when many of them 
need us more than ever before, is paramount, and it’s our 
privilege as members of the sales force to help educate 
employers and employees about the value of Aflac’s 
policies and the difference those polices can make when an 
illness strikes or an accident occurs. I have always enjoyed 
helping people and been interested in health. Selling Aflac 
insurance allows me to help people, because I know what a 
difference it can make in policyholders’ lives and livelihoods, 
and I am passionate about educating others about that.”Allison Lariviere, Customer 
Care Specialist
Our greatest commitment at Aflac lies in our promise to be 
there for our policyholders when they need us most. Helping 
to deliver on that promise each and every day, Allison Lariviere 
embodies Aflac’s idea of going above and beyond to assist 
its policyholders. Allison joined Aflac’s Omaha, Neb. Customer 
Solutions Center in 2019 as a customer care specialist, where 
she is dedicated to assisting customers with filing claims and 
answering calls covering array of questions related to their 
Aflac policies, including cancer, accident, critical illness and 
disability. Realizing that Aflac’s policyholders are often facing 
one of the most difficult challenges of their lives – an accident 
or event that has left them disabled or a cancer diagnosis 
– Allison is both passionate and compassionate in assisting 
Aflac’s policyholders. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Allison has 
helped to coach other customer care specialists with creative 
ways to help streamline their workflow and respond efficiently 
to policyholder calls while working remotely, including 
volunteering to help other customer care specialists through 
the peer-to-peer assist line and direct coaching assistance.
“Being there to help our customers file their Aflac claims, 
answer questions and calm concerns among policyholders 
the Aflac way has never been more important as we all 
navigate the challenges of this pandemic. The COVID-19 
crisis has required people to pivot both personally and 
professionally; our lives continue on, and unfortunately 
personal challenges related to our health and well-being 
still arise whether they are directly related to the pandemic 
or not. I’m glad to be a part of Aflac, and to have the 
unique opportunity to help provide a measure of comfort 
to our policyholders and assist them with their calls and 
claims, especially during this crisis; that is extremely 
rewarding to me.”64
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Yukari Hashimoto, Vice 
President, Contact Center 
Management, Policy 
Maintenance and Premium 
Accounting Departments
Yukari Hashimoto joined Aflac Japan’s Policy Maintenance 
Department in 1989, and her career has been progressing 
through positions of increasing responsibility over the last 
three decades. Following her recent role as general manager 
of Diversity Promotion, in January 2021, she was promoted to 
vice president over the Contact Center Management, Policy 
Maintenance and Premium Accounting Departments. Reflecting 
on her career, she commented:
“One of the most significant events that impacted my 
career was my recent experience in the Diversity Promotion 
Department. The business environment is changing 
dramatically, and customer needs are diversifying. If we 
don’t flexibly adapt and respond to these changes, we 
will not be able to win as a company. I believe that better 
answers come from constructive discussions where we 
are open to the differing opinions of others. I think it is 
important to create a diverse workforce that is able to 
express their opinions and work actively and vibrantly.”Naoko Matsuura, Manager, 
Aflac Japan’s Premium 
Accounting Department
Naoko Matsuura joined Aflac Japan in 2004 and has been 
promoted multiple times, most recently to manager of Aflac 
Japan’s Premium Accounting Department. Reflecting on the 
advancement in her career, she commented:
“Through experiencing a group leader’s responsibilities, I 
started realizing how seeing others grow and develop is a 
passion for me. After being promoted to assistant manager 
and taking several programs regarding opportunities 
for female managers, being promoted to a manager 
gradually came into my sight. It is my personality to take on 
challenges, including the manager position. As a manager, 
there have been many times when I have faced obstacles, 
but these challenges have increased my abilities to do my 
job and broadened the scope of my job. Accordingly, my 
thoughts and perspective widened. I myself experienced 
how utilization of training and systems provided by the 
company can motivate employees. As a manager, I would 
like to leverage my experience to support team members 
and colleagues.”
65
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  SmartGreen
With LEED Gold-certified buildings in Japan and the U.S. 
and an Energy Star rating for 86% of our eligible space in 
the U.S., Aflac Incorporated remains committed to making 
our communities, cities and planet better places. The Aflac 
Incorporated board of directors’ Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Sustainability Committee leads green efforts according 
to the Aflac SmartGreen®. These beliefs pave the way toward 
becoming a more socially responsible company and put us even 
closer to achieving our goal of reducing our carbon emissions 
by 75% by 2030 in the U.S. and Japan. Aflac became carbon 
neutral in 2020 for Scopes 1 and 2 by reducing emissions and 
by purchasing renewable energy credits and carbon offsets. 
To be a leading steward of the planet, Aflac is committing to a 
carbon neutrality goal by 2040 and net zero emissions by 2050. 
This net-zero climate commitment will require a comprehensive 
and transparent approach to both defining Scopes 1 through 
3 emissions and developing a formal plan to meet our 
commitments.  We will, therefore, provide appropriate reporting 
and hold ourselves accountable along the way.
SMARTGREEN PHILOSOPHY: Wisely choose, use and dispose 
of the resources we use each day and focus these actions in 
five categories:
• Business operations
• Strategic sourcing and procurement
• Facilities management
• Waste management
• Employee engagementTo support SmartGreen, Aflac Incorporated has taken measures 
to ensure this framework is implemented throughout the 
company. Aflac Japan built an environmental management 
promotion system to ensure advocacy throughout our 
workforce. This system has three pillars:
• The Environmental Management Promotion Committee 
oversees overall environmental policy management 
throughout the company.
• The Environmental Management Promotion Council is 
made up of employees who volunteered to serve on the 
council. They plan and carry out environmental policy 
initiatives by leveraging every member’s knowledge 
and experiences.
• The Environmental Management Advocates are 
employees located at 20 Aflac Japan locations to 
implement environmental conservation activities.
Additionally, more than 60 employees in the U.S. – aka Aflac 
Greenbassadors – volunteer to support Aflac’s green goals 
by coordinating events and offering program communication 
support to business departments. This Green Committee also 
encourages employees to think green not just at work, but at 
home, as well.
Aflac Japan created the Environmental Management 
Declaration in 2019. In this declaration, Aflac Japan is 
committed to:
• Environmentally friendly behaviors in its business
• Compliance with applicable laws and regulations related 
to the environment
• Promotion of environmental education and social 
contributions
• Ongoing promotion of improvements to the environment66
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Paperless Initiative
Aflac Japan’s IT team launched a “No Paper” campaign 
to encourage employees to go paperless and reduce the 
consumption of paper resulting in about a 65% reduction in 
2019. Aflac Japan has expanded this initiative companywide. 
Beginning in 2020, Aflac Japan began aggressively working 
through a three-year paperless initiative as we made progress 
in digitalizing operations and driving efficiencies throughout 
the value chain to significantly reduce paper usage. This 
initiative represents a ¥10 billion investment and will reduce 
paper consumption by approximately 80 million pieces of 
paper per-year.Aflac Global Investments: 
Responsible Investing
Aflac Global Investments encompasses Aflac‘s asset 
management subsidiaries responsible for investing and 
protecting the policyholder funds entrusted to us by Aflac 
Incorporated’s insurance subsidiaries.
Our team contributes to Aflac’s long-term success by 
seeking to maximize long-term returns and preservation of 
capital based on an investment foundation of strategic asset 
allocation and a conservative asset and liability management 
approach that focuses on making investments across a 
diversified portfolio of high-quality assets. We employ a 
disciplined investment strategy to evaluate numerous factors 
when assessing the appropriateness of all new and existing 
investments. This includes extensive fundamental research on 
every asset class in which we invest and credit research on 
every individual investment that we make to thoroughly analyze 
business and financial risks.
Integrating ESG factors into Aflac Incorporated’s business 
has been a critical part of our operations for more than 30 
years and extends to Global Investments’ core investment 
philosophy. We believe this leads to better decisions with 
respect to the sustainability of an investment and its risk and 
return profile, while helping to make a positive financial and 
social impact on all of Aflac’s stakeholders.
We leverage our reach and resources to analyze climate-
related risks, natural resources, pollution and waste, 
human capital, product safety, social opportunity, corporate 
governance and ethics. Our comprehensive credit process 
entails assigning a proprietary ESG score as part of our core 
fundamental analysis that captures our assessment of ESG-
related factors to an issuer’s overall business, financial and 
credit prospects. We also leverage our relationships with 
companies’ management teams to help us verify and amplify 
our analysis from our internal scoring. This is a rigorous and 
thorough underwriting process, but we believe it is the best 
and right way to invest.67
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Our ESG investment approach applies to our portfolios, 
including assets for which we may employ third-party asset 
managers. Our external manager relationships span multiple 
asset classes, including debt and equity positions in public 
and private companies, as well as real assets such as real 
estate that may have direct exposure to climate and other 
environmental risks. We take great care to evaluate the ESG 
policies of our external managers, and we require each to 
undergo a due diligence process, including an annual review, 
and assessment of how ESG considerations are integrated into 
their investment process.
Our work to date has paved the way for what we believe is 
helping to make a direct and measurable positive impact 
on society and the environment. As of December 2020, our 
impact and sustainable investments total over $1.7 billion of 
private and public investments in:
• Municipal and other bonds that support affordable 
housing, education, hospitals, public transit, water facilities 
and similar investments supporting local communities in 
the United States, Japan and other markets;
• Bonds issued in the public markets that qualify as green or 
sustainable bonds;
• Infrastructure debt that supports the expansion of 
renewable energy initiatives, including investments by Aflac 
Japan for the advancement of solar power in Japan; and
• Investments in minority-and women-owned private 
equity funds.
We are committed to enriching our ESG investments as 
we continue to further review and develop our investment 
framework. For additional information on our current investment 
portfolio, please see Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2020.
To learn more about related policies and statements, please 
visit esg.aflac.com/policies.Energy Management / ISO 
– Leading the Way Toward 
Making a Real Difference
Through energy conservation efforts beginning in 2007, Aflac 
U.S. has saved more than $20 million in electricity costs. 
Aflac is the first insurance company in the U.S. to achieve ISO 
50001:2011 Energy Management Systems certification and 
the only insurance company in the U.S. to achieve both ISO 
50001:2011 Energy management systems and ISO 14001:2015 
Environmental Management.
Aflac Incorporated’s leadership in corporate responsibility is 
centered around limiting the Company’s carbon footprint and 
ultimately helping make our communities, cities and planet a 
better place. Risks, including climate change, natural disasters, 
epidemics and related risks, are identified and evaluated 
based on financial impact and probability. These risk profiles 
are monitored, and every three months, our “Risk Register” is 
reported to the management Global Risk Committee (GRC) and 
its interdepartmental executives. Overall, Aflac Incorporated 
believes environmentally friendly and prudent business actions 
serve to enhance our corporate reputation, improve talent 
recruitment and retention, and reduce business expenses, 
making them integral to our performance.
Aflac U.S. is ISO 14000 certified in its operations. Before that, 
Aflac became the first insurance company in the U.S. to be 
ISO 50001 Energy Management System registered, which 
represents the latest best-practice in energy management. We 
became recertified in 2019 with zero nonconformance issues.
Aflac Square in Chofu and the Aflac U.S. CSC building are LEED 
Gold certified. In addition, we installed 500 solar panels on one 
of our Columbus buildings, and in the U.S., 86% of our eligible 
space has earned the Environmental Protection Agency’s 
Energy Star Rating. Our data center was the 10th data center in 
the U.S. to become Energy Star certified.68
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Through sustained and deliberate energy saving measures, the company has reduced its total electricity consumption in U.S. owned 
corporate real estate by more than 20% in 2020. The significant decrease in electricity was due to energy reduction initiatives and 
reduced building occupancy due to COVID-19. Since 2007, the electricity consumption in Aflac U.S. has been reduced by over 50% 
KWH per square foot. This has saved Aflac U.S. over $20 million in expenses and successfully marks the goal of reducing electricity 
consumption in the U.S. by 50% by 2025 against the 2007 baseline. Aflac now intends to reduce U.S. electricity use by at least 70% 
by 2030 against the 2007 baseline.
Energy and Gas Reduction:
To invest in a better future, Aflac began reducing its electricity consumption in 2007 in the U.S. and will continue to reduce it by 50% 
per square foot by 2025.
Carbon Emissions Reduction:
Aflac became carbon neutral in 2020 for Scopes 1 and 2 by reducing emissions and by purchasing renewable energy credits and 
carbon offsets.
• There has been a more than 60% reduction in carbon emissions for Aflac U.S. since the 2007 baseline.
• There has been a 43% reduction in carbon emissions for Aflac Square in Chofu since the 2007 baseline.
• The absolute Scope 1 emissions (by facilities) in Aflac U.S. for 2019 were 3,512 mtCO2e (metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalents). This represents more than a 48% reduction since the 2007 baseline (6,805 mtCO2e)
• The Scope 2 emissions (location-based) in Aflac U.S. for 2019 were 10,619 mtCO2e, representing a 6.8% decrease year over year 
and 64.3% reduction from the 2007 baseline of 29,765 mtCO2e. In 2020, Aflac US contracted to construct a solar array that is 
expected to reduce Aflac U.S. Scope 2 emissions by as much as 10%. Construction is anticipated to complete in the third quarter 
of 2021.
• In 2019, Aflac Japan’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions decreased by about 43% since our 2007 baseline of 4,842 mtCO2e.
• Aflac Japan’s 2,762 mtCO2e Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2019 represent a 9.2% decrease from the prior year.
• On March 1, 2021, Aflac Square in Chofu converted 100% of its electricity to renewable energy that does not emit CO2.In the U.S., 86% of 
our eligible space 
has earned the 
Energy Star Rating.In Tokyo, Aflac 
Square in Chofu 
reduced energy 
consumption by 53% 
from 2007 to 2019.
69
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Recycling
The waste reduction and recycling strategy for Aflac U.S. diverted more than 750,000 , pounds of paper waste from the landfill in 
2020, and our recycling strategy diverted over 900,000 pounds of solid waste from the landfill for U.S.-owned properties. With more 
than half our U.S. employees working outside of our properties in 2020, the percentage of waste recycled increased from 64% to 
80% and waste sent to landfills decreased from 625,240 pounds to 223,980 pounds. Our senior vice president of Share Services 
and Greenbassador employee network strive to increase the amount of printed materials printed on Forest Stewardship Council-
certified paper to 90% by 2025 . In Japan, recycled plastics are used for power generation and recycled paper is reused, earning 
Aflac Japan a 65% recycling rate. Aflac Japan’s green purchasing accounts for 81.9% of office stationery supplies. In Aflac Japan’s 
office, about 62% of waste is recycled and reused.
Aflac U.S. recycled 904,645 pounds of waste in 2020 including:
To learn more about Aflac Incorporated’s Climate Change 2020 submission to CDP, click here .782,308 pounds of 
paper95,028 pounds of 
cardboard27,309 pounds of 
electronics70
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Glossary of Non-U.S. GAAP 
Measures
Adjusted earnings
The Company defines adjusted earnings as the profits derived 
from operations. The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure 
is net earnings. Adjusted earnings are adjusted revenues 
less benefits and adjusted expenses. The adjustments to 
both revenues and expenses account for certain items that 
cannot be predicted or that are outside management’s control. 
Adjusted revenues are U.S. GAAP total revenues excluding 
net investment gains and losses, except for amortized 
hedge costs/income related to foreign currency exposure 
management strategies and net interest cash flows from 
derivatives associated with certain investment strategies. 
Adjusted expenses are U.S. GAAP total acquisition and 
operating expenses including the impact of interest cash flows 
from derivatives associated with notes payable but excluding 
any nonrecurring or other items not associated with the normal 
course of the Company’s insurance operations and that do not 
reflect the Company’s underlying business performance.
Adjusted earnings per share (basic or dilutive)
The Company defines adjusted earnings per share (basic or 
diluted) to be adjusted earnings for the period divided by the 
weighted average outstanding shares (basic or diluted) for the 
period presented. The most comparable U. S. GAAP measure 
is net earnings per share.
Adjusted earnings excluding current period foreign 
currency impact
The Company computes adjusted earnings excluding current 
period foreign currency impact using the average foreign 
currency exchange rate for the comparable prior-year period, 
which eliminates fluctuations driven solely by foreign currency 
exchange rate changes. The most comparable U.S. GAAP 
measure is net earnings.Adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding current 
period foreign currency impact
The Company defines adjusted earnings per diluted share 
excluding current period foreign currency impact as adjusted 
earnings excluding current period foreign currency impact 
divided by the weighted average outstanding diluted shares 
for the period presented. The most comparable U.S. GAAP 
measure is net earnings per share.
Adjusted earnings per share scenarios
The Company defines, adjusted earnings per share (basic 
or diluted) as adjusted earnings for the period divided by 
the weighted average outstanding shares (basic or diluted) 
for the period presented. In reliance on the unreasonable 
efforts exception in Item 10(e)(1)(i)(B) of SEC Regulation S-K, a 
quantitative reconciliation to the most comparable U.S. GAAP 
measure is not provided for this financial measure. Forward- 
looking information with regard to the most comparable U.S. 
GAAP financial measure, earnings per share, is not available 
without unreasonable effort. This is due to the unpredictable and 
uncontrollable nature of these reconciling items, which would 
require an unreasonable effort to forecast and we believe would 
result in such a broad range of projected values that would not 
be meaningful to investors. For this reason, we believe that the 
probable significance of such information is low.
Adjusted revenues, excluding current period foreign 
currency impact
The Company defines adjusted revenues, excluding current 
period foreign currency impact as adjusted revenues calculated 
using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the 
comparable prior year period, which eliminates fluctuations 
driven solely by foreign currency exchange rate changes. The 
most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is total revenues.
Adjusted return on equity
The Company defines adjusted return on equity as adjusted 
earnings divided by average shareholders’ equity, excluding 
accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). The most 
comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure is return on average 
equity (ROE) as determined using net earnings and average 
total shareholders’ equity.71
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Adjusted return on equity excluding foreign currency impact
The Company defines adjusted return on equity excluding 
foreign currency impact as adjusted earnings excluding the 
current period foreign currency impact divided by average 
shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI. The most comparable 
U.S. GAAP financial measure is ROE as determined using net 
earnings and average total shareholders’ equity.
U.S. dollar-denominated investment income excluding 
foreign currency impact
The Company determines amounts excluding foreign currency 
impact on U.S. dollar-denominated investment income using 
the average foreign currency exchange rate for the comparable 
prior year period.
Amortized hedge costs/income
Amortized hedge costs/income represent costs/income 
incurred or recognized as a result of using foreign currency 
derivatives to hedge certain foreign exchange risks in the 
Company’s Japan segment or in the Corporate and Other 
segment. These amortized hedge costs/ income are estimated 
at the inception of the derivatives based on the specific terms 
of each contract and are recognized on a straight line basis 
over the term of the hedge. There is no comparable U.S. GAAP 
financial measure for amortized hedge costs/ income.
Adjusted book value
The Company defines adjusted book value as U.S. GAAP 
book value (representing total shareholders’ equity), less 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) as recorded 
on the U.S. GAAP balance sheet. The most comparable U.S. 
GAAP measure is total book value. The Company considers 
adjusted book value important as it excludes AOCI, which 
fluctuates due to market movements that are outside 
management’s control.
Adjusted book value per common share
The Company defines adjusted book value per common 
share as adjusted book value at the period end divided by the 
ending outstanding common shares for the period presented. 
The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is total book value 
per common share.Adjusted book value, including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses)
Adjusted book value including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) is adjusted book value plus 
unrealized foreign currency translation gains (losses). The most 
comparable U.S. GAAP measure is total book value.
Adjusted book value, including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) per common share
Adjusted book value including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) per common share is adjusted book 
value plus unrealized foreign currency translation gains (losses) 
divided by the ending outstanding common shares for the 
period presented. The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is 
total book value per common share.
Adjusted book value, including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) and pension liability adjustment
Adjusted book value including unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) and pension liability adjustment 
is adjusted book value plus unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains (losses) and pension liability adjustment. The 
most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is total book value.
Note: The pension liability adjustment referred to above is equal 
to the pension liability adjustment measured under U.S. GAAP 
and disclosed within AOCI in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Adjusted debt
The Company defines adjusted debt as the sum of notes 
payable, as recorded on the U.S. GAAP balance sheet, 
excluding 50% of subordinated debentures and perpetual 
bonds and all pre-funding of debt maturities. The most 
comparable U.S. GAAP measure is notes payable.
Note: Pre-funding of debt maturities refers to new debt 
proceeds that will be used to extinguish existing debt at a later 
date. These amounts are excluded to avoid “double counting” 
of debt issuances that are meant to represent one liability and 
temporarily are both outstanding due to the “roll over” timing.72
AFLAC INCORPORATED 2020 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Adjusted debt, including 50% of subordinated debentures 
and perpetual bonds
The Company defines adjusted debt, including 50% of 
subordinated debentures and perpetual bonds as the sum of 
notes payable, as recorded on the U.S. GAAP balance sheet, 
excluding pre-funding of debt maturities. The most comparable 
U.S. GAAP measure is notes payable.
Adjusted net investment income
The Company defines adjusted net investment income as net 
investment income adjusted for i) amortized hedge cost/income 
related to foreign currency exposure management strategies 
and certain derivative activity, and ii) net interest cash flows 
from foreign currency and interest rate derivatives associated 
with certain investment strategies, which are reclassified from 
net investment gains and (losses) to net investment income. 
The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is net investment 
income. The Company considers adjusted net investment 
income important because it provides a more comprehensive 
understanding of the costs and income associated with the 
Company’s investments and related hedging strategies.Board of Directors
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Aflac Incorporated
W. Paul Bowers 
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Georgia Power Co.
Toshihiko Fukuzawa 
President and CEO 
Chuo Real Estate Co., Ltd
Thomas J. Kenny 
Former Partner and Co-Head 
of Global Fixed Income 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Georgette D. Kiser 
Operating Executive 
The Carlyle Group
Karole F. Lloyd 
Certified Public Accountant and Retired 
Ernst & Young LLP 
Audit Partner
Nobuchika Mori 
Representative Director, Japan Financial 
and Economic Research Co. Ltd.
Joseph L. Moskowitz 
Retired Executive Vice President 
Primerica, Inc.
Barbara K. Rimer, DrPH 
Dean and Alumni Distinguished 
Professor, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill
Katherine T. Rohrer 
Vice Provost Emeritus 
Princeton University
Melvin T. Stith 
Dean Emeritus of the Martin J. Whitman 
School of Management at 
Syracuse University
Executive Leadership 
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Aflac Incorporated
Frederick J. Crawford 
President and 
Chief Operating Officer 
Aflac IncorporatedMax K. Brodén 
Executive Vice President 
Chief Financial Officer 
Aflac Incorporated
Charles D. Lake II 
President, Aflac International 
Chairman and Representative Director, 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Masatoshi Koide  
President and 
Representative Director 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Teresa L. White 
President 
Aflac U.S.
Eric M. Kirsch 
Executive Vice President and Global 
Chief Investment Officer; President 
Aflac Global Investments
Audrey Boone Tillman 
Executive Vice President 
General Counsel 
Aflac Incorporated
J. Todd Daniels 
Director, Executive Vice President 
Chief Financial Officer 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Koji Ariyoshi 
Director, Executive Vice President 
Director of Sales and Marketing 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Yoko Kijima  
Director, Executive Vice President 
Chief Administrative Officer 
Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Virgil R. Miller 
Executive Vice President 
President, Individual Benefits Division 
Aflac U.S.
Richard L. Williams Jr.  
Executive Vice President 
President, Group Benefits Division 
Aflac U.S.
Koichiro Yoshizumi 
Executive Vice President; Assistant to 
Director of Sales and Marketing, Aflac 
Life Insurance JapanCorporate Headquarters 
Aflac Worldwide Headquarters 
1932 Wynnton Road 
Columbus, GA 31999 
706-323-3431
Stock Listing 
New York Stock Exchange 
Ticker Symbol: AFL
Annual Meeting 
May 3, 2021, 10:00 a.m. ET
Reports Available to Shareholders 
Annual Reports this Report and Proxy 
Statements are posted here and SEC 
Filings, including form 10-K can be 
found here .
Independent Registered Public 
Accounting Firm 
KPMG LLP 
Shareholder Services
Investors seeking to learn more about 
Aflac Incorporated may do so by visiting 
investors.aflac.com 
For information or assistance regarding 
individual stock records, dividend 
reinvestment, dividend payments, 
dividend tax forms, or direct deposits of 
dividend payments, contact Shareholder 
Services at any of the following:
By telephone: 
1-800-227-4756 or 706-596-3581
By mail: 
Shareholder Services 
Aflac Incorporated 
1932 Wynnton Road 
Columbus, GA 31999
By email: 
shareholder@aflac.com or 
shareholder@broadridge.com
On the internet: 
Aflac Incorporated’s Shareholder 
Service Forms
https://shareholder.broadridge.com/aflac1932 Wynnton Road 
Columbus, GA 31999 
800-992-3522 
investors.aflac.com
