2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
The Aflac Way
Making a difference while  
balancing purpose and profit
More than 66 Years  
of The Aflac W ay:  
Paddling with a Purpose
The Aflac Way embodies the core values that our company established more than 
66 years ago, and it’s still fundamental to how we operate today. It is living up to our commitments to our policyholders, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. The Aflac Way is not just the way we work, but part of our culture and how we prioritize action to ensure we fulfill the promises we make to those who rely on us. Even long before the Aflac Duck came along, the people of Aflac were already building our brand name through action and service The Aflac Way. 
Seven Commitments 
of The Aflac Way
COMMITMENT #1: 
Communicate Regularly.
 
COMMITMENT #2: 
Respond Immediately. 
COMMITMENT #3: 
Know Your Stuff. 
COMMITMENT #4: 
Treat Everyone With Respect 
and Care. 
COMMITMENT #5: 
Your Problem Is My Problem. 
COMMITMENT #6: 
Shoot Straight. 
COMMITMENT #7: 
Cover the Customer—  
Not Your Behind.
Table of 
Contents
2A Message from 
Daniel P. Amos, Aflac Incorporated Chairman and CEO
4Sustainability at Aflac
5About This Report
7About Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan
22Financial Highlights
26ESG Highlights
30Governance
35Protecting Our Customers and Data with Cybersecurity
37Political Activity Report
38Investments
41Environment
45Social
59AppendixAflac Incorporated’s Goal 
To provide customers with the best value 
in supplemental insurance products in the United States and Japan.
Long-term Growth Strategy
sold  
throughyieldsEXPANSIVE  
DISTRIBUTIONrelevant  
productscustomers
PROTECTING AGAINST
Rising Co-Pays 
High Deductibles
Other Out-of-Pocket 
Expenses Arising 
From a Medical EventREACHING 
CUSTOMERS 
THROUGH
Agents 
Brokers 
Partnerships 
DirectINSURING MORE THAN 
50 MILLION PEOPLE
United States 
Japan
*
 Eastbridge Consulting Group
, Inc. “U.S. Voluntary/Worksite Sales Report. Carrier Results for 2020.”  
Avon, CT: May 2021).About Aflac Incorporated 
Aflac Incorporated (NYSE: AFL) is a Fortune 500 company helping provide protection to more 
than 50 million people through its subsidiaries in Japan and the U.S., where it is a leading supplemental insurer by paying cash fast when policyholders get sick or injured. For more than six decades, insurance policies of Aflac Incorporated’s subsidiaries have given policyholders the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the U.S., Aflac is the number one provider of voluntary insurance products at the worksite*. Aflac Life Insurance Japan is the leading provider of medical and cancer insurance in Japan, where it insures 1 in 4 households. 
Our Promise 
For more than 66 years, Aflac has had the unique privilege of helping to provide financial protection and peace of mind to more than 50 million people. While many things have changed over the decades, one thing that has not wavered is Aflac’s commitment to all of its stakeholders. Each and every day, we deliver on this commitment to be there for our policyholders when an illness, health event or life situation occurs — those challenging times when our policyholders need us most. We are dedicated to championing people’s pursuit of their dreams and careers as employees, independent sales agents and through our diverse distribution networks. We are committed to our decades-long track record of creating value for our shareholders for the investment and trust they place in Aflac Incorporated. We consider ourselves privileged to be in a position to give back and help improve our communities where we can with our philanthropic commitments, including helping children who are facing cancer and other serious illnesses. 
1
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  All things being equal, we believe
most people prefer doing businesswith a company that is also a goodcorporate citizen. A Message  
from Daniel P. Amos, Aflac Incorporated  
Chairman and CEO  
The Aflac Way is engrained in our culture, daily operations, 
and interactions with the communities we serve and in which we live. All things being equal, we believe most people prefer doing business with a company that is also a good corporate citizen. Whether it is being there for our policyholders when they need us most, helping families facing childhood cancer, providing opportunities for our diverse workforce and distribution channels, being mindful of our impact on the environment, or being good stewards of the resources of shareholders, we believe that our approach is not only the right thing to do but also makes good business sense. At Aflac Incorporated, we believe that strong 
ethics, good corporate citizenship, and financial success go hand in hand. We have elevated doing the right thing to priority status for as long as I can remember. Even before the concept of corporate social responsibility or the focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG) had specific names, it was how we did business and part of who we are. It is The Aflac Way. 
As we reflect on 2021, adaptable, purposeful and resilient 
are three adjectives that first come to mind. I don’t think it’s coincidental that Aflac has achieved success while being purposeful about doing the right thing. In fact, I believe they go hand in hand. 
I’m proud of what we have accomplished by delivering 
solid earnings and in terms of our social purpose. I want to emphasize a very important point: although we at Aflac were certainly impacted by the COVID pandemic, we have not remained idle waiting for it to disappear. We have continued to invest strategically in our business and our brand. 
2
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  * Adjusted earnings are adjusted revenues less benefits and adjusted expenses. Adjusted earnings per share (basic or diluted) ar e the adjusted earnings for the period divided 
by the weighted average outstanding shares (basic or diluted) for the period presented. The adjustments to both revenues and expenses account for certain items that cannot 
be predicted or that are outside management’s control. Adjusted revenues are U.S. GAAP total revenues excluding adjusted net investment gains and losses. Adjusted expenses are U.S. GAAP total acquisition and operating expenses including the impact of interest cash flows from derivatives associated with notes payable but excluding any nonrecurring or other items not associated with the normal course of the Company’s insurance operations and that do not reflect the Company’s underlying business performance. Management uses adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per diluted share to evaluate the financial performance of the Company’s insurance operations on a consolidated basis and believes that a presentation of these financial measures is vitally important to an understanding of the underlying profitability drivers and trends of the Company’s insurance business. The most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share (basic or diluted) are net earnings and net earnings per share, respectively. Adjusted earnings excluding current period foreign currency impact are computed using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the comparable prior-year period, which eliminates fluctuations driven solely by foreign currency exchange rate changes. Adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding current period foreign currency impact is adjusted earnings excluding current period foreign currency impact divided by the weighted average outstanding diluted shares for the period presented. The Company considers adjusted earnings excluding current period foreign currency impact and adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding current period foreign currency impact important because a significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in Japan and foreign exchange rates are outside management’s control; therefore, the Company believes it is important to understand the impact of translating foreign currency (primarily Japanese yen) into U.S. dollars. The most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures for adjusted earnings excluding current period foreign currency impact and adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding current period foreign currency impact are net earnings and net earnings per share, respectively. Adjusted earnings of $6.00 per share excludes per share adjusted net investment gains of $0.68, other and non-recurring losses of $0.11, income tax expense on items excluded from adjusted earnings of $0.12, and foreign currency impact of $0.06. 
 In this document, we may refer to A
flac Incorporated’s businesses collectively as “Aflac” or the “Company,” the Company’s U.S. businesses as “Aflac U.S.” and the Company’s 
Japan businesses as “Aflac Japan.”
Daniel P. Amos 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERThrough sound risk management, agile planning and acting 
swiftly, Aflac was well positioned to respond in order to safeguard the health and well-being of our workforce, policyholders and communities in both Japan and the United States. After all, our greatest commitment to our policyholders lies in our promise to be there for them in their time of need.
In the face of the ongoing pandemic, in 2021 we reported net 
earnings per diluted share of $6.39 and adjusted earnings per diluted share of $6.00, excluding the impact of foreign currency.* This latter measure of profitability is one of the principal financial measures used to evaluate management’s performance and allows us to continue fulfilling our purpose as a socially responsible corporation that benefits shareholders and stakeholders alike over the long term. We are continually working on our foundation of sustainable growth, especially related to leveraging these particular strategic areas of focus:
•
 Diverse and productive distribution 
•
 R
ecognized, trusted and powerful brand 
•
 Product innovation and customized, high-quality service
•
 S
trong capital position marked by stable earnings and 
strong cash flows
•
 Industry-leading mark
et share and scale in Japan and 
the U.S.
We are pleased to share one remarkable achievement in 
2021—our 39th consecutive year of increasing our dividend. We are proud to be able to continue that long track record even amid the backdrop of a global pandemic.
The world continues to change in ways that surprise us. 
But what hasn’t changed is the fact that, pandemic or no pandemic, people still face the same illnesses, accidents, and health conditions every day. We remain committed to being there for them in their time of need. Despite uncertainty, we have maintained our focus on controlling the things that we have the power to control. We will continue to build our business and take care of those who depend on us: our policyholders, shareholders, customers, employees, distribution channels and communities in which we operate.
Throughout this report, you will read about some of our 
many achievements in our environmental, social and governance initiatives, as well as Aflac Incorporated’s financial performance. So much has occurred over the last 30
-
plus years. Through it all, I continue to believe that 
our compassionate approach and the trust we build with those who depend upon us results in a stronger brand that consumers, employees and all our stakeholders want to associate with. This approach ultimately helps us generate long-term value for shareholders. We hope that you will enjoy what you find on the pages of this report, as well as future updates.Through sound risk management, 
agile planning and acting swiftly, Aflac was well positioned to respond in order to safeguard the health and well-being of our workforce, policyholders and communities in both Japan and the United States.
3
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  Sustainability  at Aflac 
The number one reason Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) principles are important to us is that they align closely with our corporate culture and values. ESG is all about doing right by not only our shareholders, but also our employees, policyholders, and the environments in which they live and work. We’ve always had purpose, but now we have the stakeholder support and measurement tools to help us meet our profit goals in ways that also meet our environmental and social goals.At Aflac, we believe that helping our stakeholders 
and the people in our communities have a better quality of life is not only the right thing to do, but that it also makes good business sense and gives people – customers, employees, sales professionals and investors – a greater desire to be a part of our company. Ultimately, we believe this is a more sustainable approach to business and one that will continue to increase shareholder value.
We also think that’s important in order to attract capital to 
our company, such that we can continue to grow and then circulate that growth and the profits and capital we generate back into ESG efforts. 
We’ve always had purpose, and we are also focusing on the 
measurement tools to analyze our ESG efforts as we work each day to balance our purpose and profit. 
Fred Crawford 
AFLAC INCORPORATED PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
4
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  About  This Report
Reporting Scope 
and Boundaries
The report includes financial and nonfinancial information 
from Aflac Incorporated and its reporting segments, Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan, and covers our environmental, social and governance strategies, progress, data and performance for the 2021 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31) unless otherwise noted. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. For additional corporate sustainability activities and disclosures, please visit Sustainability under the Investor Relations section of our website.At Aflac, we strive to report openly and transparently about our organization’s ESG strategy and activities by capturing our ongoing efforts to balance purpose with profit. This is our second Business and Sustainability report that integrates a review of our operations and financial results with how we measure and manage the impact we have on our workplace, workforce, customers, investors, communities and planet. 
In this report, the terms “Aflac,” “we,” or “our” refer to Aflac Incorporated. The term “Aflac U.S.” refers collectively to the Company’s United States insurance subsidiaries, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus and its wholly-owned subsidiary American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York); Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), branded as Aflac Group Insurance; and Tier One Insurance Company (TOIC); as well as Argus Dental & Vision, Inc. (Argus), a benefits management organization and national network dental and vision company. The term “Aflac Japan” refers to Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. The term “Aflac Global Investments” refers to our asset 
5
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  management subsidiary, Aflac Asset Management LLC and its 
management subsidiary in Japan, Aflac Asset Management Japan Ltd. The term “Aflac Global Ventures” refers to our corporate venture subsidiary Aflac Global Ventures LLC and its subsidiaries.
Standards and  
Frameworks
The contents of this report have been defined according to the principles of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness.
This 2021 Business and Sustainability Report aligns with 
several key reporting frameworks and standards, including those of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We focus on disclosures most material to our business. Disclosures that align with these standards are noted by indicators within the report and in the ESG Reporting Index. This Report uses certain terms, including those that the reporting frameworks refer to as “Material Topics,” to reflect the issues of greatest importance to Aflac Incorporated and our stakeholders. Used in this context, these terms should not be confused with terms, such as “material” or “materiality,” as defined by or construed in accordance with securities law or as used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting.
Please note that Aflac has not sought independent 
verification for this report, but has practices in place to internally validate the data. 
We invite you to contact us with questions or requests for 
more information about this report at esg@aflac.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward
-
looking 
statements. The company desires to take advantage of these provisions.
This document contains cautionary statements identifying 
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical 
information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “goal,” “objective,” “may,” “should,” “estimate,” “intends,” “projects,” “will,” “assumes,” “potential,” “target,” “outlook” or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. For a discussion of assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, see our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.
6
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  About  Aflac U.S. 
and Aflac Japan
Leading Provider of High-Quality, 
Supplemental Insurance
By delivering on our promise to be there when our policyholders 
need us most and running our business The Aflac Way, we’ve gained the trust of more than 50 million people worldwide who count on us to pay claims fairly and promptly.
MARKET CAP FY21 EMPLOYEES
$38.6 
billion1~12,400
FY21 REVENUE PROVIDER OF CANCER AND 
MEDICAL INSURANCE IN JAPANPROVIDER OF SUPPLEMENTAL  
HEALTH INSURANCE AT THE WORKSITE IN THE UNITED STATES
$22.1  
billion#1 #1
2021 NET EARNED PREMIUM BY SEGMENT
JAPAN UNITED STATES
22%
Life
Insurance27%
Other
Health
22%
Cancer6%
Life Insurance 29%
Medical and
Other Health45%
Accident/
Disability49%
Cancer 78%
Third Sector
1 As of December 31, 2021, close price
7
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Introduction to 
Aflac Japan 
In Japan, we are proud to insure one in four 
households. Japan’s life insurance market is the third largest in the world behind the United States and China. As of the end of March 2021, Aflac Japan was the leading company in Japan’s growing third sector, which includes cancer, medical, and nursing care insurance. Aflac Japan 
generated solid overall financial results for the year, with a strong profit margin of 25.2% and extremely strong premium persistency of 94.3%. In 2021, we launched new products, including a medical insurance product and a nursing care insurance product, in January and September, respectively, and succeeded in expanding sales in the third sector. As a result, annualized premiums for new contracts were up 7.7% for the year. 
Three Aflac Parents House
locations in Japan serve as ahome away from home when a child is diagnosedwith cancer or another seriousmedical condition.In 2024, Aflac will celebrate its 50th year in Japan. As 
we look toward this milestone, Aflac Japan developed the strategic vision, Aflac VISION 2024, with the aim of positioning Aflac Japan as the leading company for creating “Living in Your Own Way.”  Aflac Japan’s Medium-term Management Strategy provides a roadmap for achieving VISION 2024. In the sales and marketing fields, we will comprehensively provide protection and services for various societal issues related to cancer and medical care, increase added value, and focus on building an “ecosystem” for “living in your own way” that differentiates us from other companies.
Aflac Japan will continue to solidify its leading position for 
“insurance for living,” and further strengthen its product lineup, including in March 2022, a new insurance product providing coverage for work leave of less than a year, which will further contribute to strengthening of the income support area. In addition, Aflac Japan is deepening its collaborative relationships with business partners and is working hard to support our sales agents.
8
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  2021 Aflac Japan Financial Highlights
* Net earned premium is net of reinsurance.NET EARNED PREMIUM* 
DECREASED  
3.9% TO TOTAL ADJUSTED EXPENSE 
RATIO INCREASED 30 BASIS POINTS TONET EARNED PREMIUM* DECREASED  
6.4% TO 
¥1.3  
trillion21.5% $11.9  
billion
PRETAX ADJUSTED EARNINGS INCREASED 18.5% TO TOTAL BENEFIT RATIO DECREASED 270 BASIS POINTS TO TOTAL ADJUSTED REVENUES DECREASED 2.9% TO
¥412.1  
billion67.2% $14.9 
billion
ADJUSTED NET INVESTMENT INCOME INCREASED 17.6% TO THIRD SECTOR BENEFIT RATIO DECREASED 310 BASIS POINTS TO
¥333.0  
billion56.6%
PRETAX PROFIT MARGIN INCREASED 400 BASIS POINTS TO PRETAX ADJUSTED EARNINGS INCREASED 15.0% TO
25.2% $3.8 
billion
9
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Distribution that Reaches 
Japanese Consumers
Aflac Japan recognizes that it is vitally important to be where 
people want to make their insurance-purchasing decisions, and we believe our multifaceted distribution platform remains one of the strongest in Japan. Aflac is proud to insure one in four Japanese households, but we believe there are still opportunities to reach even more customers. Our solution lies in product innovation and leveraging our powerful brand and broad distribution networks. Aflac Japan’s traditional channels, which include individual agencies, independent corporate agencies and affiliated corporate agencies, remain key to our success, once again representing a significant portion of our sales in 2021. Our strategic partnership unifies  Japan Post 
Group , Japan’s largest nationwide distribution network,  with 
Aflac Japan, the industry leader in cancer insurance. Aflac Japan is the only provider of cancer insurance distributed through Japan Post Group’s nationwide network in Japan, and our cancer insurance is offered through more than 20,000 postal outlets of Japan Post Company and 76 directly managed offices of Japan Post Insurance.
The expanded use of non-face-to-face sales activities, 
including online proposals and applications, helped reduce the COVID-19 pandemic impact. In the pandemic environment an increasing number of customers sought to avoid face-to-face insurance consultations. To respond to changes in customer needs for insurance consultations and applications, Aflac Japan implemented a virtual sales system (Aflac’s online consultation) that enables customers to complete the solicitation process online from insurance consultations to applications. Aflac Japan introduced such capabilities ahead of other companies in October 2020, and we are working to fully expand the use of this system though our agencies where face-to-face sales are restricted due to COVID-19. In the future, Aflac Japan is considering expanding online consultation to other channels, and we believe that our strength of having various channels of communication with our customers will be further strengthened.Aflac Japan  
Distribution Channels
Traditional Sales Channel*
Aflac Japan was represented by more than 8,000 sales agencies at the end of 2021, equating to nearly 112,000 licensed sales agents employed by those agencies, including individual agencies.
Strategic Alliances
Japan Post Group
In 2021, the number of postal outlets of Japan Post Company selling Aflac’s cancer product totaled more than 20,000. Japan Post Insurance offers Aflac cancer products through its 76 directly managed offices.
Dai-ichi Life
Our alliance with Dai-ichi Life was launched in 2001, and approximately 40,000 Dai-ichi Life representatives offer Aflac’s cancer products.
Daido Life
In September 2013, Aflac Japan and Daido Life Insurance entered into an agreement for Daido to sell Aflac’s cancer insurance products specifically to the Hojinkai market, which is an association of small businesses.
Banks
Aflac Japan was represented by 360 banks at the end of 2021, or approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan.
*  Includes individual agencies, independent corporate agencies 
and affiliated corporate agencies
10
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Growth Strategy Overview 
Citizens of Japan are covered by a national health care 
insurance system that provides a standard level of medical insurance. Amid Japan’s rapidly aging population and declining birthrate, the national health care system has faced increasing financial strain, leading to an increasing level of financial pressure on consumers from increasing health care costs. As a result, consumers have had to increasingly assume more financial responsibility for out-of-pocket health care expenses and medical care. Most Japanese consumers turn to private third sector insurance to help offset some of these expenses. Aflac’s trusted brand and valued products are a solution to help alleviate that financial burden. The foundation of Aflac Japan’s product portfolio is third sector products, which include cancer and medical insurance (see product chart). Aflac continually customizes its products to respond to and even anticipate the evolving needs of Japanese consumers, advances in medical treatments and modifications to Japan’s national health care system. While third sector products are our focus, Aflac Japan also offers its customers first sector protection policies to provide comprehensive coverage. Third sector policies are more profitable and less interest rate sensitive than life insurance or savings-type products such as WAYS or child endowment. 
Looking to 2022, Aflac Japan’s product strategy is to create 
value for policyholders through three core initiatives. The first is to promote core products such as cancer and medical insurance. There is a concern that the number of advanced cancer diagnoses will increase because many people refrained from undergoing cancer screenings during the COVID-19 pandemic. As the pioneer of cancer insurance, Aflac Japan will continue to convey the importance of preparing for the possibility of cancer by purchasing cancer insurance. With respect to medical insurance, the new products Aflac Japan launched last year have been well received by many customers, and we will continue to promote them throughout the year. 
Second, Aflac Japan will promote throughout the year its new 
nursing care insurance launched in the third quarter of 2021. This product, which, like Aflac Japan’s cancer and medical insurance products, is designed to supplement Japan’s public health insurance system and provide coverage for out-of-
pocket costs incurred when receiving public nursing care services. This product has generated greater than expected sales results since its initial release.  
Third, Aflac Japan has developed a new insurance product 
for work leave of less than a year . Now, the pandemic has 
brought even greater awareness among workers, especially those of small and medium-sized enterprises, of shortfalls in their employment benefits and potential hardships associated with a loss of income if they become unable to work due to illness or injury. The need for leave benefits for relatively short
-
term hospitalization and home care has been 
increasing. Aflac Japan launched new products to manage  
such future concerns, strengthen employment income support coverage, and support the realization of a more fulfilling life for customers.
Aflac recognizes the duty
and responsibility that comeswith being the pioneer andleading company for cancerinsurance. With the cooperationof 47 prefectures, Aflac Japanemployees actively educatepeople about cancer preventionand the importance ofearly detection.
11
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Cancer Insurance
In 1974, Aflac pioneered cancer insurance in Japan, and we remain 
the number one provider of cancer insurance today. For more than 47 years since Aflac introduced Japan’s first cancer insurance, we have revised our cancer insurance products to match the changing medical environment, the potential financial burden that serious illnesses can bring and the advancement of health care and medical technology. In keeping with our commitment to provide customers with innovative, relevant and valuable products, in April 2018, Aflac Japan launched “Days 1 – Cancer insurance for daily living,” and “Days 1 Plus,” which targets existing policyholders seeking to upgrade their cancer insurance for more up-to-date protection. In 2020, Aflac Japan launched “Days 1 ALL-in Cancer Insurance for Daily Living”, a rider to expand coverage with multiple benefits in a way that is easier for the policyholder and agent to understand.
Medical Insurance
In early 2002, Aflac introduced EVER, a standalone, whole- life medical product, as a solution to help Japanese citizens with rising copayments related to Japan’s universal health care coverage. Within one year of the introduction of EVER, Aflac became the leading seller of medical insurance in Japan at that time. In January 2021, Aflac Japan introduced its new EVER Prime product, which offers enhanced coverage through a wide range of riders based on the customer’s life stage.
Term Life and Whole Life
Aflac first introduced term-life and whole-life insurance products in 1996. These products have smaller face amounts and provide death benefits. They are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Aflac Japan also launched Prepare Smart Whole-Life Insurance in 2018, with lower cash surrender value and lower premium for non-smokers. 
GIFT
In February 2017, we introduced a revised version. Upon the death of the insured, this product provides beneficiaries, typically family members, with a monthly benefit until the insured would have reached a predetermined age.Aflac Japan Insurance Products
Third Sector Insurance
Cancer Medical Nursing Care Income Support Work Leave *
Nursing Care Insurance
Aflac Japan launched a new nursing care insurance product in the third quarter of 2021. This product is supplemental insurance that covers the amount equivalent to the co-payment of public long
-
term 
care insurance, with benefits linked to the certification of need for public nursing care insurance. Aflac Japan offers coverage that is easy for customers to understand and reasonable, as well as affordable premiums.
Income Support Insurance
In July 2016, we launched a new third sector product, Income Support Insurance, designed to provide cash benefits when insureds are unable to work due to illness or injury. These benefits complement coverage within the social security system, including the disability pension provided by the Japanese government.
Work Leave Insurance
“Work Leave Insurance” offers benefits for relatively short-term hospitalization and home care associated with work leave of less than a year. It is a product that meets the growing need for leave benefits, especially for employees of small and medium-sized companies, as highlighted by the pandemic.
* March 2022  introduction
EVER Prime, our revised medical 
product that was introduced in January 2021, offers enhanced  coverage through a wide range of riders based on the customer’s life stage. Pictured, we promoted  this product through television commercials that feature interaction of a character set as a  “gentleman in the form of a duck.”
The nursing care insurance launched in September 2021 is a supplementary insurance that covers the out-of-pocket equivalent of public long-term care insurance. Pictured, we promoted this product through television commercials that convey the benefits of this product.
WAYS*
In 2006, WAYS was introduced. WAYS can be converted to a 
fixed annuity, medical coverage or nursing care benefits when the policyholder reaches a predetermined age.
Child Endowment*
In 2009, Aflac introduced a child endowment product that pays a lump-sum benefit at the time of a child’s entry into high school and an educational annuity for each of the four years of college.
*  A flac Japan currently curtails sales of first sector savings-type products due 
to persistent low interest rates in Japan.First Sector Insurance
Life insurance products, including:
PROTECTION TYPE: Term life, Whole life, GIFT SAVINGS TYPE: WAYS, Child Endowment
12
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Technology and Digital 
Investments Drive Productivity, Service and Value
Aflac Japan is moving forward with digital transformation, 
or DX, initiatives. 
Looking ahead, Aflac Japan will continue to provide new 
value to its stakeholders by further promoting its unique digital transformation and agile strategy, and evolving its customer experiences, business processes, and work styles, to create compelling user experiences, ensure business continuity, reduce operating expenses, and achieve flexible business operations.
1. Initiatives for Fin Tech
Introduction of “Aflac Wallet”:
In March 2021, Aflac Japan launched “ Aflac Wallet” , an original 
digital payment platform for policyholders providing services such as an online household account book, a point exchange, paying insurance premiums with accumulated points, and a point receiving service to receive some deferred payments (health bonus, no claim bonus, survivor bonus) with an Amazon* gift certificate. 
2. Initiatives for Insur Tech
Providing 3D Content to Promote 
Cancer Awareness:
Since April 2021, Aflac Japan has provided customers with 
easy-to-understand, visual 3D content to promote cancer screenings through education. Using a holographic display headset, customers can experience and learn from 3D projections in augmented reality. Providing agencies support utilizing 
artificial intelligence (AI):
Aflac Japan provides an environment where sales agents 
can train with AI avatars, any time, and as often as they want. Objective evaluations by the AI are communicated back to the sales agent, which further enhances training and efficiency.
3. Efforts to utilize data
Developing products that can be enjoyed by a 
wide range of customers:
Aflac Japan uses AI to analyze policy information and 
develop new products that can be enjoyed by a wider range of customers by breaking down past benefit payments and analyzing them in detail with AI.
Efforts to detect fraudulent claims:
Aflac Japan is conducting pilot operations for an AI-based initiative to detect fraudulent claims. Specifically, Aflac Japan is analyzing past benefit claims data, issuing alerts for claims that may result in fraudulent hospitalization, and encouraging assessors to investigate.
* Amazon is a trademark of Amazon. com, Inc. or its affiliates.
13
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  “Human Resources Utilization
Capability Category Award” at Nikkei Smart Work Awards 2021 
“Encouragement Award” at the 21st Telework Promotion Awards 
“Consumer OrientedActivity Award” at the 6th Association of Consumer Affairs Professionals (ACAP) Consumer-oriented Activity Awards Aflac Japan Awards 2021
14
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Aflac Japan Awards 2021
Received the Minister of Economy, 
Trade and Industry Award for the Awards Program for Individual and Other Contributors to Promotion ofInformatization FY2021 
Aflac Recognized in BCP Division ofContact Center Awards 2021Won the Gold Award in 
the “PRIDE Index 2021” (an index to evaluatecorporate efforts to supportinclusiveness for LGBTemployees and other sexual minorities in the workplace)
Received 2021 “IT Award” and “IT Incentive Award”
Awarded Efma’s “Innovationin Insurance Awards” for the2nd consecutive year
Awarded at “Insurance AsiaAwards 2021” for second consecutive year
Ranked 4th overall in the Nikkei WOMAN Best 100Companies for Women
Ranked 3rd in the Nikkei DUALBest Companies to Work Together and Raise Children 
Selected as an “2020 Leading 
Company in Promoting Cancer Control Measures”
15
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Aflac U.S.
Introduction to Aflac U.S.
As part of Vision 2025, we seek to further develop “a world where people are better 
prepared for unexpected health expenses.” The need for the products we offer is as strong or stronger than it has ever been. At the same time, we know consumer habits and buying preferences have been evolving, and we are looking to reach them in ways other than traditional media and outside the worksite. This is part of our strategy to increase access, penetration and retention.
In the United States, Aflac once again earned the distinction of being the leader in voluntary insurance sales 
at the worksite (Source: Eastbridge Consulting Group, Inc. “U.S. Voluntary/Worksite Sales Report. Carrier Results for 2020.” Avon, CT: May 2021). We continue to work toward reinforcing our position and generating stronger sales in 2022, realizing we may face headwinds as we work to recover from pandemic conditions.
NET EARNED PREMIUM* 
DECREASED 2.5% TO ADJUSTED NET INVESTMENT INCOME INCREASED 7.0% TO PRETAX PROFIT MARGIN INCREASED 350 BASIS POINTS TO
$5.6 
billion$754 
million22.8%
PRETAX ADJUSTED EARNINGS INCREASED 16.6% TO TOTAL BENEFIT RATIO DECREASED 440 BASIS POINTS TO TOTAL ADJUSTED EXPENSE RATIO INCREASED 90 BASIS POINTS TO
$1.5 
billion43.6% 39.5%2021 Aflac U.S. Financial Highlights
* Net earned premium is net of reinsurance .
16
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Aflac U.S. Marketing Strategy
In 2021, Aflac’s Close the Gap initiative was 
launched to not only provide immediate financial support to individuals and communities in need, but also through storytelling and data, to help educate consumers and advocate for closing the gap in what health insurance doesn’t cover. We’ve aligned with brand ambassadors and partners who share our vision for a future where hardworking Americans’ focus after a medical event is on recovery, not unexpected bills. This exciting initiative allows us to help close health and wealth gaps across the country and bring the Aflac brand purpose to life.
Aflac launched a national initiative, Close the Gap, to 
address medical debt and disparities in health and wealth in America – an issue that affects close to 50% of Americans and disproportionately impacts people of color and those in low-income communities. The initiative shines a light on people who fall in the gap where health insurance ends and medical bills begin to pile up. The Close the Gap initiative is a multifaceted, comprehensive program that aims to support, educate and advocate for the need to close the health and wealth gap.
To provide further context to the national issue, the company 
has published the Aflac Care Index*, a survey designed to help educate people about health and wealth disparities, a critical and mounting issue in the U.S. The Aflac Care Index found:
•
 Nearly two-thirds (65%) of Americans
’ savings are 
equivalent to or less than their health insurance out-of-
pocket maximum.
•
 Nearly a quarter (24%) of insured Americans have $0 in savings, and just under half (48%) have $1,
000 or less 
in savings.
•
 T
wo-thirds (67%) of insured Americans lack supplemental 
health insurance coverage to help cover that financial gap.In addition to the Index, Aflac is introduced its first film, “The Park Bench,” an animated short presented by Aflac that illustrates a real-life scenario many Americans experience when an unexpected medical event occurs. The film was produced by Carl Reed of Lion Forge Animation, written and directed by Academy Award® and Golden Globe® nominee Rob Edwards, with musical direction provided by Grammy® award-winning artist Nas. 
Through the eyes of a young girl whose father has been 
diagnosed with sickle cell disease, the story highlights the resulting impact of a medical event on the family. “The Park Bench” film was named an official selection at Brand Storytelling 2022, a sanctioned event of the Sundance Film Festival, as well as a host of film festivals including the Cleveland International Film Festival and Animation Dingle.
The Park Bench 
movie poster 
17
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Aflac announced in October 2021 its intent to give away $1 
million to individuals and organizations throughout 2022, including the first 20 CareGrants delivered in December 2021 to individuals who overcame or were undergoing unexpected medical events. The $5,000 gifts were provided to help these individuals focus on their recovery by helping to alleviate some of the financial hardships associated with a medical event. 
In February, Aflac expanded its CareGrants program to 
include communities greatly impacted by medical debt, as identified through data obtained via the Aflac Care Index. The first $100,000 community CareGrant was provided to Appalachian Regional Heathcare System in Harlan, Kentucky. For more information on Close the Gap, visit Aflac.com/care.
Our work didn’t stop there. We tested our ability to execute against our purpose strategy as an official sponsor of ESPN College GameDay with coaches Deion “Prime” Sanders and Nick Saban while also supporting a shared commitment to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, driving 1.6 billion earned media impressions in three weeks – a new Aflac record.
We extended our college sports legacy into basketball as an official NCAA March Madness partner with a basketball centric campaign, “Post-Pain Show.”
“Hot Duck Summer” launched as a social campaign gaining successful impressions throughout the summer. At year’s end we measured awareness and knowledge at its highest levels since tracking began in 2019.
Outside of brand campaign work, we also made strategic 
shifts to help support our business in different ways. The Business to Constituent team was formed as a vertical within the Brand division and developed a multipronged strategy and tactical plan to build awareness, knowledge and connection with brokers, benefits decision-makers, producers and consumers at the worksite. Alongside the record amount of content delivered to the organization, the team was tasked with developing new insights for work against multicultural targets.
With a shift to remote work environments, the need to have 
virtual meeting and video production capabilities greatly increased. The Aflac Studio extended its skill set by creating the Aflac Pond, a full-service, in-house production studio with expanded video content capabilities. This served as an important tool to maintain the production quality and speed of our deliverables. The team produced its first broadcast TV spot, created the previously mentioned policyholder and employee testimonials, executed multiple photoshoots and partnered alongside other integrated marketing communication agencies.Teresa White, President, 
Aflac U.S., awards community CareGrant to Appalachian Regional Healthcare“Post-Pain Show” campaign featuring Rob Riggle and Lil Rel Howery
Coaches Nick Saban andDeion “Prime” Sanders
18
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Relevant Products + Expansive Distribution = Customers
Aflac’s supplemental insurance policies pay cash benefits directly to the customer to help provide a layer 
of protection against income and asset loss associated with an illness or medical event. Policyholders can utilize these benefits to help cope with unexpected out-of-pocket medical expenses such as medication, copays and even household expenses. Our broad portfolio of both individual and group product solutions is designed to provide our policyholders with outstanding value and enable businesses of all sizes to offer their employees an affordable and comprehensive array of benefits solutions.
The COVID-19 pandemic heightened awareness of what people may be missing in their benefits portfolios. 
Aflac updated its existing BenExtend product to include several key benefits solutions in one product. BenExtend for Diseases® provides benefits related to COVID-19 or a number of other illnesses with coverage that follows the entire care journey, from testing to hospital confinement and recovery.
Cancer Insurance  
Aflac U.S.’s cancer insurance products provide a lump-sum benefit 
upon initial diagnosis of cancer and subsequent benefits for treatment received due to cancer. Aflac U.S. offers cancer insurance on an individual basis.
Accident Insurance  
Aflac U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies pay cash benefits in the event of a covered injury. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. Additional benefits are also available for home modifications, wellness and increased benefits for injuries related to participation in an organized sporting activity.
Disability Insurance  
Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis and long-term disability benefits on a group basis. The individual short-term disability product offers an Aflac Value Rider that pays a benefit, less claims, for every consecutive five-year term that the policy is in force. 
Critical Illness Insurance  
Aflac U.S. offers coverage for critical illness plans on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to pay cash benefits in the event of critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke or cancer. * Insurance products on the Consumer Mark ets platform 
**
 Indemnity and networkAflac U.S. Products
Cancer* Accident* Disability Critical Illness* Hospital Indemnity
Dental** Vision** Life (Term and Whole)
Hospital Indemnity Insurance  
Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Hospital indemnity products provide policyholders fixed dollar benefits triggered by hospitalization due to accident or sickness. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic events, are also available. Aflac U.S. also offers a lump sum rider for a range of critical illness events that can be added to its individual accident, short-term disability and hospital indemnity products.
Dental and Vision Insurance  
Aflac U.S. offers network dental and vision products on a group basis. Aflac U.S. offers fixed-benefit dental coverage on both an individual and group basis. Aflac U.S. offers Vision Now
SM, an individually issued 
policy which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight as well as coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits.
Life (Term and Whole)
Aflac U.S. offers term- and whole-life policies on both an individual and group basis.
19
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  We continue to see a significant need for Aflac benefit 
solutions in the marketplace, and we are well positioned to capitalize on that opportunity. Health care costs continue to rise with minimal wage growth, and Aflac is here to help solve the significant challenge of coming up with cash for out-of- pocket expenses. Within the U.S. workforce of approximately 177 million workers, Aflac has access to less than one third of them, and the majority of our business is in the small business segment. It takes a broad distribution reach to capitalize on the market opportunity, and we intend to maintain our leadership position by growing the number of producers who work with Aflac and expanding our value proposition to support the evolving landscape.
In the second half of 2021, Aflac U.S. began seeing recovery 
in sales due, in part, to our efforts around stabilizing the career 
channel by equipping and training our agents on the latest virtual sales technology. Related to our Aflac broker channel, when looking at the 2015–2020 five-year compound annual growth rate, our Aflac broker channel sales outperformed the industry average according to an Eastbridge study.*
In 2021, the Aflac U.S. broker channel realized pre
-
pandemic 
levels of sales activity. Aflac U.S. has expanded its value 
proposition with the acquisitions of Aflac Network Dental & Vision and Premier Life, Absence Management and Disability  
Solutions (PLADS). Aflac made these strategic decisions to meet the growing demand for these products in the marketplace. We 
also launched a fully digital direct channel to reach consumers beyond the typical worksite model. To complement our value expansion efforts, we continue to work to be where people  
want to buy insurance and believe we are well positioned to meet the needs of the 177 million workers in the U.S. workforce.
*  Source: Eastbridge Consulting Group , Inc. “U.S. Voluntary/Worksite Sales 
Report. Carrier Results for 2020.” Avon, CT: May 2021.Network dental & vision products continue to be the second most requested policies after health insurance, with over two-thirds of small businesses offering these products. As we move forward, we see a strong opportunity with our career channel to leverage Aflac’s Network Dental & Vision in new and existing relationships while strengthening our position in the broker space as we remain focused on an increased market presence.
Our PLADS business increases our access to large 
employers, allowing Aflac to provide product enrollment, technology and administration solutions for premier clients’ benefits. Most recently, Aflac was selected as the claims administrator for the State of Connecticut’s paid leave program due to our premier absence management technology – and we will continue to explore additional opportunities in the market.
In November of 2020, Aflac announced its exclusive 
distribution alliance with Trupanion, Inc., a leader in the quickly growing market of medical insurance for cats and dogs. This alliance will leverage Aflac’s strong brand and broad U.S. worksite distribution network, including its digital Consumer Markets channel, and Trupanion’s expertise and leadership in pet insurance. This alliance will also combine Aflac’s brand recognition and broad worksite and direct to consumer distribution in the U.S. with Trupanion’s brand and strong reputation within the pet insurance industry. We  also 
expect it to enhance sales opportunities by appealing to consumers who are seeking to be prepared for unexpected medical expenses. Throughout 2021, we prepared for the launch of Aflac Pet Insurance powered by Trupanion in 2022.
Aflac strives to be there
for consumers when theyneed us most.
20
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Growth Strategy
Our growth strategy remains consistent and is strongly 
aligned to the market opportunity. We continue to make strategic advancements to our business model and are pleased with the progress we have made.
Technology Drives Value  
and Efficiency
Our disciplined risk management and emphasis on improving operating efficiency helped us drive strong profitability in 2021. We continue to make broad-based investments in digital enhancements and innovation within our U.S. platform, in response to rapidly changing market trends. We believe our platform investments will contribute to improved persistency and high customer experience and satisfaction levels. We have also accelerated our One Digital Aflac strategy to create a digital experience across the employee, customer and distribution lifecycles. Digital makes it easy for customers to buy from Aflac; for the distribution team to sell Aflac; for employees to work at Aflac; and for the Aflac promise to be fulfilled. We’ve also increased our agents’ adoption of our Everwell 2.0
SM enrollment platform, which is 
now being used by more than 550,000 businesses across the country.
Aflac Awards, Recognition, Engagement  
and Memberships 2021
Fortune’s list of 
World’s Most Admired Companies (21st year)
Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index included Aflac Incorporated (2nd consecutive year)*
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index (8th year)
World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere for the 16th consecutive year*
Became a signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)One of the first signatories of the Hispanic Promise, a pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate Hispanics in the workplace
Forbes list of America’s Best Employers for Diversity
CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion
The Civic 50 Points of Light (4th year)POINTOS F LIGHT
Business Roundtable
Latina Style 50  (22nd year)
* In early 2022, A flac was again included in the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere and Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index, marking the 16th and 3rd 
consecutive years respectively.
21
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ABOUT AFLAC  Financial Highlights
Aflac Incorporated (NYSE: AFL)  
Investor Facts  
(as of 12/31/21)
The year 2021 marked the 39th consecutive year Aflac Incorporated increased its annual dividend. 
Including reinvested cash dividends, Aflac’s total shareholder return increased 34.6% in 2021. This compares with total shareholder return of a 36.7% increase for the S&P Life and Health Index, a 28.7% increase in the S&P 500 and an 20.9% increase for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
We have always managed our business with a long-term view in mind. If an investor bought 100 of our 
shares when Aflac was founded in 1955, it would have cost $1,110. After twenty-nine stock dividends and splits, they would have 375,960 shares valued at nearly $22 million and received $496,267 in dividends.
YEARS SINCE  
FOUNDINGYEARS  
ON NYSEBILLION  
MARKET CAPCONSECUTIVE  
YEARS OF DIVIDEND  
INCREASES
66 
years47 
years$39 
billion39 
years
Total  
shareholder  
return  
including reinvested 
dividendsOVER THE LAST  
THREE YEARSOVER THE LAST  
FIVE YEARSOVER THE LAST  
10 YEARS
37.9% 88.9% 245.3%
SHAREHOLDER MIX
Institutional Investors Individual Investors/three.tnum/one.tnum% /six.tnum/nine.tnum%PERCENTAGE OF OUTSTANDING SHARES OWNED BY
22
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSInsurer Financial  
Strength Ratings*AM 
Best S&P Moody’s JCR R&I
Aflac Life Insurance Japan, Ltd.A+ A+ Aa3 AA AA-
Aflac of Columbus A+ A+ Aa3 AA AA-
Aflac of New York A+ A+ - - -
Continental American Insurance CompanyA+ - - - -Strong Capital Profile  
Supports Our Promise 
As part of our regular assessments, we pay close attention 
to our capital adequacy to ensure that levels remain strong, against even extreme economic scenarios. Aflac Incorporated’s subsidiaries hold among the highest financial strength ratings in the industry. These important ratings reflect our ability to pay claims. We’re proud that rating agencies continue to recognize the strength of our balance sheet. 
* As of 3/1/22; for both primary insurance subsidiaries: A flac of Columbus and Aflac Life Insurance Japan, Ltd
For more information, visit investors.aflac.com.ANNUAL CASH DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE**
Aflac Incorporated has increased its annual dividend for 
39 consecutive years. Total cash dividends paid in 2021 were 17.9% higher than in 2020.PRETAX ADJUSTED EARNINGS BY SEGMENT  
(in dollars as of 12/31/21)
U.S. Japan/seven.tnum/two.tnum% /two.tnum/eight.tnum%
$/zero.tnum$/zero.tnum./seven.tnum/nine.tnum$/zero.tnum./eight.tnum/three.tnum$/zero.tnum./eight.tnum/seven.tnum$/one.tnum./zero.tnum/four.tnum$/one.tnum./zero.tnum/eight.tnum$/one.tnum./one.tnum/two.tnum$/one.tnum./three.tnum/two.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum$/zero.tnum./seven.tnum/nine.tnum$/zero.tnum./eight.tnum/three.tnum$/zero.tnum./eight.tnum/seven.tnum$/one.tnum./zero.tnum/four.tnum$/one.tnum./zero.tnum/eight.tnum$/one.tnum./one.tnum/two.tnum$/one.tnum./three.tnum/two.tnum
NEW ANNUALIZED PREMIUM SALES BY SEGMENT  
(in dollars as of 12/31/21)
Japan U.S./seven.tnum/two.tnum% /two.tnum/eight.tnum%
**Adjusted for stock splits
COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR  
CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Aflac Incorporated, the S&P 500 Index and the 
S&P Life & Health Insurance IndexCOMPARISON OF 10-YEAR  
CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Aflac Incorporated, the S&P 500 Index and the 
S&P Life & Health Insurance Index
Aflac Incorporated S&P /five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum S&P Life & Health Insurance$/zero.tnum$/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/one.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/two.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum
/one.tnum/two.tnum//two.tnum/one.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//two.tnum/zero.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/nine.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/eight.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/seven.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/six.tnum
Aflac Incorporated S&P /five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum S&P Life & Health Insurance$/zero.tnum$/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/one.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/two.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/three.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/three.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/four.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum$/four.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum$/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/one.tnum/two.tnum//two.tnum/one.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//two.tnum/zero.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/nine.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/eight.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/seven.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/six.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/five.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/four.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/three.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum//one.tnum/two.tnum /one.tnum/two.tnum //one.tnum/one.tnum
*  $100 invested on 12/31/16 in stock or index, including 
reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
 Copyright © 2022 S
tandard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. 
All rights reserved.*  $100 invested on 12/31/11 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
 Copyright © 2022 S
tandard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. 
All rights reserved.
23
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSSelected Financial Data
For the Year (in millions, except for per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
REVENUES
Net earned premiums, principally supplemental 
health insurance$ 17,647 $ 18,622 $ 18,780 $ 18,677 $ 18,531
Net investment income 3,818 3,638 3,578 3,442 3,220
Net investment gains (losses) 468 (270) (135) (430) (151)
Other income 173 157 84 69 67
Total revenues 22,106 22,147 22,307 21,758 21,667
Benefits and expenses:
Benefits and claims, net 10,576 11,796 11,942 12,000 12,181
Expenses 6,208 6,192 5,920 5,775 5,468
Total benefits and expenses 16,784 17,988 17,862 17,775 17,649
Pretax earnings 5,322 4,159 4,445 3,983 4,018
Income taxes 997 (619) 1,141 1,063 (586)
Net earnings $ 4,325 $ 4,778 $ 3,304 $ 2,920 $ 4,604
SHARE AND PER-SHARE AMOUNTS
Net earnings (basic) $ 6.42 $ 6.69 $ 4.45 $ 3.79 $ 5.81
Net earnings (diluted) 6.39 6.67 4.43 3.77 5.77
Items impacting net earnings
Realized investment (gains) losses $ (0.68) $ 0.32 $ 0.02 $ 0.38 $ —
Other and non-recurring (income) loss 0.11 0.04 — 0.10 0.08
Income tax (benefit) expense on items excluded from 
adjusted earnings0.12 (0.10) — (0.11) (0.03)
Tax reform adjustment — — (0.01) 0.02 (2.42)
Tax valuation allowance release — (1.97) — — —
Cash dividends paid 1.32 1.12 1.08 1.04 0.87
Weighted-average common shares used for basic EPS  (In thousands)673,617 713,702 742,414 769,588 792,042
Weighted-average common shares used for diluted EPS (In thousands)676,729 716,192 746,430 774,650 797,861
24
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSKey Operational Metrics
2021 2020 2019
AFLAC JAPAN
Policies and riders in force* 38,537 39,064 39,559
Annualized premiums in force** ¥1,360,624 ¥1,426,546 ¥1,489,320
New annualized premiums** ¥ 54,764 ¥ 50,852 ¥ 79,697
AFLAC U.S.Policies and certificates in force*
13,090 13,145 13,437
Annualized premiums in force** $ 6,003 $ 6,099 $ 6,301
New annualized premiums** $ 1,278 $ 1,093 $ 1,580For the Year (in millions, except for per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
AT YEAR-ENDAssets:
Investments and cash $142,978 $149,753 $138,091 $126,243 $123,659
Other 14,564 15,333 14,677 14,163 13,558
Total assets $157,542 $165,086 $152,768 $140,406 $137,217
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Policy liabilities $105,072 $114,391 $106,554 $103,188 $ 99,147
Income taxes 4,339 4,661 5,370 4,020 4,745
Notes payable and lease obligations 7,956 7,899 6,569 5,778 5,289
Other liabilities 6,922 4,576 5,316 3,958 3,438
Shareholders’ equity 33,253 33,559 28,959 23,462 24,598
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $157,542 $165,086 $152,768 $140,406 $137,217
SUPPLEMENTAL DATAStock price range: High $ 59.22 $ 53.46 $ 57.18 $ 48.19 $ 44.91
Low 42.96 23.07 44.28 41.41 33.25
Close 58.39 44.47 52.90 45.56 43.89
Yen/dollar exchange rate at year-end (yen) ¥ 115.02 ¥ 103.50 ¥ 109.56 ¥ 111.00 ¥ 113.00
Weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rate (yen) 109.79 106.86 109.07 110.39 112.16
* In thousands
**
 In millions
25
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSRecognizing the importance of tying our ESG goals to our business strategy, beginning in 2021 an ESG Modifier was introduced in 
the Management Incentive Plan for all officers across the Company’s global operations, which included five specific critical path objectives, as reviewed by the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (CSR&S). These five goals and related achievements appear below.
Achievement of all five objectives results in a +5% adjustment to the incentive; two or less objectives a -5% adjustment; or no 
adjustment for achieving 3 or 4 of the objectives.
ESG Modifier (new) Achievements
Advancement of Aflac Global 
Investment’s responsible investing framework %A flac Incorporated became a signatory of Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI).
 %A flac Global Investments established specific ESG team and enhanced the 
governance process.
 %Continues designing impact investing strategies
.
Development of a framework that both defines and sets milestones to achieve carbon neutral and net zero emissions by 2040 and 2050, respectively %Developed a formal roadmap to achieve carbon neutrality and net  zero targets 
by 2040 and 2050 as reviewed by the Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee.
 %Conducted formal study to define Scope 3 emissions, including invest
ments 
(Category 15).
Achievement of the 2021 
“Women in Leadership” objective in Japan and identification of incremental future funding of investments that address economic mobility and social inequity ≥$600 million  %Achieved A flac Japan’s goal of at least 23% of manager or general manager 
positions filled by women.
 %$725 million of incremental commitments in qualified investments rel
ated to 
social and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
Launch and closing on an inaugural Sustainability Bond that reinforces the Company’s ESG strategy %In March 2021, A flac Incorporated issued a sustainability bond: $400 million in a 
senior unsecured note.
 %Allocated $252 million (63%) of net proceeds within year one as reported in the 
A
flac Incorporated Sustainability Bond report.
Advancement of reporting and 
disclosure framework %Produced internal report addressing risks: business franchise , physical 
location and disaster recovery, and investments as reviewed by the 
Audit and Risk Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee.
 %Published the 2020 T
CFD Report.ESG Highlights 
26
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSWorkforce Diversity
• As of December 31, 2021, women account for 56% of 
A
flac Japan employees, including part-time employees, 
and 33% of leadership roles. Women also held 23% of manager or general manager positions as part Aflac Japan’s longer-term plan to increase this percentage to 30% by 2025.
•
 As of December 31, 2021, 49% of A
flac U.S. and the 
Company employees located in the U.S. were people of color and 66% were women. We also occupied 49% of leadership roles located in the U.S. and 28% of senior management roles. In 2021, 64% of new hires located in the U.S. were people of color and 76% were women.Community Investment 
and Philanthropy
• My Special A flac Duck® is a “smart” robotic companion 
designed to help children cope with their cancer and 
sickle cell treatments. Aflac aims to put a My Special Aflac Duck in the hands of every child, age 3 and above, diagnosed with cancer in the U.S., Japan and Northern Ireland and has given My Special Aflac Ducks to over 13,000 children through 2021.
•
 A
flac and its employees and agents are responsible for:
•
 140
,000 pediatric patients and their family 
members who have called Aflac Parents House a home
-
away
-
from-home while receiving treatment for 
serious illnesses, like cancer.
•
 $157 million
 in support of Aflac Cancer and Blood 
Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, helping make it one of the top pediatric cancer programs in the United States by U.S. News and World Report.
27
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSTopic
Goal Progress to Date Alignment
Environment
• Develop an A flac Incorporated framework 
that defines and sets milestones to achieve carbon neutral and net zero emissions by 2040 and 2050.
•
 R
educe Aflac Incorporated greenhouse gas 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 75% by 2030 compared to a 2007 baseline. %In 2020
, Aflac achieved carbon neutrality in our Scopes 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by reducing emissions and purchasing renewable energy credits (RECs) and carbon offsets.
 %A
flac Incorporated reduced combined Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions by more than 70% from 2007 to 2020.
Incorporating ESG Factors in 
Investment Management
• Advancement of A flac Global Investment’s 
responsible investing framework
•
 L
aunch and close on an inaugural 
Sustainability Bond that reinforces the 
Company’s ESG strategy %A
flac Incorporated became a signatory of Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI).
 %A flac Global Investments established specific ESG team and 
enhanced the governance process.
 %Continues designing impact investing strategies
.
 %In March 2021, A
flac Incorporated issued a sustainability bond: 
$400 million in a senior unsecure note.
 %Allocated $252 million (63%) of net proceeds within year on
e as 
reported in the Aflac Incorporated Sustainability Bond report.
Reporting
Advancing our reporting and disclosure framework by publishing a formal climate risk report in compliance with Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) standards. %Produced internal report addressing risks: business franchise
, 
physical location and disaster recovery, and investments as reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee.
 %Published the 2020 T
CFD Report.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(DEI)
• A flac Japan has a longer-term plan to 
increase women in management roles to 30% 
by 2025.
•
 A
flac U.S. goal is to increase diversity within 
senior management by 5% by 2026.
•
 Incremental future funding of investments that address economic mobility and social inequity %Achieved A
flac Japan’s goal of at least 23% of manager or 
general manager positions filled with women.
 %A flac U.S. increased percentage of females and people of color 
in senior management to 28% and 27%, respectively.
 %$725 million of incremental commitments in qualified investments related to social and diversity
, equity, and inclusion 
(DEI) initiatives.
Recruiting & 
Managing 
a Global, Diverse & Skilled Workforce
Philanthropy
Aflac Incorporated aims to put a My Special 
Aflac Duck® in the hands of every child, age 3 and above, diagnosed with cancer in the U.S., Japan and Northern Ireland to help them cope with their cancer treatment. In 2022, this program will be extended to children with sickle cell disease, too.
Battling cancer is difficult enough, so we want 
to be there for those children who receive a diagnosis, just as we are for our policyholders when they need us most.•
 A
flac has given My Special Aflac Ducks to over 13,000 
children through 2021.
•
 A
flac and its employees and agents support:
•
 140
,000 pediatric patients and their family members who 
have called Aflac Parents House a home-away-from-home while receiving treatment for serious illnesses, like cancer.
28
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSTopic
Goal Progress to Date Alignment
Community Investment
As the leader in cancer insurance, Aflac knows that to beat cancer, we must have research.•
 $157 million
 in support of Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders 
Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, helping make it one of the top pediatric cancer programs in the United States by U.S. News and World Report.
Policies Designed to Incentivize 
Responsible Behavior
Everyone at Aflac plays a vital role in maintaining 
our strong ethical culture; therefore, we ensure each individual has the knowledge and the tools to succeed.•
 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training is mandatory for all new employees, and annually for all of our teams across the globe
, including the Aflac Incorporated Board of Directors. 
Failure to take the online training within a timely manner may lead to disciplinary action or termination. In 2021, 100% of all required personnel underwent training.
Corporate Governance
Ensure data security and privacyIn 2021, Aflac Global Security:
• Chartered a Data Protection and Privacy Subcommittee with 
cross functional representation to review emerging privacy regulations and integrate consumer privacy into business growth oppurtunities
.
•
 Distributed business unit scorecards to senior leadership to provide a quarterly view of divisional performance against k
ey 
security controls.
•
 Completed Cyber Incident R
esponse Global Table Top Exercise 
to validate the Global Crisis Management Plan.
•
 Implemented Global GRC platform to expand integrated risk management capabilities
.
•
 Conducted a Global R
ansomware Preparedness Assessment to 
identify oppurtunities to further mature controls.
29
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT  AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX  INVESTMENTS  ESG 
HIGHLIGHTSGovernance
“The Aflac Way absolutely started with the 
founding of the company: the founders, their approach to business, and their approach to just life and decency. People want  to do business with companies that  do things the right way.”
—  A udrey Boone Tillman 
  EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL  
COUNSEL, AFLAC INCORPORATED
At Aflac Incorporated, we are committed to a 
strong governance strategy, founded on principles of integrity, transparency and trust. This includes a responsibility to conduct ourselves with the highest standards of ethical behavior towards our customers, shareholders, business partners and suppliers, government regulators and fellow employees. This commitment provides a solid framework for transparent and responsible corporate governance, which starts at the top of our corporate structure.
Codes, policies and procedures that 
shape our corporate governance framework:
⊲  A flac Incorporated Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics 
⊲ 
 A
flac Political Activity Report and Political 
Action Committee
⊲ Aflac Supplier Code of Conduct
30
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE AVERAGE TENURE
9.8 years
for full Board
AVERAGE AGE
66 
7 years
for independent directors
INDEPENDENT
91%GENDER/RACIAL DIVERSITY
4
Women
1 Black or
African American7
Men
2 Asian
1 Black or
African American
11
Board
MembersAflac Incorporated’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) includes 
11 members with varied backgrounds, ethnicities, genders and experience who guide our strategy and decision making through participation on the following committees. These committees provide a core, values-based framework to manage the company in the best interest of our employees, customers, investors and communities.
Aflac Incorporated has established and maintains a robust 
corporate governance framework to meet the expectations of stakeholders through the appropriate oversight of the operational execution of the holding company system. This framework is referred to as Aflac’s “Global Group Governance.” Aflac Incorporated’s direct and indirect subsidiaries in each country operate pursuant to Global Group Governance and maintain management soundness in order to continue providing products and services that are valuable to customers and earn the trust of customers. Aflac’s Global Group Governance framework ensures appropriate oversight of and organic cooperation between Aflac Incorporated’s direct and indirect subsidiaries in accordance with Japanese and U.S. laws and regulations.
Aflac Incorporated Global Governance & ESG
OVERSIGHTAflac Incorporated Board of Directors
Executive Committee
Audit and Risk CommitteeCompensation 
CommitteeCorporate Governance 
Committee
Corporate Development 
CommitteeFinance and Investment 
CommitteeCorporate Social Responsibility 
and Sustainability CommitteeOPERATIONAL 
EXECUTIONGlobal Executive Management Committee
Global Risk 
CommitteeGlobal Investment 
CommitteeGlobal Capital 
CommitteeGlobal Operations and 
Technology Committee
31
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Our Board committees play critical ESG oversight and 
leadership roles through their efforts to identify, promote and monitor responsible and ethical corporate governance mechanisms, corporate social responsibility and sustainability goals, ESG-related compensation programs, and risk management policies that identify and assess climate
-
related risks.
Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee
The Board’s Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability 
(CSR&S) Committee is made up of independent directors and meets twice a year. CSR&S Committee members provide oversight of Company policies, procedures and practices with regards to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability. More specifically, the CSR&S Committee performs the following:
•
 Sets CSR/sustainability performance goals related to 
certain UN Sustainable Development Goals, environmental initiatives (including energy use
, recycling, carbon 
emissions) and related health and safety matters, workplace diversity and inclusions efforts and philanthropic activities.
•
 Monitors implementation and performance towards attaining goals.
•
 R
eviews the goals and objectives of the Company’s 
environmental stewardship policy.
•
 Oversees preparation of and reviews the Company’
s 
annual Corporate Social Responsibility report.
•
 Oversees the integration of climate-related risks into organizational strategies, plans of action and management policies.
The CSR
&S Committee coordinates with (a) the Finance 
and Investment Committee regarding guidance on CSR and sustainability factors relating to issuance and application of proceeds of sustainability bonds and other social and/or sustainability oriented debt of the Company and oversight of the investment process, (b) the Compensation Committee relating to incorporating CSR and sustainability factors into executive compensation programs, and (c) the Corporate Governance Committee to incorporate diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts with regards to the Company’s policies and principles relating to succession planning and management development. The Audit and Risk Committee oversees the Company’s policies, process, and structure related to enterprise risk engagement and management, which includes ESG risks and opportunities. Through the CSR&S Committee, ESG-related risks are integrated into organizational strategy, plans of action, management policies, and performance objectives, including how progress is monitored against targets and goals. The CSR&S Committee periodically meets with the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Department to consider direct company impacts on the environment and ensure continued efforts to reduce Aflac Incorporated’s carbon footprint in areas such as waste reduction and energy conservation.
The ERM Department, in partnership with Internal Audit, 
conducts an annual enterprise-wide risk assessment. Along with other ESG risks, extreme or major climate risks are escalated to the Global Risk Committee and ultimately to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee.
Through this annual risk assessment, we use a risk scale to 
evaluate the materiality of all risks, considering the impact and probabilities of those identified. On the impact scale, risks are categorized as minor, moderate, adverse, major or extreme. The likelihood scale considers the occurrence of each risk by categorizing each risk as an event that occurs once every one to two years (frequent), once every two to five years (likely), once every five to 10 years (possible), once every 10-20 years (unlikely) or once in more than 20 years (rare). This process is used to ensure that risks judged to be major and/or extreme are elevated to the Board for guidance and direction to ensure that Aflac Incorporated’s earnings, solvency and brand are protected.
The process requires that all business unit owners be 
interviewed to examine risks within and outside of their business units. The objective is to understand whether identified risks will have an impact on the organization’s objectives. After the risks are identified, we assess the impact and likelihood of these risks to arrive at the residual risk. The risks are summarized by their overall score, with the largest number being the greatest risk. When assessing whether a risk will have a substantive and/or material impact, the Company uses a scale that considers likelihood of occurrence and impact on earnings, solvency and brand.
32
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Aflac’s strong reputation as a respected and ethical company 
is essential to our business objectives and core mission. At Aflac, our expectations for ethical behavior extend to everyone who works with us and forms the foundation for trusting relationships with our customers and stakeholders. These expectations are rooted in our Aflac Way values of Teamwork, Respect, Fairness, Honesty, Integrity and Responsibility, the same values upon which the Aflac co-founders built our Company more than 66 years ago.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics shows us how to 
take these values and apply them to our everyday business conduct. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics includes the following:
•
 Confidential Ethics Helpline
•
 Non-R
etaliation Policy
•
 Discrimination and Harassment P
olicies
•
 Conflicts of Interest P
olicy
•
 Anti-Hedging P
olicy
•
 Antitrust L
aw Policy
•
 Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 
Anti-Boycott laws and other applicable regulations
W
e encourage a “speak up” culture through our Safe to 
Say program, providing employees with a variety of ways to report issues, including EthicsPoint, a 24/7 toll-free number and web-based comprehensive confidential reporting mechanism for receiving and processing whistleblower reports and other ethics concerns. We routinely discuss the importance of our strong ethical foundation and we ensure all employees appreciate our Safe to Say philosophy where we encourage everyone to speak up and be heard.
We find that ethics and compliance training is essential 
to encouraging appropriate workplace behavior, setting expectations, demonstrating our organization’s commitment, and informing employees of principles that may not be common knowledge. Providing relevant training to leaders and employees is a key factor in the long-term effectiveness of our ethics and compliance program. Simply put, everyone at Aflac plays a vital role in maintaining our strong ethical culture; therefore, we ensure each individual has the knowledge and the tools to succeed. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training is mandatory for all new employees, and annually for all of our teams across the globe, including the Board. Failure to take the online training within a timely manner may lead to disciplinary action or termination. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to everyone employed by the company and contains a special section for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers.
We understand that while awareness and training help 
establish a strong foundation, we must also ensure that our ethics and compliance program operates effectively in practice. We use many tools to gauge the health of our program including a routine ethics and culture survey. The anonymous survey provides invaluable information regarding employee awareness of our ethics and compliance principles. Our surveys confirm that we have a very strong “tone at the top” which is cascaded throughout the organization. Employees report feeling empowered to do the right thing and they know where to go to seek information or raise concerns without fear of retaliation.
At Aflac, we also expect our suppliers to adhere to our high 
level of ethical standards. We work with suppliers that are dedicated to conducting themselves with the utmost integrity, fairness and respect as defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. For additional information on suppliers, please visit our Policies and Statements.
Providing Customers 
with transparent, accurate and Up-to-date Information
We strive to address each policyholder’s unique situation and 
set of needs through person-to-person consultations and the use of expanded technology opportunities. The expansion of digital capabilities accessible on our website and mobile device apps is one way we provide customers and potential customers with immediate access to up-to-date information regarding our products and services.
Our One Digital Aflac strategy uses technology across 
all areas of our company to make it easier for customers to buy from Aflac, our distribution teams to sell Aflac and our employees to successfully fulfill Aflac’s promise to policyholders.
33
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Other ways we have improved our customers’ experience 
and access to information include:
•
 V
oice recognition features implemented in our U.S. call 
centers that have improved communications and efficiency 
for our customers who have speech and/or sight difficulties
•
 A
flac Japan’s Innovation Lab is a base to further accelerate 
the adoption of Fintech, which combines the latest digital technology and finance with the promotion of new businesses that lead to an increase in corporate value. Aflac Japan promotes data usage to better meet customer needs. For example, for customers who need follow-up regarding their current contract, AI estimates the means and time of contact and provides information to sales agents to provide the optimal after-sales service for customers.
•
 A
flac Japan introduced “Aflac online consultation” that 
enables online consultation from proposal to application. In an effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Aflac Japan has responded to the growing customer need to avoid face-to-face consultations. Aflac Japan is also working to resolve the challenges faced by customers living in remote areas and customers with nursing care and childcare needs, for whom it is difficult to meet in-person and provide insurance information, as has been conventionally done during insurance solicitation.
•
 A
flac Japan is improving customer convenience by 
providing and expanding the service of its site dedicated to policyholders “Aflac Yorisou Net”, which allows customers to check contract details and perform various procedures.•
  A flac Japan has also established through its subsidiary, 
Hatch Healthcare K.K, a community for cancer survivors called “tomosnote,” in which survivors can exchange a wide variety of information to gain support necessary to lead a fulfilling life during and after treatment.
•
 A
flac Japan provides an “online medical consultation 
service” for all policyholders, where they can freely ask and consult with medical professionals, about illness and physical their condition.
•
 As is in the U
.S., Aflac Japan provides Braille forms for the 
visually impaired and sign language translation services for hearing impaired customer convenience.
•
 In addition, A
flac Japan has established retail insurance 
locations for customers visits (Aflac Consulting Shops) across Japan, which provide face-to-face or online opportunities for customers to meet with Aflac representatives to address their insurance needs.
Reporting
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, Aflac discloses all material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q .
34
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Governance
This commitment begins at the top of Aflac. Our Board 
provides oversight of Aflac’s Global Information Security Program (the Program) and has approval rights for our governing policy. Responsibility for the Program is vested in the office of the Global Chief Security Officer (GCSO). The GCSO updates the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee quarterly on the state of the Program, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, current and evolving threats, and updates to the Program strategy.
The GCSO is supported by a team of risk management and 
security professionals whose responsibilities encompass the development, implementation, operation, maintenance, and continuous improvement of the Program. Aflac has a comprehensive set of information and cybersecurity policies and standards structured around the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Frameworks (NIST Protecting Our  
Customers and Data  
with Cybersecurity
CSF). Policies are reviewed and approved annually to ensure 
the organization is up to date with changing cybersecurity and privacy regulations, as well as any changes to technology and industry best practices.
Risk Management
Aflac has a comprehensive risk management program that performs initial evaluations and ongoing monitoring of the information security and privacy risk associated with data usage, the sharing of Aflac information with third parties and the system configuration of critical applications and infrastructure. The team carries out an initial assessment and evaluates mitigating controls to determine a final risk rating. Compliance processes are established to escalate identified risks and to ensure transparency and proper accountability for risk treatments. Reassessment cadence is determined in alignment with the risk rating process.
At Aflac, safeguarding the
information collected on behalfof the individuals and businesseswe serve is of crucial importance.We are committed to the privacyof individuals and the protectionof data, and we do this by placinggreat importance on informationsecurity to protect against threatsboth external and internal.
35
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Compliance
Aflac has processes in place to evaluate business practices 
against security and privacy policies and standards. We have a Cyber Security Assurance Program that regularly tests a comprehensive library of security controls that map to NIST-CSF. Additionally, we complete an annual SSAE 18 SOC 2 (Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 18 Service Organization Control 2 report) examination with an independent external firm.
Cybersecurity and privacy continue to be an area of 
evolving focus for legislation and regulatory activity. The Company has a cross-functional team that tracks and monitors new and emerging legislation to ensure privacy and cybersecurity programs are evaluated and comply with regulatory requirements.
Security Operations
While Aflac has traditional systems and controls in place to ensure alignment with regulatory requirements and industry best practices, we constantly work to mature our security posture and keep pace with business change. Our layered defenses, which include the use of identity and access management systems, role based access, multifactor authentication, key and certificate management services, firewalls, as well as cloud, network and end-point security tools are implemented to ensure the protection and availability of information. Regular access reviews are performed, and records are maintained and audited.
Aflac also leverages a host of intrusion detection, prevention 
and data protection tools to safeguard our most sensitive information and assets. Across the program, continuous monitoring is in place to support our ability to detect and respond to internal and external anomalies. We have mature vulnerability scanning and patch management processes and provide detailed dashboard readouts on remediation activities to business leads on a quarterly basis.
Our team actively participates in multiple threat intelligence 
sharing consortiums that involve collaboration with our peers in the financial services and insurance industries, as well as local and federal law enforcement. The team also operates as a contributing member in multiple open source intelligence forums and groups to monitor environmental changes of note.
Resiliency and Response
Aflac’s business resilience program is based on leading practices and industry standards, primarily ISO22301. The program implements controls and measures to prepare the Organization to manage disruptive events. It is a company-wide program that ensures Aflac employees, customers, shareholders, business partners, information, assets, and business operations are adequately protected in the event of an unplanned business disruption. Resilience is accomplished through an integrated business continuity, disaster recovery, and incident/crisis management structure. In 2021 Aflac completed a successful annual cyber incident response table top exercise which included broad participation from global executives and tested our response to a global cyber event.
Our incident response team is staffed by skilled security 
and forensics professionals who enact a comprehensive Incident Response Framework. The framework consists of coordinated procedures and tasks that are executed to ensure timely and accurate resolution of security and privacy incidents. Aflac has a formal process to investigate and notify individuals and authorities, as required by law, in the event that personal information has been compromised.
Security Awareness 
and Training
Aflac’s cyber security awareness training program is designed 
to help employees, contractors and producers recognize information, cybersecurity, and privacy concerns and respond accordingly. Our program provides all personnel with the knowledge and skills to prevent, identify and escalate cybersecurity risks. In 2021 all employees, contractors and producers who had access to Aflac systems or data completed annual security and privacy training. In addition, role-based security training was required for individuals with elevated entitlements.
Aflac’s security operations and threat intelligence teams 
partner closely with our awareness program to send all users monthly phishing exercises that are representative of actual threats we see in our environment. Performance metrics are tracked to provide a real-time view of the risks associated with phishing susceptibility. Additional training is required if users fail an exercise. In 2021, our average performance in phishing exercises far outpaced the performance of our industry peers, with over a 99% pass rate for employees and contractors.
Our security education approach extends beyond training 
and strives to embed security as a core part of Aflac’s culture. We maintain strong executive support and have 130 Cyber Security Ambassadors throughout the organization who help to extend the reach of our awareness messaging. In 2021, we had more than 120 direct communications, portal stories, contest, panels and cyber events. For National Cyber Security Awareness Month, we hosted events attracting participation from over 1,600 individuals.
36
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Political Activity Report
Aflac has a long history of participating in the democratic process; 
as an entity that is regulated at the federal and state levels, it’s important that we engage with elected officials to help us keep the Aflac promise to our policyholders.
Read more about the Political Activity Report.—  Brad Kno x
  SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF FEDERAL RELA TIONS“We make it a priority to be transparent 
in what we do and how we operate. I think you start with asking the question, ‘What’s the right thing to do?’ When you ask that question first, the other things fall in line.”
37
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL APPENDIX INVESTMENTS GOVERNANCE Aflac Global Investments
Aflac Global Investments is made up of Aflac Incorporated’s 
asset management subsidiaries responsible for investing approximately $122 billion on behalf of our insurance subsidiaries in Japan and the U.S. This team contributes to Aflac’s long-term success by seeking to maximize long-term returns and preservation of capital based on an investment foundation of strategic asset allocation and a conservative asset and liability management approach that focuses on making investments across a diversified portfolio of high
-quality assets.
The Aflac Global Investments team now has more than 121 investment and support professionals in New York and Tokyo who work to find investment opportunities around the globe. The investment teams are organized around asset class specialists and have expertise in corporate credit, infrastructure, middle market loans, transitional real estate and derivatives, as well as a growing alternatives portfolio of private equity and real estate investments. We also leverage the capability of our External Manager Platform where our team identifies specialized strategies and third party asset managers that can meet our return and diversification standards. In Investments
"Incorporating ESG principles into our investment 
strategy is simply the right thing to do and aligns with our promise to policyholders: making sure Aflac is there for them in their time of need. We believe ESG investing expands investment opportunities, while reducing risks, both targeted to promoting alignment with a sustainable environment and improving social well-being, while enhancing performance and protecting policyholder funds."
addition, our teams have a major presence in the U.S. and 
Japanese investment markets, matching investments against our policyholder liabilities denominated in both yen and dollars.
As we strive to source ESG-focused investments that provide 
acceptable risk-adjusted returns, this past year we committed to over $3 billion in new Sustainable and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)-oriented investments. These commitments include new real estate loans dedicated to Qualified Opportunity Zones and Affordable Housing, a new strategic partnership focused on investing in sustainable infrastructure and a mix of social and sustainable public and private investments. Some of these investment opportunities will be directed to the proceeds 
of Aflac’s inaugural S ustainability Bond issuance of $400 million. 
Our journey continues as we further enhance and refine our Responsible Investing Framework, develop targets for reducing the carbon footprint of our portfolio, and expand investments in DEI-oriented strategies.—  Eric Kirsch 
 EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GLOBAL CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER; 
PRESIDENT OF AFLAC GLOBAL INVESTMENTS
In 2021, NII increased 13% to
$3.8B
38
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS Use of Proceeds and Impact
Since the issuance on March 8, 2021, $252 million, which 
represents 63% of the net proceeds, has been allocated to four Eligible Categories under the Framework: Renewable Energy, Green Buildings, Socioeconomic Advancement and Empowerment and Communities. While the Framework permits net proceeds to be attributed to investments in or financings of Eligible Sustainability Assets completed up to 36 months before the issuance of a Sustainability Bond, 81% of the investments were new investments. The balance of unallocated proceeds has been invested in cash and cash equivalents in compliance with the Framework.ALLOCATION OF NET PROCEEDS  
TO ELIGIBLE CATEGORY
33%
Renewable
Energy
20%
Green Buildings$252M
Allocated29%
Socioeconomic
Advancement and
Empowerment
18%
Communities
TABLE 1 - ALLOCATION BY ELIGIBLE  
ASSET CATEGORYNET PROCEEDS 
ALLOCATEDNET PROCEEDS2
63% $397M
Eligible CategoryAmount Allocated1  
($ millions)
Renewable Energy 83
Green Buildings 50
Socioeconomic Advancement and Empowerment 73
Communities 46
Total Allocation 252
1 Allocated amounts as of February 15, 2022. An “allocation ” is defined 
when an investment is funded in cash or where there is a legally binding 
commitment to provide cash funding by the investment counterparty.2 In compliance with the Framework, net proceeds, which represent total proceeds less debt issuance cost, can be attributed to investments or financings of Eligible Sustainability Assets completed up to 36 months prior to the issuance of a Sustainability Bond. A
flac Incorporated has invested 
$145 million of unallocated proceeds, along with unfunded committed proceeds, in cash and cash equivalents.MARCH 2021 
$400 million
five-year sustainability bond to finance ESG initiatives like affordable housing.
In 2021, Aflac Incorporated became a signatory to  the Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI), the global framework for incorporating ESG considerations into investment and ownership decisions. As a PRI signatory, we reinforce our commitment to incorporating ESG factors into our investment process.
To learn more about related policies and statements, please visit investors.aflac.com and click on the “Sustainability” tab.
39
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS During 2021, our portfolio benefited from strong investment 
markets. The increase in net investment income was primarily driven by favorable returns on our growing private equity portfolio and lower hedge costs. Our portfolio has had minimal losses reflecting the quality of our credit underwriting and strong risk management discipline. During the year, we completed a new Strategic Asset Allocation study which showed opportunities to defend NII with allocations to private credit and alternatives while maintaining appropriate risk and capital.
Aflac Global Ventures
Aflac Global Ventures (AGV) was established in 2016 with a 
mission to help Aflac Incorporated enhance its strategic and innovative focus globally and to enhance and defend long-term shareholder value. As part of Aflac’s continued focus on growth, Aflac Global Ventures strives to pursue investment opportunities in digital and innovative technological solutions that simplify and enrich the sales and distribution process while providing an optimal and efficient customer servicing experience. Additionally, the cancer and broader healthcare and health insurance ecosystems in Japan and small business benefits in the U.S. are typical areas of interest. Aflac Global Ventures also continues to partner with Aflac Global Investments in seeking and investing in nascent technologies in the asset management space. Additionally, Aflac Global Ventures’ $400 million fund has investments across the globe in disruptive technologies with enhanced focus on properties in new and emerging markets such as Southeast Asia and India for growth and additional revenue. It has become the vehicle for international exploration leveraging our domain assets and expertise while focusing on advanced digital and ecosystem oriented opportunities.Since the fund’s inception four years ago, AGV has seen some of the early direct investments complete follow-on rounds of capital raise and, in some cases, exit the portfolio via sale, resulting in modest gains. 
In 2021, Aflac Global Ventures continued to partner with startups 
through the Aflac Ventures Lab, a 10-week accelerator program for startups. Aflac Ventures Lab provides an unparalleled opportunity for startup companies to work with Aflac’s key business leaders and innovation teams to co-develop and customize solutions to accelerate innovation across the insurance value chain, including digital solutions that enhance the customer experience. In 2021, a number of startups successfully moved into a commercial operations phase with Aflac.
As part of its global strategy in 2021, Aflac Global Ventures 
placed a heightened focus on its incubated businesses in Japan designed to pursue digital and disruptive solutions and methods for experimentation and adaptation. This included concluding the acquisition of the primary business of an existing Aflac Global Ventures portfolio company. Additionally, Aflac Japan continues to explore opportunities for adding value to existing and future policyholders by offering better solutions for managing their health as they age. 
In the context of rapidly changing social and 
individual needs, Aflac Global Ventures is actively engaged in incubating and building ecosystems in the cancer and elderly/nursing care space as well as developing innovative non-insurance products and services while constantly enhancing the customer test experience and delivering efficiencies throughout the value chain.
—  Brad Dyslin 
  DEPUTY GL OBAL CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER; 
SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR
“While ESG considerations have always played a role in our investment process, the opportunity to continue expanding their role is clear. We can invest capital and help mitigate climate change and improve society, while at the same time generating good investment returns. It’s just a sound strategy that benefits our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders.”
40
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS Under its 2019 Environmental Management 
Declaration formalized in 2019, Aflac Japan committed to:
• Environmentally friendly behaviors in its business
•
 Compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to 
the environment
•
 Promotion of environmental education and social contributions
•
 Ongoing promotion of improvements to the environment
Environment
Aflac Incorporated’s leadership in corporate responsibility is centered around limiting the Company’s carbon footprint and helping make our communities, cities and planet more sustainable. We believe that environmentally and socially responsible business actions serve to enhance corporate reputation, improve talent recruitment and retention and attract new business.
The Board’s Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee leads our environmental initiatives according to the Aflac SmartGreen® philosophy. 
Wisely choose, use and dispose of the resources we use 
each day and focus these actions in five categories:
Business 
operationsStrategic sourcing  
and procurementFacilities management
Waste  
managementEmployee  
engagement
Guided by the SmartGreen Philosophy, we identify and evaluate environmental 
risks, including climate change, based on financial impact and probability. Risk profiles are monitored and reported every three months to our Global Risk Committee (GRC) and its interdepartmental executives.
41
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSSOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS ENVIRONMENT Climate Risk 
Management
In 2020, Aflac achieved carbon neutrality in our Scopes 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by reducing emissions and purchasing renewable energy credits (RECs) and carbon offsets. In addition, we have set the following climate goals:
•
 R
educing absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions 75% by 2030 
from a 2007 baseline. 
•
 Carbon neutrality in all Scopes by 2040 and net zero 
emissions by 2050
.
Aflac Incorporated reduced combined Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by more than 70% from 2007 to 2020.To learn more about Aflac Incorporated’s Climate 
Change 2021 submission to CDP and 2020 TCFD  
report, click here .
Our emissions reduction strategies include:
Energy Conservation/
Efficiency and Green Buildings
In 2020 , Aflac U.S. reduced its total electricity consumption in 
our owned corporate real estate by 21% through conservation 
and efficiency initiatives. Since 2007, our conservation and efficiency efforts have reduced building electricity use by over 50% per square foot, saving us more than $20 million. 
Aflac U.S. has a decade-plus legacy of reducing electricity 
consumption in our owned real estate. We were the first insurance company in the U.S. to achieve ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management Systems certification and the only insurance company to achieve both ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management Systems and ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management certifications. We re-certified under ISO 50001:2011 in 2019 with zero nonconformance issues.
Aflac U.S. has reduced combined Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 
33% in 2020 compared to 2019 and 74% compared to 2007 
by taking steps to reduce environmental impact, such as the installation of a solar array, implementing more energy efficient HVAC and lighting systems, and implementing the ISO:50001 Energy Management System based on continual improvement. 
Aflac Japan reduced emissions by 2.5% in 2020 compared to 
2019 and 44.4% compared to 2007 by taking steps to reduce environmental impact, such as setting air conditioning at appropriate temperatures and encouraging the use of stairs when moving floors.
Aflac has a commitment to owning or leasing green buildings 
whenever feasible. We have one  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold-certified building in the U.S. and one in Japan. In 2017, we installed 500 solar panels on one of our Columbus, Georgia, buildings, and our data center, also in Columbus, Georgia, was the 10th data center in the U.S. to become Energy STAR®-certified in 2011.48,356,347
27,044,639
26,379,366
26,201,623
21,556,963 20202019201820172007AFLAC INCORPORATED OFFICE BUILDINGS (OW NED) ELECTRICITY IN kWh
41,412
18,363
17,090
16,893
12,121 20202019201820172007 41,41241,41241,41241,412AFLAC INCORPORATED SCOPES 1 AND 2 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN tCO2e
42
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSSOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS ENVIRONMENT Aflac is investing in smart 
environmental solutions that contribute to a sustainable future. Aflac has recently expanded its solar array with an installation at the Paul S. Amos campus. The expansion is expected tolower Aflac’s greenhouse gas emissions  in Columbus, Ga., by more than 10%.
To reduce our carbon footprint, we 
installed a 1.3-megawatt solar array at our largest campus in Columbus, Ga.
In 2020, Aflac U.S. purchased Renewable Energy Credits 
(RECs) that follow the Green-e Renewable Energy Standard for Canada and the United States (V3.4) to cover 100% of electricity used in buildings that Aflac U.S. owns.
Offsets
In 2020 and 2021, Aflac Japan purchased J-Credits to offset the CO2 emissions of Aflac Square until it switched to renewable energy sources in January 2022.Aflac Square in Chofu, Japan
Aflac Japan moved to 100% renewable electricity  
in Aflac Square, an Aflac Japan-owned building, 
in January 2022. Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 
Aflac Square building are expected to be zero* 
after 2022. Third-party verification of CO2 
emissions will be provided on a regular basis.
* Excluding GHG  emissions from heavy oil A used as fuel for 
emergency generators (for use in disasters, approx. 4t-CO2e/year).
Renewable Energy
Other Environmental 
Issues
Waste Prevention and Reduction 
The waste reduction and recycling strategy for Aflac U.S. 
diverted more than 1,800,000 pounds of paper waste from the landfill in 2021, and our recycling strategy diverted over 2,000,000 pounds of solid waste from the landfill for U.S.
-
owned properties. With more than half our U.S. 
employees working outside of our properties in 2021, the percentage of waste recycled increased from 80% to 92% and waste sent to landfills decreased from 223,980 pounds to 194,020 pounds. Our senior vice president of Shared Services and Greenbassador employee network strive to increase the amount of printed materials printed on Forest Stewardship Council- certified paper to 90% by 2025. About 62% of the waste generated by Aflac Japan’s Aflac Square is recycled into recycled paper and other materials.
43
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSSOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS ENVIRONMENT POUNDS OF PAPER
1,803,935 
POUNDS OF CARDBOARD
91,843
POUNDS OF ELECTRONICS
19,502Aflac Japan implemented the 
following initiatives in 2021 under its Environmental Management Promotion Committee
• The Environmental Management Promotion Council, 
consisting of members recruited from within the 
Company, 
planned and implemented a variety of environmental measures, including the implementation of environmental management seminars to raise the awareness of executives and employees, utilizing the knowledge and experience of each member.
•
 The Environmental Management Advocates 
were 
appointed at 19 locations across the country to promote environmental protection activities at each location.Aflac U.S. 
recycled 2,095,959 pounds of waste in 2021 including:
Aflac Japan Paperless Initiative
In 2020, Aflac Japan began a three-year paperless initiative to digitalize operations. By the end of June 2022, approximately 4,000 forms will be paperless, reducing paper consumption by approximately 80 million pieces of paper per year, which is 320 tons.
In October 2021, Aflac 
Japan participated in the nature conservation activities of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and carried out forest conservation activities as a first step toward measures to address climate change in the future.Employee Engagement
We have built several channels through which we engage our 
global workforce in helping us meet our environmental goals.
In October 2021, Aflac Japan participated in nature 
conservation activities of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and carried out forest conservation activities as a first step toward measures to address climate change in the future.
Aflac U.S. implemented the 
following initiatives in 2021
• More than 55 employees in the U .S. – aka Aflac 
Greenbassadors – volunteer to support Aflac’s 
environmental goals by coordinating events and offering program communication support to business departments. They also encourage employees to think green not just at work but also at home.
44
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSSOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS ENVIRONMENT Workforce: Aflac U.S.
Employee Wellness and  
Work/Life Balance
Our employees are central to everything we do, and Aflac is 
committed to fostering a safe and healthy environment that allows them to excel professionally and personally. Employee wellness is more than just an isolated program or initiative; moreover, it is purpose-driven and woven into the fabric of our company’s values and the employee experience. We prioritize health and well-being across our organization, beginning with our employees and extending throughout their organizations, families, and larger community. We believe in a comprehensive approach to wellness, which encompasses four dimensions: physical, emotional, social, and financial. Each dimension is unique, but all four are key to employees’ overall well-being. Our goal is to provide our employees with the resources, services, and tools that cover all four dimensions of employee wellness. This includes:
•
 A monthly health and wellness newsletter that covers 
all the latest happenings to support your health and well-being, including employee health benefits, current events, healthy living tips, and more
.
•
 Annual biometric screenings that enable employees to track their health progress and find areas for continual improvement.
•
 Offering preve
ntive screenings to identify and monitor 
health conditions such as cancers.
•
 W
alking trails that are available on multiple campuses 
for employees to use to take a breath of fresh air and re-energize.
•
 Healthy activities and challenges that are incentivizing our employees to be more physically active
.
•
 T
wo on-site childcare centers.•
 Ergonomics R
esources, including standing desks and 
chairs, to assist in creating the most effective and comfortable work environment.
•
 Onsite fitness centers that are available to most employees, along with fitness classes held throughout the year
.
•
 R
educed memberships to private gym facilities throughout 
the U.S. to accommodate our remote employees.
•
 Multiple employee health care facilities, known as the A
flac 
Care Clinics, that offer sick care, health coaching, health assessments, and more.
•
 The Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which 
helps 
employees cope with some of life’s struggles including substance abuse, family matters, marital concerns, as well as financial and legal problems.
•
 Financial coaching to help manage budgetary commitments, meet financial goals, protect against risks, save for contingencies or future needs lik
e college or 
retirement and cope with financial shocks.
We believe in a comprehensive 
approach to wellness, which encompasses four dimensions: physical, emotional, social and financial.Human Capital Management
We know doing the right thing is good for business, and we do that every day by investing first in our Aflac 
family. In both Japan and the United States, the Company strives to develop an engaged employee culture by supporting career development, emphasizing work/life balance, listening to our employees feedback and ideas, and ensuring we show our appreciation for their hard work. Our overarching human capital philosophy is, “If you take care of your employees, your employees will take care of the business.”Social
45
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL At Aflac, we understand that healthy employees are an integral 
piece of our success as an organization, and by focusing on our employees’ well-being, we are creating business value, improving productivity, retaining talent, and more. Our commitment to wellness is just one way we strive to create a highly effective and engaged workplace. When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, it became clear that our employees’ well-being was even more critical and presented an opportunity for our company to augment our well-being offerings. In response to these challenges, Aflac worked to prioritize employee wellness by providing employees flexible work arrangements, placing more focus on employees’ mental health, creating safe and responsible reopening plans based on CDC guidance, and more.
Employee Appreciation
Our core philosophy of caring for our employees is central to why Aflac places such an emphasis on engagement and appreciation. Throughout each year, the C ompany offers a 
variety of events and activities to celebrate our employees. For example, our Aflac Feathers program allows employees to recognize their peers and leaders by nominating them when they go above and beyond to uphold the seven commitments of the Aflac Way. By collecting points from these nominations, employees earn recognition and can redeem points for special items. Aflac employees also participate in an annual week-long 
traditional celebration and recognition of our employees — 
Employee Appreciation Week (EAW). In the U.S., EAW is held the first week of May, and includes a litany of daily activities such as daily drawings to games, entertainment, snacks and food, and community outreach opportunities. Every day of Employee Appreciation Week is designed to show employees how much Aflac appreciates them.
Employee Engagement
While celebrating our employees is important, it is not the only way to drive engagement. Aflac provides leaders with additional tools to acknowledge employees for extraordinary efforts. Other activities that drive engagement include our diversity council, volunteer opportunities in local communities where we operate and access to a variety of support resources including non-denominational faith leaders and a dedicated team of Employee Advocates, whose role is to be a support resource for employees.
In 2021, the overall employee engagement index score was 
84%, which was 3 points lower than the 2019 Aflac score while still being 11 points higher than the external global benchmarks. This survey is conducted every two years.Key Highlights
OVERALL ENGAGEMENT 
SCORE FOR 2021PARTICIPATION RATE
84% 
▲ 11 points above the 
external benchmark80%
EMPLOYEES WHO FEEL 
PROUD TO BE PART OF AFLACEMPLOYEES WHO RAREL Y THINK ABOUT LOOKING FOR A NEW JOB AT ANOTHER COMPANY
89% 71%
EQUIPPING FACTORS FOR EMPLOYEES SCORE EMPLOYEES WHO BELIEVE THAT AFLAC SHOWS A COMMITMENT TO ETHICAL BUSINESS DECISIONS AND CONDUCT
80%
▲ 5 points above the 
external benchmark89%
EMPLOYEES SATISFIED 
WITH AFLAC AS THEIR EMPLOYEREMPLOYEES WHO FEEL THAT AFLAC’S MANAGEMENT IS EFFECTIVE
89% 84%
▲ 7 points higher than the 
external benchmark
Aflac is active in our local communities and at the national level. The U.S. business regularly partners with civic leaders and other organizations to help develop and inform public policy that assure fair laws and diverse representation that can lead to meaningful change.
46
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL TEACH mentors are leaders across the organization who 
volunteer for a six-month program to mentor employees. Mentors and mentees are “matched” for the program based on career alignment and development focus. The program offers organized activities and encourages the pairs to build a working relationship that goes beyond the length of the formal program. Talent Development
At Aflac, we know our human capital is our greatest competitive advantage. Employee development is a core focus, with programs and offerings designed to support skill building and development of all our employees.  
Career Success Centers
Aflac offers career support services to employees across the U.S. through its Career Success Centers. U.S. employees can meet with career consultants who provide mentoring, coaching, résumé writing support, mock interviews, career consultations, exam proctoring and talent assessments.
Mentoring
The mission of Aflac’s  mentoring program, TEACH, is to excite and empower employees to pursue self-development and provide an opportunity to tap into useful skills and experiences of others for growth and development. TEACH allows employees to “teach what they know and to learn what they don’t.”
“We work hard each day to
celebrate and cultivate adiverse culture where ouremployees have the chance todevelop professionally andpersonally. It’s not just the rightthing to do, but when thathappens, it means that wemirror the communities in whichwe live. It is truly the outwardmanifestation of our values.”
—  K eyla Cabret-Lewis
  DIRECT OR OF AFLAC DIVERSITY,  
EQUITY AND INCLUSION
47
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Workforce: Aflac Japan
Employee Wellness and  
Work/Life Management
The Company encourages employees to keep a healthy mind 
and body. As part of our commitment, Aflac Japan provides many tools and resources such as walking campaigns, online seminars to improve health literacy, lifestyle-related improvement efforts such as smoking cessation support, promotion of cancer screening, establishment of employment support system, and other activities to help employees stay healthy.
As a result, Aflac Japan is certified as a Health and 
Productivity Management Organization by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the fourth consecutive year. This certification is awarded for best practices in employee health management, strategically focused work style and development of a socially appreciative work environment.
Aflac Japan offers an on-site childcare center and provides 
support for different parenting stages: before prenatal, during childbirth/child care leave, and balancing work and parental responsibilities.Employee Engagement,  
Training and Development
We think it is important for Aflac Japan to strengthen employee engagement so that employees can be enthusiastic about their organization and their work and maximize their willingness to contribute. To that end, Aflac Japan conducts an employee engagement survey and implements improvements by leveraging a “plan, do, check, act” or (PDCA) cycle. According to the employee engagement survey conducted in 2021, Aflac Japan employees’ total engagement score exceeds the Japan average. In addition, Aflac Japan adopted a new human resources management system to realize “an environment in which diverse human resources can work autonomously, utilize and maximize their strengths, and form their own careers.” Aflac Japan provides employees with opportunities such as introductions for Career Development Plan (CDP), individual training, and human resources management training for all managers, as well as training through a variety of means including webinar and micro-learning to support the career development of employees. In addition, Aflac Japan is also developing a selective human resource development program to continue to strengthen the leadership pipeline.
Japan Work SMART
Aflac Japan promotes workstyle reform through its “Aflac Work SMART” initiative. 
This initiative aims to maximize organization-wide 
performance by supporting employee work-life balance through the development of systems and supporting infrastructure that allow each employee to review their own workstyle and achieve a way of working not limited by “time” or “place.”
S M A R T
See the Big 
PictureMaintain  
FocusAct with  
InitiativeRespect  
DialogueThink  
Time ValueThe Aflac Work SMART acronym stands for:
48
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Realizing a better balance between work and home:
Flexible schedules
Aflac Japan offers every employee a flexible work schedule 
through utilization of shift work and flex-time, as well as paid days-off on an hourly basis. For those utilizing child or nursing care, Aflac Japan offers reduced working hour system where eligible employees can choose work hours from ten options with a combination of shift work.
Aflac Japan provides a working system and environment that 
enables every employee to work from home. The Company provided all employees with notebook PCs, tablets, and smartphones so that they can easily access Aflac Japan’s internal systems from outside the office and work as if they were in the office while using the web conference system.
In order to maximize organizational results even as the impact 
of the COVID-19 continues, Aflac Japan has established Principles for Working with Corona” (i.e., working in the COVID-19 environment) to realize a hybrid work style that seeks to realize the best balance of on-site and remote work.In 2021, the Work SMART initiative contributed to workstyle reform across the Company.
•
  By promoting work styles that are not limited by place , 
Aflac Japan was able to maintain stable business 
operations even though over 50% of employees were working remotely.
•
 Managers and empl
oyees took 87% of their annual 
paid leave.
•
 100% of employees took their maternity or paternity leave
, 
when applicable.
Employee Appreciation
Aflac Japan’s Employee Appreciation Week is designed to celebrate and recognize the Company’s greatest assets its - employees! To coincide with the anniversary of Aflac Japan’s establishment, each November Aflac Japan holds its annual Employee Appreciation Week. From daily drawings to enjoying snacks, food and family events, Employee Appreciation Week is designed to show employees how much Aflac appreciates them each and every day.
During a panel discussion 
at the Aflac U.S. State of the Company meeting, President of Aflac U.S. Teresa White and Deputy President of Aflac U.S. Virgil Miller keep leaders and employees informed by sharing important information about initiatives and strategies.
49
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Our Workforce Diversity
In 2001, Our Chairman & CEO, Dan Amos, led the cause 
to create the first Diversity Council at Aflac. Though time has passed, our commitment to diversity continues to this day with over nine employee-led councils globally. Though time has passed, our commitment continues to this day. Our employees are the bedrock of our company and we greatly benefit from their diverse backgrounds, experiences and ideas.
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) has continued to be a key 
theme in the Aflac culture and is critical to our human capital strategy.  In the aftermath of 2020, we encountered various societal challenges and to help us navigate those challenges, we developed a social justice committee aimed at supporting various social causes through corporate donations, representation in governmental affairs, and employee action in our communities.  However, 2021 continued to be an area challenged in the social and political arena. It is during times like this that we lean on each other and recognize that we are stronger together. So in 2021, we expanded our DEI strategy and launched a global investments strategy that supports minority partners and identifies investments that drive DEI and support social justice. 74% of our donations impact underserved populations to include communities of color.
Our employees are the bedrock of our company and we 
greatly benefit from their diverse backgrounds, experiences and ideas. Ongoing efforts to advance fair representation in the workplace continued to drive positive change as we implemented mechanisms to better measure the representation of women and people of color in leadership at all levels. Recognizing that diversity and inclusion is a business imperative, in 2021, Aflac committed to employee (leadership) diversity goals with accountability.
At the highest levels of Aflac’s leadership and throughout our 
organization, we are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, just as we have for decades. Fostering diversity isn’t only the right approach to take; it also makes good business sense. In order to accomplish our goals and serve the communities where we have a presence, we must surround ourselves with people who bring different perspectives to the table.Our workforce represents the 
communities we serve
Aflac is also mindful of the communities in which we operate, 
striving to be reflective of their diversity and actively working to mirror it. We recognize that our success is often defined by what we do each and every day when others aren’t looking. It’s how we treat all people. It’s the opportunity we give to all people. It’s about how we embrace diversity and encourage dialogue and inclusiveness. We are committed to doing even better and to continuing to make a difference.
Over the years, we have brought this same inclusive spirit to 
Japan where we have boosted our diversity promotion efforts by increasing the number of women in leadership positions.
At Aflac, our commitment goes beyond talking about diversity 
to actions that foster equity and inclusion. It is reflected in the makeup of our workforce, the equity of our pay policies and the initiatives we continually undertake to make every person feel welcomed and valued. There is no doubt that we are building a stronger company, but we recognize there is more that we can do. Still, we believe we are on the right path.
At the highest levels of Aflac’s
 leadership and throughout our organization, we are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, just as we have for decades.
50
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL The Company’s corporate culture reflects its commitment to diversity and 
inclusion at all levels of the Company. For example, at the end of 2021:
EMPLOYEES  
WHO ARE WOMENWOMEN IN 
LEADERSHIP ROLES WOMEN IN MANAGER OR GENERAL  
MANAGER POSITIONS
56% 33% 23%
EMPLOYEES WHO  
ARE WOMENWOMEN IN LEADERSHIP ROLES SENIOR MANAGEMENT WHO ARE WOMEN
66% 49% 28%
EMPLOYEES WHO ARE PEOPLE OF COLOR PEOPLE OF COLOR IN LEADERSHIP ROLES SENIOR MANAGEMENT WHO ARE PEOPLE  OF COLOR
49% 30% 27%Aflac U.S.Aflac Japan
Aflac Japan’s goal is to further 
increase the percentage of women in manager or general manager positions by 2025.
Aflac U.S.’s goal is to increase 
diversity within senior management by 5% by 2026.
•
 Established in 2009
, Aflac Heartful Services Co., Ltd. (Aflac Heartful Services), a 
subsidiary of Aflac Japan, promotes the hiring of employees with disabilities. 
•
 A
flac Heartful Services has established a barrier-free work environment and 
provides, among other things, specialized training, specially-trained supervisors and development opportunities to support those with disabilities. 
•
 Of A
flac Heartful Services’ 145 employees as of December 31, 2021, 116 have 
a disability. 
•
 A
flac Heartful Services supports these employees with the assistance of advisors 
for long-term career support.Aflac Heartful 
Services Co., Ltd. 
• Both A flac Japan and Aflac U.S. have created diversity councils that include 
employees from various levels that meet regularly to discuss activities 
and initiatives. 
•
 The councils are designed to create avenues in which people can com
municate 
and appreciate one another’s differences.Diversity 
CouncilBoard of 
DirectorsWOMEN AND PEOPLE 
OF COLOR
64%
51
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL people leaders; professional coordinates most closely 
with individual contributors; Technicians coordinates most closely to hourly workers; Sales workers coordinates most closely with Aflac’s sales force; Administrative support coordinates most closely with specialist; Craft workers coordinates most closely with facilities consultants.
•
 A
flac is committed to global pay equity and uses ongoing 
analysis to ensure fair pay irrespective of gender or race/ethnicity. We will continue to perform pay equity assessments moving forward and close any identified gaps. Pay equity is defined as the average pay gap between employees of different genders or races/ethnicities in the same or similar roles after accounting for legitimate business factors that can explain differences in pay such as location, time at grade level, tenure, education, experience, among other considerations.
•
 In 2021, 375 job titles held by both men and women at A
flac U.S. were reviewed, accounting for 3,675 employees. 
Among those positions, the salary ratio (compensation for women relative to men) was at par: 99.5 %.
To learn more about the EEO-1 Report for 
Aflac U.S., click here .U.S. Employee Demographics
NEW HIRES
76% 
women64% 
people of color
At Aflac, we know that Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goes 
beyond EEO-1, which is a U.S. requirement. Nonetheless, we know that many investors want to see this data. In the spirit of the transparency, we at Aflac Incorporated are making the most recent report available. We expect to continue posting future reports in the same way after filing with U.S. Department of Labor.
•
 The pay data is collected from all A
flac U.S. employees and 
does not include global information.
•
 The job categories in the EEO-1 report are not reflective of 
our workforce or compensation system. EEO-1 job groups encompass a broad range of grade levels, job titles, technical and non-technical jobs. For reference
, Executive/
Senior Officials & Managers coordinates most closely to Aflac’s definition of senior management. First/Mid Officials & Managers coordinates most closely with Aflac’s 
52
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Aflac Japan Pay Equity
Aflac Japan has reformed its human capital management 
system and starting in 2021. A new system for management was introduced and from 2022 a new system for general employees was  established. Under the new system, jobs are assigned specific grades according to the respective position duties and responsibilities. Factors such as gender, age and race are not used in determining a job grade, and every job provides an equal opportunity for all employees. Aflac Japan’s total reward system provides competitive market-based compensation to acquire and retain talent. Aflac Japan’s Human Capital Management Policy Committee, which is led by the Aflac Japan president and consists of senior management, conducts annual monitoring of the Human Capital Management system for equity and fairness and evaluates job grades and compensation for consistency and adequacy.
Developing an inclusive workforce 
Through its Women’s Empowerment Program, Aflac Japan surpassed its goal of reaching 30% of women in leadership positions in 2020 (assistant manager or higher) one year ahead of schedule, and more progress is being made. Aflac Japan has now raised the bar and is on pace for a new target of 30% of manager or general manager positions to be filled by women by the end of 2025 and has achieved our target of 23% by the end of 2021 on schedule.
In Aflac U.S., there are a variety of offerings for women to 
grow in their development and careers. High potential senior level female leaders are selected to attend prestigious development programs in their specific fields or in general leadership. Along with this, specific functional areas have created development programs designed to build the pipeline of female leadership deeper in the organization.
Diversity Councils
In both the U.S. and Japan, we have created diversity councils that include employees from various levels that meet each quarter to discuss activities and initiatives. The councils are designed to create avenues in which people can communicate and appreciate one another’s differences.
Heartful Services
Established in 2009, Aflac Heartful Services Co., Ltd. (Aflac Heartful Services), a special subsidiary of Aflac Japan, promotes the hiring of employees with disabilities. Aflac Heartful Services has established a work environment and provides, among other things, specialized training, specially- trained supervisors and development opportunities to support those with disabilities. In addition, with or without a disability, it offers job assistance for those who have experienced pediatric cancer.  In recognition of these efforts in promoting and stabilizing the employment of people with disabilities, Aflac Heartful Services has been certified by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) under its “system for certifying outstanding small and medium-sized business operators regarding the employment of persons with disabilities (Monisu System)” in November 2021. Of Aflac Heartful Services’ 145 employees as of December 31, 2021, 116 have a disability and five experienced pediatric cancer. Aflac Heartful Services supports these employees with the assistance of advisors for long-term career support.
Aflac Japan communicates the 
importance of promoting diversity to society by participating in various events and speaking at lectures. Yoko Kijima, Director, Executive Vice President, giving a lecture at Jissen Girls’ Academy High School in December, 2021, on the theme of “Women and Career Development.”
53
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Philanthropy
Caring for others is at the core of Aflac’s culture, and 2021 
was no exception. While supporting our customers every day, we still dedicated time and energy to making a difference in our communities.
Aflac Cancer and  
Blood Disorders Center
Since 1995, the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta has become nationally renowned as one of the leading childhood cancer, hematology, and blood and marrow transplant programs in the United States. With innovative research programs and cutting-edge treatment options, the five-year survival rate for childhood cancer has improved dramatically, from 20% in 1965 to greater than 80% today. This worthwhile cause is very near and dear to the heart of the Aflac family, including the Aflac Foundation, Inc., our executives, employees and the field force, whose generous contributions help to provide a steady flow of funding for research. In total, Aflac’s contributions to the Aflac Cancer Center have exceeded the $157 million mark. This generosity has greatly contributed to the Aflac Cancer Center’s success and distinction in research, which has earned the Aflac Cancer Center recognition as one of the top pediatric cancer programs in the United States by U.S. News and World Report. Aflac’s commitment is not only positively impacting kids with childhood cancer, but also those with rare blood disorders, including sickle cell disease – a disease that is not widely known or understood.
The inspiration for Aflac’s efforts to help address challenges 
brought on by sickle cell disease, in relation to larger disparities in pediatric health care, are largely centered on the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta: The Aflac Cancer Center is the most prolific provider of sickle cell disease care in the United States, caring for nearly 2,000 pediatric patients each year and regularly performing – blood and marrow transplants (BMTs). In 2020, it was rated No. 1 in the nation for total sickle cell disease discharges in 2020 with 2,000-plus total patient visits according to the Public Health Information System Data.
Aflac Parents House
A large part of being a well-respected and trusted company includes being a compassionate and socially responsible company. Aflac Japan recognizes that social responsibility is an essential element of our purpose. As a company, the Aflac Japan family cares deeply about our communities, and it is our privilege to help where we can. When a child is diagnosed with cancer or other serious medical conditions, he or she often must travel to Tokyo or Osaka from other parts of Japan to receive treatment, which is often an ongoing process. To help provide a level of assistance, the first Aflac Parents House, which was established in 2001 through a donation from Aflac Japan serves as a home-away-from-home where pediatric patients and their families can temporarily live together while they support their child’s battle with cancer or numerous other serious illnesses. The Aflac Parents House is also utilized as a comprehensive support center for consultation and events related to pediatric cancer. When a child is diagnosed with cancer or other serious 
medical conditions, he or she often must travel to Tokyo or Osaka from other parts of Japan to receive treatment, which is often an ongoing process. To help provide a level of assistance, 
the first Aflac Parents House, which was established in 2001 through a donation from Aflac Japan serves as a home-away-from-home where pediatric patients and their families can  
temporarily live together while they support their child’s battle with cancer or numerous other serious illnesses.
SAWYER AND SAXTON’S STORY
54
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL In memory of Jean Amos, who passed away in 
November 2019, Aflac Japan has renovated the Parents House and established the Amos Room with memorial donations from Aflac Japan executives, employees, group companies and sales agents.
In addition, many executives, employees, group companies, 
and sales agents support the operation of Parents House by donating hygiene products and daily necessities so that children and their families can stay in the building with peace of mind even as concerns over COVID-19 infection continue.Cancer Awareness Classroom
Aflac recognizes the duty and responsibility that comes with being the pioneer and leading company for cancer insurance. As the pioneer of cancer insurance, consumers have placed their trust in our company and our products. We work hard each day to be good stewards of that trust. At Aflac Japan, for example, in cooperation with all 47 prefectures, we actively educate people about cancer prevention and the importance of early detection. For example, in the Tokyo suburb of Chofu City, where Aflac Japan has  major operations, the Company 
cooperates with the local government to provide cancer education and developed cancer classes for all junior high 
schools in the city. In December 2021, Aflac Japan co-hosted a cancer screening awareness seminar with Chofu City on Aflac Japan’s official YouTube channel, with the aim of spreading a correct understanding of cancer screening.
The Aflac Parents House is
also used as a comprehensivesupport center for consultationand events related topediatric cancer.
55
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Aflac Japan All Ribbons 
Aflac strives not only to provide peace of mind to our 
policyholders, but also compassionate help to our employees. With that in mind, in 2017, Aflac Japan pioneered a volunteer peer-based employee community called “All Ribbons” for employees who have experienced cancer. The name was chosen to reflect the wish of community members to support each other and their Aflac colleagues who have experienced various types of cancer. The All Ribbons group members provide support to fellow employees battling cancer and struggling to balance treatment and work. All Ribbons participants are provided with opportunities to share their unique experiences battling cancer, including tips for remaining balanced in their work life. Employee consulting services are also provided. In addition to these support activities, the All Ribbons group also hosts panel discussions which often take place at the “All Ribbons Café which is a meeting place for employees where cancer services information is available.
Volunteering 
Aflac’s steadfast philanthropic initiatives and volunteerism are grounded in “leaving our duckprints.” In the U.S., employees and independent sales agents have donated more than $157 million to support pediatric cancer research and treatment and the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center through 2021.
In Japan, we support those facing childhood cancer through 
initiatives such as the Aflac Parents House, where children being treated for diseases such as childhood cancer and their families can stay at a low price; scholarships for high school students who have lost their parents to cancer or who have experienced childhood cancer themselves; and supports the Gold Ribbon activities and more, including initiatives to improve the cancer screening rate in Japan.My Special Aflac Duck® 
In Japan and the U.S., Aflac Incorporated believes in doing good for future generations. That takes shape in many ways within the Aflac family, but most prominently in our dedication to children and families facing childhood cancer. We know it takes more than medicine to help children cope with cancer. That’s why Aflac delivers My Special Aflac Duck free of charge to children in the U.S., Japan and Northern Ireland to assist them as they undergo cancer treatments. It’s an investment – for the children, their families and their futures.
In addition to supporting the treatment and research of 
childhood cancer, Aflac wanted to do more. We wanted to give children with cancer something they could literally hold on to… something that would give them joy and help them on their journey. Aflac delivered on this commitment in 2018 with My Special Aflac Duck, our smart comforting companion that helps children feel less alone by using interactive technology during their cancer treatment. A compatible web-based app enables children to mirror their care routines, including medical play, lifelike movement and emotions to engage and help bring comfort to children during their cancer care journey. Ultimately, My Special Aflac Duck helps kids recognize that they’re not alone in their lived experience; creates positive associations with the treatment regimens to inspire adherence both in and out of the home; and provides coping mechanisms anytime, anywhere, for anyone.
Each year, more than 15,000 children are diagnosed with 
cancer in the United States, and Aflac’s goal is to gift each newly diagnosed child in the United States, age three and up, his or her very own My Special Aflac Duck completely free of charge. Through the Aflac Childhood Cancer Campaign, Aflac Cancer Center, and now, My Special Aflac Duck, Aflac is committed to providing support, hope, time and resources to children with cancer. 
Sawyer Guillory was born with
 sickle cell disease and received his twin brother Saxton’s bone marrow as his cure. Both were part of Aflac’s pilot program in 2021 to provide a new version of My Special Aflac Duck to children with sickle cell disease.
56
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL The Guillory family is grateful that both of their sons, Saxton 
and Sawyer, are now healthy. About her twins and her family’s experience, Shea Guillory said, “Saxton and Sawyer are two peas in a pod. They were born together; they were ‘wombmates.’ Sawyer was literally born with his cure. When they informed me that Sawyer had sickle cell anemia, I was devastated; I was at a loss for words. The doctors told me that we needed the best care for Saxton, which is how we came to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. Saxton was Sawyer’s bone marrow transplant donor. He went through the surgery and the procedure with his brother. The level of care that my son received at this hospital it’s hard to describe. It means so much to me. Sawyer and Saxton received a My Special Aflac Duck, and Sawyer named his duck ‘Daxton’ after his twin brother. I am in love and in awe with everything about the Aflac Duck. It helps to give kids a way to express themselves. It’s a wonderful tool, and I think the more patients that have the opportunity to be able to use it, I think it would help them tremendously.”
My Special Aflac Duck®, the caring robotic companion 
that has already helped more than 13,000 kids cope with cancer, is finding some new friends. In early 2022, Aflac U.S. expanded the reach of its award-winning My Special Aflac Duck program to include children with blood disorders such as sickle cell disease. Housed in custom packaging, these new duck accessories tailored especially to help children with blood disorders such as sickle cell cope with their unique care routines include a warm blanket, port-IV adapter and a new digital experience on the accompanying free app. Healthcare providers can visit myspecialaflacduck.com for more information and to request My Special Aflac Ducks for their pediatric patients with cancer and sickle cell disease.Cancer Survivor Support
Aflac Japan believes that society needs “open counseling spaces” that accept and mentally support the anxiety and loneliness of people who have experienced cancer so that they can feel like themselves.  Aflac Japan supports this effort through donations.
Maggie’s Tokyo
Provide a place where people who have experienced cancer , 
their families and friends can relax just by visiting us and regain their strength through nursing and psychological support.
Gen-chan House
Located in Kanazawa City, Ishikawa Prefecture, a place where people with cancer and their families can connect with people in the same situation and medical professionals.
In the U.S., more than
10,000  
volunteer hours 
were logged by 173 employees in 2021.
57
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Red Cross
In 2021, Aflac contributed $400,000 to the American Red 
Cross: $250,000 for Hurricane Ida relief and $150,000 for Southern and Midwest Tornado relief.
United Way
Through employee, retiree, and corporate contributions, in 
2021, Aflac donated more than $1,283,792 to United Way to support local communities where employees work and live.
Aflac Japan employees 
fundraise for important causes, including the Aflac Parents House locations.
58
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX INVESTMENTS SOCIAL Appendix
ESG Reporting Index (GRI, SASB, TCFD and UN SDGs)
Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Name of the organizationa.
  Name of the organization. A flac Incorporated 102-1
Activities, brands, products, and servicesa. 
 A description of the organization
’s 
activities.
b.
 Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain mark
ets.About Aflac Incorporated, page 1
About Aflac, pages 7-212021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business, pages 2-11102-2 FN-IN-000.A 
FN-IN-410a.1 FN-IN-410b.1 FN-IN-410b.2
Location of headquartersa.
 L
ocation of the organization’s 
headquarters.Aflac Worldwide Headquarters, 1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, GA, U.S.102-3
Location of operationsa.
 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report.About A
flac Incorporated, 
page 1
About Aflac, pages 7-212021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business, pages 2-9102-4
Ownership and legal forma.
 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2021 Form 10-K:
 Item 1. 
Business - Overview, page 2102-5
Markets served a.
 Mark
ets served, including:
i.
 geographic locations where products and services are offered;
ii.
 sectors served;
iii.
 types of customers and beneficiaries.About A
flac Incorporated, 
page 1
About Aflac, pages 7-212021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business, pages 2-9102-6
Scale of the organizationa.
 Scale of the organization, including:
i.
 total number of employees;
ii.
 total number of operations;
iii.
 net sales (for private sector 
organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations);
iv
.
 total capitalization (for private sector organizations) brok
en down in terms 
of debt and equity;
v.
 quantity of products or services provided.About A
flac, pages 7-21
Financial Highlights,  pages 22-25
2021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business - Human Capital, page 9102-7
59
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Information on employees and other workersa.
 T
otal number of employees by 
employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender.
b.
 T
otal number of employees by 
employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region.
c.
 T
otal number of employees by 
employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender.
d.
 Whether a significant portion of the organization
’s activities are performed 
by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees.
e.
 Any 
significant variations in the numbers 
reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c(such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries).
f.
 An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made
.About Aflac U.S. and Aflac Japan, page 7102-8
Supply chain a. A description of the organization’s supply 
chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services.Aflac Supplier Information 102-9
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chaina.
 Significant changes to the organization
’s 
size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including:
i.
 Changes in the location of
, or 
changes in, operations, including 
facility openings, closings, and expansions;
ii.
 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance
, and alteration 
operations (for private sector organizations);
iii.
 Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination.A
flac Supplier Information 102-10
Statement from senior decision-makera.
 A statement from the most senior decision-mak
er of the organization 
(such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability.A Message from Daniel P. Amos, Aflac Incorporated Chairman and CEO, pages 2-3102-14
Key impacts, risks, and opportunitiesa.
 A description of k
ey impacts, risks, and 
opportunities.2021 Form 10-K: Item 1A. Risk Factors, pages 13-27102-15 2019 TCFD Report: Strategy and risk management, pages 4-10
Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviora.
 A description of the organization
’s 
values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior.The Aflac Way after cover, 2021 Business & Sustainability Report102-16
60
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsa.
 A description of internal and external mechanisms for:
i.
 seeking advice about ethical and 
lawful behavior
, and organizational 
integrity;
ii.
 reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior
, and 
organizational integrity.Governance - Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, pages 32-34102-17
Governance structurea.
 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body
.
b.
 Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics.Governance
, pages 30-31
2021 Proxy Statement: Our Board and Committees, pages 12-20102-18 2019 TCFD Report: Governance, page 2
Composition of the highest governance body and its committeesa.
 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by:
i.
 ex
ecutive or non-executive;
ii.
 
independence;
iii.
 tenure on the governance body;
iv
.
 number of each individual’
s 
other significant positions and 
commitments, and the nature of the commitments;
v.
 
gender;
vi.
 membership of under-represented social groups;
vii.
 competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics;
v
iii. 
stakeholder representation.Governance, page 31
2021 Proxy Statement: Proxy 
Summary, pages ix-x; Board Composition, pages 2-8102-22
Chair of the highest governance bodya.
 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an ex
ecutive 
officer in the organization.
b.
 If the chair is also an ex
ecutive officer, 
describe his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement.2021 Proxy Statement: Our Board and Committees - Board Leadership Structure, page 12102-23
Nominating and selecting the highest governance bodya.
 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees.
b
.
 Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including whether and how:
i.
 stak
eholders (including 
shareholders) are involved;
ii.
 diversity is considered;
iii.
 independence is considered;
iv
.
 expertise and experience relating to 
economic, environmental, and social topics are considered.2021 Proxy S
tatement: 
Board Composition - Director Nominating Process, pages 9-10102-24
Conflicts of interesta. 
 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed.
b
.
 Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stak
eholders, including, as 
a minimum:
i.
 Cross-board membership;
ii.
 Cross-shareholding with suppliers 
and other stak
eholders;
iii.
 Existence of controlling shareholder;
iv
.
 R
elated party disclosures.Aflac Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
2021 Proxy Statement: Related 
Person Transactions, pages 64-65102-25
61
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategya.
 Highest governance body’
s and 
senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics.Governance, pages 30-34 102-26 2019 TCFD Report: Governance, page 2
Evaluating the highest governance body’s performancea.
 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’
s performance with 
respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics.
b.
 Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency
.
c.
 Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.
d.
 Actions tak
en in response to 
evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice.2021 Proxy Statement: Board Composition - Board Self-Evaluation, pages 10-11102-28
Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impactsa.
 Highest governance body’
s role in 
identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including its role in the implementation of due diligence processes.
b.
 Whether stak
eholder consultation is 
used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities.Governance - Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, pages 32-34102-29
Effectiveness of risk management processesa.
 Highest governance body’
s role in 
reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics.2021 Proxy Statement: Board Responsibilities - Enterprise-Wide Risk Oversight - Audit and Risk Committee, page 21
Governance - Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, pages 32-34102-30
Review of economic, environmental, and social topicsa.
 Frequency of the highest governance body’
s review of economic, 
environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities.Aflac Incorporated's Board Committees, page 31102-31
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reportinga.
 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization
’s sustainability report 
and ensures that all material topics are covered.2021 Proxy Statement: Board Responsibilities - Commitment to Social Responsibility and Sustainability, page 23102-32
Communicating critical concernsa.
 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body
.2021 Proxy Statement: Board Responsibilities - Communications with Directors, page 24102-33
62
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Remuneration policiesa. 
 R
emuneration policies for the highest 
governance body and senior executives for the following types of remuneration:
i.
 Fix
ed pay and variable pay, including 
performance-based pay, equity-
based pay, bonuses, and deferred or vested shares;
ii.
 Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments;
iii.
 T
ermination payments;
iv.
 
Clawbacks;
v.
 R
etirement benefits, including the 
difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees.
b.
 How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’
s and senior 
executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics.2021 Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, pages 24-26; Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 29-49102-35
Process for determining remunerationa.
 Process for determining remuneration.
b
.
 Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management.
c.
 Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants have with the organization.2021 Proxy S
tatement: Director 
Compensation, pages 24-26; Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 29-49102-36
Stakeholders’ involvement in remunerationa.
 How stak
eholders’ views are sought 
and taken into account regarding remuneration.
b.
 If applicable
, the results of votes on 
remuneration policies and proposals.2021 Proxy Statement: Board Responsibilities - Shareholder Outreach, pages 23-24102-37
Annual total compensation ratioa.
 R
atio of the annual total compensation 
for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.2021 Proxy Statement: CEO Pay Ratio, pages 60-61102-38
Reporting period a.
 R
eporting period for the information 
provided.About This Report, pages 5-6 102-50
Date of most recent reporta.
 If applicable
, the date of the most recent 
previous report.About This Report, pages 5-6 102-51
Reporting cycle a.
 R
eporting cycle. Annual 102-52
Contact point for questions regarding the reporta.
 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.About This R
eport, pages 5-6 102-53
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standardsa.
 The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI S
tandards, either:
i.
 ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI S
tandards: 
Core option’;
ii.
 ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI S
tandards: 
Comprehensive option’.About This Report, pages 5-6 102-54
63
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
GRI content indexa. 
 The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI S
tandards used and 
lists all disclosures included in the report.
b.
 For each disclosure
, the content index 
shall include:
i.
 the number of the disclosure (for 
disclosures covered by the GRI S
tandards);
ii.
 the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials;
iii.
 if applicable
, and where permitted, 
the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made.ESG Reporting Index, page 59 102-55
External assuranceThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.
 A description of the organization
’s 
policy and current practice with regard 
to seeking external assurance for the report.
b.
 If the report has been externally assured:
i. 
 A reference to the external 
assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process;
ii.
 The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior ex
ecutives are involved in 
seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report.About This Report, pages 5-6 102-56
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Direct economic value generated and distributeda.
  Direct economic value generated and distributed (EV 
G&D) on an accruals 
basis, including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting the following basic components:
i.
 Direct economic value generated: 
revenues;
ii.
 Economic value distributed: operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital, payments to government by country
, and community 
investments;
iii.
 Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’
.
b.
 Where significant, report EV
G&D 
separately at country, regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for defining significance.About Aflac, page 7
Financial Highlights,  
pages 22-25201-1
64
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate changea.
 Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue
, or expenditure, 
including:
i.
 a description of the risk or 
opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory
, or other;
ii.
 a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity;
iii.
 the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is tak
en;
iv.
 the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity;
v
.
 the costs of actions tak
en to manage 
the risk or opportunity.2019 TCFD Report: Strategy and risk management, pages 4-10 Investments and Venture Capital, pages 36-38
2021 Form 10-K: Item 7: 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investments, pages 51-55
2022 Sustainability Bond 
Report: Sustainability Bond Framework Summary, page 4201-2 FN-IN-410a.1 
FN-IN-410a.2 FN-IN-450a.3 FN-IN-410b.22019 TCFD Report: Strategy and risk management, pages 4-10
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plansThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.
 If the plan
’s liabilities are met by the 
organization’s general resources, the 
estimated value of those liabilities.
b.
 If a separate fund exists to pay the plan
’s 
pension liabilities:
i.
 the extent to which the scheme
’s 
liabilities are estimated to be covered 
by the assets that have been set aside to meet them;
ii.
 the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at;
iii.
 when that estimate was made
.
c.
 If a fund set up to pay the plan
’s pension 
liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage.
d. 
 P
ercentage of salary contributed by 
employee or employer.
e.
 L
evel of participation in retirement plans, 
such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional, or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact.Aflac Employee Benefits Guide 201-3
65
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ENERGY
Energy consumption within the organizationa.
  T otal fuel consumption within the 
organization from non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used.
b. 
 T
otal fuel consumption within the 
organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used.
c.
 In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
i.
 electricity consumption
ii.
 heating consumption
iii.
 cooling consumption
iv
.
 steam consumption
d.
 In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the 
total:
i.
 electricity sold
ii.
 heating sold
iii.
 cooling sold
iv
.
 steam sold
e
. 
 T
otal energy consumption within the 
organization, in joules or multiples.
f.  S
tandards, methodologies, assumptions, 
and/or calculation tools used.
g.
 Source of the conversion factors used.Climate Risk Management, 
page 
42302-1
Reduction of energy consumptiona.
  Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples.
b
.
 T
ypes of energy included in the 
reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all.
c.
 Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline
, including the rationale for 
choosing it.
d.
 S
tandards, methodologies, assumptions, 
and/or calculation tools used.Climate Risk Management - Energy Conservation/Efficiency and Green Buildings, page 42302-4 2019 TCFD Report: Strategy and risk management - Corporate efforts to reduce operational GHG emissions, pages 8-9
EMISSIONS
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissionsa.
  Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO
2 equivalent.
b.
 Gases included in the calculation; whether CO
2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, or all.
c.
 Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent.
d.
 Base year for the calculation, if applicable
, including:
i.
 the rationale for choosing it;
ii.
 emissions in the base year;
iii.
 the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions.
e
. 
 Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (G
WP) rates 
used, or a reference to the GWP source.
f.
 Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share
, financial control, 
or operational control.
g.
 S
tandards, methodologies, assumptions, 
and/or calculation tools used.Climate Risk Management, page 42305-1
66
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissionsa.
 Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO
2 equivalent.
b.
 If applicable
, gross market-based 
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO
2 
equivalent.
c.
 If available
, the gases included in the 
calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.
d.
 Base year for the calculation, if applicable
, including:
i.
 the rationale for choosing it;
ii.
 emissions in the base year;
iii.
 the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions.
e
.
 Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (G
WP) rates 
used, or a reference to the GWP source.
f.
 Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share
, financial control, 
or operational control.
g.
 S
tandards, methodologies, assumptions, 
and/or calculation tools used.Climate Risk Management, page 42305-2
Reduction of GHG emissionsa.
  GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO
2 equivalent.
b.
 Gases included in the calculation; whether CO
2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, or all.
c.
 Base year or baseline
, including the 
rationale for choosing it.
d.
 Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3).
e
.
 S
tandards, methodologies, assumptions, 
and/or calculation tools used.Climate Risk Management - Energy Conservation/Efficiency and Green Buildings, page 42305-5 FN-IN-410b.1 
FN-IN-410b.22019 TCFD Report: Strategy and risk management - Greenhouse gas reductions and goals, pages 9-10
67
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
WASTE
Waste by type and disposal methoda.
  T otal weight of hazardous waste, with 
a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable:
i.
 
Reuse
ii.
 
Recycling
iii.
 
Composting
iv.
 R
ecovery, including energy recovery
v.
 Incineration (mass burn)
vi. 
 Deep well injection
vii.
 
Landfill
viii.
 
On-site storage
ix. 
 Other (to be specified by the 
organization)
b
.
 T
otal weight of non-hazardous waste, 
with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable:
i.
 
Reuse
ii.
 
Recycling
iii.
 
Composting
iv.
 R
ecovery, including energy recovery
v.
 Incineration (mass burn)
vi.
 Deep well injection
vii.
 
Landfill
viii.
 
On-site storage
ix.
 Other (to be specified by the 
organization)
c.
 How the waste disposal method has been determined:
i.
 Disposed of directly by the 
organization, or otherwise directly confirmed
ii.
 Information provided by the waste disposal contractor
iii.
 Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractorOther Environmental Issues - W
aste Prevention and 
Reduction, pages 43-44306-2
EMPLOYMENT
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employeesa.
  Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include
, as a minimum:
i.
 life insurance;
ii.
 health care;
iii.
 disability and invalidity coverage;
iv
.
 parental leave;
v
.
 retirement provision;
vi.
 stock ownership;
vii.
 
others.
b.
 The definition used for ‘
significant 
locations of operation’.Aflac Employee Benefits Guide 401-2
68
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Parental leave a.
 T
otal number of employees that were 
entitled to parental leave, by gender.
b.
 T
otal number of employees that took 
parental leave, by gender.
c.
 T
otal number of employees that 
returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender.
d.
 T
otal number of employees that 
returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender.
e.
 R
eturn to work and retention rates of 
employees that took parental leave, by gender.Aflac Employee Benefits Guide 401-3
Promotion of worker healtha.
  An explanation of how the organization facilitates work 
ers’ access to non-
occupational medical and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided.
b.
 A description of any voluntary health promotion services and programs offered to work
ers to address major 
non-work-related health risks, including the specific health risks addressed, and how the organization facilitates workers’ access to these services and programs.Human Capital Management - Workforce: Aflac U.S. - Employee Wellness and Work/Life Balance, page 45
Human Capital Management 
- Workforce: Aflac Japan - Employee Wellness and Work/Life Management, page 48
2021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business - Human Capital - Health and Wellness, page 10403-6
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Programs for 
upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programsa.
 T
ype and scope of programs 
implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills.
b.
 T
ransition assistance programs provided 
to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.Human Capital Management - Workforce: Aflac U.S. - Talent Development, page 47
Human Capital Management 
- Workforce: Aflac U.S. - Mentoring, page 47
Human Capital Management 
- Workforce: Aflac Japan - Employee Engagement, Training and Development, page 48
2021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business - Human Capital, pages 9-10404-2
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
Diversity of governance bodies and employeesa.
  P ercentage of individuals within the 
organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories:
i.
 
Gender;
ii.
 Age group: under 30 years old, 30-
50 years old, over 50 years old;
iii.
 Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups).
b
.
 P
ercentage of employees per employee 
category in each of the following diversity categories:
i.
 
Gender;
ii.
 Age group: under 30 years old, 30-
50 years old, over 50 years old;
iii.
 Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups).Governance
 , page 31
Human Capital Management - Our Workforce Diversity, pages 50-52
2021 Form 10-K: Item 1. 
Business - Human Capital - Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, pages 10-11405-1
69
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Disclosure Title/ 
Description Reporting RequirementsDisclosure Information  and/or LocationGRI  Disclosure SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to mena.
 R
atio of the basic salary and 
remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation.
b.
 The definition used for ‘
significant 
locations of operation’.Human Capital Management - Our Workforce Diversity - Aflac 2020 EEO-1 pay disclosure, page 52405-2
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
New suppliers that were screened using social criteriaa.
  P ercentage of new suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria.Aflac Supplier Information 414-1
PUBLIC POLICY
Political contributionsa.
  T otal monetary value of financial and in-
kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary.
b.
 If applicable
, how the monetary value of 
in-kind contributions was estimated.Political Activity Report, page 37415-1
MARKETING AND LABELING
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communicationsa.
  T otal number of incidents of non-
compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by:
i.
 incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
ii.
 incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;
iii.
 incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.
b
.
 If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.Providing Customers with T
ransparent, Accurate and 
Up-to-Date Information, page 33-34417-3 FN-IN-270a.1 
FN-IN-270a.4
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dataa.
  T otal number of substantiated 
complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by:
i.
 complaints received from outside 
parties and substantiated by the organization;
ii. 
 complaints from regulatory bodies.
b
.
 T
otal number of identified leaks, thefts, 
or losses of customer data.
c.
 If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.Protecting Our Customers and Data with Cybersecurity
, 
page 35418-1
70
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Board of Directors
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Aflac IncorporatedW. Paul Bowers 
Chairman, ret. President and Chief Executive Officer, Georgia Power Co.Toshihiko Fukuzawa 
Deputy President, Representative Director, Chuo-Nittochi Group Co., Ltd., Chuo-Nittochi Co., Ltd.
Thomas J. Kenny
Former Partner and Co-Head of Global Fixed Income, Goldman Sachs Asset ManagementGeorgette D. Kiser 
Operating Executive, The Carlyle GroupKarole F. Lloyd
Certified Public Accountant and Retired Ernst & Young LLP Audit Partner
Nobuchika Mori
Representative Director, Japan Financial and Economic Research Co. Ltd.Joseph L. Moskowitz
Retired Executive Vice President, Primerica, Inc.Barbara K. Rimer, DrPH
Dean and Alumni Distinguished Professor, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Katherine T. Rohrer 
Vice Provost Emeritus, Princeton UniversityMelvin T. Stith
Dean Emeritus of the Martin J. Whitman  
School of Management at Syracuse University
 
Executive Leadership
Daniel P. Amos 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Aflac IncorporatedFrederick J. Crawford 
President and Chief Operating Officer, Aflac IncorporatedMax K. Brodén 
Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated
Charles D. Lake II
President, Aflac International
Chairman and Representative Director, 
Aflac Life Insurance JapanMasatoshi Koide 
President and Representative Director, Aflac Life Insurance JapanTeresa L. White 
President, Aflac U.S.
Koichiro Yoshizumi
Deputy President and Director of Sales and Marketing, Aflac Life Insurance JapanEric M. Kirsch
Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer, President, Aflac Global InvestmentsAudrey Boone Tillman 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Aflac Incorporated
J. Todd Daniels
Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Life Insurance JapanTohru Futami
Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Transformation Officer, Chief Digital Information Officer, Aflac Life Insurance JapanYoko Kijima
Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Life Insurance Japan
Virgil R. Miller
Deputy President, Aflac U.S.Shigehiro Kuwabara
Director, Vice Chairman, Aflac Life Insurance Japan
71
2021 BUSINESS & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
ABOUT AFLAC FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTSESG 
HIGHLIGHTSENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE INVESTMENTS APPENDIX Corporate Headquarters
Aflac Worldwide Headquarters 
1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, GA 31999706.323.3431
Stock Listing
New York Stock Exchange  Ticker Symbol: AFL
Annual Meeting
May 2, 2022, 10:00 a.m. ET
Reports Available to Shareholders 
Annual Reports, this Report, and Proxy Statements are posted here and SEC Filings, including form 10-K can be found here.
Independent Registered  
Public Accounting Firm
KPMG LLP
Investor Relations
Investors seeking to learn more about Aflac Incorporated may do so by visiting investors.aflac.com
BY TELEPHONE: 
800.235.2667 or 706.596.3264
BY EMAIL: 
aflacir@aflac.com
For information or assistance regarding individual 
stock records, dividend reinvestment, dividend payments, dividend tax forms, or direct deposits of dividend payments, contact Shareholder Services at any of the following:
BY TELEPHONE:
800.227.4756 or 706.596.3581
BY MAIL:
Shareholder Services Aflac Incorporated 1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, GA 31999
BY EMAIL: 
shareholder@broadridge.com or shareholder@aflac.com
ON THE INTERNET:Aflac Incorporated’s Shareholder Service Forms https://shareholder.broadridge.com/aflac1932 Wynnton Road
Columbus, GA 31999800-992-3522investors.aflac.com
