2020 Sustainability Report
Forward-looking statements
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the safe harbor 
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-
looking statements are based on management’s reasonable expectations and 
assumptions as of the date of this report and are not guarantees of future 
performance. Actual performance may differ materially from projections and 
estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors, 
including, without limitation, the risk factors described in the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2020. Except 
as required by law, the Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to 
update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect 
any change in the assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, 
conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements 
are based.Please note: Photos depicting individuals 
not wearing the proper COVID-19 Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE), or in close  
proximity to one another, were taken prior  
to the onset of COVID-19. Air Products 
implemented strict protocols at all of its 
locations in line with evolving guidance  
around the world to combat COVID-19.INTRODUCTION
GROW
CARE
APPENDIXCONSERVEMessage from Seifi Ghasemi   .  .  .  .  .  . 2
 Our Purpose and Strategy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4 
Commitments and Contributions   .  .  . 5
Sustainable Development Goals  .  .  .  . 6
Economic Performance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
Customer Sustainability   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Innovation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
Ethics and Integrity .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Data Privacy and Cyber Security .  .  .  .  17
Safety   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Talent and Diversity   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Community Support .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
Partnerships  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Supply Chain Sustainability   .  .  .  .  .  . 44
Stakeholder Engagement   .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Sustainability Priorities  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
About Our Report .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46
2019 Key Performance Data   .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Glossary and Acronyms  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
GRI Content Index
 Protecting the Environment  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Energy and Climate Change  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
Water Conservation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24
Additional Environmental Concerns . 26
2 28
7
181Grow  responsibly through sustainability-
driven opportunities that benefit our 
customers and our world. 
We help customers improve their sustainability performance 
through higher productivity, better quality products, reduced 
energy use, and lower emissions. 
Conserve resources and reduce 
environmental footprints through  
cost-effective improvements.
We set aggressive environmental performance goals for 
greenhouse gases, energy, water, and our fleet, and we 
measure progress to continually improve our own operations.
Care  for our employees, customers and 
communities—protecting our license to 
operate and grow.
We are building a culture of safety, simplicity, speed, and  
self-confidence. Our goal is zero accidents and zero incidents. 
We are committed to developing our people, supporting our 
communities, engaging suppliers and upholding our integrity.Grow • Conserve • Care
SUSTAINABILITY2
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportWhile addressing these challenges, important sustainability issues remain. We must continue to protect people and the  
environment while providing the products needed for healthy and fulfilling lives. Imperative to that effort is meeting the 
world’s need for clean, sustainable energy. We see Air Products at the heart of that effort. In this Sustainability Report, we 
share with you the actions we are taking to fulfill those needs and our higher purpose to improve sustainability in our  
businesses, with our customers and for our employees, communities and the world. 
Our sustainability efforts are rooted in our “ Grow , Conserve and Care ” strategy. We continually strive to improve the  
sustainability of our businesses, support our customers’ sustainability objectives and strengthen our governance systems 
as part of our “ Grow ” efforts. We reduce environmental impacts through resource efficiency and lower emissions  
intensities in line with our “ Conserve” initiatives. Our “ Care ” efforts center on enhancing the health and safety of our 
people, developing employees, promoting diversity and inclusion and supporting our host communities. You can see  
our progress, shown by achieving nearly all of our 2020 Sustainability Goals.
Our products are critical for scores of industries that need our gases to advance their own sustainability efforts and to make 
products that serve their customers and consumers. As we look forward, we see significant opportunities for gasification, 
carbon capture technologies and hydrogen for mobility and energy transition. These are opportunities to solve today’s and 
tomorrow’s energy and environmental challenges, and we are driven by an important ambition –  to innovate alongside our 
customers to help make these opportunities a reality.
We believe a thriving society and healthy planet are inextricably linked and  
look forward to continuing to work with our employees, customers and other  
stakeholders to collectively build a better future. Thank you for taking time to  
learn more about Air Products’ sustainability efforts, plans and achievements,  
and as always, we appreciate your interest in our company.As we publish this report, our nation and our world are facing serious and unprecedented challenges. In the United States 
and around the world, we must all stand together against racism and hate and stand up for the fundamental right of 
every person to be treated with dignity and respect. Likewise, we must all join together to resolve the unparalleled global 
COVID-19 crisis, upholding health and fulfilling our responsibility to run our facilities safely and deliver essential products 
during this time.
Seifi Ghasemi
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Air ProductsCHAIRMAN,  
PRESIDENT AND 
CEO MESSAGE
“We believe a thriving  
society and healthy  
planet are  
inextricably linked . . .3SUSTAINABILITY 
HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019
69 million
metric tons of CO2e avoided  
due to our products53%
of revenues from  
sustainable offerings100%  
compliance
with annual Code of Conduct 
certification
> $100 million   
in cumulative energy and  
water costs avoided > 1 million   
metric tons of CO2e avoided  
through efficiency improvements2.5 times   
the ratio of CO2e avoided by our 
customers to our emissions
27 million  
worker hours without an LTI  
during Jazan ASU project21%  
female share of  
workforce$7.6 million  
in donations to  
communitiesGROW
CONSERVE
CARE4
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportAir Products is Proud to Contribute Solutions to  
these Challenges.
Sustainability is one of our core values and business drivers. We are focused on 
serving energy, environmental and emerging markets, all of which are central  
to the sustainability of the world. We have significant opportunities—today, 
tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow—to help solve the world’s urgent  
environmental issues through our industrial gases and large-scale gasification, 
carbon capture, and hydrogen businesses.
Our products enable our customers to be more productive and efficient – to 
make more with less while reducing their impact on the environment. In fact, in 
2019 our products enabled our customers and downstream users to avoid the 
equivalent of 69 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions. This figure is 
2.5 times our own direct and indirect CO2 emissions and shows the immense 
benefits of our operations.
While our strategy provides opportunities for Air Products’ continued success 
and growth, the Company’s economic performance may be affected by various 
risks, many of which are beyond our control. These risks are routinely reviewed by 
Company leaders and the Board of Directors, and auditable risks are included in 
the Company’s Internal Audit program. Additional details about business risks are 
provided in our 2019 Annual Report (Item 1A).OUR PURPOSE AND STRATEGY 
Industrial gases are essential to modern life. They are used to make materials that go into our homes and businesses, cars 
and fuels, health care, food and more. And as the world’s population grows, so does demand for these products and the 
gases that make them possible.
Our modern way of life also has impacts on our world that will be intensified by population growth, continued rising 
middle class demands and increasing urbanization. Growth can strain our natural resources, such as water, and increase 
environmental impacts including climate change. The challenge for all of us is to sustainably live within what the earth 
provides while working to improve standards of living for everyone.
As the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen, we provide vast quantities of hydrogen to petroleum refiners to lower 
sulfur content and enable the production of cleaner-burning gasoline and diesel fuels, significantly reducing  
vehicle emissions. Our oxy-fuel burners improve productivity for glass and metal manufacturers while reducing 
energy consumption and emissions. We are also a leader in hydrogen fueling infrastructure and are helping to 
build the hydrogen economy around the world for zero-emission vehicles. Furthermore, we remain a global leader 
in liquefied natural gas equipment, air separation plants, and hydrocarbon recovery and purification equipment.
5a  Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Sustainability 2020 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for reconciliation  
to the comparable GAAP measures.
✓ Goal met
✓	 Goal on trackCOMMITMENTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS  
In 2016, Air Products set sustainability goals across all aspects of our Grow -Conserve-Care  sustainability framework. This 
process was completed based on feedback from key stakeholders and the identification of our sustainability priorities. In 
2019, we continued to make good progress against these goals, and as we reach the end of the 2020 framework, we are es-
tablishing a new set of sustainability targets. Please see the relevant Grow -Conserve-Care  sections of this report for details 
on our programs and progress.
GROW 2020 Goal Status 2019 Results
Economic  
PerformanceLead the Industrial Gas industry  
in profitability✓Adjusted EBITDA margina: 38.9%
Adjusted Operating margina: 24.3%
Return on Capital Employed  
(“ROCE”)a: 13.1%
Customer  
SustainabilityEnable customers to avoid CO2 emissions while 
contributing >50% of revenues from sustainable 
offerings ✓CO2e avoided: 69 MM MT 
Revenues from sustainable 
offerings: 53%
Ethics & Integrity Require 100% of employees to be trained and 
certified in our Code of Conduct ✓Training and certification: 100%
Compliance Continuously improve compliance systems and 
performance ✓Enhanced governance systems
CONSERVE 2020 Goal Status 2019 Results
Energy Savings Save energy by reducing use intensity by 2.5% for 
ASUs and 1.5% for HyCOs ✓ASUs: 3.7% reduction
HyCOs: 0.9% reduction
GHG Reductions Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 2%✓2.3% reduction
Distribution  
EfficiencyImprove distribution efficiency and reduce CO2 
emissions intensity by 10% ✓18% improvement
Water  
ConservationConserve water and lower use intensity by 5%✓26% reduction
CARE 2020 Goal Status 2019 Results
Safety Lead the industrial gas industry in safety✓Recordable rate: 0.45
LTI rate: 0.09
Talent & Diversity Build the most diverse and inclusive workforce in 
the industrial gas industry ✓Female share of  
workforce: 21%
Community  
SupportEnhance our ability to measure the positive 
impacts of our employee and community 
engagement ✓$7.6 million in cash and  
product donations
Supplier  
SustainabilityEnsure 100% of new supplier agreements include 
Human Rights and Conflict Minerals clauses ✓Clauses added to 
global terms and conditionsHow we contribute
•   Productivity improvements
• Technology developments
• Job creation
• Human rights programs
Related goals
•  Most profitable industrial gases 
company
• Customer avoided emissions
• Job creation
• Sales of Sustainable OfferingsHow we contribute
•   Products that enable health 
• Safety improvements
• Zero tolerance for discrimination
•  Representation of women in our  
businesses
Related goals
•  Lead our industry in safety  
performance
•  Build the most diverse and inclusive 
workforce in our industry 
How we contribute
•   Clean energy production and energy 
efficiencies
• Climate change mitigation
•  Water quality improvements and use 
efficiencies
• Effective waste management 
Related goals
•  Save energy
• Reduce GHG emissions
• Improve distribution efficiency
•  Conserve water and lower use  
intensity SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT 
GOALSGROW CARE
CONSERVEEstablished by the United Nations in 
2015, the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) aim to create a world 
without poverty, inequality, unrest and 
environmental stress. Businesses can 
play a critical role in providing solutions 
to these sustainability concerns that 
can also generate new opportunities. 
Air Products is contributing to these 
goals across nine areas aligned with 
our Grow -Conserve-Care  sustainability 
framework. Our alignment with the 
SDGs is shown below and indicated in 
the relevant sections of this report.
67
GROW
Sustainable Offerings for Sustainable Growth   
By striving to improve the sustainability of our own businesses, and supporting our customers’  
sustainability objectives though innovation, we will continue to Grow and make new  
opportunities a reality.8ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Why It’s Important
For a business to sustainably  
operate, grow and contribute 
to society it must be financially 
sound. Well-paying jobs and 
attractive benefits are needed 
to recruit and retain talented 
employees, as are investments 
in employee development and 
programs that ensure safety,  
human rights and ethical  
business practices. Likewise, the 
health of communities where 
operations are based can impact 
business success.What We’re Doing
Air Products is a global company with local businesses. Our Industrial Gases  
business, representing 96% of our 2019 revenues, is organized and operated 
regionally. This enables us to be close to our customers, improving service and 
reducing distribution costs and emissions.
We have more than 17,000 dedicated employees across 750+ operating facilities 
in 50 countries. As a result, our operations provide substantial economic support 
to our host communities around the globe.
Our Commitments and Contributions
We aspire to be the most profitable industrial gas company in the world. We 
have achieved this goal with the highest adjusted EBITDA margin in our industry. 
Having a strong financial position allows us to continue to commit a significant 
amount of capital to grow Air Products into the future, creating value for our 
shareholders and society. We also:
• Offer rewarding jobs with competitive pay and benefits 
•  Promote the safety of our employees, customers and communities 
•  Strive to uphold human rights in our operations, businesses, communities and    
   supply chains 
• Invest in technologies, products and facilities 
•  Contribute in several ways to the well-being of our host communities
The economic value we generated in fiscal year 2019: 
• Sales:  $8,918.9 million
• Cost of sales: $5,975.5 million
• Capital expendituresa: $2,128.6 million
• Selling and administrative:  $750.0 million 
• Income tax provision:  $480.1 million 
• Research and Development: $72.9 million
• Donations to communities: $7.6 million
a  Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Sustainability 2020 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP 
Financial Measures” for reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures.99Latin AmericaEurope/  
Middle East/Africa Asia (exc. China)
ChinaU.S./Canada    
41%    25%     
11%    19%    
4%    
*Consolidated sales by region. Europe, Middle East and Africa includes IndiaGlobal Presence* 
•   Regional Industrial Gases businesses produce and sell  
atmospheric and process gases, operating through three  
regional segments (Americas, EMEA and Asia).
•   Global Industrial Gases includes our atmospheric sale of  
equipment businesses.
•   Corporate and Other includes three global equipment businesses:  
liquefied natural gas (LNG) equipment, liquid helium and liquid-
hydrogen transport and storage containers, and turboexpanders 
and other precision rotating equipment.Our Businesses
10
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability Report
CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY
Why It’s Important
Business interest in sustainabil-
ity is increasing as companies 
recognize the need to address the 
risks and opportunities associated 
with global challenges such as 
population growth, water scarcity 
and climate change. Progressive 
companies are looking for ways to 
continually improve productivity, 
reduce resource consumption and 
lower the environmental impacts 
of operations while maintaining 
product quality and profitability.What We’re Doing
At Air Products, we are driven by an important ambition: to innovate alongside 
our customers and help them be more sustainable. We produce products that 
improve energy efficiency, reduce environmental impact and address societal 
needs such as health, safety and improving quality of life. These products and  
applications and their benefits are described in the next pages of this report. 
We also:
•  work closely with customers to develop products and applications that 
improve productivity, conserve energy and reduce environmental impact;
•  construct facilities on customer sites to enable products to be distributed 
efficiently through pipelines and to recycle steam and water for use at multiple 
plants;
•  conduct life-cycle assessments of products and processes to determine 
environmental impacts; and
•  dedicate efforts to continually improve our quality performance and customer -
satisfaction, which ranged from 83% to 96% across our regional businesses in 
2019.
Our Commitments and Contributions
We are committed to enabling our customers to enhance their sustainability.  
We track our progress through avoided carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and the  
revenue contributions of our sustainable offerings, which are products that  
improve energy efficiency, reduce environmental impact, and/or address a  
societal need.
69 Million
Metric Tons
CO2e avoided by customers and
downstream users, equivalent to
the emissions from 15 million cars
– and 2.5 times our own direct and
indirect CO2 emissions.Our Products
•  Atmospheric gases - oxygen, 
nitrogen, argon, and rare gases
•  Process gases - hydrogen, 
helium, carbon dioxide, carbon 
monoxide, syngas, and  
specialty gases
•  Equipment for the production 
or processing of gases, such 
as air separation units (ASU), 
non-cryogenic generators and 
LNG heat exchangers53% 
of revenues 
derived from sustainable  
offerings, which exceeds  
our revenue goal  
of 50%.11
Secondary aluminum production is the process of  
recycling aluminum scrap into new aluminum that can 
be used again for a variety of products. While changes  
in equipment design over time have improved the  
efficiency of the overall process, the “pour readiness”  
of the aluminum is still largely based on the relevant  
operator’s best judgment. Unfortunately, this often 
results in a significantly higher metal pour temperature 
than is required causing yield loss, lower efficiency, and 
unnecessary use of additional fuel and industrial gases. 
The Air Products Process Intelligence (APPI) Process  
Advisor system provides a unique way to predict when 
the charge material is completely molten and at the required  
tapping temperature. The model uses energy and material balances with historical and real-time 
operational and process data to create a digital twin of the melting process. The APPI Process Advisor 
system provides operators a prompt when the melt is completed, letting them know it is the  
optimum time to turn off the burner and pour the molten charge. As new data continues to feed into 
the model, machine learning technology improves its predictions over time.  
“ Air Products’ Process Intelligence system has helped us improve our aluminum recycling operation 
by reducing production losses and energy consumption. This has resulted in a more efficient,  
consistent and cost-effective process,” said Mike Dines, Director at Tandom Metallurgical Group Ltd., 
which uses the APPI Process Advisor.
Our Customers 
over 170,000 customers in 30+ industries, 
including:
• Refining
• Chemicals
• Gasification
• Natural gas  
   liquefaction
• Metals• Glass
• Electronics
• Healthcare
• Food and Beverage
• Water TreatmentUsing Process Intelligence  
to Improve Production
Additional information:
Sustainable Offerings  g
Our products from A to Z  g12
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportAir Products’ gases, equipment and  
applications enable our customers and 
their downstream users to improve 
sustainability by increasing productivity, 
producing better quality products,  
reducing energy use and lowering  
emissions. We enabled 69 million metric 
tonnes of CO2e to be avoided in 2019 
through several of the following  
products.
Air Products’ oxy-fuel combustion 
technologies are used in energy-
intensive applications like cement, 
metals and glass manufacturing to 
increase production, lower fuel use  
and costs, reduce emissions and 
optimize efficiency. Air Products has 
been a leader in oxy-fuel technology 
since it was first introduced over 
50 years ago and continues to help 
customers improve operations and 
efficiency through new burner designs 
and performance testing at our  
world-class combustion laboratory 
facilities.Hydrogen is used to refine heavier, 
sour crudes, increase refinery yields 
and reduce emissions through cleaner 
transportation fuels including ultra-
low sulfur diesel fuel and hydrogen 
powered electric fuel cell vehicles. 
Many other industries such as 
electronics, food, glass, chemicals, and 
more also benefit from hydrogen’s 
unique properties to improve quality, 
optimize performance and reduce 
costs. Air Products is the world’s largest 
provider of hydrogen. We operate over 
100 hydrogen plants, including some 
with liquefaction capabilities, and 
which have a combined 1,500 years of 
operating experience. In many cases, 
we provide hydrogen from pipeline 
systems around the globe, including 
the world’s largest hydrogen pipeline 
network and system located in the U.S. 
Gulf Coast.Gasification technologies convert 
lower-value feedstocks into syngas 
that can be used to make higher-
value products such as substitute 
natural gas, power, steam, hydrogen, 
transportation fuels, fertilizers, 
chemicals, and more. Gasification of 
coal is the cleanest of all coal-based 
electric power technologies and 
produces significantly lower levels of 
air emissions and solid waste than 
traditional, combustion-based power 
generating processes. Gasification 
also enables countries to use available 
resources and improve energy security 
by converting feedstocks into cleaner 
energy and value-added products.  
Air Products has acquired gasification 
technology and is developing a robust 
technological foundation to serve the 
growing gasification industry.
Biogas membrane separators are used to produce methane from farm waste, 
manure, or municipal waste. The proprietary hollow fiber membranes purify the 
biomethane by removing unwanted elements from the biogas stream, so it can 
be used to generate heat and power. 
Oxy-fuel  
TechnologyGasification
Biogas Membrane SeparatorsHydrogenPRODUCTS THAT 
BENEFIT OUR  
CUSTOMERS 
AROUND THE 
WORLD 
13Gases for MAP and Freshline® 
solutions provide high-purity gases 
and equipment to extend the shelf life 
of food, improve taste, reduce waste, 
and help to keep production cost 
down. The research and development 
team at Air Products has been at the 
forefront of food freezing for over 50 
years, pioneering cryogenic technology 
and continuing to push the boundaries 
of efficiency and versatility while 
ensuring safety and hygiene. Hydrogen can be used in many 
different types of transportation, 
either in a fuel cell or an internal 
combustion engine, to eliminate 
or significantly reduce emissions. 
Our SmartFuel® hydrogen fueling 
station technology provides complete 
fueling infrastructure from supply to 
dispensing for fuel cell vehicles and 
is used in 1.5 million hydrogen fills 
per year. With more than 50 years of 
hydrogen experience, Air Products is 
at the forefront of hydrogen energy 
technology development. Cars, 
trucks, vans, buses, scooters, forklifts, 
locomotives, planes, cell towers, 
material handling equipment, and 
even submarines have been fueled 
with our SmartFuel® technologies.Helium and our high purity medical 
gases help sustain life. Magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) is enabled 
by helium, which is used to keep MRI 
magnets cold and superconducting. 
Helium is also valued as a gas for 
lifting, breathing, leak detection, 
space exploration, semiconductor 
manufacturing, scientific applications, 
and shielding. It has unique properties 
that optimize performance and 
productivity, reduce labor costs, and 
improve safety. As a leading producer 
and supplier of helium, Air Products 
has pioneered many of the helium 
extraction, production, distribution, 
and storage technologies still in use 
– including cryogenic equipment for 
most of the world’s helium recovery 
plants.The use of LNG continues to increase 
with strong energy demands in 
growing economies. Air Products’ LNG 
technology and equipment enables 
the efficient and economic production 
and transport of this critical energy 
resource, including from stranded 
energy sources around the globe. More 
LNG is produced using Air Products’ 
mixed component refrigerant and 
liquefaction processes than any 
other processes, with over 100 LNG 
trains currently in operation. We 
manufacture this efficient and reliable 
equipment at our state-of-the-art 
facility in Florida (U.S.). In the past 
year, Air Products dedicated an LNG 
Equipment Test Facility and announced 
a manufacturing plant expansion at 
the site.LNG Process Technology 
and EquipmentHalia®
Helium Hydrogen for MobilityModified Atmosphere  
Packaging (MAP) and  
Freshline® Solutions
Air Products’ Halia® solutions enable healthy aquatic ecosystems and effective 
treatment of water and wastewater. We supply high-purity oxygen and Halia® 
aeration systems for use in hatcheries and fish farms, lakes, ponds and other water 
bodies to promote conditions that allow fish, turtles and other aquatic life to  
thrive. Since the 1960s, Air Products has provided solutions to increase  
and improve treatment of wastewater and drinking water for industrial  
and municipal customers. These innovative, value-added technology solutions 
improve water quality, reduce costs, lower emissions and increase the 
environmental sustainability of water treatment processes.
14Air Products  |  2015 Sustainability ReportINNOVATION
Why It’s important
Addressing sustainability 
challenges requires ingenuity, 
innovation and partnership. For 
example, as population and 
prosperity increase around the 
world, including in emerging 
markets, so will the demand for 
energy. The higher demand must 
be met through cleaner energy 
solutions and improved energy 
efficiency. The same is needed to 
address the rising levels of CO2 
in the atmosphere and increased 
demand for food, water and other 
valuable resources.What We’re doing
Our research groups are aligned with our businesses and focus on improving our 
processes and helping our customers. Research and Development (R&D)  
concentrates on new and improved processes and equipment for the production 
and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial 
gas products that help our customers improve sustainability. Air Products also 
funds and cooperates in R&D programs conducted by major universities and 
other organizations.
R&D is conducted principally at our Technology Centers in the United States 
(Trexlertown, Pennsylvania), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke, Hersham and 
Carrington), Spain (Barcelona), China (Shanghai), India (Pune) and Saudi Arabia 
(Dhahran).
Air Products is developing innovations in three key areas that are also  
opportunities to enhance the sustainability of our customers:
Gasification  
Countries and large companies around the world continue to focus on 
gasification to utilize abundant natural resources to make synthetic gas or 
syngas. Gasification enables liquid fuels, high-end chemicals and power to be 
produced from syngas by countries that have massive resources of coal and want 
to reduce dependence on imported oil, as well as countries that have significant 
natural gas reserves and want to create additional value from the fuel. 
Gasification also provides a solution for refineries all over the world that need to 
find a use for high sulfur bottom-of-the-barrel liquids that can no longer be used 
as fuel for ships and for petroleum coke, which also has diminishing outlets for 
its use because of its high sulfur content. From an environmental perspective, 
gasification allows for the easier removal of pollutants like sulfur and nitrous 
oxides, and the transportation fuels produced from syngas have significantly less 
sulfur dioxide emissions and provide local environmental and health benefits. 
Gasification will also be a growing energy source across the globe, expected to 
produce nearly 4 million megawatts of energy by 2026, more than doubling its 
2017 output.a
Carbon Capture 
Carbon capture is a high-impact opportunity to help tackle climate change and 
will be essential to meet the Paris climate goals. We see significant opportunities 
to capture CO2 from gasifiers and hydrogen plants for use in sequestration, 
enhanced oil recovery and productive use of CO2. We can deploy these carbon 
capture technologies in new plants or in retrofits of existing facilities.  
15a  https://www.zionmarketresearch.com/report/coal-gasification-market
b https://www.rotterdamccus.nl/en/the-project/Our Commitments and Contributions
We are committed to improving our energy efficiency and reducing emissions 
intensity while helping our customers do the same. We have advanced our three 
innovation platforms by:
•  Acquiring leading technologies – Shell’s Coal Gasification Process (SCGP) and 
GE Energy’s gasification technology – that give us the ability to process low-
value feedstocks more efficiently and to reduce overall emissions.
• Working on our contribution to the Project Porthos, a major development in  
 Rotterdam, which is expected to capture and store 2-2.5 million metric tons of  
 CO2 each year.b
•  Taking a leadership position in the development of hydrogen supply and fueling 
infrastructure. Our technology has been used in over 10 million hydrogen fills 
to date, and Air Products has been involved in over 250 hydrogen fueling 
projects in over 20 countries.
• Successfully monitoring and maintaining industrial gas facilities in our fleet of  
 operating plants around the world using our proprietary ProcessMDTM  
 platform for predictive monitoring and fault diagnosis.
The Key to Carbon Capture –  
High Purity CO2
Around the world, companies are looking to capture, utilize or 
store CO2. However, the CO2 produced is at low pressure and low 
concentrations, which makes capture difficult and expensive.  
At Air Products we can solve this problem by removing CO2  
from process gas. 
Our CO2 Vacuum Swing Adsorption (VSA) technology 
captures CO2 from hydrogen in a single step, producing 
a high-purity CO2 stream ready for storage. Using this process, 
gas is fed into vessels containing high-surface area  
adsorbents that preferentially remove CO2 when under  
pressure. When a vessel has been fully saturated with  
CO2, the feed is switched to the next vessel and the pressure 
is reduced before CO2 is removed by a vacuum pump. The  
sequencing of the beds is designed to achieve a high purity 
CO2 product. CO2 VSA systems can also be optimized based on 
product flow, purity and pressure, energy cost and expected 
operating life.
Air Products has successfully used this technology to  
enable capture of nearly 1 million metric tons of CO2  
per year since 2013.
$73 Million
in R&D
spending in 2019.  
More than half of this 
spending supported  
products and processes 
that improved energy  
efficiency and/or  
benefitted the  
environment. Hydrogen and the  
Energy Transition  
As the world’s largest hydrogen  
producer, we are an important part of 
bringinghydrogen to scale on the way 
to a clean energy future. Hydrogen is 
almost  entirely supplied from natural 
gas and coal today – this is because  
the resources are plentiful and   
producing hydrogen from low-carbon 
energy is costly at the moment. Our 
team is working on reducing the  
emissions created in the production  
of hydrogen. We are also increasing  
the volume of blue and green  
hydrogen we produce – and are  
investing in new, clean hydrogen  
solutions for our customers.16
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportETHICS AND INTEGRITY
Why It’s important
A company’s success is built  
on the trust of its employees, 
customers and other  
stakeholders. Unethical behavior, 
such as bribery and corruption, 
negatively impact stakeholder 
perspectives and company  
performance.What We’re Doing
Integrity—behaving ethically and being true to our word—is a core value at 
Air Products and one we must never compromise. We do not tolerate ethics 
violations and have put strong policies and programs in place to prevent, detect, 
report and address these issues. This includes Air Products’ Code of Conduct and 
Business Ethics (Code of Conduct). Every employee is required to comply with the 
Code of Conduct, complete mandatory training and certify their understanding 
of the Code of Conduct annually.
Air Products encourages individuals to report, as allowed by local law, 
misconduct or ethics violations. Every allegation is reviewed, investigated and 
closed. The Company has a disciplinary process to address allegations that have 
been confirmed and pursues actions up to and including termination.
We also conduct risk assessments for the potential of corruption risks across the 
organization through our compliance function and our internal audit processes, 
which are applied globally. Significant risks that have been identified include 
relationships and transactions with governmental authorities and the use of 
third-party intermediaries, the approval and use of which are controlled through 
an internal global process.
Our Commitments and Contributions
Our goals are twofold – require 100% of employees to be trained and certified 
in our Code of Conduct, and continuously improve our compliance systems and 
performance. To that end, the annual Code of Conduct training and certification 
(ACOC) are combined into a comprehensive online program that each employee 
is required to complete. All employees met this requirement in 2019.
IntegrityLine is available 24/7 for reporting allegations
17Data Privacy and Cyber Security
We believe it is our responsibility to safeguard, in accordance with applicable 
laws, the personal information of our employees and all other individuals with 
whom we work, including customers, partners, suppliers and contractors. This 
commitment is documented in our Global Data Privacy Policy . We have had no 
substantiated complaints regarding breaches of privacy, infringement of privacy 
rights or losses of customer data.
Cyber threats are one of the largest security threats that our world faces today, 
not only in our business, but in our personal lives as well. Air Products’ cyber-
security efforts fall under the responsibility of the Chief Information Officer and 
are led by our Information Technology Team. Our approach to cyber threats uses a 
risk-based framework that includes five core functions:
• identifying potential risks to systems, assets, data and capabilities;
• protecting critical infrastructure services;
• detecting cyber events;
• responding to events by taking appropriate actions; and
• recovering and restoring capabilities that may have been impaired.
All employees are trained on information security and expected to follow  
procedures, stay up to date on cyber threats, report suspicious activity and  
maintain current and compliant computing systems.Selected Topics from our Code of Conduct
• Conflicts of Interest
• Fraud
• Bribery and Corruption
•  Payments to  
Government Officials
•  Gifts, Travel, and  
Entertainment  
Expense
•  Financial Accounting 
and Reporting  
Accuracy•  Competition Law, and 
Fair Dealing and  
Anti-Boycott Laws
• Import/Export Laws
• Insider Information
•  Confidential and  
Proprietary  
Information
• Company Assets
•  Records Management•  Communications and 
Privacy
•  Political Contributions 
and Lobbying
•  Social Media and  
Public Communication
•  Equal Employment  
Opportunity and  
Prevention of  
Harassment•  Environment, Health, 
Safety, and Security
•  Workplace Violence
•  Substance Abuse
•  Sustainability and  
Corporate Social  
Responsibility
•  Audits and  
Investigations
•  Anti-Retaliation
Additional information:
Commitment to Ethical Business g
Code of Conduct  g
IntegrityLine  g100% 
Employee  
Completion
of code of conduct  
training and  
certification.18
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability Report
CONSERVE
Protecting the Environment through Responsible  
Consumption and Production
We have a shared responsibility to protect our air, water and land. This is reflected in our  
fundamental ambition to help solve today’s and tomorrow’s energy and environmental challenges.19We are committed to improving 
our own performance by operating 
efficiently, incorporating environmental 
considerations into the design of 
our facilities and products, effectively 
managing environmental risks and 
transparently communicating our 
environmental performance. While  
our resource consumption and  
emissions may increase due to growing 
societal and customer demands for  
our products, our efficiency and  
environmental improvements enable 
us to make our customers’ processes 
and products better without  
proportionally expanding the  
environmental footprint of our ASU 
and HyCO businesses.
We also encourage suppliers to  
incorporate environmental  
sustainability into their operations 
and supply chains as described in our 
Supplier Sustainability Expectations. 
Additional supplier requirements are 
provided in the Care section of this 
report.Efficient Use of Resources
The principal raw materials for making atmospheric gases and hydrogen are air, 
energy as electricity or steam and natural gas. Air, which is considered by many to 
be a renewable resource, represents more than 90% of the raw materials we use 
on a weight basis. Similarly, 80% of the raw material used for our carbon dioxide 
business is from renewable sources.
Industrial gas manufacturing is energy intensive. ASUs require electricity or 
steam to compress air so it can be cryogenically distilled into oxygen, nitrogen 
and argon. Likewise, the production of hydrogen consumes natural gas, and in 
some cases refinery off-gas, as a feedstock and/or fuel in the production process. 
The products produced enable our customers to be more energy efficient, which 
reduces their fuel consumption and emissions.
Packaging is not a significant issue for Air Products because we supply most of 
our products in two-way bulk containers, semi-bulk containers or via pipelines. 
For small-scale supply in certain regions of the world, we use cylinders that are 
long life, returnable, and reusable transportable pressure vessels with typical life 
spans of 20+ years.
Environmental Management at Air Products 
• Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy
• Goals for energy efficiency, CO2 reductions and water conservation
•  Our global EHS Management System, applicable to all operations, which contains environmental  
standards and procedures and which is aligned with ISO 14001
• Employee training requirements based on job function
• Risk assessment processes for products, processes and regulatory requirements
• Compliance audits conducted by our EHS Assurance Team
•  Review of performance by our Board of Directors, Sustainability Leadership Council, Businesses and  
Operations, and members of our Environmental Centers of Excellence
• Internal reporting of results on a monthly basis
•  External reporting on environmental performance through our annual Sustainability Report, public  
website, and responses to various stakeholders
20
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportENERGY AND CLIMATE 
Why It’s important
Energy consumption and CO2 
emissions are inextricably linked. 
The world needs clean,  
sustainable energy – energy  
that protects our environment 
and moves us all toward a  
better future. World CO2  
emissions were expected to reach 
36.8 billion metric tons in 2019 
and are expected to grow for at 
least another decade.aWhat We’re doing
We believe a diverse mix of solutions is needed to meet clean energy needs while 
reducing greenhouse gases (GHG), as noted in our GHG strategy. For example, we 
supply vast quantities of hydrogen to petroleum refiners to lower sulfur content 
and produce cleaner-burning gasoline and diesel fuels. Likewise, our oxy-fuel 
burners improve productivity for glass and metal manufacturers while 
reducing energy consumption and emissions. We have leading technologies 
for gasification, carbon capture and hydrogen for mobility and the broader 
energy transition.
From an operational perspective, industrial gas manufacturing is energy  
intensive. Energy consumption is the most significant variable in the cost of our 
production processes. We carefully track and manage energy purchases, and  
our conservation programs are focused on continually improving energy  
efficiency across our plants, particularly larger facilities. Efficiency improvements 
are realized through higher plant utilization, increased production at new, larger 
and more efficient facilities and hundreds of facility improvement projects.  
Several of our facilities have been certified to the ISO 50001 Energy Standard.
Our Commitments and Contributions
In 2019, we continued to make progress on our 2020 environmental  
sustainability goals (2015 baseline year):
•  Save energy by reducing use intensity by 2.5% for ASUs and 1.5% for HyCOs
• Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 2% 
•  Improve efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions related to distribution by 10%
• Conserve water and lower use intensity by 5%
As we reach the end of our 2020 sustainability goal framework, we are  
establishing a new set of sustainability targets.a   https://news.stanford.edu/2019/12/03/global-
carbon-emission-increase/
Climate Scenario Analysis
Scenario analysis is a tool that evaluates the potential effects of future 
events on an organization, such as climate change. Air Products is  
examining several climate scenarios, which are in line with the  
recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and Task Force  
for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), to examine the potential implications of  
climate-related risks and opportunities on our businesses.
21Our total energy consumption in 2019 was 52.5 TWh, representing a 5% increase 
from 2018. The increase was a result of our growth that was driven by rising  
societal and customer demands, particularly in Asia. At the same time, we  
continued to reduce energy use intensity for our operations, using proportionally 
less energy to make the products our customers need. Our ASUs surpassed their 
energy efficiency goal for 2020, achieving a 3.7% improvement in energy efficiency  
intensity, and our HyCO operations have improved by 0.9% since 2015.c These 
successes were realized through higher plant utilization, increased production 
at new, larger and more efficient facilities, and hundreds of facility improvement 
projects involving changes to equipment and manufacturing processes.
Our direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) CO2 emissions are related to the energy 
we consume. In 2019, our Scope 1 GHG emissions, which are primarily from our 
HyCO operations were 16.6 million MT, representing a 1% increase from the prior 
year. Our Scope 2 emissions, which are due in large part to the electricity and 
steam we consume in our ASUs, were 10.6 million MT in 2019, which was a 4% 
increase from 2018. On an intensity basis, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions improved 
by 2.3% due to energy efficiency improvements and we met our GHG emissions 
intensity goal for 2020. Our Scope 3 emissions were 6.6 million MT.
As in prior years, CO2 emissions data was externally verified by WSP , a  
management and consultancy service provider.
Carbon productivity is a measure of how much value is generated from the consumption of energy. We  
are working to improve our carbon productivity through several mechanisms, including: improving the 
energy efficiency of our production processes and product distribution; increasing our use of renewable 
energy; pursuing opportunities to further deploy our carbon capture technology and expertise; and  
enabling our customers and their downstream users to avoid CO2 emissions. Below are carbon  
productivity improvements for 2019 (compared to 2015 baseline).
3.7%
reduction in energy intensity 
 realized by our ASUs
23%
of the electricity we purchased was 
from renewable sources
18%
improvement in distribution 
 efficiency>$100 Million
in cumulative energy and  
water costs avoided
>80,000  
metric tons of CO2 avoided 
through distribution  
improvementsb0.9%
improvement in energy efficiency  
for our HyCO units
> 1 Million  
metric tons of CO2e avoided  
through efficiency  
improvementsa
2.5 Times  
the ratio of CO2e avoided by our 
customers to our emissionsa2.3%
decrease in GHG  
emissions intensityaCarbon Productivity 
c  Intensity goals are configured as the ratio  
of reporting year (2019) value (i.e., energy, 
emissions, or water) to reporting year  
production divided by the value to production 
ratio in our base year (2015). Using a ratio 
allows the reported results to be  
dimensionless and protects confidential 
production data.a  Includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions
b  Includes Scope 1 emissions22
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportEnergy Consumption
16.17.5
28.9
lElectricity lFuelslSteam
Scope 1 CO2 Emissions
1.3 0.2
15.1
lAmericas lAsialEMEA
Scope 2 CO2 Emissions
6.61.1
2.9
lAmericas lAsialEMEACapturing CO2 in Texas
In Port Arthur, Texas, Air Products operates the largest CO2  
purification and capture project for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) 
by an industrial gas company. Air Products designed, constructed 
and operates the state-of-the-art system to capture CO2 from two 
steam methane reformers located at the Valero Port Arthur  
Refinery. The CO2 removal technology was retrofitted to the 
SMRs, which produce hydrogen to assist in the making of  
cleaner burning transportation fuels by refinery customers on  
Air Products’ Gulf Coast hydrogen pipeline network. 
CO2 captured from Air Products’ SMRs finds a second use by 
enabling our partners in Port Arthur to realize greater yields in 
their oil extraction process due to injection of CO2 into sedimen-
tary rock, which has the duel benefit of enhanced oil recovery 
(EOR) and the sequestration of CO2 beneath the earth’s surface. 
Since 2013, when it initiated onstream capture operations,  
Air Products has captured nearly one million tons per year of CO2 
at Port Arthur that has been put to beneficial use.
Carbon capture is essential to meeting the Paris climate goals. 
Significant opportunities are available to capture CO2 from  
gasifiers and hydrogen plants, and we can deploy our carbon  
capture technologies and other technologies developed by  
Air Products in new plants or by  
retrofitting existing ones.We have made several investments over the past several years to improve fleet 
efficiency, reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. This included replacing 
30% of our North American tractors, 65% of our fleet in the UK with fuel efficient 
Euro 6 compliant tractors and replacing additional tractors in Belgium, France 
and the Netherlands. Upgrades also included higher payloads on some vehicles 
that increased tons of product shipped per distance driven and fuel efficiency.  
We have met our distribution efficiency goal.52.5 
TWh
16.6  
million  
MT
10.6  
million  
MT
23Building a Sustainable Future 
In 2019, Air Products and Saudi Aramco announced a joint agreement to build the first hydrogen 
fueling station in Saudi Arabia. The pilot program represented a first step in demonstrating oil-
based hydrogen-powered systems with the Kingdom and combined Air Products’ technological 
know-how and experience in hydrogen with Saudi Aramco’s industrial experience, facilities and 
R&D capabilities. 
Together the companies have established a fleet of hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles. The  
vehicles are being fueled with high-purity compressed hydrogen that is dispensed at the  
hydrogen fueling station located at Air Products’ technology center in the Dhahran Techno  
Valley Science Park. Air Products’ proprietary hydrogen fueling technology is incorporated into 
the station. 
The fleet of vehicles have a driving range 
of 500 kilometers and emit only water. 
Vehicle refueling is quick, averaging five 
minutes as opposed to an hour for  
traditional battery electric vehicles.  
This project, together with Air Products’ 
fueling stations around the world,  
demonstrate the potential of hydrogen 
fuel cell electric vehicles to make a  
significant contribution to a clean,  
secure and affordable energy future.
Supporting the Energy Transition
The world faces a huge challenge in shifting toward clean, sustainable energy 
sources. Air Products supports its customers as they execute their energy  
strategies alongside economic growth and social development. We recognize  
that carbon-based fuels will continue to be instrumental for the equitable  
development of the global economy, and that substitution of coal-based energy 
with less carbon-intensive energy may not be economically feasible in some  
circumstances. As the world transitions to lower carbon energy sources, our  
technologies and products enable our customers to reduce emissions from 
legacy energy sources while they pursue new sources of energy for their  
operations and manufacturing processes.
Air Products is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen, and we are scaling  
hydrogen production and fueling infrastructure to ensure its successful  
adaptation as a sustainable fuel. When used in a fuel cell, hydrogen is nearly 
two times more efficient than gasoline and diesel on a “well-to-wheel” basis 
and produces no emissions. Today, in California, individual customers can buy 
a hydrogen-powered fuel cell car and fill it at Air Products’ and other hydrogen 
filling stations that feature our leading fueling technology. From Japan to Korea 
to Europe – across the world we are working to build access to these cleaner 
passenger vehicle opportunities. We see even greater opportunity for long-haul 
transportation – buses, trucks, trains and ships.
Our commitment to hydrogen will set 
the stage for the future of the fuel as a 
sustainable option for mobility and  
the broader energy transition.  
Hydrogen has significant potential as 
a household and industrial fuel. Even 
with current natural gas infrastructure, 
hydrogen can be blended at levels up 
to 20% without major infrastructure or 
appliance modifications. Hydrogen can 
be made from renewable resources and 
can simultaneously reduce a country’s 
dependence on imported energy and 
significantly reduce GHGs.24
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportRenewable Energy
Air Products increased its use of 
renewable energy in 2019, continuing 
our journey to identify green energy 
sources that can reduce our energy 
costs and environmental footprint.  
In some countries we purchase  
renewable electricity, including the 
United Kingdom, while in France we 
purchase guarantees of origin. We have 
installed solar arrays at several of our 
production and office facilities,  
generating electricity for internal  
consumption. Overall, 23% of our  
electricity purchases were from  
renewable sources in 2019.
Facilities with solar arrays
• Keumiée, Belgium
• Araraquara, Brazil
• Tainan, Taiwan
• Kuan Yin, Taiwan
• Halfweg, The Netherlands
• Allentown, Pennsylvania 
Additional information:
CDP response   g
Climate Change Policy Statement  g 
Third-party verification of CO2 data  g Why It’s Important
Water conservation is critical to the health and sustainability of our 
planet. Experts project a 40% shortfall between water demand and 
fresh water supply by 2030, and by 2050 nearly three billion people will 
live in water-stressed areas.
What We’re Doing
Air Products cannot operate its facilities without adequate water supplies.  
This reality drives us to be good stewards of water. We use water primarily for  
cooling, to make hydrogen using the steam methane reforming (SMR) process 
and to provide steam and water to our customers. The steam is a co-product  
of our SMRs and has a significant energy efficiency advantage and related  
environmental benefit when compared to steam generated from boilers. Because 
of these uses, our water consumption is tied closely to energy use; therefore, 
improvements in energy efficiency can also conserve water. We also use water  
for safety systems (i.e., fire suppression) and cleaning.
We have significantly improved our water efficiency by identifying facilities  
that are consuming more water per unit production than similar facilities,  
conducting assessments at these facilities to identify conservation opportunities 
and making appropriate changes at the plants. Much of our water conservation 
has been through improved cooling tower operations and converting to recycled 
gray water in our plants. We have also used air-cooling to reduce water  
consumption.
We continue to use recycled water, particularly in Southern California, to reduce 
our consumption of freshwater. Collaboration with industrial neighbors and joint 
venture partners has enabled this recycling. Across all our plants, we estimate 
that 9% of our water was from recycled sources in 2019.WATER CONSERVATION
7% 
Reduction in Water 
Use Intensity
25We have identified  
operations in water stressed 
areas, particularly areas where 
the baseline water stress is 
high or extremely high accord-
ing to the World Resources 
Institute Aqueduct Water 
Risk Atlas. In 2019, 22% of our 
facilities were located in water 
stressed areas.Our Commitments and Contributions
In 2016, Air Products established a goal to reduce water consumption by 5% on 
an indexed basis by 2020 from a 2015 baseline. We achieved this goal in 2017 and 
continued to improve water efficiency through subsequent years, reducing our 
water intensity by 7% in 2019 for a total reduction of 26% since the baseline year.
Our consumption of water, on an absolute basis, decreased to 15.8 billion gallons 
in 2019 due to increased water recycling. Additional data on water withdrawals, 
consumption and discharges is provided in the GRI Content Index to this report.WATER CONSERVATION
Water StressWater Consumed*
3.61.7
10.5
lAmericas lAsialEMEA
* Includes water discharged but not returned to source15.8 billion  
gallonsBusiness Opportunities for Water Treatment
Customers rely on our technologies to improve water quality and treat  
wastewater. Our offerings include: pure oxygen aeration systems for wastewater 
treatment and aquaculture; oxygen for ozone generation; carbon dioxide for pH 
adjustment and drinking water remineralization; and ozone and advanced  
oxidation systems for wastewater treatment.  
26
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES
Waste
Industrial gas production does not generate significant waste. Hazardous waste 
generation from acetylene manufacturing results in a by-product lime slurry. This 
slurry is often beneficially reused in other processes, such as water neutralization, 
brick production and in hardening materials in landfills.
Other sources of hazardous waste include spent catalysts, waste oils and 
solvents, waste paint and materials used to cleanup small spills. All waste is  
managed and treated in accordance with the regulatory requirements of the 
jurisdiction in which the waste is generated. Waste that cannot be recycled is 
disposed of in an environmentally sound and regulatory compliant manner.
In 2019, the amount of hazardous waste we generated globally was 6 million 
pounds, an increase of 1% compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to 
plant decommissioning. Our non-hazardous waste in North America totaled 11 
million pounds, which was substantially higher than the prior year due to large, 
one-time disposal activities for projects at several sites.Air Emissions
The manufacture of atmospheric gases 
produces negligible Scope 1 and other 
air emissions. Most of our air emissions 
are from hydrogen manufacturing and 
utility operations that support our  
facilities. We monitor and report air 
emissions in accordance with  
applicable regulations. 
•  NOx and SOx are products of  
combustion and are primarily from 
fuel used in our boilers and SMRs.
•  Other air pollutants result from the 
minor loss of materials used in our 
processes or solvents used in the 
maintenance of equipment that 
include toxics under the U.S. EPA Toxic 
Release Inventory (TRI) program, other 
criteria pollutants, hazardous air 
pollutants (HAPs) and volatile organic 
chemicals (VOCs).
Additional data on air emissions is 
provided in the GRI Content Index to 
this report.
Environmental Compliance
Regulatory fines decreased in 2019 to $4,400 and notices of violation were 24% 
lower compared to prior year (13 vs. 17). There were no reportable spills.. 
27Ozone Depleting Substances and Fluorinated Gases 
Air Products does not manufacture ozone depleting substances (ODS) such as 
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) or chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). We do sell 
different gas mixtures that contain very small quantities of HCFCs and CFCs in 
cylinders for calibration of detection instruments as allowed under the Montreal 
Protocol.
Fluorinated or “F gases” are often used as a replacement for ODS. We do not 
make F gases but do supply them in Europe for use as refrigerants and in  
mixtures for special applications, such as calibration. We also recover, recycle  
and reclaim F gases for destruction.
Texas Wetlands
In Texas, Air Products purchased over 200 acres of wetlands for 
perpetual preservation to enhance the existing Tony Houseman 
Wildlife Management Area. In Louisiana, we converted 150 acres 
of privately-owned uplands into forested wetlands, restoring  
natural hydrologic flows, planting cypress-tupelo and  
bottomland hardwoods and providing long-term monitoring  
and financial assurances.Biodiversity
Early in the planning stages of any new 
capital investment, from new plants 
or expansions to pipelines, we assess 
safety, human health, socioeconomic, 
cultural and environmental impacts. 
These assessments can influence  
decisions to modify a project or develop 
mitigation strategies to ensure the 
ecological health of the location and 
region is maintained or enhanced.  
Likewise, our construction practices 
focus on preserving the local  
environment by reducing the likelihood 
of spills or negative effects from runoff.
Air Products discharges water into 
eight Conservation International  
Biodiversity Hotspots including: the 
Atlantic Forest, California Floristic 
Province, Chilean Winter Rainfall and 
Valdivian Forests, Indo-Burma,  
Mediterranean Basin, Sundaland,  
Tropical Andes and Tumbes-Choco-
Magdalena. The water discharged 
into these locations in 2019 was 
insignificant, averaging <0.01% of the 
total volume of water contained in the 
associated water body.
28
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability Report
CARE
Caring for Our Employees, Customers and Communities
As noted by our Chairman, a thriving society and healthy planet are inextricably linked. 29
CARECARING FOR 
OUR  
EMPLOYEES,  
CUSTOMERS 
AND  
COMMUNITIESWe innovate alongside our customers to help make their energy projects more 
sustainable, create efficiencies, improve standards of living and support the 
social development of communities around the globe. Our megaprojects are job 
creators and provide direct economic benefits to local communities and indirect 
economic benefits through supply chains. The high-value products produced 
through these projects often become the backbone for economies. For example, 
in India, an important ingredient in fertilizers, urea, can be made from syngas. 
These fertilizers support the agricultural industry, which employs about half 
of the country’s workforce. Syngas can also be used to make dimethyl ether, a 
substance that – in emerging markets – helps families replace wood for cleaner 
cooking. The time saved from gathering wood and reduced cooking times, tasks 
done predominantly by women in India, enables women to spend more time  
developing skills that can be used to generate income for themselves and their 
families.
We recognize that we cannot do this alone. We need engagement with key 
stakeholders. We walk with our customers along their sustainability journey.  
We work with governments to understand their development and energy goals, 
and we build projects that help governments around the world achieve those 
goals. We partner with civil society organizations to understand how we can 
work with them to amplify the social benefits of our projects and be better  
stewards of the environment.
Along this journey we strive to promote health, safety, our people and our  
communities: 
•  We have a passion for safety—safety is fundamental to who we are as a  
company. Safety is a shared value, and one can feel our employees’  
commitment and see it demonstrated in many ways every day. Safety is a  
critical component of everything we do, everywhere in the world.
•  We are focused on enabling our employees to thrive and excel at Air Products. 
We have a tradition of excellence that has been built by passionate, talented 
people who are driven to succeed.
•  We continue to invest in the long-term health and vibrancy of the communities 
in which we live and work.Our gas products enable economic  
opportunities and foster healthy  
communities. We develop, execute, 
own and operate complex process  
facilities that become game-changers 
for local economies. Likewise, we take 
the materials that are plentiful in 
emerging markets and help transform 
them into high-value products that 
enable these countries to grow and 
improve standards of living.
30
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportSAFETY
Why It’s important
Ensuring that employees return 
home after work in good health 
is the most important reason 
to have a safe and healthy work 
environment. Excellent safety  
performance can also lower  
business costs related to missed 
work, productivity impacts and 
workers’ compensation  
premiums. It has also been shown 
that safe workplaces build  
employee trust, reduce  
absenteeism and result in higher 
quality products that enhance 
business.What We’re Doing
Safety is central to our Company goal of being the safest, most diverse and most 
profitable industrial gas company in the world. We also believe it’s a moral  
obligation. We want our employees to return home to their families as safe and 
in the same condition as when they arrived for work. 
Our beliefs about safety have been instituted for decades through our Total 
Safety Values, which stress that nothing is more important than safety and that 
adherence to safety is a condition of employment. Our current leadership has 
built on this strong foundation, making us an even safer company.
Year-on-year we strive to improve safety for our colleagues, customers and host 
communities.
Safety and Health Management  
at Air Products  
• Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy
• Goals for employee, contractor and transportation safety
•  Our global EHS Management System, applicable to all operations, 
which contains safety and health standards and procedures and 
which is aligned with ISO 45001 
• Employee training based on job function
•  Risk assessment processes for workers, processes, products,  
transportation and regulatory requirements
• Compliance audits conducted by our EHS Assurance Team
•  Review of performance by our Board of Directors, Sustainability 
Leadership Council, Businesses and Operations and members of 
our Safety Centers of Excellence
• Internal reporting of results on a monthly basis
•  External reporting on safety performance through our annual 
Sustainability Report, public website, and responses to various 
stakeholdersOur Commitments and Contributions
Our goal is to be the safest industrial gas company in the world. Although we 
have improved our lost-time injury rate by 63 percent and our recordable injury 
rate by 22 percent since 2014, our safety performance in fiscal 2019 was not  
acceptable by Air Products’ standards. Regrettably, we had two contractor  
fatalities in 2019, one in Spain and one in Brazil. Steps were taken to ensure the 
risks associated with these incidents were identified and communicated.Safety Performance in  
2019 vs. Prior Year
2019 2018
Fatalities 2 0
Employee 
Recordable Rate  0.45 0.29
Employee LTI  
Rate0.09 0.07
Contractor 
Recordable Rate0.50 0.31
Contractor LTI  
Rate0.02 0.0731Worker Safety 
Our Basic Safety Process (BSP), in use for over 15 years, provides the framework 
for employee engagement in upholding and continually strengthening our safety 
performance. BSP is focused on preventative activities, such as planned  
inspections, observations and behavior-based activities. Employees at all levels  
of the Company, including those under collective bargaining agreements, engage 
in coordinated BSP activities, such as sequential safety meetings that are held on 
a monthly basis for supervisors and their employees. 
Our “Master the Basics” mindset takes BSP one step further by giving employees 
a mental checklist to use before undertaking any task. That checklist includes 
being aware of surroundings, knowing physical limitations, following procedures, 
using the proper personal protective equipment and thinking before acting. This 
mindset makes safety personal and actionable. Security
We have and will continue to prioritize 
the security and safety of our  
employees, customers, and the  
communities in which we operate. The 
GSOC is designed to assist our global 
business in all areas of emergency 
response, crisis management, security 
planning and proactive monitoring of 
world events. Our formal security  
policies and standards address  
employee and facility security,  
product security, pipeline and land 
transportation security, Security  
Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs), work -
place violence and contracted security 
services, among other areas.
Process Safety 
Staying on top of potential process safety hazards is one of the most important 
aspects of managing safety. To promote process safety, we apply sound  
engineering principles to design, construct, operate and maintain our plants and 
equipment while minimizing process related hazards. Our program considers 
regulatory requirements, such as U.S. OSHA’s Process Safety Management and 
the European Union’s Seveso Directive, and includes procedures, training, hazard 
assessments and quantified risk analysis.
Emergency Preparedness and Crisis Management 
A critical part of BSP and our risk management effort is preparing for emergen -
cies and crisis events. Every facility is required to have a site emergency plan on 
which employees train and practice. If a crisis involving one of our facilities or 
products occurs, our Crisis Management System is activated through the  
Air Products Global Security Operations Center (GSOC) that is manned 24/7/365. 
The GSOC is the critical communication hub for Air Products’ global emergency 
and crisis response and utilizes communication tools to activate management 
resources. The Air Products Crisis Management System involves employees at all 
levels of the Company and marshals the resources and management skills  
necessary to effectively lead and respond in a crisis.32
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportAs this report was being finalized, the novel coronavirus 
(COVID-19) became a significant threat to people and 
their livelihoods. 
Air Products has responded to COVID-19 with speed and 
safety. Due to skyrocketing demand for medical oxygen, 
teams around the world mobilized to install oxygen 
tanks at hospitals and temporary facilities, converted 
trucks to oxygen service to enable more product to be 
delivered, and developed procedures to enhance safety 
during product delivery. We are proud to be designated 
as a critical industry and have kept our plants  
operating around the world so they could provide  
products, services and equipment essential to basic human needs.
Many of our employees are on the front lines during the pandemic, keeping our plants running and 
delivering to our customers the products they need. When possible, employees have been working 
from home to help maintain their health and safety as well as business continuity. During this crisis, 
we have not laid off any of our employees or reduced their salaries. Our strong financial position 
enables us to carry our people and their families through these unusual times.Response to the COVID-19  
Pandemic
Product Safety
Essential to product safety is ensuring customers and others handling our 
products have complete safety information. To prepare this information, we have 
conducted product safety reviews for our commercial products. These reviews 
include characterizing the intrinsic environmental and health hazards of the 
products, examining product uses and creating management actions to address 
potential concerns. Likewise, our phased process for new technology  
development has been used to identify and address potential risks of new  
products and applications.
Our high volume liquid/bulk industrial gas products are not toxic and can be 
handled safely with the appropriate procedures, equipment and training. Less 
than 2% of Company revenues are from sales of toxic substances.
Safety information from our product safety reviews is used in safety data sheets 
(SDS), which are a primary vehicle for communicating hazards information.  
We also share product hazards through labels that are compliant with the  
Globally Harmonized System (GHS), as well as internally-developed Safetygrams 
and customer training. We received a $300 administrative fine in fiscal 2019 
related to product safety.Transportation Safety
Air Products drivers are the “face of 
the Company” to our customers and 
the public, every day. Their safety is 
supported through the safety features 
of our delivery vehicles, driver training 
and our Data Enabled Coaching  
Program (DECP). 
The DECP relies on safety performance 
and vehicle efficiency data that are  
collected, recorded and transmitted  
by event recording cameras in our 
trucks. DECP coaches use the data, 
including the videos, to give feedback 
to our drivers that helps them improve 
their driving and become safer and 
more efficient. The videos can also be 
used for incident investigation, provid-
ing an advanced level of understand-
ing of the contributing factors of an 
accident and highlighting preventative 
coaching and training opportunities. 33Employee Health and 
Wellness is Promoted 
through a Variety of 
Initiatives:
• Dedicated onsite clinics
•  Health assessments and  
campaigns
• Ergonomic programs
• Fitness facilities and programs
• Health and nutrition
• Mental health services
Our Products Promote 
Health and Well-being
For nearly 80 years we’ve supplied 
medical grade gases, equipment,  
turnkey services as well as cryogenic  
services for magnetic resonance  
imaging (MRI) to hospitals and  
institutions globally. Our medical gases 
are used in secondary care centers,  
surgical centers, extended care  
facilities, research laboratories, at 
home and in stand alone MRI  
imaging centers.Safe and Sustainable  
Construction
Air Products assembled an international workforce of 6,000 
people who achieved 27 million worker-hours on our ASU project 
in Jazan, Saudi Arabia without a single lost-time injury. The ASU 
facility, part of the largest industrial gas facility in the world, will 
supply 75,000 metric tons per day of oxygen and nitrogen  
to Saudi Aramco’s refinery and the gasification and power  
operations on the site. 
A multi-national team of people from over 30 countries filled the 
varied roles necessary for the construction project. Having such 
a diverse workforce, with different cultural and regional norms 
with respect to safety culture and attitude to risk, 
made education a key and necessary component 
to drive Air Products’ high standards of safety 
and well-being.
The safety achievement was accomplished 
through regular safety practices and initiatives 
and clear, consistent safety priority and  
performance expectations, with frequent senior 
management visits onsite during the peak  
construction period. The safety focus of the team 
enabled the construction of this large-scale  
energy infrastructure project in a safe and  
environmentally sound manner. Employee Health and Wellness
We are committed to creating environments and driving behaviors that sustain 
the health, safety and wellness of our people. Our Global Health and Wellness 
Team, consisting of medical professionals globally, works closely with our Human 
Resources and EHS organizations to ensure our global standards comply with 
governmental regulations, including on topics such as blood-borne pathogens, 
medical records management, emergency response, fire brigade and confined 
space entry rescue. They also provide a travel medicine program to help  
employees and family members traveling abroad and collaborate with Global 
Security to have the most current and relevant information available for travelers.
Our Global Health and Wellness team is actively working with our Crisis  
Management Teams to protect and support our employees and facilities  
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
34
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportTALENT AND DIVERSITY
Why It’s important
People make organizations  
successful and their combined 
talents, commitment and  
motivation enable companies to 
meet their goals. Diversity gives 
companies access to a broader 
range of talent that provides  
insights into diverse customers 
and their needs. Plus, diversity 
enables companies to be more 
effective and profitable.What We’re Doing
Air Products brings together talented people to develop innovative solutions 
for the challenges that face us, our customers, and our world. This is part of our 
higher purpose, as is creating a first-class company where people belong and 
matter, and enjoy coming to work and are proud of what they do.
Our past and future success rely on promoting collaboration among people of  
different cultures and backgrounds. We are expanding the Air Products family 
globally by growing in new geographies. As we grow in new regions of the world, 
we bring with us our diversity and inclusion values to some areas where the  
societal roles of minorities and women are still evolving.
Our Commitments and Contributions
Our goal is to be the safest, most diverse and most profitable industrial gas  
company in the world, providing excellent service to our customers.
Our talent-related initiatives, including employee recruitment and development, 
diversity and inclusion and compensation and benefit programs, are focused on 
building and retaining the world-class and talented staff that is needed to  
meet our Company goals.
Members of Collective  
Bargaining UnitsWork Arrangement Turnover Rate
Voluntary and Involuntary  
Combined7.7%
33%Full-Time96%
Permanent Staff90%
Employees Gender
lMalelFemaleEmployee Age
l< 30 years l30–50 years
l> 50 years35%35%
79%21%12%
61%27% 30%
lAmericas lAsialEMEA>17,000Global
AverageGlobal
Average35Talent Management
We intentionally invest in attracting, hiring, developing and rewarding a winning 
global team. Our “Everyone. Everyday.” approach to Talent Management  
originates from our belief that every job is important to our success and that  
we must support every employee to do his or her best work every day.
We employ a contemporary approach to Talent Management through an  
established framework focusing on three elements:
• Performance Management to ensure employees receive regular, ongoing and 
   in-the-moment feedback and coaching;
• Individual Career Planning enabling employees and managers to work together  
   to develop skills needed today and tomorrow; and
• Annual Talent Review and Succession Planning process where we identify and  
   invest in future leaders and create a leadership pipeline for critical roles across  
   the organization.
Diversity and Inclusion
As we work to be the most diverse  
industrial gas company in the world, 
we are building a workforce that 
reflects the places we do business, fully 
utilizing the diversity of the talent pool 
and fostering a respective and inclusive 
culture so that employees seek out  
diverse perspectives and feel  
empowered to confidently express 
their viewpoints and mobilize actions 
to create meaningful change.
Air Products uses innovative recruiting 
strategies and has long standing  
partnerships with diversity recruiting 
organizations that help strengthen the 
pipeline of diverse talent. In 2019, 55% 
of our college hires were diverse. We 
continue to invest in the unique  
needs of diverse talent by providing  
our “Leadership Development  
Program for Diverse Talent,” featuring 
inclusive leadership modules in our 
development programs for new and 
experienced managers and through 
unconscious bias training for leaders 
and hiring managers. These programs 
explore why diversity and inclusion 
matters, the role of leaders in achieving 
our D&I goals, the five key elements 
of inclusive leadership and how to 
take intentional action to counteract 
unconscious bias. We explore, through 
coaching and video demonstrations, 
how unconscious bias may influence 
hiring, coaching and development and 
who we listen to and praise.21%
Females in Management17%
U.S. Minorities in Management
17%
Females in Senior Leadership14%
U.S. Minorities in Senior Leadership
20%
Females in Executive RolesDiversity in the Workforce
U.S. Minorities are defined as U.S. employees who self-identify as Black, Hispanic,  
American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian or Pacific Islander per U.S. Equal Employment  
Opportunity Commission guidelines.21%
Females in the Workforce20%
U.S. Minorities in the Workforce
30%
U.S. Minorities in Executive Roles36
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportThis year Air Products was recognized by several organizations for our strong 
performance in Diversity and Inclusion, including:
•  earning a 100% score on HRC’s Corporate Equality Index for the 4th consecutive     
   year; and
•  being named one of the Best Employers for Diversity in 2020 by FORBES®  
   Magazine.Air Products sponsors Employee  
Resource Groups (ERGs) throughout 
the world. The ERGs form an Inclusion 
Network that partners with Company 
leadership to create supportive  
communities that help attract and 
retain talent, raise cultural awareness 
and competence, develop critical skills 
and competencies and contribute to 
the Company’s diversity and inclusion 
objectives. Throughout the year the 
Inclusion Network and ERGs sponsor 
activities and programs for all  
employees, including workshops, panel 
discussions, awareness training and 
professional development sessions.
Recently our LGBT+, Black and Women’s 
ERGs joined forces to celebrate Black 
History Month with activities  
throughout the month and we  
celebrated International Women’s Day 
with gatherings around the world.
Examples of Our  
External Diversity  
Partners:Our ERGs Include:
• Catalyst
•  National Action Council on 
Minorities in Engineering 
(NACME)
•  National Black MBA  
Association (NBMBAA)
•  National Society of Black  
Engineers (NSBE)
•  Society of Hispanic  
Professional Engineers (SHPE)
•  Society of Women Engineers 
(SWE)
•  Women in Science and  
Engineering (WISE)• AERO (Asian Employee Resource Organization)
•  BERG (Black Employee Resource Group)
•  EDGE (Ethnically Diverse Gulf Employees)
•  Enable (Valuing employees of ALL abilities)
•  HOLA (Hispanic Organization of Latinos and Amigos)
•  ISERO (Indian Subcontinent Employee Resource Organization)
•  Spectrum (LGBT+ Resource Group)
•  WSN (Women’s Success Network)
These efforts contribute to  
increasing the representation of 
women and diverse talent at  
Air Products as we strive to be the  
most diverse industrial gas company.37In November, employees throughout Asia celebrated  
Organizational Well-being Month. Colleagues took part 
in a series of activities hosted by local Diversity and  
Inclusion Councils designed to improve safety, health 
and wellness, better understand and appreciate diversity 
and create a more inclusive work environment.
The activities took place across China, India, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan.  
External experts were invited to speak on promoting physical and mental well-being. Employees 
shared their own experiences, including a cancer survivor in Malaysia who hosted “Early Detection 
Saves Lives” and reinforced the importance of regular medical check-ups and maintaining a heathy 
lifestyle. Other topics included effective communication across generations, unconscious bias,  
resolving conflict, listening skills, and giving and receiving feedback. Employees also planted flowers, 
fruits and vegetables and organized exercise activities, including a Car-Free Family Fun Walk where 
employees and their families took part in a 5K walk and played games along the way. 
Through all the activities, employees increased awareness of diversity and the importance of their  
personal well-being and helped their colleagues do the same. Well-being Month Increases  
Personal Awareness, Connects  
Colleagues in New Ways
Learning and Capability 
Development
Air Products offers many opportunities 
for employees to develop their skills, 
talents and careers. We set training  
and learning requirements for  
employees based on their roles and 
responsibilities and to support current 
and future business needs.
Our development competencies are 
aligned with our “4S” culture of Safety, 
Speed, Simplicity and Self-Confidence. 
Every colleague focuses on mastering 
nine competencies, and people leaders 
are accountable for excellence in  
an additional three leadership   
competencies.
38
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportCompensation 
A work environment where employees know they belong and matter includes fair 
and equitable pay. Our pay practices apply equally to all employees, irrespective 
of gender, race, religion, disability, age or any other form of personal difference. 
We strive to pay competitively in local markets where we do business and  
compete for talent. We benchmark our compensation to ensure that we are 
keeping pace with the market to provide competitive pay and benefits. Director 
and executive officer compensation, and CEO pay ratio, are available in our most 
recent proxy statement.
Benefits
While our benefits vary around the globe and across positions, some of the base 
benefits for full-time employees include:
• Accident insurance
• Education assistance
•  Employee Assistance Programs, including guidance on legal, financial, family,    
   work matters and well-being
• Employee Recognition Programs
• Employee Referral Program
• Health plans
• Leaves of absence for personal, family, military and educational purpose
• Life insurance
• Paid vacation and holidays
• Retirement savings plans
• Training and developmentPromoting Human Rights 
Air Products is committed to safe-
guarding human rights of our  
employees and in our business  
interactions. Our Human Rights Policy 
reflects this commitment and our 
expectations for equal opportunity, 
respectful work environments,  
prohibition of discrimination, freedom 
of association, prohibition of forced 
and child labor, compensation and 
working time, EHS and security and 
anti-corruption. A 24/7 Integrity Line is 
available to anyone who would like to 
report a potential issue, including   
human rights concerns.
We complete annual human rights 
assessments for our operations and 
supply chains. In 2019, we reviewed the 
potential for human rights issues in 
the highest risk countries in which we 
operate, and we did not identify any 
significant risks.Safety
Safety is a moral 
responsibility. The only 
acceptable goal is zero 
accidents.Speed
We will act with 
urgency and respond 
quickly to our 
customers’ needs.
Simplicity
We will simplify our 
organization, work 
processes and decision-
making.Self-confidence
We are a team working 
together to win. We 
will be the best in the 
industry.9 Core Competencies:
All Employees
• Integrity
• Deliver Safety
• Passion to be the 
   Best in the Industry
• Positive Attitude
• External Focus
• Drive Results
• Innovation
• Demonstrate Courage
• Develop Self & Others3 Leadership  
Competencies:
Additional for Managers
• Lead and Inspire
• Manage Execution
• Strategic Mindset
Additional information:
Careers website  g
Human Rights Policy g
Human Trafficking and Slavery Policy  g39COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Why It’s important
Companies and communities, 
working together, can more  
effectively identify and address 
social issues and help create a 
more vibrant and sustainable 
community where employees  
and neighbors live and work.  
Collaboration also builds trust, 
a critical value required for  
companies to continue to operate 
and grow.What We’re Doing
For nearly 80 years, Air Products has been building relationships and  
contributing to the well-being of our host communities around the world.  
We do this in a variety of ways: through financial contributions from the  
Air Products Foundation, in-kind donations, employee directed giving and 
employee volunteerism with not-for-profit organizations. Our support priorities 
include education and workforce development, health and human services,  
community and economic development, arts and culture and environment and 
safety. We work closely with community partners, including not-for-profit  
organizations, emergency responders, elected officials, and education, business 
and community leaders, to identify the highest impact opportunities.
The Air Products Foundation
The mission of the Air Products Foundation is to build meaningful relationships 
with charitable organizations that share the values inherent in our higher  
purpose and enhance positive relationships with Air Products’ employees,  
communities, customers and shareholders.
Using its mission as a guide, the Air Products Foundation supports programs in 
our host communities throughout the U.S., in global locations where we have 
employees and operations, at colleges and universities where we are strategically 
engaged, in national organizations committed to diversity and inclusion  
and through employee- and retiree-directed matching gifts programs.
Many of our employees directly support Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Math (STEM) related activities in collaboration with educational facilities, schools, 
colleges, universities and community groups. By attracting people to STEM  
careers, we help build future career paths and develop strong talent pools.  
Our STEM efforts target diverse groups, including students at different education 
levels, workers and community members. In 2019, we delivered over 100 STEM  
programs globally that touched the lives of more than 100,000 people.
40
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability Report
Working, Living, and Giving Around the World
We develop stakeholder outreach plans aimed at addressing high-priority needs 
and maintaining positive relationships with the communities near our largest 
operations globally. These plans include meetings with local leaders, facility tours, 
emergency response training and support for education and philanthropy.
Our employees are also very engaged in their local communities. In 2019,  
Air Products employees and retirees engaged in hundreds of community  
programs. For details about community projects, please see our Corporate  
Citizenship website.
Additional information:
Corporate Citizenship website g
Political Contributions Policy  gOur Commitments and Contributions
In 2019 the Air Products Foundation made nearly $8 million in cash contributions. 
Nearly half of the donations were to organizations in our host communities, 
including our headquarters in Allentown, Pennsylvania as well as facilities in the 
U.S. and around the world. Talent grants, which make up about one-third of the 
donations, were provided to eligible institutions and organizations that help  
us attract, develop and retain diverse talent. Matching gifts are made by the  
Air Products Foundation to eligible not-for-profit organizations to which  
employees have made contributions, such as the United Way, and are matched 
dollar-for-dollar. In 2019 Air Products employees and retirees raised $3 million  
for the United Way.
FY19 Contributions
32%
14% 29%25%
lHeadquarters
lU.S Field/International
lTalent Grants
lMatching Gifts/United Way$7.6  
millionLGBTQ Community
In 2019 Air Products worked closely with the Bradbury-Sullivan LGBT Community Center which is near the 
Company’s headquarters and nationally known for its work to understand and support the LGBTQ  
community. The Air Products Foundation issued a successful challenge grant to help Bradbury-Sullivan pay 
off its mortgage with $25,000 as a donation by the Foundation and $27,000 raised by the community with  
Air Products’ help. The mortgage on the building was paid off, and in its place, a new staff member was  
hired to work with youth, which is a vulnerable LGBT population.
41A Sampling of Community Projects Around the World
North America:
South America: •  California: Contributed to the Boys and 
Girls Club of the Diablo Valley for youth 
leadership and self-esteem programs
•  Canada: Supported the “Everyone Plays” 
program sponsored by the City of Fort 
Saskatchewan in Alberta
•  Pennsylvania: Further supported Miller-
Keystone Blood Center via a grant for a 
new community bloodmobile 
•  Louisiana: Sorted and boxed roughly 
11,000 pounds of non-perishable food to 
help feed Baton Rouge’s senior commu-
nity
•  Texas : Supported the La Porte Education 
foundation and their robotics program 
for high school students
 •  Chile: Helping women create  
environmentally friendly products
42
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportA Sampling of Community Projects Around the World (continued)
Europe: Asia: India:
 •  United Kingdom: Challenged 
students to combine STEM,  
sustainability and business  
acumen through the National 
Enterprise Challenge, the UK’s 
largest school enterprise  
programme 
•  Spain: Brightening the pediatric 
ward in Hospital de Logroño with 
inspirational paintings through 
“Nos Mueve La Ilusión”
•  France: Contributed to Make a 
Wish in France as part of the  
company’s 100th year anniversary 
in the country •  China: Brought gas knowledge 
and technologies to local  
communities through the South 
China LIN ambassador program 
•  Singapore: Employees celebrated 
the Mid-Autumn Festival with 
a group of seniors from REACH 
Community Services Society
•  South Korea: Initiated the Korea 
Pyeongtaek City Library  
Development Fund •  Pune: Helped the artisan com -
munity at the Pune Haat Local 
Fair to revive traditional artforms 
and financially empowered local 
artists
•  Kerala: Presented at the Kerala 
Management Association’s 
National Conclave on  “Managing 
Work and Life: The Global  
Aspirations of Young India”
43What We’re Doing
Air Products engages with companies and organizations around the world on key 
sustainability concerns. These collaborations are aligned with the SDGs where we 
can have the most impact. As we expand our businesses in the developing world, 
we share our technologies, engineering expertise and safety, environmental and 
diversity standards and approaches with our new partners.
Our Commitments and Contributions
Examples of our contributions to the SDGs are highlighted throughout this  
report. Partnerships include:
•  Engaging with Chambers of Commerce throughout the world to promote  
   business growth
•  Partnering with institutes of higher education on technology research, such as  
   Purdue University in the United States, the Technical University of Denmark,  
   and the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia 
•  Teaming up with companies to enable the use of recycled water in water- 
   stressed regions, such as Southern California in the U.S.
•  Supporting the use of hydrogen to transition to cleaner energy through  
   organizations such as the Hydrogen Council
•  Partnering with a customer to extract helium from a naturally occurring carbon  
   dioxide gas source being processed by the customer
•  Working with customers and governments in several regions to develop carbon  
   capture, use and storage projects
•  Collaborating with local emergency responders, providing access, training and   
   preparedness drills and activities
•  Supporting gender equality through engagement in organizations and  
   initiatives, such as the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™PARTNERSHIPS
Why It’s important
Solving today’s and tomorrow’s 
energy and environmental  
challenges requires ambition, 
ingenuity and partnership.  
Partnerships, between  
businesses, governments and  
civil society, are needed to  
address the key sustainability  
issues facing our people and 
planet and to deliver on the  
Sustainable Development Goals.
-United Nations on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)“           Ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies 
that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – 
all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
44
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportThousands of suppliers are essential to our success. We strive to work with  
quality suppliers who can help Air Products deliver value and excellent service  
to our customers and who share in our commitment to ethical business  
practices. All suppliers are expected to abide by and conform to our Code of  
Conduct in their business dealings with us and to support sustainability through 
the principles outlined in our Sustainability Expectations of Suppliers, which 
include environmental, human rights and community considerations.
In total, Air Products’ spent almost $7 billion in power, equipment, materials and 
services with over 15,000 suppliers and service providers in 2019. Energy is the 
primary raw material purchased to manufacture industrial gases, particularly 
electricity and steam for our ASUs, and natural gas for our HyCO plants. Steel, 
aluminum and capital equipment subcomponents are the primary materials 
procured for our equipment business. There were no significant changes in our 
supply chain year-over-year.
Because Air Products operates regionally, our procurement teams are primarily 
local to our businesses and work with regional and local suppliers. We also have  
a corporate team that supports procurement of capital equipment. 
Our procurement teams have supplier qualification processes in place to ensure 
we receive the quality supplies and services we need. In 2019, we conducted  
onsite evaluations of new suppliers as part of the qualification process. If  
noncompliance is identified through our ongoing monitoring, we work with  
the supplier to address the issue.
Promoting Supplier Diversity
It is our policy and practice to provide maximum practical opportunities to  
diverse suppliers. In 2019, approximately 20% of our procurement in the U.S.  
was from diverse suppliers. These include small, socially and economically  
disadvantaged, and other minority-owned and women-owned U.S. businesses 
that can provide competitive sources of materials and services. We  
offer advice and guidance to assist minority business firms in building  
relationships and becoming successful suppliers to us.
Human Rights in Our Supply Chain
We complete annual human rights assessments for our operations and supply 
chains. From a supply chain perspective, we examined human rights risks  
relative to procurement spend and supplier location using country-specific risk  
information from third parties. Most of our suppliers are in heavy industries that 
are not as susceptible to human rights violations as other industries. However, to 
promote human rights in our supply chains, we have added human rights clauses 
to our standard terms and conditions for procurement. No significant risks were 
identified through our assessment, and we are not aware of any allegations of 
violations of human rights in our supply chain in 2019.Conflict Minerals
A significant program in the U.S. to 
address human rights atrocities in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
(DRC) is the Conflict Minerals Rule 
under the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. The four 
covered minerals – tungsten, tantalum, 
tin and gold – are used in a variety of 
applications, from hearing aids and 
pacemakers to laptop computers and 
GPS devices.
Each year we report our progress in 
identifying Conflict Minerals in our 
supply chain to the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission and post 
our Conflict Minerals report on our 
website.
Additional information:
Code of Conduct  g
Conflict Minerals Policy g
Sustainability Expectations of Suppliers g
SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY45Stakeholder Engagement 
We work closely with our key stakeholders – customers, employees, investors, communities, suppliers and government 
regulators – to understand and respond to their needs and collaborate for shared benefit. Meetings, presentations and 
ongoing dialogue with stakeholders throughout the year provide ample opportunities for collaboration on sustainability.
Stakeholder Assessment
Air Products has been conducting stakeholder assessments since it began reporting in accordance with GRI guidelines. For 
this report, the assessment process included:
•  Evaluating sustainability issues identified in various frameworks, standards, questionnaires, customer and other company  
   reports and stakeholder questions 
•  Interviewing and/or surveying key stakeholders to understand their sustainability concerns and priorities
•  Reviewing the results with our Sustainability Leadership Council to confirm the priorities and further shape our  
   sustainability efforts
The assessment for this report was initiated with dozens of sustainability concerns from multiple sources, such as SASB, 
TCFD and CDP . Stakeholders reflected on these concerns, providing their feedback on the importance and potential impacts 
of the issues. While the issues varied to some extent across the stakeholder groups, all groups shared a growing concern for 
the impact of climate change. Stakeholder support of Air Products’ sustainability programs was consistently positive.
The concerns rated by the stakeholders with the highest level of importance and impact are included in our Sustainability 
Priorities and have been used to develop this report.
Our Sustainability Priorities APPENDIX
Extremely 
High
High
High
Increasing impact on Air Products’ successExtremely HighPartnershipsWater 
ConservationInnovation Energy and Climate
Economic  
PerformanceSafety
DiversityResponsible  
Consumption and  
Production
lGrowlConserve lCare46
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportSources for Air Products’ 2019 Stakeholder Assessment
• CDP (formerly the Carbon  
   Disclosure Project)
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index  
   (DJSI)
• EcoVadis
• Ethibel
• FTSE4Good
 • GRI
• Institutional Shareholder  
   Services (ISS)
• JUST Capital
• Key stakeholders
• MSCI 
• Sustainability Accounting  
   Standards Board (SASB)• Sustainalytics
• Task Force for Climate-related   
   Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
• UN Global Compact
• UN Sustainable Development    
   Goals
About Our Report
Air Products has reported on its sustainability performance annually for the past 17 years, building on previous decades of 
environmental, health and safety disclosures and reporting. This is our 11th consecutive year reporting in accordance with 
GRI.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards “Core option.” The Core option is aimed at providing 
stakeholders with data and perspectives to understand and evaluate our performance, impacts and opportunities. The 
report also contains supplemental information not specified by GRI that illustrates additional aspects of our sustainability 
efforts and impacts. 
Air Products used GRI’s Principles for Defining Report Content to develop our Sustainability Report. These principles 
included: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and coverage of aspects that reflect our significant economic, 
environmental and social impacts. Our Sustainability Priorities, aspect boundaries, and related content within this report 
are provided below:
Aspect Boundaries
Product 
DevelopmentSourcing ProductionSales & 
MarketingDistributionUse/End  
of LifeCommunitiesReport 
pages
Grow
Economic Performance • • • • • •8–9
Innovation • • • •14–15
Conserve
Responsible 
Consumption and 
production • • • • • • •19
Energy and Climate • • • • • • •20–23
Water Conservation • • • • •24–25
Care
Safety • • • • • • •30–33
Talent & Diversity • • • • • •34–38
Partnerships • • • •4347Our 2020 report covers the period of January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, except where noted that fiscal year (October 1, 
2018 to September 30, 2019) data is provided. Our prior year report was issued in May 2019 and reported on the 2018  
calendar year. The GRI Content Index for the report is available online.
The scope of this report is global for continuing operations including assets over which financial control is exercised and 
as reported in our consolidated audited financial statement. We exclude less than controlling interests in joint ventures or 
equity affiliates. Additional information about affiliates and subsidiaries is available in our 2019 Annual Report .
Resources have been cited throughout the report to provide additional information on our policies, programs and  
performance related to sustainability, such as:
• Annual Report 
• Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
• EHS Policy 
• Human Rights Policy
• Sustainability Expectations for Suppliers
• Sustainable Offerings and our products from A to Z
For this report, Air Products has restated energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water withdrawals and use and 
waste generated for prior years to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and improved methodologies. There were no significant 
changes to operational boundaries, scope or measurement methods.
Our Sustainability Director was accountable for overseeing the preparation of this report, with significant data  
contributions provided by business, functional and sustainability related teams throughout the company. No GRI sector 
standard exists for our industry, however, we have attempted to provide best possible disclosures based on the nature of 
our business and the related risks and opportunities. Questions about this report can be directed to Julie O’Brien,  
Air Products’ Sustainability Director, at obrienjk@airproducts.com .
48
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportKey Performance Data 
Provided below is data on key performance indicators (KPIs) for 2019 and 2018. Three years of data for these KPIs is available 
in the GRI Content Index for this report and listed under the relevant GRI indicator.
Grow 2019 2018
Economic Value
 Sales ($ millions) $8,919 $8,930
 Adjusted EBITDA margina38.9% 34.9%
 Adjusted operating margina24.3% 21.7%
 Return on capital employed (“ROCE”)a13.1% 12.4%
 Adjusted diluted earnings per share (“EPS”)a$8.21 $7.45
 Dividends declared per common share $4.58 $4.25
Customer Sustainability
 Customer CO2 avoided (million MT CO2e) 69 55
 Percent of revenues from Sustainable Offerings 53% 54%
Innovation
 R&D Spending ($ million) $73 $65
 Patents owned 3,733 3,423
Ethics and Integrity
 Annual Code of Conduct training and certification 100% 100%
 Allegations of Code of Conduct violations 412 394
Conserve 2019 2018
Energy consumption (TWh)
 Totalb52.5 49.9
 Fuelsb28.9 28.2
 Electricityb16.1 16.0
 Percent of electricity that is renewable 23% 23%
 Steamb7.5 5.5
Energy intensity improvement
 ASUs 3.7% 2%
 HyCO 0.9% 0.9%
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million MT)
 Scope 1b16.6 16.5
 Scope 2b10.6 10.3
 Scope 3b6.6 7.7
 GHG intensity improvement 2.3% 1.5%
 Distribution efficiency intensity improvement 18% 16%
Waste (million pounds)
 Hazardous waste generatedb6.1 6.1
 Hazardous waste disposalb2.6 2.1
 Non-hazardous waste disposal 11.3 7.1
Water (billion gallons)
 Water withdrawalsb19.4 19.1
 Gross water consumptionb15.8 16.3
 Water conservation intensity improvementb26% 20%
a  Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Sustainability 2020 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for reconciliation 
to the comparable GAAP measures.
b  Restated for 201849Recognition for Our Sustainability Efforts
Air Products is proud to have our sustainability efforts and progress acknowledged by leading ratings and rankings  
agencies, including the following for 2019:
Bloomberg Gender-Equality  
Index (GEI)Conserve 2019 2018
Other air emissions (metric tons)
 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 1,495 1,474
 Sulfur oxides (SOx) 71 71
Environmental fines $4,400 $17,600
Care 2019 2018
Safety
 Employee recordables (number) and injury rate 82 / 0.45 49 / 0.29
 Employee lost-time injuries (number) and rate 16 / 0.09 12 / 0.071
 Employee fatalities 0 0
 Contractor recordables (number) and injury rate 58 / 0.50 45 / 0.31
 Contractor lost-time injuries (number) and rate 2 / 0.02 10 / 0.07
 Contractor fatalities 2 0
 Vehicle accident frequency rate (preventable accidents per one  
 million kilometers) 1.06 1.01
 Preventable road accident rate (preventable road accidents per  
 one million kilometers) 0.27 0.25
Talent and Diversity
 Total employees at year end >17,000 16,000
 Female share of workforce 21% 22%
 Global employee turnover rate 7.7% 10.9%
 Average formal training hours per employee 20 20
 Percent of employees in collective bargaining units 33% 31%
Community Support
 Cash and product donations ($ million) $7.6 $6.9
 United Way contributions ($ million) $3 $3
50
Air Products  |  2020 Sustainability ReportTerm Definition
ACOC Annual Code of Conduct training and certification
ASU Air Separation Unit, the technology used to make atmospheric gases including nitrogen, oxygen 
and argon.
Blue Hydrogen Has a 60% lower carbon footprint than hydrogen from natural gas reforming. Sources include 
natural gas reforming with carbon capture, use or sequestration; electrolysis using non-renewable 
energy; hydrogen recovery from waste gas; biogas separation or reforming; and biomass  
gasification.
BSP Basic Safety Process
CCS Carbon Capture and Storage
CDP A not-for-profit charity that runs a global disclosure system for carbon and other information 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)
CFC Chlorofluorocarbon
CO2Carbon dioxide
CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent is a standard unit for measuring carbon footprints that takes into 
account the different global warming potentials of GHGs
DECP Data Enabled Coaching Program
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
EHS Environment, Health and Safety
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa
EOR Enhanced oil recovery
EPA Environmental Protection Agency (U.S.)
GHG Greenhouse gases, including the six Kyoto-regulated gases (CO2, N2O, SF6, CH4, PFCs, HFCs) and NF3
Green Hydrogen Made using water electrolysis and renewable electricity or by reforming biogas; has the lowest 
carbon footprint of hydrogen produced
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
HAPs Hazardous air pollutants
HCFC Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HyCO Hydrogen-carbon monoxide
LNG Liquefied natural gas
LTI Injuries or illnesses resulting in missed or restricted work. LTI rates are per 200,000 hours worked.
NOV Notice of Violation - A deviation from a regulation or permit requirement that is formally cited by a 
government agency
NOx Oxides of nitrogen including nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2)
ODS Ozone depleting substances
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration (U.S.)
Recordable Rate A work-related injury that requires medical care beyond basic first aid treatment. Recordable rates 
are per 200,000 hours worked.GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS 51Term DefinitionDefinition
ROCE Return on capital employed
Scope 1 emissions Direct GHG emissions that occur from sources owned or controlled by a company, for example, 
emissions from combustion or chemical production 
Scope 2 emissions Electricity indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the 
company
Scope 3 emissions Other indirect GHG emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the company, but occur 
from sources not owned or controlled by the company
SDGs Sustainable Development Goals
SDS Safety data sheets
SOx Oxides of sulfur including sulfur oxide, sulfur dioxide and others
SMR Steam methane reforming, the most economical way to produce large volumes of hydrogen
STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Math
Sustainable Offerings Products that improve energy efficiency, reduce environmental impact, and/or address a societal 
need
TRI U.S. EPA Toxic Release Inventory
VOCs Volatile organic chemicals
VSA Vacuum swing adsorptiontell me more
airproducts.com
© Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., 2020 (43218) 900-20-008-USThe information contained herein is offered without charge for use by technically qualified 
personnel at their discretion and risk. All statements, technical information and recommendations 
contained herein are based on tests and data which we believe to be reliable, but the accuracy or 
completeness thereof is not guaranteed and no warranty of any kind is made with respect thereto.For more information  , 
please contact us at:
Corporate Headquarters 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. 
 7201 Hamilton Boulevard 
 Allentown, PA 18195-1501 
T 610-481-4911 
(Outside the U.S. and Canada 
+1-610-481-6799) 
F 610-481-5900
Regional Head Offices 
Air Products PLC 
Hersham Place Technology Park 
Molesey Road 
Walton-on-Thames 
Surrey KT12 4RZ 
UK 
T +44-1932-249200   
F +44-1932-249565Air Products Asia, Inc. 
2503-5, 25/F 
148 Electric Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 
T +852-2527-1922   
F +852-2527-1827
Air Products Singapore Industrial  
Gases Pte Ltd.
2 International Business Park
#03-20 The Strategy
Singapore 609930
T +65-6494 2240
F +65-6334 1005Air Products and Chemicals (China) 
Investment Co. Ltd. 
East Wing, Floor 1 
Building #88, Lane 887 
Zu Chongzhi Road 
Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park 
Shanghai, 201203 
P .R. China 
T +86-21-38962000   
F +86-21-50805555
Indura S.A.  
Av. Las Americas 585 Cerrilos  
Santiago, Chile ZC-9230117