Innovating
for our future2013
SuStainability RepoR treport
Contents
IntroductIonSection 1:
EnvIronmEntSection 2:
SocIEtySection 3:
EconomySection 4:
appEndIxSection 5:alaska air Group’s 2013 Sustainability Report
overview
message From our cEo 
about alaska air Group
our Sustainability Strategy4
14
overviewEmissions & Fuel 
Energy In our Facilities
Waste & recyclingmaterials & Supplies
overviewpassenger & Employee SafetyEmployee attraction & Engagement
diversity & Equal opportunity
Supplier Labor practicescorporate Giving & c ommunity Support
overview 
Economic performance
Hassle-Free Flying37
55
64 Who We areSection 1:overview
message From our cEo 
about alaska air Group
our Sustainability Strategy 6
8
125Introduction
5
environment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
alaska air Group strives to be a good company, a good 
employer, and a good steward for the environment. However, the airline industry is inherently wrought with sustainability challenges. although we’re making good progress, we have a long way to go and a lot more to do. 
Integrating sustainability into our planning and business 
operations is a new and challenging journey. We have chosen to embrace these challenges, and take on sustainability enhancements that are important to the environment, our communities, and the advancement of the airline industry. our intention in this report is to transparently document the progress we’ve made, the challenges we’ve encountered, and the goals we’ve set for the upcoming years.
this is our second full Sustainability report, 
summarizing the environmental, social, and economic Integrating sustainability – it’s the right thing to doOverview
impacts of alaska air Group’s two carriers, alaska airlines and Horizon air. It covers business operations and facilities owned or maintained by alaska air Group during the reporting period, Jan. 1, 2012, through dec. 
31, 2013. v endor operations and supply chain are not 
included.
We are integrating sustainability 
into our business because it’s the right thing to do:
For our 
companyFor the 
environmentFor our 
customers6environment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
the people of alaska air Group fly 
our customers to more than 100 destinations across north america and Hawaii, helping them take in some of the most stunning scenery in the world. this natural beauty is a regular reminder for us to take 
care of our planet. more broadly, to 
us, being socially responsible means we need to run our business in a way that makes alaska, and all of the people and communities we work with, stronger and healthier over time. So whether you’re a customer, a community member, an employee, a supplier or an investor, you should expect us to commit to policies and practices that help us all sustain ourselves and grow over the long run.
one of our core values is that we’ll do the right thing. 
For us, running our business this way — with an eye on the long run — is simply the right thing to do. that’s why sustainability isn’t a separate program at alaska. We integrate it into our business and we ask each of our leaders to adopt a long-term perspective, and manage their areas as if they’ll be here and responsible for the results 20 or 30 years from now.We’re taking the sustainability challenge head onMessage From Our CEO
I’d like to share a few highlights of how sustainability is making us a successful business within the framework of the triple bottom line (people, planet and performance):
People
u our core promise to our customers is to get them to 
their destination safely and on time. We’re implementing 
the Faa ’s Safety management System, which uses 
employee reports about risks and other inputs to help identify safety-related trends and mitigate those risks.
u We believe in treating our people well with generous pay 
and benefits and good working relationships so they enjoy their job and treat our customers well. as a smaller airline, 
we make the good pay and benefits work financially by balancing them with a strong focus on customer service and productivity. Importantly, alaska is sharing our success with our employees, who are responsible for this success. For 2013, all frontline employees received performance-based bonuses of approximately one month of pay.
u to help align employees with our strategic plan, everyone 
in the company recently attended a daylong seminar called Flight path, an investment that gave leaders and employees a chance to spend time together and focus on our vision and how we all need to work together. recent survey data indicates we have further opportunity to communicate openly and honestly with each other.
u For our communities, alaska donated $7.6 million in 2013 
to a variety of organizations that support youth and education, among other things. We were especially proud to support the construction of the new raisbeck a viation High School in 
Seattle.
Planet
u minimizing the environmental impact of burning more than 
a million gallons of fossil fuel every day is a key challenge for 
our airline. By investing $4.3 billion to modernize air Group’s fleet over the past decade, we’ve provided a better product to our customers, strengthened our finances, and reduced our carbon emissions by 30 percent.
u Looking ahead, we want to help the industry meet its goal 
of capping the growth of carbon emissions by 2020. We’re retrofitting our Boeing 737s with split-scimitar winglets to 
brad tilden7enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
further improve efficiency. and we recently completed an 
agreement with a company based in Hawaii that should enable us to use sustainable aviation biofuel on some of our flights by 2018.
u next Generation airspace management, which is 
being sponsored by the Faa and industry, offers huge opportunities for reducing fuel consumption, carbon emissions, noise, travel time and costs. alaska will continue to play a leadership role in the implementation of nextGen.
Performance
u our sustainable approach has led to record financial 
performance. In an industry where many folks don’t expect 
airlines to perform financially, we have exceeded our goal of a 10 percent return on invested capital for each of the past four years and we plan to maintain that performance over the long term.u We have fully funded all of our pension obligations to 
our employees .
u Since 2007, we’ve repurchased 21 million shares of our 
stock, increasing returns for our owners by 30 percent. and we recently initiated, and then increased, our first quarterly dividend since 1992.
We know we can’t successfully meet the needs of any of 
our stakeholders unless we meet the needs of all of them, and we believe the best way to do that is with a sustainable, long-term approach. our people work very hard to carry out that vision, and we’re proud to have received multiple awards from J.d. power, FlightStats.com and other groups for our customer service, environmental efforts and corporate giving. While we’re pleased with what we’ve done so far, however, we’re determined to accomplish much more.
8environment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
alaska air Group is a publicly held incorporated entity, and the 
holding company for two operating subsidiaries, alaska airlines (aS) and Horizon air (Qx). With headquarters in Seattle, the two 
carriers provide commercial passenger and cargo transportation services throughout north america and Hawaii.
as the nation’s sixth-largest carrier, alaska airlines operates a 
fleet of Boeing 737 aircraft from hubs in anchorage, Los angeles, portland, San diego, and Seattle. Horizon air operates under a capacity purchase agreement with alaska airlines. all seats on the regional carrier’s Bombardier Q400 aircraft are marketed and sold by alaska airlines. 
Heavy aircraft maintenance is outsourced to u.S.-based vendors, 
and we contract out ground operations at many of our stations. vendors are selected based on strict guidelines examining their 
safety record, training, diversity, innovation, and their hiring criteria.Alaska Airlines + Horizon AirAbout Alaska Air Group
OmahaOmahaKelownaKelownaEdmontonEdmonton
BellinghamBellingham
WenatcheeWenatchee
YakimaYakima
PascoPasco
Walla W alla Walla W allaPullmanPullman
LewistonLewiston
Sun V alley Sun V alleyMissoulaMissoulaKalispellKalispell
HelenaHelenaGreat FallsGreat Falls
BillingsBillings BozemanBozemanVictoriaVictoria
EugeneEugene
MedfordMedfordRedmond/
BendRedmond/
Bend
Santa BarbaraSanta BarbaraMammoth/Y osemite Mammoth/Y osemite
Fort LauderdaleWashington, D.C. - NationalWashington, D.C. (Reagan National)New York City / Newark New York City / Newark
PhiladelphiaBostonBoston
PhoenixPhoenixReno/Lake Tahoe Reno/Lake Tahoe
Las V egas Las V egasOaklandOakland
BurbankBurbank
Ontario
Orange CountyOrange County
San DiegoSan Diego
Los CabosLos CabosMazatlanMazatlan
ManzanilloManzanillo
Ixtapa / ZihuatanejoIxtapa / ZihuatanejoAnchorageAnchorage
CordovaCordova
YakutatYakutat
Glacier Bay / 
GustavusGlacier Bay / 
Gustavus JuneauJuneau
WrangellWrangellPetersburgPetersburg
KetchikanKetchikanDutch  Harbor Dutch  HarborKing SalmonKing SalmonDillinghamDillinghamBethelBethelNomeNomeKotzebueKotzebue
FairbanksFairbanks
KodiakKodiak
AdakAdak
OrlandoOrlando
GuadalajaraGuadalajaraLong BeachLong BeachChicago (O'Hare) Chicago (O'Hare)
DenverBarrowBarrow
Prudhoe BayPrudhoe Bay
SitkaSitka
Puerto V allarta Puerto V allartaLoretoDallas / Fort W orth Dallas / Fort W orth
Mexico CityMexico CityHonolulu (O‘ahu)Līhu‘e (Kaua‘i)
Kahului (Maui)
Kona (Hawai‘i)Minneapolis/St. PaulMinneapolis/St. Paul
TucsonTucson
Austin
San AntonioSan AntonioAustin
HoustonHoustonAtlantaAtlantaSt. LouisSt. Louis Kansas CityKansas City
MontereySacramentoSacramento
San FranciscoSan Francisco
San JoseSan Jose
Los AngelesLos AngelesPortlandPortlandSeattleSeattleVancouverVancouver
SpokaneSpokaneCalgaryCalgary
Palm SpringsPalm SpringsBoiseBoise
LoretoColorado SpringsColorado SpringsSteamboat Springs /Hayden Steamboat Springs/Hayden
Fresno/YosemiteFresno/YosemiteSanta Rosa/SonomaSanta Rosa/Sonoma
OntarioSalt Lake City9
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
our airlines share complementary values that define our 
character and guide decision-making and behavior. proof of our commitment to these values is apparent in the daily actions of our employees — we put safety above all and do the right thing in the right way, every day.
Code of Conduct
In 2012 we updated our c ode of c onduct and Ethics 
policy, and all employees are educated annually on the new policy. It is an important tool that summarizes the rules, principles and behaviors that align with our core values, and is designed to promote a culture of open and honest communication where everyone feels comfortable raising questions or concerns about what constitutes ethical behavior. 
doing business in this way is consistent with our 
corporate values. It has been central to our past success, and will be foundational to our future as alaska air Group continues to grow.A values driven companyHonesty & Ethical Behaviorabout alaSka aiR  GRoup:
Did You Know? 
in 2013, we established a vendor c ode of 
conduct to set clear standards to protect 
our vendor employees by promoting safe 
and fair working conditions.Our Core Values
Alaska 
Airlines
Horizon 
AirSafety
professionalism caring 
resourcefulness Integrity alaska Spirit
Safety 
IntegritypartnershipInnovation / Initiativecontinuous Improvement
Horizon Heart
Vendor
Code of
Conduct10enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
our Five Focus areas are how we define our strategic 
priorities. In the past two years, we’ve made significant progress in each Focus area as we work to integrate sustainability throughout our business operations.
1. Safety & Compliance
Safety and compliance are the foundation of everything we do. We have an unwavering commitment to safety and compliance, and we will not compromise this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives.And how they align
2. People Focus
While airplanes and technology enable us to do what 
we do, we recognize that this is fundamentally a people business, and our future depends on how we work together to win in this extremely competitive environment. as we grow, we want to strengthen our small company feel while also providing people of all backgrounds equal access to opportunities based on 
individual abilities and performance. We will succeed where others fail because of our pride and passion, and because of the way we treat our customers, our 
suppliers and partners, and each other.Our Five Focus Areas about alaSka aiR  GRoup:
HiGHliGHt
more than halfway through full implementation, 
our Safety management System achieved level 2 
certification at the end of 2013, leading to: Safety Management System:HiGHliGHt
in 2013, all of our employees completed our Flight p ath 
seminar. according to survey results, this led to a:Flight Path Seminar:
increased 
safety awarenessdecrease in higher-risk incidents
! 13%
IncrEaSEin employee engagement11grew by 
10 
aircraftentered 
15 
new marketsenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
3. Hassle-free Customer Experience
We cultivate loyal customer relationships by offering an 
intuitive and trouble-free experience at all touch-points that is enabled by industry-leading technology, and by reliable and best-in-class customer service.
4. Energetic and Compelling Brand
We will create a deeper emotional connection between our brand, our people, our customers and our communities. We will position our brand as friendly, genuine, and relevant to a changing customer profile, 
and we will use our brand and our technology to develop a more direct relationship with our customers. We will be the industry leader in environmental stewardship.5. Low Fares, Low Costs 
& Network Growth
We will become known for our low fares and high value 
in order to broaden our appeal, reduce our vulnerability to low-cost carriers, and fuel growth. We will fund low fares by relentlessly pursuing simplicity, low overhead and high productivity. We will establish ourselves as 
the preferred airline for all travelers living on the West coast by defending and growing alaska and the pacific 
northwest, and by growing Hawaii and c alifornia. We 
are targeting 4% to 8% annual growth for the alaska mainline operation, assuming acceptable profitability.HiGHliGHt
alaska airlines’ new mobile app reached nearly 1.2 
million downloads in 2013, and consistently ranks:Alaska Airlines’ Mobile App:
4½ to 5 stars by users. 
HiGHliGHt
Supporting the Next Generation:
in 2013, alaska airlines’ brand ambassador, 
Russell Wilson, helped us challenge more 
than 600 students to graduate and pursue 
long term goals.  HiGHliGHt
positioning ourselves for growth, in 2013 our fleet:Network Growth:
12environment intR oduction Society economy appendixintR oduction
Our 2020 
Sustainability 
Strategy
Support enhanced 
educational and 
Social outcomes 
in our c ommunities.be Recognized as a 
Great place to build 
a Great c areer.
attract, Retain and advance diverse employees.embed ethical labor practices into 
our Supply chain.
achieve the Highest p ossible 
level of Safety for e very 
employee, e very customer, 
every Flight, e very day.low c osts, 
low Fares, and 
network Growth.make 
Flying 
easy.Reduce emissions 
in the air and 
on the Ground.Reduce c onsumption 
of non-sustainable Resources.
eliminate Waste From 
our inflight Service and Facility operations.Reduce our 
Facility energy 
consumption.Environment
addressing our impacts on the planetSection 2:overview
Emissions & Fuel 
Energy In our Facilities
Waste & recyclingmaterials & Supplies17
26
28
3215
15Environmental sustainability presents many challenges 
to the airline industry. transporting millions of 
passengers every year requires enormous quantities of petroleum-based fuels that are costly and impact the environment. tons of waste are generated from inflight 
services, unsustainable materials are often chosen, and large amounts of energy are consumed in ground facilities.
at alaska air Group, we care about the environment 
and are finding innovative ways to reduce the impact of our services, our facilities, and our equipment. In order to take action and lead the aviation industry toward a more sustainable future, our environmental strategy encompasses four main areas. We fly people to beautiful places; 
let’s keep those places beautiful.Overview
Our environmental strategy 
strives to reduce:
emissions from 
planes and 
equipmentWaste from 
Flights and 
other Facilities
energy use 
in our 
buildingsconsumption of 
non-sustainable 
ResourcesenviR onment introduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
16enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
Achievement HighlightsoveRvieW :
2,861 tonS
of recyclables going 
to landfills since 2011We’ve Saved:Waste From Flights and Other Facilities
tHat W ould Fill:
oLympIc SIzE  pooLS
Alaska Airlines ranked first in fuel efficiency 
among u.S. domestic carriers in 2013 
by the international c ouncil on clean 
transportation.Alaska & Horizon are the only u.S. carriers 
that recycle on every domestic flight.1.16
We’Re makinG  pRoGReSS :
the amount of passenger waste 
we’ve sent to landfills since 2010 cut in 1/2Reduced Fuel 
uSe by:
10mILLIon
gallons since 2011tHat W ould Fill:
oLympIc SIzE  pooLS15& WeiGH  tHe Same aS :
ScHooL  BuSES2,700
pieces of paper are saved 
each year by our switch to ipad
® tablet technology2.4mILLIon#1
Consumption of Non-sustainable resources
We expect to Save:
annually through our switch to 100% recycled 
paper hygiene products 665 tonS oF trEES2
4Fuel eFFiciency meaSuReS  include:
installing 
winglets using electric 
ground service 
vehiclesAdding 12 new 
fuel-efficient 
aircraftuse of cutting 
edge satellite 
navigation 
procedures& WeiGH  tHe Same aS :
carS1,635
24mILLIon kBtu
since 2008We’ve Saved:Energy Use in Our Buildings
tHat’ S enouGH  
electRicity to 
poWeR :3
HomES680
for one yearEmissions From Planes and Equipment117Tackling our industry’s 
biggest challengeEmissions & Fuel
the airline industry contributes to climate change and local air quality 
problems by burning jet fuels, using ground support equipment (GSE), and through energy use in buildings and facilities. 
Increased awareness of environmental impacts and health concerns has 
resulted in global efforts to mitigate aviation’s contributions to climate change and local air quality. at alaska air Group, we believe it’s important to do our part by investing in technologies to reduce emissions in the air and on the ground.  
We approach emission & fuel use solutions 
in two categories:
aircraft Ground Service 
equipment
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment18Horizon 
Air
dEcrEaSEa total reduction of 
28.1%
since our 2004 
baseline3 year.4.0%
since 2012dEcrEaSE
since 2012Alaska 
Air
Groupa total reduction of 
30.4%
since our 2004 
baseline3 year.2.8%enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
Making progress on a lofty goal
2020 Goals 
alaska air Group is committed to decreasing our 
emissions in the air by:
Progress 
maximizing fuel efficiency in aircraft is similar to how 
you would improve the fuel efficiency of your personal vehicle. t o obtain the highest level of fuel efficiency, you 
begin by purchasing the most efficient model on the market and maintain the engine to perform optimally. then, remove any unnecessary weight, travel at optimal speeds using direct routes, and limit idle time. Finally, similar to carpooling, fill every seat to maximize fuel efficiency per passenger mile.Aircraft Emissions & Fuel Use EfficiencyemiSSionS  & Fuel:
decReaSinG  Fuel conSumption  and 
associated emissions by 20% (gallons per 
revenue passenger mile, or Rpm) at alaska 
airlines, over a 2012 baseline.
uSinG  SuStainable aviation bioFuel  
at one or more of our airport locations (given economic feasibility and adequate supply).the airline industry has articulated a strategy to mitigate 
environmental impacts by capping industry-wide co 2 
emissions by 2020 and cutting emissions in half by 
2050 1. With aircraft fuel consumption contributing 
more than 99% of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions 
2, alaska air Group supports the industry’s 
comprehensive and balanced energy strategy, and we’re focused on ensuring the highest potential fuel efficiency from our fleet. 
Our emissions reduction strategy 
encompasses three main areas:  
1  Relative to 2005 levels 
2  Scope 1 includes direct emissions from sources such as aircraft, vehicles, and generators. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions, such as purchased electricity.reduction in Greenhouse Gases 
(GHG) intensity:
What 
We FlyHow
We Flythe Fuel 
We use
3 our baseline has been updated due to the availability of 
improved primary data that was unavailable at the time of 
the original calculation, and reflects a revision in aircraft fuel factors and emission factors due to industry updates.dEcrEaSE
since 2012Alaska 
Airlinesa total reduction of 
30%
since our 2004 
baseline3 year.2.3%19Less Drag Means More Efficiency
Without 
winglets
Split 
Scimitar wingletsblended 
winglets1
2
33 – 5% more efficient than #1
1.7% more efficient than #2
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
alaska airlines ordered 50 new Boeing 737 aircraft in the 
fall of 2012, part of a plan to replace older fleet models 
with larger, more efficient aircraft. thirty-seven of the new jets will be max aircraft, which are expected to be 13% more fuel-efficient and cost at least 10% less to operate per seat mile than the most efficient of alaska’s current aircraft.
Horizon operates a fleet of 51 Bombardier Q400 aircraft. 
optimized for short-haul operations, these turboprops are large, fast, quiet, and the most fuel-efficient aircraft in their class.
When purchasing aircraft, we consider the composition, 
aerodynamic qualities and fuel efficiency of each plane. By maintaining a young fleet and upgrading our 
airplanes with state-of-the-art aerodynamic and engine improvements, we operate the two most fuel-efficient 
aircraft fleets in their class.It all begins with our fleetWhat We FlyemiSSionS  & Fuel:enviR onment
New Scimitar Winglets
In 2014, alaska airlines will begin installing new 
performance-enhancing split winglets on all next 
Generation 737 aircraft, increasing efficiency another 
1.7% over current winglets. While 1.7% doesn’t sound like much, this will reduce our fuel consumption (and associated emissions and costs) by 58,000 gallons per 
aircraft every year. 
“reducing fuel consumption has been a top priority at 
alaska airlines for years. thanks to the hard work and 
dedication of our employees, we’ve cut our carbon 
emissions by 30% per passenger mile since 2004. 
Investing in split winglets will further reduce our fuel 
use and continue our efforts to be the industry leader in 
environmental stewardship.”
— mark Eliasen,vice president of Finance and treasurer, alaska air Group20enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
maximizing the efficiency of our aircraft is critical. 
not only does this help reduce our GHG emissions, it helps with operating costs. Fossil fuel represents our largest operating cost, giving us an inherent economic incentive to minimize the amount we burn and make the most out of what we use. 
In 2013, we fine-tuned our calculations on how much 
fuel is required for every flight. By studying each 
airplane’s performance, average taxi times, delaying the start of our second engines before takeoff (single-engine taxi) and optimizing arrival profiles, we were able to reduce the amount of fuel our fleet carries by more than 3 million gallons a year.It’s not just what we fly, but how we fly it
New Strategies We’re Using to Conserve Fuel Include:How We Fly emiSSionS  & Fuel:
auxiliary p ower unit 
(apu) on demandSavinGS : 
over 1m  gal/yr
Implemented in 2012, this program uses advanced technology to eliminate the need to continuously operate the 
onboard apu on our alaska airlines Hawaii flights, saving more than 1 million gallons of fuel a year. Wide area augmentation 
System (W aaS)SavinGS : 
estimated 
650,000  gal/yr
all of Horizon air’s aircraft are equipped 
with this technology, which uses 
GpS satellite networks and required 
navigation performance (rnp) procedures to improve accuracy and reliability, allowing us to approach airports with precision even in low-visibility conditions. WaaS is estimated to save 650,000 gallons of fuel annually.
oR1 3
1,872
passenger vehicles 
taken off the roadimproved flight planning 
& performance monitoringSavinGS : 
estimated 
1.1m gal/yr
Improved flight planning and 
performance monitoring helps 
accurately predict the amount of fuel required so the aircraft is not carrying excess fuel and unnecessary weight. these and other weight-saving measures contribute to the savings of an estimated 1,148,650 gallons of fuel annually on 
alaska airlines flights.2
engine enhancements 
& drag improvementsSavinGS : 
1.5%
all of our newly purchased 737s include 
engine enhancements and drag improve- ments that save up to 1.5% on fuel use.4 Every 1M gallons of fuel saved equals
118
tanker trucks filled 
with gasoline21enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
using Ground 
power at the GatesSavinGS : 
approximately 
3m  gal/yr
By using ground power and 
preconditioned air while aircraft are parked at the gates, instead of running 
the aircraft auxiliary power unit (apu), we save an estimated 3 million gallons of fuel each year.5
Greener Skies
programSavinGS :  
2m  gal /yr
partnering with Boeing, the Federal 
aviation administration (Faa) and 
the port of Seattle, alaska airlines 
has been instrumental in piloting a new method for airport approaches that’s revolutionizing our skies. 
airport arrival routes are traditionally founded on 
outdated ground-based navigation systems and stair-step descents that waste large amounts of 6fuel and use the airspace inefficiently. the Greener Skies project leverages the GpS satellite network and other technologies to fly shorter, continuous descent approaches that enhance safety, save fuel, and decrease emissions and noise. 
Greener Skies is a key success that shows the potential 
of the Faa ’s next Generation air traffic management 
system, which will transform the u.S. airspace for the 21
st century. after two years of testing and refinement, 
new procedures became operational in march 2013; all Horizon air flights and three-quarters of alaska airlines flights arriving at Seattle-t acoma International 
airport now use these improved procedures.
Estimates are that Greener Skies will save more than 2 
million gallons of fuel annually for all all airlines whose planes are equipped with appropriate technology. this 
translates into saving approximately 22,400 metric 
tons of co
2 — equal to the emissions contained in 
96 rail cars of coal. noise exposure for an estimated 
750,000 people in the puget Sound region has also 
been reduced.Greener Skies
the Greener Skies project leverages the GpS 
satellite network and other technologies to fly shorter, continuous descent approaches that enhance safety, save fuel, and decrease emission and noise. tRaditional  
Step-do Wn 
appR oacH
airport Greener SkieS
optimized pRoFile 
deScentengines 
idled
airport22enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
Fuel is a necessity in air transportation, and we require 
this resource in significant amounts. although we’re proud of our fuel-efficiency efforts, we think we can do better.
Sustainable fuels provide one of the most promising 
solutions for reducing airline emissions but, unlike ground transportation, our industry does not currently have alternative, commercially available sources of power — all of the fuel we use is from non-renewable sources.
alaska air Group is helping to foster the development, 
testing, and commercialization of sustainable alternative fuels within the airline industry by engaging with technology companies along the biofuel development supply chain. We were a founding stakeholder in Sustainable a viation Fuels northwest (SaFn), and 
in 2011 we were the first u.S. carrier to fly regularly 
scheduled flights using biofuels. In 2013, we committed to be a collaborator and advisory committee member to Incentivizing a new fuel market
support research efforts at the Faa ’s center of Excellence 
for alternative Jet Fuels and the Environment, led by Washington State university and the massachussetts Institute of t echnology.
In 2013, we also signed an off-take agreement with 
Hawaii BioEnergy to purchase sustainable aviation 
biofuels from the Hawaiian Islands beginning in 2018. By collaborating with industry partners, we plan to continue engaging with and incentivizing biofuel producers to create a new commercial aviation biofuel market. 
Biofuels offer three key benefits: The Fuel We Use   emiSSionS  & Fuel:enviR onment
Reduced 
emissions Job
creationless price 
volatility23enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
Challenges
commercial aircraft are expensive to buy, fuel, fly 
and maintain, and the design and integration of 
efficiency modifications can take decades to come into production. meeting the industry’s emission 
reduction goals by 2050 will require manufacturers to produce more fuel-efficient aircraft, the Faa to implement an updated air traffic management system, and fuel producers to supply commercially available quantities of cost-effective and renewable aviation fuels (commonly referred to as sustainable biofuels). 
Industry experts predict that aircraft will rely on liquid 
fuels for at least another 40 years, so developing sustainable aviation biofuels is critical to reducing emissions. However, the aviation biofuel industry is still in its infancy. Several pathways for fuel production have been proven using a variety of feedstocks, but most have not been certified by aStm International,  and 
they have not been scaled up to commercial quantities. Feedstock for biofuels must not only meet rigorous environmental criteria, but it must be produced in sufficient quantities to maintain or lower the cost of fuel production. our biofuel-based flights in 2011 cost six times more than conventional fuel, making their continuation financially unjustifiable as a business decision.
Finally, in addition to supply availability, aviation biofuels 
must be able to “drop in” to the existing transportation and storage infrastructure at each airport. 
alaska air Group is constantly evaluating opportunities 
to partner with producers and suppliers that may be able to supply commercial quantities of biofuel that meet the required quality standards in strategic airport locations, that can be delivered within existing transportation and delivery infrastructure, and are cost-competitive with conventional fuels.  enviR onment
Carbon Offsetting
although there are a range of carbon offset credits options available for our passengers to choose from, they are not currently offered directly through our website. Instead, we choose to spend our time and resources on innovative solutions that directly address the causes of the challenges we face.  
24Tackling emissions on the groundGround Support Equipment (GSE) EmissionsemiSSionS  & Fuel:
Emissions from our GSE fleet represent less than 1% 
of our overall carbon footprint; however, these vehicles do contribute to local air quality issues and represent opportunities for innovation, enhanced employee safety, and reduced environmental compliance risk. that’s why we’re making the switch to electric vehicles 
wherever operationally feasible.
2020 Goal
Progress 
In 2013, alaska air Group launched the Seattle eGSE 
project with the aim of replacing more than 200 fuel-
burning ground support vehicles with their electric equivalents over a period of two years. We estimate this will eliminate 2,000 metric tons of co 2 annually, save 
us about $800,000 a year in fuel, and support operations with cleaner, quieter and more reliable equipment.
new maintenance software helps alaska airlines 
track and monitor detailed GSE inventory to evaluate improvements in efficiency, as well as to determine which equipment is costing more to repair and why.  the software is also used to calculate the percentage of our electric equipment, establish replacement plans, and identify surplus that can be relocated to meet needs. 
this year, we also implemented a new centralized GSE 
fuel tracking system, helping us to accurately track all types of GSE fuel (gasoline, diesel, propane, and electric) consumption and achieve our 2012 goal.
alaska airlines has increased the number of eGSE by 
12% since our last reporting period. In 2013, we reached 22% eGSE, exceeding our stated goal of 20%.   
increase the percentage of alaska’s electric 
vehicles to 30% system-wide.30%
IncrEaSEenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
the fleet composition of Horizon air’s motorized vehicles is tracked independently by company division.  the Horizon eGSE composition was previously reported at 65%. We now realize that this number was incomplete and did not account for the vehicles assigned to our maintenance division. the current motorized GSE fleet composition across all divisions consists of 60% electric and 40% fuel-Alaska Airlines Annual eGSE Increases 
2009
2010
20112012
20139%
9%
9%
10%
22%% 
eGSe  
oF 
poWErEd 
FLEEt25Harnessing the Power of the Sun 
Solar-powered ramps are in use at airports in Seattle and San Jose. the first of their kind, these ramps enable 
passengers to board and deplane through the rear door of the aircraft while others simultaneously do so from the front, saving passengers time and gaining alaska efficiencies in our aircraft turnaround process.
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
powered equipment. In 2014, we will be evaluating 
new inventory systems that will allow us to centrally track Horizon’s GSE and provide accurate calculations of our eGSE composition in the future.
Challenges
It is not feasible to operate eGSE in all locations. Electric vehicles cannot operate in arctic extremes, not 
all airports have the electrical infrastructure to support charging stations, and there are not electric equivalents available for every type of vehicle we operate.
In 2014, a more robust and disciplined tracking system 
will be established, which will strengthen our progress 
measurement for Horizon’s GSE fleet. We will also evaluate opportunities for an eGSE fleet in anchorage.26146
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013132136140143
141kbtu/sfThe performance of our buildingsEnergy In Our FacilitiesenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
the energy consumed by our buildings is a relatively 
small piece of our overall environmental impact when compared to aircraft emissions. However, these facilities still represent opportunities to conserve resources, reduce GHG emissions, and reduce the operational costs associated with energy consumption.
2020 Goal
reduce  
ouR  eneRGy conSumption
in facilities where alaska air Group is 
responsible for facilities maintenance
Progress
to help us more effectively plan our facilities maintenance 
efforts and reduce our operating expenses, we’re developing and implementing processes that will identify opportunities for improvement and help us manage the overall energy performance in buildings we control. We have started incorporating sustainability criteria into our facilities maintenance and planning, and periodically review energy performance data for facilities equipment and systems.
Energy consumption data is being used to develop 
internal scorecards that help us track and analyze energy use by type and geographic region, which helps us monitor monthly performance. data will also 
be used for project planning, tenant education and collaboration opportunities. 
In 2014, we will complete several energy audits and 
develop a plan for buildings with the worst energy 
consumption rates. Structures that need improvements will be renovated to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions and operating costs.
4  as of 1/1/2013 the new numbers reflect a 4% decrease in intensity 
from baselineTotal Energy Consumption4
2012
202m
 kBtu/year2013
198m
kBtu/yearEnergy Intensity of Buildings27
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
Challenges 
It is difficult to regulate or measure progress in shared 
buildings since our energy consumption is not always metered independently of the rest of the airport. Without a way to see the impacts of our consumption, it can be challenging to modify operational habits to improve conservation. 
In buildings we do control, accuracy is important; we 
continually look for better ways to monitor and track our energy usage. an error was recently discovered in the square footage data used to calculate our energy consumption and performance. although our 
methodology, scope and boundary remain unchanged, this resulted in a change in our energy data due to square footage updates.  this error also impacted our ability to accurately measure our progress toward our previously stated energy conservation goal. While we have corrected these data errors, we’re re-evaluating our previous goal and will develop more consistent systems for capturing, analyzing, improving, and reporting our facility energy use. our revised numeric goal will be published in our next report.28
Looking at our impact 
from the ground to the skiesWaste & recyclingenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
the airline industry generates and manages a great deal of waste. although 
our inflight operations are the largest contributor, our waste stream is also impacted by operations in our offices, maintenance facilities, and in the airports where we fly. 
We approach waste & recycling solutions 
in two categories:
inflight at our Facilities
29enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
the largest contributor to our waste stream is inflight 
waste from food and beverage services. added up over time, the amount is significant — at just under a quarter pound per passenger on every flight, we generated over 
3,900 tons of waste in 2013. 
to counteract this environmental impact, recycling is a 
service standard at both alaska airlines and Horizon air, 
regardless of where the flight is headed. We’re proud of our award-winning inflight recycling programs and the 
progress we’ve made in the past two years.recycling is our service standard
Progress
Each airline audits more than 30 flights a year to measure, track, and evaluate our waste stream. We provide feedback to our flight crews and solicit ideas for improvement.
our waste stream currently includes 50% non-
recoverable materials, and we’re working to adjust our 
inflight procurement practices to decrease this quantity. InflightWaSte & RecyclinG :enviR onment
Seven percent of all recyclables are presently being landfilled. this is partially due to unfamiliarity with recycling procedures, the difficulties arising from having to separate trash and recyclables using a two-bag collection system, and operational events that interrupt our recycling efforts.
Horizon air currently composts over 14 tons of coffee 
grounds each year; in 2014, we’ll evaluate ways to integrate 
composting at alaska airlines, as well. 
Reduce all inflight waste sent to landfill5 by 
70% per passenger, over a 2010 baseline.70%
rEductIonWhere we are today Previous Goals & Successes
Goal FoR 2013:
70%  
Recyclable 
collection Rate
77% 
5 alaska airlines and Horizon air combined
6 While we would like to reach 100%, safety and operational considerations take precedence and it is not always feasible to be thorough with safety in mind.2020 Goal
Horizon Air Alaska Airlines
Goal FoR 2013:
SucceSS :90%  
Recyclable 
collection Rate
93% SucceSS :652% rEductIon
.33 LBS .16 LBS20102011 2012per passenger since 2010
.21 LBS.18 LBS201330enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
Challenges 
the biggest challenge we encounter is with airports and 
municipalities that do not have the infrastructure for a successful commingled recycling program. In these locations, we must transport recyclables to a hub location. While in many of our alaska airlines locations we have resolved this by contracting with a single waste disposal company to collect commingled recyclables, it remains a challenge at Horizon air where it is managed by the 
individual stations. 
additionally, government regulations require incinerating all 
international waste — including recyclables — and many locations have food residue restrictions set by recycling companies that limit what they’re able to take. 
New Locally Sourced Coffee Cups
In 2013, alaska airlines and Horizon air introduced new coffee cups that are manufactured 
locally from 50% recycled water bottles and recycled after use. By using recycled cups, we 
keep 40,000 plastic bottles from going into landfills each year and prevent at least 250 trees 
from being cut down to make paper coffee cup equivalents.
31enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
While the vast majority of our waste is generated inflight, 
waste management and recycling within our facilities is still important to our business. not only does it 
save money, it also helps employees make a personal connection and contribute to our sustainability efforts.
2020 Goal
Progress
In 2012, our Seattle offices kicked off a new employee-
led recycling program. v olunteers helped implement 
the program and have made it easier to recycle than Opportunities for our ground-based employees
ever. the program is expected to save the company 
more than $60,000 a year, and we’re now evaluating the implementation of recycling programs in other large-scale buildings in Seattle, portland, and anchorage.
Challenges
the main challenge is that our capacity to roll out programs in rural facilities is sometimes limited by a lack of infrastructure or recycling services within those communities. 
In other facilities, a lack of corporate or divisional 
oversight makes it a challenge to raise awareness and instill recycling habits when new programs are introduced. Good communication and overall awareness of our desire to build sustainability into our brand have helped in this ongoing process.FacilitiesWaSte & RecyclinG :enviR onment
100%  
oF GRound-baSed F acilitieS  Have 
RecyclinG  pRoGRamS  by 2020
where operationally feasible. 32
Materials & SuppliesenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
What goes in must come out: 
upstream strategies for minimizing 
consumption of resources
another approach to waste management is through source reduction — eliminating 
waste before it’s created. choosing materials and supplies that are designed to minimize waste reduces the demand for unsustainable resources. this approach 
also gives us an opportunity to work closer with our vendors and suppliers, signaling our intention to move in a more sustainable direction through the questions we ask and the orders we place. 
choosing where to begin can be a challenge. We know it can’t all be done at once, so 
we’re focusing current efforts on paper and inflight service materials. 
We approach materials consumption in two categories:
inflight Supplies paper
33enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
airlines use millions of disposable items onboard 
flights every year — alaska airlines alone uses over 36 
million cold cups and 54 million napkins. It’s important for us to explore sustainable products simply because our consumption is so great.
2020 Goal
100%
oF ouR  inFliGHt conSumable 
SeRviceW aRe iS  SuStainably 
SouR ced.7 
Progress 
Since our last report, we’ve been working with our sourcing vendor to identify options that meet our sustainability and operational needs, and have been working with local recycling companies to ensure the materials we send are acceptable. 
In 2013, we introduced new recycled hot cups and 
placed 100% recycled content paper personal hygiene Exploring sustainable product options
products on all alaska airlines flights. these changes  
will be introduced on Horizon flights in 2014. We’re also 
in the process of eliminating the last of our polystyrene coolers, moving more of our disposable foil items to sustainable options, and identifying ways to decrease the amount of disposable materials on our flights. 
Challenges
From stir sticks and pretzels to the garbage bags they end up in, we use a huge variety of materials during inflight services, and it can be difficult to obtain sourcing data
8 for each and every item. although this makes 
quantification and establishing a baseline problematic, local managers and suppliers have been very helpful in providing any information they have.
It will be some time before we reach our goals, but we’ve 
started the conversations and set our expectations with suppliers. although our data will need to be adjusted as we get better at identifying the sustainability criteria behind the materials we use, for now we’ve established an estimated baseline to help us measure progress and identify areas of opportunity and improvement.  Inflight SuppliesmateRialS  & SupplieS :enviR onment
Sustainability 
in the Supply Chain
In 2013, we began pilot testing the implementation 
of a vendor scorecard, which includes 
environmental sustainability criteria in waste, sustainable sourcing, and energy use. We request information regarding sustainability efforts from all our vendors in our standard rFps; in certain cases, specific requirements must be met, and vendors that do not meet the criteria are not considered. For example, as part of our food and beverage criteria, vendors must commit to recycling 100%.
7 as measured by percentage of total inflight serviceware that 
meets at least one sustainability criterion: reusable, easily 
recycled, manufactured from recycled content, and/or sourced from certified sustainably managed forests.8 Sourcing data: product composition, % recycled content, life-cycle impacts, etc.34at the airport, and introduce Web-based passenger 
check-in. In 2013, our total office paper consumption 
decreased by over 14% while our operational paper use increased by 4 %, for a net decrease of 5 % for all paper.
In 2013, we developed a cross-company paper reduction 
task force. Bringing together a team from our sustainability and LEan groups, Supply chain management and It  
departments, our job involved defining which paper uses to explore, establishing a baseline, and evaluating processes to identify opportunities for reduction.  
Office & Operational Paper Use9enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendix
paper epitomizes inefficiency and hidden expenses. not only are environmental costs associated with harvesting and processing raw materials, but the associated printing, storage, security, and disposal make paper costly, as well. 
these are just some of the reasons we’re moving toward 
a paperless industry as we introduce ticketless travel, mobile boarding passes, electronic forms, paperless flight decks, ipads
® for mechanics, and electronic 
records. By finding ways to eliminate paper, we get the job done quicker, cheaper, and with less waste.
2020 Goal
Progress
In the past, we pioneered the progress of the paperless 
airline industry by becoming the first u.S. airlines to allow travel bookings via the internet, utilize check-in kiosks Decreasing waste, improving operations, and saving moneyPapermateRialS  & SupplieS :enviR onment
Paperless Flight Deck
as part of an ongoing effort to use technology 
to enhance flight safety, improve efficiency and protect the environment, alaska and Horizon have issued ipad
® tablets to pilots, replacing the 
paper flight manuals pilots are required to carry. alaska was the first major domestic airline to take this step, replacing up to 25 pounds of weight per flight, reducing fuel requirements, and saving approximately 2.4 million pieces of paper a year.
50%  
Reduction oF  inteRnal conSumption 
oF oFFice & opeRational papeR
by weight, over a 2012 baseline.800k
600k
400k
200k
0
2012operational:
406k lbs
office:
387k lbs
2013operational:
421k lbs
office:
330k lbs
9 For the purposes of our baseline, externally printed and distributed 
marketing and HR communications are not included due to the difficulty of obtaining the data from a large network of print providers.35enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixenviR onment
Looking Ahead
other projects we’ll undertake include: 
•	replace all flight crew and maintenance paperwork with tablet 
technology; 
•	develop a corporate printer strategy; 
•	Evaluate our electronic document management options; 
•	develop and finalize a system for electronic signatures; and
•	replace 10% of existing paper forms with those in                                electronic format.
Challenges 
our company uses just under 1 ton of paper daily — nearly 70 million pieces of paper every year. paper is used for internal and external operational, general office, and communication purposes, for bag tags, ticket stock, envelopes, office and operational print jobs, annual reports, manuals, brochures, and posters. although we have transitioned to paperless methods for a variety of programs, there are still ample opportunities for improvement across the company.Trees (and Accountants) rejoice!
our Fleet Service department is replacing all aircraft toilet tissue, facial tissue, and 
paper towels with 100% recycled paper products. Since our passengers use over 
450,000 pounds of these hygiene-related paper products annually, the switch to all recycled content is expected to save over 665 tons of trees each and every year. alaska’s accountants will rejoice, as well; by switching to recycled products, we’ll also save over $80,000 a year.
embracing c orporate ResponsibilitySection 3:overview
passenger & Employee Safety
Employee attraction & Engagement
diversity & Equal opportunitySupplier Labor practices
corporate Giving & c ommunity Support 40
43
45
4738Society
4838enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
people are our most important assets. the future of alaska air Group depends 
on the strength and success of our employees, the satisfaction of our customers, 
and the positive relationships we build with the communities we serve.  
Because our success depends so highly on the success of our people, this year we 
have focused our attention on the following areas:
Priorities and Commitments:People are at the heart of our businessOverview
passenger & 
employee Safetyemployee attraction 
& engagement
Supplier labor 
practicesdiversity & equal 
opportunity
corporate Giving & 
community Support39enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
Achievement HighlightsoveRvieW :
Employee Attraction & Engagement
Supplier Labor PracticesouR  employee enGa Gement
79%in 2013tHiS  iS a:
13%improvement 
since 2011
employee Retention RateS  
aRe conSiStently oveR :
We employ:
100+
maJor  SuppLIErS10,000+
mInor  SuppLIErSand inveSt moRe tHan:
$600 m
In LocaL  EconomIES
alaska air Group is the only major u.S. commercial 
airline that has a vender c ode of c onduct to ensure that 
suppliers treat their staff the way we do.90%
every 1 job at 
alaska air Group =2.5 jobs in the communities we serve4
5
#1We aRe:Passenger & Employee Safety
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
Corporate Giving & Community Support50%
toward full implementation of 
our new Safety management Systemalaska and Horizon have each received the Faa diamond award for 
maintenance t raining 
excellence 12 times in the past 14 years
We SuppoR ted oveR :
1,300community  organizations  $15.5 min cash or in-kind since 2011
We Help tRain tHe leadeRS  oF tomoRR oW: through targeted giving 
and mentorship, we expose youths to science, technology, engineering and math careers.1
2
3
We aRe committed to HavinG  a diveRSe & incluSive cultuRe
100%
of our employees go through diversity training 36%Board oF  dIrEctorS
people 
of color27%
Women
and donated:40the safety of our passengers and employees overrides any other consideration, 
and we are committed to continuously integrating a positive safety culture into every aspect of our business. We aim to comply with all external safety standards and procedures, and have developed rigorous internal policies and practices to ensure the highest possible level of safety for our employees, our customers, and our communities.Our No. 1 priorityPassenger & 
Employee SafetyenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
promoting a 
culture of Safety
41We are determined to ensure the safety and well-being 
of our customers and employees, so a safety culture is integrated across all aspects of our organization.
2020 Goals
achieve the highest possible level of safety for every employee, every customer, and every flight, every day, by:For every customer and every employee, 
on every flight, every day
Progress 
In 2013, both alaska and Horizon completed the 
second implementation phase of a Safety management 
System (SmS), a structured process to help ensure safety risks are managed and to help us identify risks before incidents occur. 
risk level is assessed on a scale of 1 to 5, with higher 
risk values assigned to events that are higher in severity and more likely to occur. We incentivize a safety culture at our airlines by linking a percentage of our employee bonus program (pay for performance) to risk Level 3 
and higher events. as a result, safety awareness has already improved; Risk level 3+ events have been reduced by 83% since year-end 2011, and we have already seen a 24% increase in the number of safety 
reports submitted quarterly per employee. t o meet our Promoting a Culture of Safety    paSSenGeR  & employee SaFety:enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
20%  
incReaSe in tHe employee SaFety 
RepoR tinG  Rate
over a 2012 baseline for all alaska air Group 
employees.
incentive
dRive continuouS  SaFety 
impR ovement & accountability
through an employee bonus program.
42Operational Compliance
Strict adherence to governmental regulations and company policies and procedures 
is crucial to safety and compliance. Federal a viation regulations govern how we 
operate and maintain our aircraft and conduct our ground operations. department of Homeland Security regulations govern the security of our passengers, employees, and aircraft. department of t ransportation regulations govern airline consumer protection 
requirements, such as how we handle delayed, canceled or overbooked flights, and how we accommodate passengers with disabilities. these regulations, along with many more, affect nearly every employee at alaska air Group.
2020 goal, however, we’ll need to sustain our increased reporting rate. an 
increase in reports means that we are creating a reporting culture where people feel free (even obligated) to point out concerns.
Challenges
Shifting workplace safety culture can be a challenge to implement on such a broad level. our best efforts are spent in proactively identifying operational and workplace risks, and mitigating them before they lead to accidents. as employee reporting is essential to identify those risks, we try to foster a culture in which all employees feel empowered and encouraged to report safety concerns as they arise. enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
Safety reports
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q300.10.20.30.4
in the number of safety 
reports submitted 
quarterly per employee Submitted per employee in Q1 2012 – Q3 2013  
24%  
IncrEaSE  43
Flight Path
previous results showed a lack of understanding and 
alignment around our corporate strategy. as a result, we developed a one-day seminar — called Flight path — to provide interactive learning opportunities regarding our company’s strategic goals and where employees fit into the larger picture.
In 2010, we created a goal of getting 100% of our 
employees through Flight path. We have nearly 
accomplished that goal; 99% of active alaska and Horizon employees have now participated in the seminar. 
In honor of the commitment to attend and participate 
in Flight path, we’ve dedicated two airplanes that display employee’s signatures and the message “Employee powered.”Encouraging candid feedback Employee Attraction 
& Engagement     enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
10  as measured by the k enexa engagement index79%  
EnGaGEmEnt2013Each year we ask our workforce to participate in an 
employee survey to measure engagement and other aspects of employment. We encourage candid feedback and we act on it. 
2020 Goals
Increase internal and external recognition of alaska and Horizon as great places to build a career by:Progress
Engagement results in 2013 showed a significant improvement over our survey in 2011. 82% of alaska air employees and 78% of Horizon air employees 
participated in the survey.
Challenges
our people are personally invested in this company and that shows in our results. that said, this is no time to relax. We will continue the hard work that got us great results and find ways to improve further.80%+
employee enGa Gement 
ScoRe10 acHieved
for both alaska and Horizon (with 
no less than 75 % per division).
recoGnition
aS a GReat place to WoRk
from at least one national organization.Employee Engagement Survey Scores:
66%  
EnGaGEmEnt201144our dedicated and engaged employees set us apart, 
and we want them to have long and successful careers. We work together with our people and their unions to ensure the company remains successful.
alaska air Group makes an effort to understand and 
communicate with employees directly as well as through their elected union leaders. Working together for long-term success 
Progress
In ideal circumstances we are able to reach agreement with our unions before contracts become amendable for renewal; something we have been more successful with over the past two years. three of the last four contracts reached agreement by or very close to their amendable dates. We’ve also been able to reach long-term agreements, which provide more certainty and stability for both employees and the companies – most of our recent contract terms have been five-year terms.
at alaska during the past 28 months, our pilots and 
mechanics agreed to five-year contracts and our ramp agents agreed to a six-year contract. a five-year agreement with our clerical, office and passenger service agents is pending ratification. our flight attendants rejected a proposed contract and we remain in active mediation with them.
at Horizon, pilots agreed to a six-year contract, flight 
attendants signed a five-year contract and our c anadian 
station employees ratified a three-year pact.Labor relations      employee a ttRaction & enGa Gement:enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
83%
alaSka 
aiRlineS49%
HoRizon aiRlineS
many of our employees are union members:
Alaska Airlines Guiding Principles
an emphasis on working cooperatively to solve problems
a focus on flexibility and high productivity 
to maintain a strong business model
targeting pay and benefits in the upper 
tier of the industry.1
2
345enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
2020 Goals
our commitment to attract, retain and advance diverse 
employees is measured by progress toward two goals:talent, creativity, and passion are possessed by 
everyone. By stimulating a culture that values the unique perspectives and contributions of every employee, we attract and retain a valuable workforce that contributes to the company’s success. 
“Fostering a culture of inclusion means embracing our 
differences — this includes the color of a person’s skin, where they came from or their gender. It also includes diversity of thought, diversity of perspective and a willingness to spark new ideas.” 
— laura Fowler,
managing director of diversity & recruitingPromoting communication and understandingDiversity & Equal Opportunity     
increASe
tHe pR omotion Rate oF  Women 
& people oF  coloR
to match or exceed those for majority employees 
and increase our executive c ommittee to 1/3 or 
greater women or people of color.
10%
HiRinG  Rate oF  veteRanS
and ensure retention and advancement rates meet or exceed non-veteran employees.
46
Military Apprenticeships
our military apprentice program is designed 
to help transitioning soldiers gain experience with a civilian employer while simultaneously exposing hiring managers to the unique skills and experiences a military veteran can bring.  
the program was so successful in its pilot year that 
each division hosting a three-month apprentice extended the opportunity for an additional three months out of their own budgets. Since then, the program has been modified and apprenticeship opportunities now last six months.Progress 
We believe that diverse teams create stronger and more creative solutions.  as with many in the business world, the diversity of our employees thins out nearer the top of our organization.  We are dedicated to moving the needle on diversity, including at the top levels of leadership, as reflected in our 2020 goals.  We are committed to attract, develop, retain and advance diverse employees by shifting our culture to one that welcomes and supports varying styles and backgrounds.  along with this culture shift, we are making a concerted effort to hire and advance diverse employees at all levels.  our Board of directors is an excellent example of diversity, and we are committed to building a strong and diverse team throughout the ranks at alaska and Horizon.
Challenges
promoting diversity involves more than acknowledging differences, and being diverse alone does not by itself promote an inclusive culture. We intend to be transparent and persistent in encouraging 
communication and understanding about the business and ethical necessities of a more diverse and inclusive 
workforce. Employing Military Veterans 
often well-educated, motivated and highly trained, the unemployment rate of post-9/11 military veterans
11  
remains high. With a wide range of technical and professional expertise, they’re able to contribute to specialized civilian occupations in information technology, business management, piloting, procurement, operations and customer service.  
alaska air Group embraces veterans as respected and 
valued additions to our workforce, and we’ll continue to offer support through the military Employee resource Group. currently, 6.5% of alaska airlines and Horizon 
air employees are military veterans or are currently serving in the Guard and reserve. of our 1,137 newly hired employees, 6% are veterans. enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
11 in 2009 , the u. S. Government redefined what it meant to be a 
veteran. many who were previously considered veterans no longer 
qualified under the new definition.  our data is aligned with the new definition, beginning in 2010.Employee Demographics
13,177
employeeS
54% 
Women20%  
people oF  
coloRemployees by age
18-30
30-5050+
58.5% oF ouR  employeeS  
have been with the company for 
10 or more years.10
Years47alaska air Group believes our business partners should 
be held to the same standards we set for ourselves. 
When the Washington State department of Labor and Industries issued several citations to ground service vendors used by alaska at Sea-t ac airport regarding 
safety and training issues in 2013, we recognized there was not naturally embedded governance over vendor compliance with employment-related regulations. this led to developing the alaska air Group airport vendor 
code of labor Standards, which requires vendors to 
provide safe, humane, and legally compliant working conditions for employees working in the service of alaska airlines.
2020 GoalEmbedding ethical labor practices into our supply chain
Progress
air Group’s airport v endor c ode of Labor Standards 
outlines our minimum expectations for airport vendors regarding treatment of employees. the code explains the legal requirements in plain language, explains to employees their rights, and informs them that air Group endorses these rights even though they’re employed by another company. the code is incorporated into vendor agreements, and allows the termination of these agreements in cases of serious or repeated non-compliance. We’re developing a monitoring and auditing program to track vendor compliance, and documenting resolution for any vendors not fully-accepting.Supplier Labor PracticesenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
this is the first known adoption of such a code of vendor conduct by a major u.S. airline. We have received total compliance from our vendors and have not identified any negative impacts from this program. 
100%
oF coveRed vendoRS  Will Have 
incoRpoRated tHe alaSka aiR  
GRoup aiRpoR t vendoR  code oF  
laboR  StandaRdS  into contRactS  Vendor
Code of
Conduct48
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
Corporate Giving 
& Community Support
our company embraces the culture of the communities where we fly, and 
we routinely participate in events such as charity drives and educational support campaigns. We see ourselves as a part of these communities, which is why we feel it’s our responsibility to help when they’re in need or suffering from disasters by donating our time, money, and talents.
Our Priorities:Giving back & sharing our successes
corporate, employee 
& customer 
philanthropic effortseducational 
Support  economic 
opportunities for the 
Sea-tac Workforce49Corporate, Employee & Customer 
Philanthropic Efforts       coRpoRate GivinG  & community SuppoR t:enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
our charitable efforts encompass the passions of 
our employees and customers, and contribute to the overall well-being of our communities.
alaska air Group has the opportunity to donate in-
kind travel to nonprofit organizations for fundraising efforts or to help reduce staff travel costs. In 2013, we 
supported more than 1,300 different organizations. Supporting a brighter future  
Ways we give back to our 
communities include: 
Support for local charities
We donate cash and in-kind transportation to a 
variety of non-profit organizations that support the communities where we fly, such as make-a-Wish Foundation, the nature c onservancy, 
angel Flight West, and Special olympics.
matching Gifts
matching employee donations dollar for dollar
12, this program benefitted 520 unique 
organizations in 2013. 
dollars for doers
For every hour one of our employees volunteers at qualifying nonprofit organizations, a charity of their choice is paid $10
13. In 2012, air Group paid 
$104,060 to selected nonprofit organizations, and in 2013 our payout reached $90,323. 
 12 c apped at $1,000 per employee, with 
an overall program cap of $200,000.1pack the plane
Each year, we beat our previous record filling virtual cargo planes with food to feed communities in need. In 2012, we collected 
contributions of $44,000 and 13,000 pounds of food, packing nine virtual cargo planes. In 2013, employees raised more than $54,000 and collected more than 12,000 pounds of food, 
setting another record and packing over 11 planes.
disaster Relief
through corporate donations, employee matched gifts, and generous mileage plan™ member donations, we’ve been able to provide aid for several recent disasters. our charity miles program provided mileage donations to send medical and relief teams to areas of need, including flood areas in alaska, c olorado and 
chicago, and to aid typhoon relief efforts in the 
philippines.2
34
5Cash and in-kind donations:
totaL : 
$7,884,0672012 2013
In-KInd donatIonS : 
$6,245,951
caSH  donatIonS : 
$1,638,116totaL : 
$7,633,182
In-KInd donatIonS : 
$6,518,910
caSH  donatIonS : 
$1,114,272
13 capped at $1,000 per employee, with 
an overall program cap of $200,000.50Challenges
It is difficult to define the impacts of our philanthropic efforts. 
Going forward, we intend to enhance our giving strategy so we’re able to capture and track data on the progress we’re making.
With so many worthwhile causes and limitless opportunities to 
support those in need, it’s also challenging to choose which efforts to support. We are refocusing our efforts to have greater impact.  our focus will be y outh/ Education; and medical research.enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
EducatIonmEdIcaL
SErvIcESyoutHWe’ve decided to concentrate on three main areas:51Educational Support       coRpoRate GivinG  & community SuppoR t:enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
alaska air Group is focused on ways to meaningfully 
expose youths to science, technology, engineering and math (Stem)
14 careers through targeted giving, 
mentorship, and other programs. By developing our educational giving strategy and increasing our focus on youth and education, we hope to improve educational outcomes by developing resources, mentors, internships, education and leadership support.
2020 Goal
Progress
although we’ve shaped long-term strategies to promote 
education and foster career advancement that will lead to economic improvement in our communities, we currently do not have a well-defined method to measure the success of our efforts. In 2014, we will develop and define the metrics we will use to measure our progress.Improving exposure to STEM education 
We provide ongoing support 
to exciting programs, including:
aviation High School
Seattle’s raisbeck a viation High School (raHS) 
is the nation’s first public aviation-themed college 
preparatory school. all subjects are taught in the context of aviation with an emphasis on StEm subjects. previously operating out of two 
temporary facilities, the school was limited in its ability to provide applicable learning experiences — until now.
In 2013, alaska airlines and other major industry 
corporations donated enough money for raHS 
to open a permanent facility on the grounds of Seattle’s museum of Flight. In its new location, 
the school is close to aviation businesses that serve as neighbors, advisers and resources.
14 Science, technology, engineering and mathematicsimprove
educational & economic 
outcomeS  FoR youtHS
in key alaska air Group locations.1
52
enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
2 3pledge it, prove it, take Flight
alaska airlines hosted over 600 students from 
21 high school and educational programs at the company’s Hangar facility in Seattle. the program included alaska and Horizon employees that shared their experiences with a special focus on some exciting careers related to Science, technology, Engineering and math. alaska’s brand 
ambassador and chief Football officer russell Wilson addressed the students directly sharing his experiences with balancing football and education through hard work, dedication and determination. the program ended in a challenge for students to pursue their dreams and long term goals. a tour of one of alaska airlines Boeing 737s followed the event where students were able to walk around, board and see every part of the aircraft. three of the 21 high schools won the opportunity to return 
to alaska as guests aboard a delivery flight of a brand new aircraft in 2014.project amelia 
alaska airlines made a public committment to 
helping young girls pursue their dreams in aviation through a $75,000 contribution that helped a 
replica of amelia Earhart’s 1935 Lockheed 10-E 
Electra become part of the museum of Flight’s permanent collection in 2013. the vintage aircraft is part of project amelia, a program that aims to inspire young girls interested in science, technology, engineering and math (StEm) and marks a unique opportunity for the Women’s Interactive network Group (WInG) to connect women in StEm careers at alaska with those aspiring youth.53Economic Opportunities for the Sea-Tac Workforce       coRpoRate GivinG  & community SuppoR t:enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixSociety
alaska air Group believes in fair pay and benefits for 
all workers, and we respect every worker and the job they do.  We strive to work closely with our labor unions and business partners on pay rates and benefits that reflect the job market. We also recognize that income inequality is a serious problem across the country.  proposition 1, targeted at the city of Sea-t ac, pushed 
this issue to the forefront locally.  
While enhanced pay and benefits are one component 
of a possible solution, we believe from a longer-term perspective that it’s important for entry-level airport workers to have access to education, training, and opportunities for advancement to help them establish a career in aviation. proposition 1 did not address these issues. In the year ahead, we’re committed to working with our business partners and other airport community stakeholders to find solutions that better address the needs of entry-level workers and the ramifications caused by income inequality.Skills training for our community
2020 Goal
Progress
We strive to work closely with our business partners on 
pay rates that reflect the job market. In october 2013, we worked with menzies a viation and mutually agreed 
to raise starting wages for ramp agents by 14%, with additional raises after six months, one year and again at the end of two years.
In 2014, we will gather information to help us define 
how we’ll contribute to finding solutions to improve training and advancement opportunities for entry-level workers.Challenges 
Given the severe economic pressures that existed during the mid-2000s, air Group made many difficult decisions to help the company financially survive. one of those difficult decisions was to outsource the ramp function at Sea-t ac airport in 2005. t oday, we 
can see this inadvertently eliminated a career pathway opportunity for ramp workers. When we employed our own ramp agents, a more natural upward progression within the company existed for them. In upcoming years, we want to help create new advancement opportunities to help entry-level workers move ahead in their aviation careers. increASe
economic oppoR tunitieS             
& enHance Job SkillS
for workers in the Sea- tac area.
Did You Know? 
58.5% of our employees have been with 
the company for 10 or more years.  advancing economic StabilitySection 4: overview 
Economic performance
Hassle-Free Flying 58
6256
Economy56enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
Resourcefulness and innovation are at the core of how 
we run our business. a sustainable business model demands these qualities and they’ve helped us identify new ways of operating efficiently, lowering costs, 
and recognizing valuable investments in our people, 
business, and communities. We’re always looking for ways to improve our financial performance while continuing to provide value to our customers. 
as we transition toward a more sustainable business 
model, the direct and indirect financial benefits are becoming clear. We are celebrating the most successful year 
in our 81-year historyOverview
Our efforts have placed us in a strong 
financial position that allows us to:
Grow 
our 
networkSupport 
the local 
economydevelop cutting-edge 
Ways to k eep our 
customers Happy57Supporting the Local Economy3 1enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
Achievement HighlightsoveRvieW :
Our Financial Position
Cutting-edge Ways to Keep Customers Happy
Growing Our NetworkWe acHieved a:
  Return on invested c apital in 2013, allowing us to balance our 
investments between customers, employees and investors.
We aRe poSitioninG  ouRSelveS  FoR  GRoWtH :
67
new aircraft are on 
order to ensure we meet demand and 
maintain quality12
new aircraft 
were added to our fleet in 201315
new markets were added in 201324in W a State, We SuppoR t:
6,336
employees15,840
indirect jobs&GeneRatinG :
$407.8 m
in wages that has helped to boost W a State’s economy
ouR  employeeS  Received:
Fully-funded 
pensionsGenerous 
healthcare 
benefitsin bonuses on average over the past five years — with a record total 
of $105m distributed in 20131+ montH ’S pay
#1FoR Six StRaiGHt yeaRS , alaSka aiRlineS  Ranked:
for customer Satisfaction among traditional network c arriers in 
J.d. power north america airline Satisfaction Study.
We keep ouR  cuStomeRS  Happy by deliveRinG  ReSultS :
1.2m
doWnLoadS  of our 
alaska airlines phone 
app, which received 4.5 
stars or higher on both iphone
® and android 
platformsAll  SEatS
on our new aircraft come with dual 110-volt and uSb power outlets95%
we deliver customers’ bags within 20 minutes of the aircraft parkingoF tHE  tImEouR  Stock iS  ReacHinG  an all-time HiGH  WitH :
$78.53
per share on nov. 27, 2013$383 m*
in profit achieved in 201321m
shares of alaska airlines stock bought back since 2007loWeRinG  ouR  opeRatinG  expenSeS  allo WS uS to:
keep 
fares lowdeliver reliable 
value to customersoffer employees better 
incentive packages provide above 
average returns to  
our shareholders
*non-Gaap13.6%58enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
Whether we’re creating jobs, spending money that helps the economy, 
providing corporate philanthropy or other activities, we know we can 
be a positive driver of the health of the communities where we operate. By providing our employees with good jobs and meaningful work, we’re confident we can continue to grow responsibly and make decisions that are in the best interests of our employees, customers, and shareholders. 
Finances for a healthy economyBeyond the bottom lineEconomic 
Performance
Sustainability: 
the business c aseSupporting the 
Regional economya Stable 
Workforce
59enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
alaska air Group has put in place an organizational and 
governance structure that helps us make decisions with sustainability in mind. these efforts have been financially advantageous; excluding fuel costs, we’ve driven down our mainline operating expenses to 7.54 cents per 
available seat mile (aSm). ongoing resource savings will allow us to continue to provide top-notch customer service and an exceptional flying experience. 
2020 GoalSustainability efforts are a part of our financial success
Progress  
Since establishing our balanced scorecard approach to customers, employees and investors in 2003, alaska 
air Group has exceeded our return goals for the past four years and achieved an roIc of 13.6% in 2013. Sustainability: The Business Case   economic peRFoRmance:
our numerous fuel-saving innovations have also proven to be intelligent investments, contributing directly to our financial success and supporting other initiatives that benefit employees and shareholders.  
With the most fuel-efficient fleet in the industry, we 
have reduced our fuel use per revenue passenger 
mile by 31% since 2004, and our eGSe program will save another $800,000 in fuel costs annually. We have 67 firm aircraft orders to replace our aging fleet and 
ensure we can grow 4-8%. We have 71 options, should  
we earn the right to grow more.provide  
above aveRa Ge RetuRnS  FoR  ouR  
oWneRS , WHile pR ovidinG  conSiStent 
value to ouR  cuStomeRS
this will be measured by maintaining a 10-year 
historical average R oic of greater than 10% 
and our customer’s perception of value received.Did You Know? 
While no funding was required, we 
contributed $620 million to our pensions 
over the past five years and reached 
fully funded status in 2013.
This performance has led to:
$78.53  pEr SHarE  
our stock reaches
an all-time high on  
nov. 27, 2013.$383m  proFIt  
in 2013, the best year
in our history.
our first 
QuartErL y 
dividend 
since 1992, beginning 
in Q3 2013.$478m
aLaSKa aIrLInES  SHarES  
bought back since 2007 . 
$105m In 
EmpLoyEE  BonuSES  
this is an average of more than 
one month’s pay  
for every employee.60enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
By lowering unit costs, offering competitive fares and 
growing our network, we continue to add value for our customers and to our business. and, if we continue to achieve our roIc goal and perform well overall, we will strengthen our ability to remain an independent company.Challenges  
We have maintained a strong financial position despite facing many uncertainties in recent years, but expensive jet fuel remains an enduring challenge. By far the largest cost in our operations, fuel prices have increased 320% since 2002. With each $1 increase per 
barrel of oil representing an $11 million decrease to our pretax profit, fuel costs have affected us tremendously.  
While we’ve had great success in driving down our 
operating costs independent of fuel, we will not cut costs at the expense of safety or our customer experience. providing safe, reliable, great service and low fares is a balancing act. We’re not aiming simply to be the cheapest airline — we want every decision we make to provide value to our customers.
Annual return on Invested Capital15
‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘1313.6%12.7%
11.7%
10.7%
6.0%
3.5%6.1%7.9%
5.3%Roic
15 adjusted for hedge mark-to-market and unusual items61enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
at alaska air Group we want to be more intentional in 
managing our positive impacts on local and regional economies. We know that as a major airline we have the opportunity to directly provide thousands of good-paying jobs and influence the quality of thousands of others indirectly. t o get a clear picture of these impacts 
in 2012, alaska air Group commissioned an analysis of 
the company’s overall economic impact on Washington state (the location of our largest hub).Our success affects the communities and economies we fly
based on year-end figures from 2013:Supporting the regional Economy   economic peRFoRmance:
16 the jobs generated by the expenditure of visitors to 
a region, including both suppliers to alaska air Group 
and the jobs created by wages spent. 17 income available expenditure back into the economy. 18 impacts are considered significant since they are 
under direct control or payment by alaska air GroupOur Economic Impact 
on Washington StateDid You Know?  
every 1 job at alaska air Group 
generates an additional 2.5 jobs in 
Washington State.
6,336  employeeS
directly employed in W a:
5,301 at alaska airlines and 
1,035 at Horizon air15,840 JobS  
(indirect and induced 
jobs16)  supported by 
alaska air Group$407.8 m 
in W aGeS
paid to Washington-
based employees
$1.26 billion 
contributed in
total labor income, 
including indirect and 
induced effects on 
labor income17 an estimated
$2.28 billion 
contributed in direct 
output to the state 
economy
$5.58 billion
generated in total 
economic output in 
the state economy
incReaSed tHe 
State economy  
overall by $2.44 for 
every $1 increase in 
our own total 
economic outputincReaSed 
laboR  income  
in Washington State 
by 55 cents for every 
$1 increase in our 
own output Direct Economic Impacts18 
2013 2012
$4.96 billion
$2.85 billion
$1.48 billion$149 million
$30 million
$1.08 billion
$28 million
$35 million$4.65 billion
$2.67 billion
$1.42 billion$78 million
$26 million
$1.03 billion
—$46 millionRevenue  
operating c osts
        excluding Fuel
        economic Fuel  
income t axes paid
State property t axes
employee Wages 
        & benefits  
dividends
interest payments 
 62our success ultimately depends on the satisfaction 
of our customers, so by keeping their experience as comfortable and hassle-free as possible, we generate the growth and customer patronage that allows us to keep evolving as a business. 
2020 Goal
Progress 
the notion of becoming a hassle-free airline is a work 
in progress. We began tracking “hassle-free” data in July 2012, reaching a hassle-free satisfaction score of 65%  
in 2013.  
also in 2013, we created a dedicated innovation department to focus on improving our customers’ entire journey — from the experience of buying a ticket, getting from curb to gate at the airport, the onboard experience, all the way to collecting luggage after landing.Innovation toward effortlessness Hassle-Free FlyingenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixeconomy
Be tHe eASieSt  
aiRline in tHe WoRld to Fly
measured by both industry benchmarking 
and customer satisfaction surveys.among the Innovation department’s most notable 
accomplishments has been the increased functionality 
of the alaska airlines smart phone app. In addition to saving on paper costs, mobile technology improves the customer’s ability to book, change or cancel travel on the go. passengers are supplied with updated flight status, gate information and boarding times, and are able to check in, obtain boarding passes, and receive push notifications. our app is consistently rated at 4.5 
stars or higher on both iphone and android platforms. 
Inventive Improvements
In 2013, alaska airlines’ customer Innovation department 
sponsored the company’s first annual Hackathon. designed to find innovative ways of improving our customers’ day-of-flight experience, the Hackathon provides engineers and non-technical participants the opportunity to turn ideas into functioning prototypes that are then assessed by a panel of judges from outside the company to determine a winner.
the top three ideas were awarded prizes based on 
factors such as marketability, ease of implementation, scalability, viability, and benefit to the business. the winning entry has moved on to pilot prototype development for testing with customers.
 performance data and GRi indexSection 5:
report profile 
organizational profile
performance data: Environmental 
performance data: Social performance data: Economic
GrI Index70
7265
Appendix
78
82
8565enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
About Alaska Air Group’s 2012-13 
Sustainability report 
this is alaska air Group’s second Sustainability report. 
It progresses the story that our 2012 report illustrated, summarizing the progress we have made, significant impacts we have made on the environment, society, and economy, and our goals for the upcoming years.  Included are links to useful information and publicly available resources regarding our financial, corporate governance, social and environmental policies and performance.
this sustainability report provides basic information 
about alaska air Group’s environmental, social, and economic performance from January 1, 2012 to december 31, 2013, unless otherwise stated; whenever possible we have included data showing trends though multiple years. there were no significant changes in our operational size, structure, ownership or supply chain during the reporting period.report Profile
For any questions regarding this report or its contents, please contact us at sustainability@alaskaair.com.
Boundaries
alaska air Group is comprised of alaska airlines and 
Horizon air; this report includes data from both airlines, separately reporting on each airline individually where relevant and available.  report content is predominantly focused on our u.S.-based inflight and ground-based operations, including our maintenance facilities and offices. While our commitments span our operations throughout the u.S., c anada and mexico, these 
operations represent the majority of alaska air Group’s environmental, social, and economic impacts. 
Process for Determining 
report Content
Engaging with our stakeholders is important to ensure 
we report on matters of importance to them. We have covered issues that are significant to alaska air Group and our stakeholders, based on information regularly obtained from our customer satisfaction and employee surveys, frequent flier and industry forums, Employee resource Groups, our c orporate t ravel, disability  and 
community advisory Boards, our v endor Scorecard, 
internal staff experts, and from direct conversations with the communities and organizations we work with. In 2013, we completed a process identifying significant sustainability issues that impact or are impacted by our company and evaluated them internally and externally. materiality results are shown below. 66enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
environmental Social economyHiGH 
 (full disclosure, goals, commit-
ments, progress)	Emissions & Fuel
	Waste
	Energy
	material c onsumption	passenger & Employee Safety
	Employee attraction &  
Engagement
	diversity & Equal opportunity
	corporate Giving & c ommunity 
Support
	Supplier Labor practices	Financial performance
	customer Satisfactionmedium 
(not included in report)	drinking Water
	noise
	Spills & remediation
	Environmental  compliance
	deicing	operational c ompliance
	customer privacy
	training & development
	vendor diversity	Indirect Economic ImpactsloW   
(not included in 
report)	Biodiversity
	Water use	Human rights
	child Labor
	Indigenous rights	procurement practicesaspects identified as having higher importance to alaska air Group or our stakeholders have associated goals and commitments and are described in the narrative of this report. We are developing additional methods and criteria for stakeholder engagement and identification, to further identify and prioritize material issues.67enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
although our priorities have changed since our 2012 report, our previously stated goals did not fall to the wayside — in fact, 78% of the sustainability 
goals we published in our last report were either met or exceeded. Below is the progress we have made and metrics for each of th ose goals.2012 Goals and Progress
category 2013 Goal Status progress
aircraft emissions 
Reductioncontribute to an industry-wide goal of reducing co2 emissions 
by 50% by 2050, relative to 2005 levels. O Reduced co2e intensity by 2.8% over 2011.
inflight Recycling (alaska)collect and divert 70% of all inflight recyclable materials by year-
end 2012, and increase collection rate to 90% by year-end 2015. expand catering location recycling efforts to 100% of all catering 
locations by 2Q 2012.P in 2012 we missed our goal with a 66% diversion rate; in 2013 we exceeded our 
goal with a diversion rate of 77%. 100% of our catering locations now have recycling.
inflight Recycling (Horizon)collect and divert more inflight recyclables by increasing our 
diversion rate by waste stream type: aluminum 85%; paper 80%; glass 100%; plastic 75%. in 2013 we modified this goal to: c ollect 90% of all recyclable 
materials generated during inflight service by year-end 2013.P Horizon air collected 91% of recyclable materials generated inflight in 2013.
building energy consumptionachieve a 22% reduction over 2008 baseline. O Historical square footage data used to evaluate energy intensity was found to be inaccurate, a recalculation of data using new numbers shows only 5% improvement.
biofuels actively participate in strategic biofuel advisory groups and 
incentivize one or more projects that support the study and 
development of aviation biofuels in aaG's route system.P in addition to participating in the Washington State aviation Fuels Work Group 
which is looking specifically at biofuel development throughout Washington State, we also signed an off-take agreement that will support biofuel development in Hawaii.
vehicle Fleet 
emissionsincrease percentage of electric motorized equipment by 20%  
(alaska airlines)   
establish GSe fuel use baseline and implement a system to track 
all types of GSe fuel consumption.                       P
Pin 2013 our eGSe fleet hit 22%
 
implemented a new system to track fuel and establish fuel use baseline.
inflight Sourcing continue to source inflight serviceware items with reusable, 
sustainable, recyclable, and/or compostable alternatives.P We established a baseline of all materials from which to measure progress, identifying sustainability criteria and tracking for sourcing. our catering supply vendor is also collecting data. 
building & Facility 
Wasteestablish a standardized recycling program for the five largest company-owned non-airport facilities in Seattle by year-end 2012.P Formalized recycling programs now in effect at five Seattle-area locations, saving us $60k the first year in waste disposal fees.
paper 
consumption develop 2012 baseline of top papers P “office p aper” scope defined and baseline completed for internal operational 
and office paper use.enviR onmental68enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
2012 Goals and Progress
category 2013 Goal Status progress
industry leader 
in Safety & compliancealaska to complete the second of four levels of SmS implementation; Horizon to complete the first level of implementation.P alaska and Horizon both completed level 2 implementation on november 21, 2013.  
achieve less than 5.5 Risk level 3+ events per 10,000 departures P alaska 2013 Risk level 3+ incident rate was 0.47; at Horizon, Risk level 3+ rate was 0.56 in 2013.
alaska to reduce lost-time injuries by 5% over baseline to 4.66 per 100 employees. 
Horizon to reduce lost-time injuries to 2.82 per 100 employees.O 2013 lti rates: alaska: 4.71; Horizon: 4.97.
issue awareness training on c ode of c onduct and ethics through 
company-wide employee c ompliance training.P training was issued to all employees (apart from F as) in 2013. Going forward 
this will be an annual training, part of our culture and not a separate call out 
goal.
develop, engage & care for p eopleFreeze the pension plan covering management and dispatch employees and replace it with a generous, defined contribution 
plan.P defined benefit pension plans have continued to be funded, well in excess 
of required amounts. We communicated the freeze to all affected plan 
participants, and freeze of accruals occurred dec. 31, 2013.   
maintain a “small company feel” by connecting employees 
through an eight-hour Flight p ath seminar.P completed in Spring 2013.
achieve a rate of 4.09 on the k enexa employee engagement 
index by the end of 2017.P achieved average score of 4.09, meeting our goal four years early.
improve how we measure factors relevant to increasing applicant pool diversity to ensure our diversity outreach efforts 
are effective. create formal expectations around coaching, 
mentoring and sponsoring employees.P each officer identified one diverse employee in 2013 for a short-term supported assignment, and an “ advisory board” (composed of officers) was created with 
the purpose of establishing strong diversity advocates in the officer group.
implement an employee giving and volunteerism portal. P portal was launched in august 2013.Social69enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
2012 Goals and Progress
category 2012Goal Status progress
Reduce costs Reduce costs per available seat mile (caSm) excluding fuel to 
7.5 cents at alaska and 12 cents at Horizon. c ontinue to reduce 
caSm at alaska and Horizon to remain competitive with lower-
cost airlines for the long-term.   
partially  
metalaska reduced caSm to 7.54 cents in 2013; Horizon reached 12.73 cents. 
optimize profit and v alue createdcontinue to keep 10 cents on every dollar we collect (before 
taxes) by responding nimbly to changing market conditions and continuing to lower costs.P  achieved R oic of 13.6% in 2013.
Growth Grow air Group capacity (measured by available seat miles) 
4% to 8% annually, assuming acceptable profitability. establish alaska air Group as the preferred carrier for travelers living on 
the West coast.P in 2012 we saw 6% growth; in 2013 this numberincreased to 7%.  
accept delivery of three 737-800s and four 737-900eRs in 2012 and up to nine more in 2013.  P We accepted three 737-800’s and four 737-900eR’sin 2012, and nine 737-900eR’s in 2013.
Suppliers develop performance standards for our integrated buyers that ensure a minimum of one diverse supplier is included in all 
RFps issued by Scm. O in 2012 we met this goal, but in 2013 we fell short; more information can be found on page 46.economic70enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
alaska air Group, Inc. is a c ertified c c orporation, 
organized as a delaware corporation in 1985. 
Subsidiaries of alaska air Group include:
• alaska airlines, Inc.  
• Horizon air Industries, Inc. 
For the purposes of this report, only alaska airlines, Inc. and Horizon air Industries, Inc. have been included. Information about the remaining entities can be found on alaska air Group’s publicly consolidated financial statements here.
Sustainability initiatives at alaska air Group are overseen 
by a Sustainability Steering c ommittee composed of 
representatives from most major departments who are management or senior management employees. this committee oversees cross-functional working groups focusing on our environmental, social and financial performance. the Steering c ommittee reports 
informally to the Board of directors.Management & Governance Organizational Profile
71enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
alaska airlines was the first domestic airline to join SaFuG (Sustainable a viation Fuel users Group) in July 2009. SaFuG is a global group of 
airlines, airplane and equipment manufacturers working to promote and accelerate the commercialization of sustainable aviation fuels. through 
our membership with SaFuG, we have pledged to consider fuels that minimize biodiversity impacts; require minimum land, water, and energy to produce; and don’t compete with food or freshwater resources. more information can be found at  http:/ /www.safug.org/.
alaska air Group is a member of the following organizations:External Charters & Industry Associations 
international air t ransportation association (iata) Iata is the trade association for the majority of the world’s airlines, representing approximately 240 airlines and more than 80% of total air traffic. Iata supports airline activity and helps formulate industry policy and standards.
airlines for america  (a4a) Formerly known as air t ransport association of america, Inc. (ata), airlines for america is the only trade 
organization of the principal u.S. airlines. a4a members and their affiliates transport more than 90% of all u.S. airline passenger and cargo traffic, and is  the main advocate for the airline industry in national conversations.
Regional airline association (Raa) raa represents north american regional airlines, and the manufacturers of products and services supporting the regional airline industry, before the c ongress, dot , Faa and other federal agencies. With 
more than 13,000 regional airline flights every day, regional airlines operate more than 50% of the nation’s commercial schedule.
alaska air carriers association (aaca) the alaska air c arriers association provides safety and educational training and support to members, and 
facilitates the distribution of aviation safety and business management support. alaska airlines donates Free Standby t ravel for air carrier employees to the aaca annual convention and member dinner.  72enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
alaska air Group proudly operates a fleet of 182 modern, fuel-efficient aircraft. as of dec. 31, 2013, the average age of our combined aircraft is 
less than ten years old, helping our fleets remain some of the most fuel-efficient in the industry. more information can be found here.Operating Fleet Information (as of Dec. 31, 2013)Performance Data: Environmental
alaska airlines total in Fleet average age
Boeing 737 Freighters and c ombis 6 20.2
Boeing 737-400 / 700 39 16.1
Boeing 737-800 / 900 / 900Er 86 5.8
 Boeing 737 passenger aircraft 125 9.0
Total 131 9.5
Horizon air
Bombardier Q400 51 7.1
Total 51 7.1
Alaska Air Group Total 182 8.873enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Emissions
our emissions are calculated annually by third-party experts using standard greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory protocol. Since 2004, our operations 
have grown significantly in size, resulting in growth in our overall emissions but with a significant decrease in our GHG intensity. our intensity ratios are based on rpms, showing a decrease in GHG emissions per unit of production for alaska air Group. 
CO2e (MM kgs) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008192009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Alaska Airlines 3,523 3,428.5 3,471.3 3,469.4 3,313.6 3,026.6 3,171.0 3,435.7 3,647.3 3,891.2
Horizon Air 494.9 510.5 540.6 644.9 510.1 596.5 572.3 457.2 440.2 445.6
Total CO2e 4,017.9 3,939 4,011.9 4,114.4 3,823.7 3,623.1 3,743.3 3,892.9 4,087.5 4,336.8
GHG Intensity 224 209 201 196 187 174 164 158 154 153
19  after 2008 our baseline was updated due to the availability of improved primary data that was unavailable at the time of the original calculation, and reflects a revision in the aircraft fuel 
factor and emission factors due to industry updates. as a result, there is a slight difference in calculations after that year as compared to 2004-2008, but the difference was not significant 
enough to warrant retroactively updating the pre-2008 data.74enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Emissions
Aircraft Emissions
to calculate aircraft emissions, the number of Landing/t ake-off (L to) 
cycles per aircraft type was applied to the appropriate aircraft fuel factor to 
calculate total fuel consumed during the L to cycle. t otal fuel consumed 
during L to was then subtracted from the total fuel used to calculate total 
fuel consumed during cruising. It is assumed that the remaining fuel usage is correlated only with cruising. 
utilizing emission factors, the emissions associated with L to and 
cruising were then calculated. It is understood by the industry that there 
are no cH4 emissions during cruising.
GHG inventory (Alaska Air Group) 2012 2013
total flights 281,639 291,459
Jet fuel consumption (mm kgs) 1,278.7 1,357.3
Scope 1 emissions (mm kgs of co2e) 4,074.4 4,324.1
Scope 2 emissions (mm kgs of co2e) 13.1 12.7
aircraft emissions: co2 (mm kgs) 4,019.7 4,266.7
aircraft emissions: cH4 (kgs) 40,780 42,266
aircraft emissions: n20 (kgs) 131,255 139,261
aircraft emissions: co2e (mm kgs) 4,061.2 4,310.7
aircraft emissions: Sox (kgs) 195,162 204,035
aircraft emissions: nox (kgs) 1,688,134 1,772,471
total GHG emissions (mm kgs of co2e) 4,087.5 4,336.9
available Seat miles (aSm) 30,848,839 33,089,279
Intensity ratio (kgs co2e/1,000 aSm) 133 131
revenue passenger miles (rpm) 26,506,125 28,334,664
Intensity ratio (kgs co2e/1,000 rpm) 154 153
revenue t on miles (rtm) 2,717,369 2,905,772
Intensity ratio (kgs co2e/1,000 rtm) 1,505 1,492Scope 1 & 2 emissions22012 2013
aircraft 4,061,264,779 4,310,793,360
Heating 5,489,372 5,308,952
Electricity 13,110,959 12,698,464
GSE 7,626,941 8,019,178
2 calculated in kgs of co2e75enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Emissions
GSE Emissions
to calculate GSE emissions, we used the average GSE emissions used in 2010 and applied the total number of L tos each year. the methodology used was to estimate 
average emissions per L to, as GSE activity is tied to the number of flights the GSE serviced and the assumption that number of L tos is a good indication of the GSE 
activity level.
to calculate eGSE emissions, kWhs usage was provided by the port of Seattle. Based on location, we utilized the egrid WEcc northwest to calculate emissions from 
electricity usage. End of year data for 2013 was unavailable, so average kWhs from november and december was used to estimate this data.
Emissions from our Facilities
Building energy consumption was calculated by applying energy consumption data to the appropriate emission factor. t ypes of energy included in the intensity ratio are 
electricity and heating fuel; we have achieved a 3% reduction in annual energy intensity (kBtu/sf) since our last report.
Facilities emission Factor Sources
Electricity: World resources Institute - GHG protocol c alculation tools - Emission-Factors-from-c ross-
Sector-t ools-(august 2012) - Electricity uS - t able 4.  “y ear 2009 uS regional Electricity Emission 
Factors for co2, cH4 and n20”.
natural Gas: World resources Institute (2008). GHG protocol tool for stationary combustion, v4; 
Energy c onversion Factors are from the GHG protocol tool, Emission-Factors-from-c ross-Sector-
tools. august 2012.
other Fuel: Epa mandatory reporting Emission Factors 2011 for heating oil. Heating oil emission factors were used due to how the data was captured in Ecova. Both propane and heating oil consumption was lumped into one category. SBc and alaska chose to utilize the larger emission factor of the two in order to prevent underestimation of emissions. one facility - cordova 160 -  utilized jet fuel (and tracked 
separately), the emission factor for jet fuel as an energy source was used (Epa climate Leaders).
140,59076enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Emissions
Boundaries
the majority of the facilities we operate in are owned by others and leased by our airlines. our calculations include GHG emissions from facilities and assets we control, 
including facilities owned or operationally controlled by alaska air Group.  Facilities under control of airport operations have not been included.
Scope 1 (emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions generated during the production of energy) emissions are included in our 
inventory calculations. Scope 3 emissions  are insignificant when compared to our other emissions, and have not been included.  data collected reflects GHG emissions 
from:
•	 Aircraft	fuel	consumption
•	 GSE	fuel	consumption•	 eGSE	electricity	consumption•	 Electricity	used	in	facilities	controlled	by	Alaska	Air	Group
Estimations 
Where data was unavailable, data was extrapolated from nine different facilities between 2008 and 2012.
In 2013, end of year data was not available in some cases.  c onsumption was calculated utilizing estimated usage based on the most recent bills available. 77enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Waste & recycling
during the 2012-2013 reporting period, alaska air Group generated 7,991 tons of 
total inflight waste; of this, 2,861 tons of recyclables were successfully diverted by our flight attendants during inflight services. Solid waste is also generated by our ground-based facilities, but the data is not currently available.
all hazardous waste is appropriately managed and disposed at permitted 
facilities in accordance with local, state, and federal regulations. although the landfilling of certain types of hazardous waste is allowed by law, we strive to exceed required levels of compliance by ensuring that all of our hazardous waste is recycled or permanently destroyed.
78
•	minority Groups represent 20% of our employee base.
•	58.5% of our employees have been with the company for  
 10 or more years.
•	 Of	those	who	have	been	with	us	for	10+	years,	 
 52% are female, and 16% are non-white.enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
alaska air Group is committed to equal opportunity for all employees. We prohibit discrimination in hiring, promotion, and other employment 
decisions on the basis of race, gender, age, religion, or other basis, and comply with all federal, state and local laws. the information below illustrates alaska air Group’s employee demographics, including ethnic and gender diversity at various levels within the company.Employee DemographicsPerformance Data: Social
Gender diversity (% Female) 2012 2013
vice president and above 29% 29%
managing directors 41% 43%
Supervisor//manager/director 42% 42%
all other Employees 55% 55%
overall 54% 54%board & executive leadership diversity 2012 2013
Board of directors (% non-White) 36% 45%
Board of directors (% Female) 27% 36%
Executive c ommittee (% Female) 12% 12%total employeeS employeeS by a Ge79enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Employee Promotion & retention rates (Alaska Air Group)
retention of well-trained, high-performing individuals in our employee base is paramount to providing stellar services. our company-wide 
focus on inclusion, talent development and employee engagement has resulted in employee retention rates that are consistently over 90%.
Promotion Rates (Supervisor and Above) 2011 2012 2013
minority promotion 7.1% 10.0% 12.3%
White promotion 14.9% 9.1% 9.9%
male promotion 13.4% 8.4% 10.5%
Female promotion 14.8% 10.3% 9.9%
veteran promotion 12.3% 2.5% 13.9%
non-veteran promotion 14.1% 9.8% 9.9%
Promotion Rates (All Levels) 2011 2012 2013
minority promotion 2.1% 1.6% 2.8%
White promotion 2.6% 2.1% 2.4%
male promotion 2.6% 2.1% 2.6%
Female promotion 2.4% 2.0% 2.4%
veteran promotion 2.0% 1.2% 2.8%
non-veteran promotion 2.5% 2.1% 2.5%
Employee Retention Rates (2012-2013) 2011 2012 2013
male 90.7% 92.3% 91.2%
Female 91.4% 92.5% 92.9%
<30 years of age 75.5% 75.5% 77.5%
30-50 years of age 92.3% 94.1% 93.7%
50+	years	of	age 93.8% 94.6% 94.0%
veterans 89.8% 92.5% 89.9%
non-v eterans 91.2% 92.4% 92.3%
minority groups 89.4% 90.4% 90.1%
Whites 91.9% 93.3% 92.9%80enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Labor Unions
at 74.5%, the majority of our employees are represented by labor unions21 . the breakdown of those participating, as well as our other employees, is as follows:
Union Group (Alaska Airlines) Employee Group 2012 2013
Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA) Pilots 1,452 1,440
Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) Flight Attendants 2,989 3,132
International Association of Machinists and  
Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)Ramp Service and Stock Clerks 573 598
International Association of Machinists  
and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)Clerical, Office & Passenger Services 2,495 2,508
Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA) Mechanics, Inspectors & Cleaners 624 632
Transport Workers Union of America (TWU) Dispatchers 39 41
Subtotal Union Employees 8,172 8,351
Mexico 102 99
Non-Union Employees 1,679 1,751
Total Employees 9,953 10,201
Union Group (Horizon Air) Employee Group 2012 2013
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Pilots 550 551
Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) Flight Attendants 505 545
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Mechanics & Technicians 298 274
Transport Workers Union of America (TWU) Dispatchers 18 16
National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation   
and General WorkersStation Personnel (Canada) 46 49
International Association of Machinists and  
Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)Maintenance Stores 31 33
Subtotal Union Employees 1,448 1,468
Wage Scale Employees 1,178 1,170
Non-Union Employees20349 338
Total Employees (Horizon) 2,975 2,976
20 includes c anadian management 
21 more information can be found at sec.gov81enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Safety is a top priority at alaska air Group, and we are working hard to integrate it into every aspect of our company’s culture. the majority of injuries 
during the 2012-2013 reporting period occurred during baggage lifting or other cargo-related instances. Incidents identified as having a higher severity level (risk Level 3 or above) have been reduced by 83% since the end of 2011, accomplishing our 2012 goal. more information can be found on page 40.Passenger & Employee Safety
1, 2 Incidents per 10,000 departuresInjury Rates1 (Alaska Airlines) OJI LTI Risk Level 3+
2010 8.31 5 n/a
2011 8.45 5.19 2.87
2012 8.04 4.91 0.98
2013 11.89 4.71 0.47
Injury Rates2 (Horizon Air) OJI LTI Risk Level 3+
2010 7.94 2.95 n/a
2011 5.88 2.26 3.42
2012 4.81 2.93 0.91
2013 7.51 4.97 0.56oJI = on-the-Job InjuriesInjuries that occur while at work.
LtI = Lost time Injuries  
accidents resulting in personnel not being able to 
work as a result of their injury.82enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Economic PerformancePerformance Data: Economic
celebrating the most profitable year in our 81-year history, our company is making great strides. the following outlines our revenue, costs, and 
distributed economic value.
Quantity of Services provided 2012 2013
total revenue passenger miles (mm rpms)   27,007 28,833
passenger revenue per a vailable Seat miles (praSm, in cents) 12.82 12.67
revenue per a vailable Seat mile (raSm, in cents) 14.82 14.74
direct economic value Generated  
Economic value retained1(millions) $259 $146
direct economic value generated (millions) $5,026 $5,332
direct economic value distributed
Employee wages, benefits & incentives (millions) $1,126 $1,191
dividends (millions) - $28
Interest (millions) $4623$3524
taxes paid (u.S.) (millions) $78 $149
community Investments (millions) $7.8 $7.6
23 cash paid in interest net of amount capitalized                                                                                           
24 economic value generated less economic value distributed  
83enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Economic Performance
alaska air Group contributes to economic activity indirectly by supporting activity related to our everyday functions, such as purchasing, vendor operations and 
support industries. For example:
•	 Every	1 job at alaska air Group generates an additional 2.5 jobs in Washington State.•	 Every	$1m increase in revenue at alaska air Group results in 9.56 new jobs in the local economy.•	 For	every	$1	increase	in	total	output,	output	in	the	overall	Washington	State	economy	increases by $2.44.•	 For	every	one	dollar	increase	in	total	output,	labor income in Washington State increases by $0.55.Indirect Economic Value
equity: $1,106 $1,174 $1,421 $2,029
debt: $1,534 $1,307 $1,032 $87184enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
as of dec. 31, 2013, alaska air Group has fully funded its defined benefit pension plan. depending on position and term of service before retirement, 
employee retirement plans may include pensions, defined contribution plans, or post-retirement medical benefits. the level of participation in our retirement plans is high; 90% at alaska airlines, and 93% at Horizon air.Benefit Plan Obligations
pension plan liabilities 2012 2013
projected Benefit obligation (pBo, in millions) $1,873 $1,709
Fair v alue of plan assets (millions) $1,538 $1,769
Funded Status 82% 104%
  85G4 General Standard disclosure chapter Section or disclosure
Strategy & analysis
G4-1 provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organi-
zation and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainabilityIntroduction message from the cEo
organizational profile
G4-3 report the name of the organization Introduction about alaska air Group
G4-4 report the primary brands, products, and services Introduction about alaska air Group
G4-5 report the location of the organization’s headquarters Introduction about alaska air Group
G4-6 report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 
significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the reportIntroduction markets Served
G4-7 report the nature of ownership and legal form appendix organizational profile
G4-8 report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) Introduction markets Served
G4-9 report the scale of the organization Introduction
appendixappendixmarkets ServedSocial performance dataEconomic performance data
G4-10 a. report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender
b. report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender
c. report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender
d. report the total workforce by region and gender
e. report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-
employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors
f. report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries)Social 
appendixdiversity & Equal opportunity Social performance dataenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
this report is prepared in accordance with the internationally recognized Global reporting Initiative G4 c ore reporting Guidelines.  the content of the report has been reviewed 
and approved by alaska air Group, and has been assessed against the GrI principles for defining content and quality.  External assurance is not currently sought.GrI Index
General Standard Disclosures86G4 General Standard disclosure chapter Section or disclosure
organizational profile (continued)
G4-11 report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements appendix Social performance data
G4-12 describe the organization’s supply chain Social Supply chain management
G4-13 report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply 
chainappendix report profile
G4-14 report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization We do not explicitly use the precautionary principle in devel-
oping our policies.
G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorsesappendix organizational profile
G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: 
a. Holds a position on the governance body
b. participates in projects or committees
c. provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues
d. views membership as strategicappendix organizational profile
identified material aspects & boundaries
G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents
b. report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not 
covered by the reportappendix organizational profile
G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect Boundaries
b. Explain how the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report c ontentappendix report profile
G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content appendix report profile
G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect Boundary within the organization appendix report profileenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix87G4 General Standard disclosure chapter Section or disclosure
identified material aspects & boundaries (continued)
G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect Boundary outside the organization as follows: 
a. report whether the aspect is material outside of the organization
b. If the aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect 
is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for the entities identified
c. report any specific limitation regarding the aspect Boundary outside the organizationappendix report profile
G4-22 report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Environmental
appendix Energy Environmental performance 
data
G4-23 report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and aspect Boundaries Introduction
Environmental
Social 
appendixour Sustainability StrategyEnergy
Supply chain management
2012 Goals & progress
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization appendix report profile
G4-25 report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage appendix report profile
G4-26 report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 
group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation processappendix report profile
G4-27 report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has respond-ed to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key 
topics and concernsappendix report profileenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix88enviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
G4 General Standard disclosure chapter Section or disclosure
Report profile
G4-28 reporting period for information provided. Introduction
appendixIntroductionreport profile
G4-29 date of most recent previous report appendix report profile
G4-30 reporting cycle annual
G4-31 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents appendix report profile
G4-32 a. report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen
b. report the GrI c ontent Index for the chosen optionGrI Index 
G4-33 report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report GrI Index
Governance
G4-34 report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any commit-
tees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impactsappendix organizational profile
ethics & integrity
G4-56 describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Introduction 
SocialHonesty & Ethical  
Behavior
vendor Labor practices89G4 dma & Indicators chapter Section or disclosure
economic
economic p erformance
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Economy Economic performance
G4-Ec1 a. report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EvG&d) on an accruals basis including the basic 
components for the organization’s global operations.appendix Economic performance data
G4-Ec3 coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations appendix Economic performance data
indirect economic impacts
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Economy
appendixSupporting the regional EconomyEconomic performance data
G4-Ec7 development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Social 
Economycorporate Giving & c ommunity 
Support
Supporting the regional Economy
G4-Ec8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts EconomyappendixSupporting the regional EconomyEconomic performance data
enviR onmental
materials
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Environment materials & Supplies
G4-En1 report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary prod-
ucts and services during the reporting period, by:
a. non-renewable materials usedb. renewable materials usedEnvironment materials & Supplies
G4-En2 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment materials & SuppliesenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix
Specific Standard Disclosures90G4 dma & Indicators chapter Section or disclosure
energy
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Environment Energy
G4-En3 Energy consumption within the organization Environment
appendix Emissions & FuelEnvironmental performance data
G4-En5 Energy intensity appendix Environmental performance data
G4-En6 reduction of energy consumption appendix Environmental performance data 
G4-En7 reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment Emissions & Fuel
emissions
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Environment Emissions & Fuel
G4-En15 direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) appendix Environmental performance data
G4-En16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) appendix Environmental performance data
G4-En18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity EnvironmentappendixEmissions & FuelEnvironmental performance data
G4-En19 reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EnvironmentappendixEmissions & FuelEnvironmental performance data
G4-En21 no
x, Sox, and other significant air emissions appendix Environmental performance data
effluents & Waste
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Environment Waste & recycling
G4-En23 total weight of waste by type and disposal method appendix Environmental performance data
G4-En24 total number and volume of significant spills Environment managing other Impacts
compliance
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Environment managing other Impacts
G4-En29 monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmen-
tal laws and regulationsEnvironment managing other ImpactsenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix91G4 dma & Indicators chapter Section or disclosure
Social
employment
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social diverse Employee attraction,  
retention & Engagement
Supply chain management
G4-La1 total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region appendix Social performance data
occupational Health & Safety 
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social passenger & Employee Safety
G4-La5 percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help 
monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programsSocial 
 
appendixdiverse Employee attraction,  
retention & Engagement
Social performance data
G4-La6 type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 
fatalities, by region and by genderSocial
appendixpassenger & Employee SafetySocial performance data
training & education
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social diverse Employee attraction,  
retention & Engagement
G4-La10 programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and as-sist them in managing career endingsSocial diverse Employee attraction,  retention & Engagement
diversity & equal opportunity 
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social diverse Employee attraction,  retention & Engagement
G4-La12 composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age 
group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversitySocial
 
appendixdiverse Employee attraction,  retention & Engagement 
Social performance dataenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix92G4 dma & Indicators chapter Section or disclosure
Supplier assessment for labor practices
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social Supply chain management
G4-La14 percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Social Supply chain management
G4-La15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Social Supply chain management
local c ommunities
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social 
Economiccorporate Giving & c ommunity 
Support
Supporting the regional Economy
G4-So2 operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. Social 
Economiccorporate Giving & c ommunity 
Support
Supporting the regional Economy
Supplier assessment for impacts on Society
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social Supply chain management
G4-So9 percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Social Supply chain management
customer Health & Safety
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Social passenger & Employee Safety
customer privacy
G4-dma Generic disclosures on management approach Economy customer c onfidentialityenviR onment intR oduction Society economy appendixappendix9319300 international Blvd, Seattle, WA 98188
206-433-3200      www.alaskaair.com
© 2014 Alaska Air Group, inc. all Rights Reserved.  no part of this report may be reproduced without permission of alaska air Group inc.
this report is intended to be read in an electronic format.  please consider the environment before you print.