Improv Ing our  
envIronmental  
footpr Int
ALASKA AIR GROUP 2009 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
Welcome to Alaska Air Group’s 2009 
Environment Report. Our goal in publishing this report is to communicate openly with employees, customers, investors, analysts and other key stakeholders about our environmental impact. The hope is that this report  will serve as a foundation for increased understanding of the challenges asso­ciated with continued environmental improvement and aid in the search  for innovative solutions.IN THIS REPORT
ABOUT THIS REPORT
2009 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTSWelCome
Alaska Air Group 2009 Environment Report
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 2 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 2
Alaska Air Group’s first corporate Environment Report is structured around communicating 
Alaska Air Group’s commitment to leadership and continuous improvement in environ­
mental performance; openly discussing the key impacts, opportunities, and challenges in  
our industry; and describing our performance and initiatives in each of the significant areas of environmental impact. Within this structure, we also convey the character, values, and 
strengths of our people and organizational culture.
We are just beginning the process of assessment and reporting. A major task over the past 
two years has been developing appropriate key performance indicators, measurement 
processes, and infrastructure for data collection and analysis as a foundation for under­
standing where we are, establishing baseline data, reporting meaningful information, and 
developing improvement plans. This report focuses on the environment. The time period 
covered by this report is January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2009, for Alaska Air Group’s two airline carriers: Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air. Where data is available, we describe 
environmental impacts for two to six years prior to 2009. We have made every effort to 
accurately and fully assess and transparently report all significant environmental impacts and issues, focusing primarily on those impacts within our direct control. Our determination of 
significant issues is based on the knowledge of internal staff experts, common industry 
practices, and informal feedback from customers, employees, and other stakeholders. In the future, we will build more rigorous stakeholder engagement processes to define material 
issues, obtain feedback on our progress, and dialogue about critical issues and 
opportunities.about th Is report
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 3 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 3
2%10%3%8%4% 73%
83%17%2009 performan Ce hIghl Ights  
ALASKA AIR GROUP (COMBINED) TOTAL  GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND  
EMISSIONS INTENSITY, 2004–2009
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air’s greenhouse gas emissions intensity has decreased steadily 
since 2004. This represents a 23% reduction in CO 2e* intensity over the past six years and a 
10% reduction in total CO 2.CO 2 (MILLION  METRIC  TONS )4.15
220.1
3.94205.2
3.863.93
197.54.04
192.23.91
183.0171.4
3.56230INTENSITY  RATIO   
(METRIC  TONS  CO 2E PER MILLION  RPM )4.05 220
3.95 210
3.85 200
3.75 190
3.65 180
3.55 170
3.45
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009160I
 CO 2 Equivalent  CO 2 Metric Tons of CO 2 e per Million RPM
*  CO 2e, or carbon dioxide equivalent, is a measure for describing the impact of a given type of greenhouse gas (GHG). 
Other GHGs, such as methane and nitrous oxide, are expressed in terms of CO 2e. 
HORIZON AIR INFLIGHT COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS, 2009
Horizon Air initiated inflight recycling efforts in the 1980s. Our flight attendants 
now collect over 83% of all recyclable 
materials generated during inflight 
service. Approximately 70% of all the food and beverage service waste 
generated in the air is recycled on the 
ground. Horizon Air’s inflight recycling 
program diverts an estimated 300 tons of 
waste from landfills each and every year.
● Total Collected
● Total UncollectedRECYCLING  
COLLECTION  
RATE 
ALASKA AIRLINES FUEL-REDUCTION EFFORTS, 2006–2009
Over the past four years, Alaska Airlines has invested in more fuel­efficient aircraft and 
aerodynamic improvements, instituted fuel­saving procedures, and initiated flying efficiencies 
that now conserve over 35 million gallons of fuel per year. 
FUEL  REDUCTION  OVER  FOUR  YEARSGALLONS /1,000 RPM20.5
20
TOTAL  FOUR -YEAR  SAVINGS
140M19.51918.51817.51716.5
2006 2007 2008 2009
 Fuel Reduction  Business as UsualCONTRIBUTIONS  TO FUEL  REDUCTION
● Fleet Transition Investments
● Weight Reduction Programs
● Preconditioned Air (PCA) at Gates
● Required Navigation Performance (RNP) Programs
● Winglets (700, 900)
● Other (Cost Index Flying, Direct Routes, etc.)
FUEL REDUCTION  
PERCENTAGES
ALASKA AIRLINES INFLIGHT RECYCLING CAPTURE RATE, 2008–2009
Recycling capture rates declined in 2009 after a temporary suspension of the program due to 
H1N1 concerns. Improvement is a key priority in 2010.
2008  60%
2009  32%
COLLECTION  RATE
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 4
Who  
We are
Fueled by Jet A,  
powered by people
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 5 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 5
IN THIS  SECTION
Message from Bill Ayer, Chairman and CEO
About Alaska Air Group
Our Core Values
Alaska Air Group Corporate Environmental Policy Who We are
Fueled by Jet A, powered by people
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
realized long ago that this business  is about people more than planes.  Our core values of “Alaska Spirit”  and “Horizon Heart” embody this knowledge.
These corporate values not only 
encompass our direct commitment  to our customers and employees, but they also set Alaska Air Group on  
a path to continually embrace the challenges of an ever ­changing world, 
including the necessity for continued environmental improvements.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 6 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 6
 With our history rooted in the magnificent beauty of alaska 
and the pacific northwest, caring for the environment  
has always come naturally to us. however, like most 
corporations, over the past decade we have gained a deeper 
understanding of customers’ and other stakeholders’ 
increasingly high expectations for environmental 
stewardship and corporate responsibility. 
The traveling public, corporate customers, investors, employees, communities, 
and regulatory bodies all have increasing requirements for transparency and 
disclosure about environmental impacts. Additionally, these stake holders 
expect evidence of proactive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy 
utilization, materials, water resources, and waste. 
We aim to meet or exceed these expectations. We also believe there are 
significant business benefits and opportunities in optimizing our environmen­
tal performance. Many of these benefits can be shared with customers, 
improve employees’ work lives, and increase our contribution to the community 
and society.
Alaska Air Group’s board of directors, executives, and employees have a shared 
vision to continually strengthen our environmental performance and become 
an environmental leader in the domestic airline industry. Our strategic decision to upgrade Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air’s fleets with newer aircraft, pioneer­
ing use of next­generation flight guidance technology, investment in more 
efficient ground systems and vehicles, and programs to reduce excess weight onboard have made Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air domestic leaders in fuel “Alaska Air Group’s board of  
directors, executives and employees 
have a shared vision to continually 
strengthen our environmental 
performance and become an 
environmental leader in the domestic 
airline industry.”
bIll ayer
Chairman and C eo 
alaska air groupmessage  from  bIll ayer  
Cha Irman and C hIef eXeCutIve off ICer 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 7Who We Are  
efficiency. These efforts grew at first from grassroots activities and  
cost­cutting programs. In 2008, however, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
began evaluating our environmental impact and formalizing initiatives  
to reduce our footprint. 
This report describes the results of those efforts and the major programs at 
each airline to address our carbon footprint, aircraft and vehicle emissions, 
energy use and conservation, resource conservation and recycling, noise pollution, and compliance. It represents a commitment to continually assess 
our environmental impacts and performance, and identify areas for improve­
ment. And it allows us to communicate our successes, strategy, and challenges to customers, employees, and other stakeholders, while providing a structure 
for more clearly defining our plans and monitoring our future progress.
We have a foundation of initiatives and accomplishments that we can be proud 
of. Now, we are committed to moving our environmental performance and 
corporate responsibility to the next level.
Bill Ayer  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Alaska Air Group“‘Horizon Air Country’ is a region of unsurpassed natural beauty, 
and we’re committed to treasuring and protecting it. This is 
reflected in our long ­term decisions, such as our use of quiet 
aircraft with lowest ­in­class emissions, as well as in our day ­to­
day activities, like our award ­winning onboard recycling efforts. 
These result in outcomes that current and future generations 
will benefit from—something we’re all quite proud of.”
Jeff pInneo
president and C eo, horizon air “There are more and more people that this planet has to 
support each year, so it’s imperative that we each have  
as small a footprint as possible. I’m proud of Alaska’s progress 
with our very fuel ­efficient fleet, our winglets, and with our 
industry ­leading flight decks, which allow for the most direct 
routings possible. But there is much more that we can and 
should be doing.” brad tIlden, 
president, alaska airlines
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 8Who We Are  | Message from Bill Ayer, Chairman and CEOabout  alas Ka aIr group
Alaska Air Group, Inc., is the holding 
company for Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air, Seattle ­based carriers that 
collectively serve more than 90 cities 
through an expansive network in 
Alaska, the Lower 48, Hawaii, Canada, 
and Mexico. Alaska Airlines, which 
accounts for approxi  mately 88% of 
Alaska Air Group revenues, has a fleet 
of 112 Boeing 737 jets serving 50 des­
tinations. As the ninth largest carrier in 
the United States, Alaska Airlines oper  ­
ates from hubs in Anchorage, Alaska; 
Los Angeles, California; Portland, 
Oregon; and Seattle, Washington. Alaska Air Group also owns regional 
carrier Horizon Air, which flies to 
approxi  mately 50 destination cities in 
the western United States, Canada, 
and Mexico, with a fleet of 18 jets and 40 Q400 turboprops. Horizon Air’s 
hubs are Seattle; Portland; Spokane, 
Washington; and Boise, Idaho.
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air are 
head quartered in Seattle, Washington. 
Together, the two airlines employ 
more than 13,000 people. Alaska Air Group’s 2009 full­year net income was $121.6 million. 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air have dif­
ferent brand identities, defined shared values, infrastructures, and initiatives. 
Alaska Airlines’ pioneering spirit of inno­
vation and integrity is complemented by Horizon Air’s heartfelt caring and con­
tinuous improvement for the customer.
Alaska Air Group is committed to high 
standards of environmental performance 
and compliance with all regulations. 
Ultimate responsibility for environ  men tal 
issues rests with our Alaska Air Group 
executive team. Environmental Affairs for 
both Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air are managed through our joint services 
Environmental Affairs Department. The 
Environmental Affairs Department 
reports directly to the chief ethics & 
compliance officer.alaska air group’s fleet is among the most 
fuel‑efficient in the nation, which translates to  
one of the lowest carbon footprints per revenue 
passenger mile (rpm).
together, alaska airlines and horizon air service more than 90 destinations in the 
united states, Canada, and mexico.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 9Who We Are
Alaska Airlines Core Values
ALASkA SPIRIT
Alaska Spirit is the heart of Alaska 
Airlines. It springs from our rich 
heritage where aviation plays a vital 
role in the life of every resident. Throughout our system, the Alaska 
Spirit defines the unique character  
of Alaska Airlines. Our fun ­loving, 
energetic, and adventurous 
personality flows from this spirit,  
as does our belief in service and community involvement. From our 
Alaska Spirit comes the pride, the 
passion, and the perseverance that 
sets Alaska Airlines apart.
INTEGRIT y
Our actions will reflect our absolute 
commitment to ethical and honest 
behavior. When faced with uncertainty, 
we will always use our best judgment to do the right thing.CARING
Caring about and helping people is the soul of Alaska Airlines. We regularly go 
the extra mile to help our customers, 
our community, our environment, and each other with friendliness, caring, 
and genuine concern. We believe our 
lives are enriched by individual acts of 
kindness and compassion.
PROFESSIONALISM
As proven professionals, we each 
bring a high level of individual skills, 
expertise, and commitment to our 
work. We take great pride in the fact that our individual and collective 
accomplishments have earned broad 
respect and a reputation for safe, 
reliable, quality service. 
RESOURCEFULNESS
Our bias toward action and our readi­
ness to adapt to change and to master 
difficult challenges exemplify the “can­do” heritage of Alaska Airlines. We embrace an atmosphere where 
hard work, initiative, and teamwork 
are a tradition, and where creativity 
and innovation flourish. 
Horizon Air Shared Values
HEART
“Heart” is what defines the unique spirit and character of Horizon Air— 
a family of energetic, optimistic, and 
enthusiastic people who enjoy what they do. From their heart comes the 
pride, commitment, and, above all, the 
caring that truly sets Horizon Air apart.
INTEGRIT y
Integrity is the cornerstone value of Horizon Air. That means we have an 
uncompromising commitment to 
honesty and fairness—to being ethical, trustworthy, and responsible 
in all we do.PARTNERSHIP
We value the partnership of talented 
individuals combining their efforts to 
achieve results beyond the sum of 
their independent contributions. Partnership at Horizon Air is built on 
a foundation of trust, cooperation, 
and mutual respect.
INNOVATION /INITIATIVE
We encourage initiative, innovation, and creativity throughout the organiza  tion. 
Drive, determination, and hard work—
coupled with the active pursuit of new and creative solutions—are essential 
to Horizon Air’s continued success.
CONTINUOUS  IMPROVEMENT
We seek excellence in our business 
and are committed to an environment 
of continuous development, learning, 
and improvement. We embrace change as a means to grow, both 
corporately and individually.our  Core  values
alaska airlines and horizon air each have a set of core values that define their  
unique character, guide decision‑making and behavior, and underlie our relationships  
with customers, the community, the environment, and each other. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 10Who We Are
alas Ka aIr group  Corporate  
env Ironmental  pol ICy
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
believe that environmental responsi­
bility is an essential part of being a 
responsible corporate citizen and a natural fit with our corporate values 
and our customers’ expectations. 
Our vision is to build cultures at both 
companies where we fully integrate 
sustainable environmental practices 
into our business of providing safe, reliable air transportation with best­in­
class service and the best customer 
experience. Furthermore, we recog­
nize that environmental respon si bility 
can positively impact corporate profit­
ability by minimizing operating costs 
through efficient use of resources, 
enhancing the company’s image, and minimizing risk and legal liability. For 
these reasons, Alaska Air Group views 
environmental responsibility as an important part of our overall 
corporate culture. 
In accordance with our vision and 
values, the management and employ­
ees of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
shall strive to: • Conduct business with integrity, ensuring compliance with all envi­
ronmental laws and regulations. 
• Ensure the responsible use of 
energy throughout our business 
through improvements in energy 
efficiency, and building design,  and the procure  ment of energy­
efficient equipment. 
• Integrate environmental consid­erations into daily operational  
and decision­making processes 
throughout the company. 
• Replace harmful chemical products 
with nontoxic alternatives, when­
ever feasible. 
• Foster a culture of environmental responsibility among employees 
and management by promoting 
awareness of environmental con­
cerns, actions, and responsibilities. 
• Improve employee environmental 
performance through procedures, awareness, training, and recogni­
tion of excellence. • Maintain strict internal environ­
mental practices and policies 
everywhere we do business. 
• Reduce, reuse, and recycle our 
materials to the greatest extent 
feasible and procure recycled 
supplies wherever appropriate. 
• Collaborate with our suppliers and vendors to adopt effective environ­
mental practices. • Endeavor to exceed required levels 
of compliance wherever possible. 
• Maintain an open and honest 
dialogue with our employees and 
stakeholders about the environ  men­
tal performance of our operations. 
• Continually improve environmental 
policies, programs, and perfor  mance, 
based on the results of an internal 
environmental audit program. ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP
In 2009, the alaska air group leadership team made a strate gic commit‑
ment to measurably reducing its impact on the environment and becoming an environmental leader in the domestic airline industry. 
In July 2009, alaska air group executives chartered a green Initiative with 
three specific goals as a core element of our strategic business plan: 
1. reducing emissions from fuel consumption. 
2. reducing emissions from heating and electricity consumption in buildings. 
3. reducing use of nonsustain able resources, and recycling inflight and 
building waste materials. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 11Who We Are
our   
env Ironment
Call us fuel­efficiency trailblazers
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 12 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 12
The airline industry is a tough and 
competitive business environment.  
But we never lose sight of the other environment—the one in which our families and customers live.
That’s why the focus of our environmental 
stewardship has been on minimizing  our carbon footprint and impact on the places we serve. We do this, in part,  by reducing emissions from airplane engines and ground equipment, conserving energy in our buildings,  
and eliminating waste in all areas  
of our operations.our envIronment
Call us fuel­efficiency trailblazers
IN THIS  SECTION
Overview of Environmental Issues
Additional Environmental Topics
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 13 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 13
SOURCES  OF GREENHOUSE  GAS EMISSIONS  IN THE  UNITED  STATES
emissions from aviation make up only 2%  
of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the 
united states. though this number may appear 
small, we recognize that we can and should 
continue to limit our impact.
● Noncommercial Aviation
● Commercial Aviation
● Electric Utilities
● Industry● Agriculture
● Commercial
● Residential
● Transportation
Source: U.S. EPA data, 2005overv IeW of  
env Ironmental  Issues  
Our goal at Alaska Air Group is to 
focus our efforts on the most 
important areas of environmental 
impact, where we have the greatest opportunity to effect positive change. 
Our strategy and vision emphasize 
improvements on the two key 
environmental impacts of highest 
concern: 
Carbon Emissions The vast majority 
(~99%) of carbon dioxide (CO
2) 
emissions generated by our 
operations are from the combustion 
of fossil fuel by our aircraft fleet. To a lesser extent, emissions are also 
released through burning of fuel to 
power our ground support fleet 
vehicles and provide heating, cooling, 
and lighting in our ground facilities. 
The single greatest challenge for 
Alaska Air Group—and the entire 
airline industry—is that our service 
relies on burning fossil fuels. This is 
in a business con text of global and 
national pressures and agreements regarding carbon footprint reductions 
and increasing investor concerns about financial risks of carbon 
exposure in corporations they are 
investing in. Additionally, individual consumers are increasingly concerned 
about the negative impacts of climate 
change and their personal carbon footprint; and many corporate clients 
proactively are working to reduce 
carbon emissions across the entire 
life cycle of their product/service 
delivery, including transportation  of people and goods. This makes reducing greenhouse gas emissions  
a strategic priority for all airlines. CO
2 
emissions can currently be reduced  in the airline industry by these two 
primary methods: modify  ing or 
changing the aircraft, or flying more 
efficiently. A third method, farther out on the horizon, is to use an alternative 
or more carbon­efficient fuel.
Materials and Waste A significant 
num ber of supplies are needed to 
serve our combined 24 million 25%2%
5%
6%
8%1%
34%
19%PERCENTAGE  OF  
U.S. G REENHOUSE  GAS  
EMISSION S
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 14Our Environment
passengers per year. From cocktail 
napkins to lubricating oil and toner 
cartridges, these items are used and 
disposed of each day at our facilities. Although individual items may seem 
small or inconsequential, when 
multiplied by 24 million pas sengers, 
materials, resource use, and waste add up. There are many oppor tunities 
to reduce, reuse, and recycle these 
wastes, although each presents its 
own unique challenges. Because of the noncentral  ized nature of our oper­
ations, and the differing opportunities 
for recycling and procurement in each location, initiating waste recycling and 
reduction programs can be challenging. 
A concerted group effort between  
our employees, our contractors,  
and the airports we serve is required to implement a successful waste 
reduction and/or recycling program. 
We also report on our efforts to 
manage noise. Noise may not always 
be thought of as an “environmental” 
issue for many people, but it can be an unpleasant byproduct of air travel for surround  ing communities at many 
airports. Upgrading to newer aircraft 
and U.S. Federal Aviation Admin­
istration (FAA) approval of quieter and more efficient flight paths present 
oppor tunities to reduce the noise 
impact of our operations.
Safe operations and FAA regulations 
necessitate the application of deicing 
fluids during icy conditions. How­ever, these procedures can impact 
stormwater runoff, manage  ment of 
which depends on airport deicing 
collection systems. 
We take these environmental impacts 
seriously and are proud of the prog­ress we have made. We also recognize 
that there’s more to do. In this report, 
we accurately describe our perform  ance 
and improvement efforts regarding 
each of these issues. Here is our story thus far in our journey toward more 
sustainable aviation. a concerted group effort between our employees, 
our contractors, and the airport is required to 
implement a successful waste reduction and/or 
recycling program.
employees around the system collect and recycle a wide variety of materials, 
including paper, aluminum, plastics, stretch wrap, packing peanuts, toner 
cartridges, fluorescent light tubes, pallets, computer equipment, used oil, 
antifreeze, scrap metal, and batteries.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 15Our Environment  | Overview of Environmental Issues
our Carbon footpr Int 
Alaska Air Group is committed to 
calculating and reducing its environ­
mental impact. As an essential first 
step in this commitment, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air conducted  
a greenhouse gas inventory of our 
operations for the years 2004–2009. 
Emissions evaluated in the prepara­
tion of this footprint include: 
• Combustion of jet fuel during 
aircraft operations. 
• Ground support vehicle fuel 
combustion. 
• Electricity usage and heating/
cooling in our leased and owned 
buildings. 
Summary of Our 
Assessment Methodology 
All Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
were inventoried for our carbon foot­
print. (Scope 1 emissions are those 
from direct combustion of fossil fuels, and Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions generated in the produc­tion of electricity that we consume.) The inventory included all emissions 
for which Alaska Air Group has 
operational control, including both  of its wholly owned subsidiaries—
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air. 
Activity data from selected emission sources were compiled by Alaska Air 
Group personnel and evaluated by a 
third­party environmental consultant. 
As demonstrated in the graph at  
right, for the past six years, Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon Air have consis­tently reduced their carbon intensity 
(tons of carbon dioxide per unit  
of produc tivity). Although carbon 
intensity decreased by 23%, the  total amount of carbon was reduced by 10% from 2004–2009, due to 
increases in air travel demand and 
operational capacity. together, alaska airlines and horizon air have 
steadily reduced the intensity of their carbon 
emissions by 23% since 2004.
ALASKA AIRLINES G REENHOUSE  GAS  EMISSIONS AND   
AIR EMISSIONS INTENSITY, 2004–2009CO 2 (MILLION  
METRIC  TONS )4.00 230INTENSITY  RATIO   
(METRIC  TONS  CO 2E PER 
MILLION  RPM )3.00 210
2.00 190
1.00 170
0.00
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009150I
 Alaska Airlines Emissions  Alaska Airlines Intensity Ratio 
HORIZON  AIR G REENHOUSE  GAS  EMISSIONS AND   
AIR EMISSIONS INTENSITY, 2004–2009CO 2 (MILLION  
METRIC  TONS )0.60 310INTENSITY  RATIO   
(METRIC  TONS  CO 2E PER 
MILLION  RPM )0.45 270
0.30 230
0.15 190
0.00
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009150I
 Horizon Air Emissions  Horizon Air Intensity Ratio
Emissions were calculated using Tier 2 methodology for the majority (99%) of our emissions—those 
from the combustion of jet fuel.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 16Our Environment
FUEL  EFFICIENCY RELATIVE TO 
COMPETITORS
#1
Alaska Airlines ranks #1 among the 
10 largest domestic carriers in fuel 
efficiency per available seat mile for 
domestic and international travel.
(Data Source: DOT Form 41 and 298C)Fuel conservation has always been an 
important goal for Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air. Not only is it our largest 
cost—currently accounting for 36%  of our budget—but it also accounts 
for approximately 99% of our carbon 
footprint. Over the years, our fuel 
reduction efforts at Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air have resulted in two of the most fuel­efficient—and carbon­ 
efficient—aircraft fleets in the industry. 
Our current fuel and emis  sion reduc­
tion programs fall into three categories 
aimed at the highest lever age areas 
for substantive improvements: 
WHAT WE FLY 
Fleet composition  
Aerodynamic improvements
THE WAY WE FLY 
Flying efficiencies and flight planning 
Ground flight support
THE FUEL WE USE 
Alternative fuel sourcesaIrCraft  emIssIons
MONITORING  FUEL  CONSERVATION  PROGRAMS
at alaska airlines, we have been closely tracking and monitoring fuel conservation programs for years. the fuel and financial savings we have 
estimated in the following pages are based upon data supplied from 
equipment manufacturers and alaska airlines’ aircraft operational records. this data represents results from alaska airlines only. horizon air has also 
been implementing numerous fuel conservation measures; however, they 
were not centrally tracked and managed. In January 2010, horizon air 
joined the fuel metric reporting program, with formats that duplicate those 
of alaska airlines as part of an effort to better measure future fuel conservation programs.
We’ve achieved our most dramatic percentage impacts in fuel and emission 
reductions through our investments in fleet composition and aerodynamic improvements. these investments have reduced greenhouse gas emissions 
every year since we made them. While we have already taken the steps  
that yield the greatest fuel efficiency results, going forward, we will continue 
to look for every opportunity—no matter how big or small—to further 
conserve fuel and reduce emissions. these efforts include continuing to 
transition to ever more fuel‑efficient fleets and implementa tion of enhanced 
flight capabilities to reduce unnecessary fuel burn. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 17Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint
Petroleum­based aviation fuels are the 
only available fuels in today’s market. 
There are numerous research and 
development projects under way on alternate sources of aviation fuels. 
However, there are currently no alter­
natives to petroleum­based fuels and 
none are expected to be commercially 
viable in the near future. The lowest­hanging (but most expensive) fruit  
in terms of reducing fuel use and 
subsequent emissions is to simply buy fuel­efficient aircraft. Other 
opportunities include modifying the 
aircraft to increase aerodynamics and fuel efficiency and decreasing the 
weight of aircraft equipment.
THE SUCCESSES
At Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
we’ve changed our fleet inventory and 
modified aerodynamic components  
to increase fuel efficiency.Fleet Transition The Boeing 737­800 
jet and the Bombardier Q400 turbo­prop are the aircraft of our future. 
Beginning in 2006 and concluding  
in 2008, Alaska Airlines replaced its fleet of MD­80 aircraft with more  
fuel­efficient Boeing Next­Generation 
737s. As a result of its fuselage,  wing, and engine design, the 737­800 
and 737­900 are two of the most  
fuel­efficient jet aircraft available, 
consuming 18% less fuel compared  
to an MD­80. This results in an improved fuel efficiency of hundreds of gallons per flight hour. As of 
Decem ber 2009, Alaska Airlines’ all­
737 fleet consists of 51 737­800s and 12 737­900s, 55% of the fleet. Transi­
tion ing from MD­80s has resulted  
in an annual fuel savings of approxi­
mately 22 million gallons per year. What  We fly
alaska airlines and horizon air have invested more 
than $750 million to replace their aircraft fleets 
with the most fuel‑efficient aircraft available.
ALASKA’ S JETS  MOST  FUEL -EFFICIENT  IN OPERATION  TODAYFUEL  CONSUMPTION  
(GALLONS / PASSENGER )
10.76 11.16 11.6512.38 12.63 12.75 13.1215.3616.49 18
1512
963
737­900
172 seats737­800
157 seatsA320
149 seats737­200
182 seats737­700
124 seats737­400
144 seatsA319
122 seatsMD­80
140 seatsDC­9 140
125 seats
 Jets used by Alaska Airlines  Other comparable jets
HORIZON ’S AIRCRAFT  AMONG  THE  MOST  FUEL -EFFICIENT  IN 
OPERATION  TODAYFUEL  CONSUMPTION  
(GALLONS / PASSENGER )
5.86.26.77.1 7.2 7.37.710.612
9
63
Q­400
76 seatsCRJ900
88 seatsE190
99 seatsCRJ700
70 seatsQ200
37 seatsCRJ200
50 seatsE170
72 seatsB1900
19 seats
 Aircraft used by Horizon Air  Other comparable aircraft
With an average fleet age of only 7.5 years and 5.8 years, respectively, alaska airlines 
and horizon air operate two of the youngest, most fuel ‑efficient aircraft fleets in 
their class.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 18Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint
At Horizon Air, we are transitioning 
from a combined fleet to an all­Q400 
fleet. Our current fleet consists of 
Bombardier CRJ700 regional jets and Q400 turboprops. The 76­seat Q400 is 
30% to 40% more fuel­efficient than a 
comparable jet. Horizon Air originally 
announced our fleet transition in April 
2008. How ever, due to the recession, 
we renego  tiated the purchase schedule 
for the new Bombardier Q400. The 
remaining 18 Bombardier 70­seat CRJ­700 jets are expected to be 
phased out by the end of 2012.
Winglets  To further improve the 
aerodynamics of our aircraft, Alaska 
Airlines is using winglets (turned ­up 
extensions at the tips of the wings) to 
increase fuel efficiency by 3% to 5%. All of our 737 ­800 aircraft come 
equipped with winglets, and we have retrofitted all of our eligible 737 ­700s 
and 737 ­900s. That translates into 
approximately 100,000 fewer gallons of fuel consumed per aircraft each year. We estimate the total fuel savings from winglets to be 2.2 million gallons 
in 2009. 
Weight Reduction  Each pound flown 
has a cost in terms of fuel usage. To 
reduce fuel con sumption, we’ve put 
our fleet on a weight­loss program. Examples of Alaska Airlines’ weight­reduction efforts include using lighter catering carts, removing bilge insu­lation blankets, and reducing the amount of potable water that is 
boarded on each flight.through alaska airlines and horizon air’s 
investments in modern and efficient aircraft fleets 
and aerodynamic upgrades, such as winglets, we 
save over 30 million gallons of fuel per year.
above: flying on a horizon air bombar dier Q400 turboprop, affectionately known 
as a “green machine,” is roughly equivalent to driving in a car that gets 64 miles 
per gallon. a Q400 is 30% to 40% more efficient than a comparable‑sized jet. 
below: alaska airlines is using winglets, like the one shown here, to further increase 
aircraft fuel efficiency by 3% to 5%. that translates into approximately 100,000 fewer 
gallons of fuel consumed per aircraft each year. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 19 Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint  | What We Fly
In our five West Coast airports alone, pCa usage 
is expected to reduce Co 2 emissions by 75 million 
pounds per year.
preconditioned air units (pCas), like the one pictured above, use 10 times less fuel 
than a typical 737’s onboard auxiliary power unit.the  Way We fly 
We’ve done almost all we can in terms 
of fleet upgrades and aerodynamic 
improvements to increase our aircraft 
fuel efficiency. The next best way to save fuel and reduce emis  sions is to fly 
the shortest possible distance between 
two points. Air space modern   ization 
programs, such as those described below, currently offer our next greatest opportunity for reducing fuel use and 
decreasing associated emissions. 
THE CHALLENGE
Modifying existing route structures or 
aircraft operations requires a coordi­
nated effort between the airline, the 
FAA, and/or the local airport. 
THE SUCCESSES
Altogether, in 2009 the aircraft fuel efficiency initiatives described in  
this section saved the airlines over 
35 mil lion gal lons of fuel and reduced 
expenses by more than $70 million. 
The amount of fuel conserved in 2009 
also lessened Alaska Air Group’s 
carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 
335,000 metric tons. That’s the equivalent of taking 64,000 cars off the road or heating nearly 37,000 
houses for a year.
Required Navigation Performance  
Alaska Airlines has been a leader in 
efficient flying since we pioneered the 
development of Required Navigation Performance (RNP) flight guidance 
technology in the mid­1990s. Alaska 
Airlines remains the only major domestic carrier with a 100% RNP­
equipped fleet and fully trained crews. 
RNP technology, which uses the 
global positioning system (GPS), 
allows aircraft to fly more direct routes and at lower minimum ele­
vations with pinpoint accuracy. The 
use of RNP also allows more direct and efficient landing approaches  
and results in fewer weather­related 
cancellations and diversions. RNP flying conserved more than 250,000 
gallons of fuel in 2008. Since 1996,  
we have introduced similar RNP 
procedures at 45% of the airports in 
the state of Alaska, as well as cities such as Palm Springs, Portland, and 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 20Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint
Washington, D.C. We are currently 
laying the groundwork to extend RNP 
technology to even more cities in 2010. 
In 2006, Horizon Air became the first 
regional carrier to be certified for RNP 
approaches. On December 30, 2009, 
Horizon Air became the first scheduled­ service passenger carrier to operate a 
flight using Wide Area Aug mentation 
System (WAAS) technology. WAAS 
takes RNP technology a step further 
by using additional satellites that 
monitor GPS satellite signals. It then 
corrects for any errors in GPS satellite 
position. This foolproof navigation performance system reduces fuel 
burn by allowing pilots to fly straighter 
flight paths and by providing greater flexibility in choosing alternate 
airports in the event of a diversion.
Cost-Index Flying Cost­index flying 
uses onboard computer systems to 
calculate the cost effects of flying slow 
versus fast to obtain the most economical speed. Alaska Airlines 
used cost­index flying to lower its 
overall cruise speeds, reducing average fuel consumption by 10 to 40 gallons per trip. This equated  
to a savings of approximately 1 million 
gal lons in 2009. Horizon Air imple­
mented cost­index flying in 2008 for 
both the CRJ and Q400.
Single-Engine Taxi Instead of using 
both jet engines while taxiing to and 
from the runway, Alaska Airlines has 
initiated single­engine taxi procedures to save fuel. In 2009, by expanding 
this program to many of our larger 
airports, we have estimated fuel 
savings of 260,000 gallons per year. 
This is now an available procedure systemwide for Alaska Airlines. This 
is, however, subject to conditions at 
the airport and contingent on taxi times. It is not feasible at smaller 
airports, which typically have short 
taxi times.
Preconditioned Air Units Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon Air are making 
greater use of ground power and mobile preconditioned air units 
(PCAs) for aircraft cabin venting, 
cooling, and heating while the aircraft is parked, instead of using the aircraft auxiliary power unit (APU), which is 
the small turbine engine on board the 
aircraft. A PCA burns approximately 10 times less fuel than a typical 737’s 
onboard APU. 
In 2008, Alaska Airlines started using 
ground power units instead of aircraft 
APUs at our 14 busiest airports. 
Approximately 80% of Alaska Airlines’ gates are equipped with some sort  
of PCA equipment that allows them  
to reduce the use of the APU. Our 
eventual goal is to reduce APU use  
by 80% on the ground. We saved an estimated 740,000 gallons of fuel in 
2008 and 2.7 million gallons of fuel 
in 2009. 
Q Routes In 2004, Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air partnered with the FAA to 
develop parallel flight routes to the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles 
Basin airports. These routes, 
identified as “Q,” follow one­way, direct flight paths from Seattle, 
Portland, and Vancouver to specific 
airports in the Bay and L.A. areas. Compared to the previous routes, the Q routes save over 217 flight miles a 
day and almost 200,000 gallons of 
fuel per year. 
Optimized Profile Descent Also 
known as Continuous Descent 
Approach, this is a procedure in  which aircraft maintain a continuous 
descent angle during landing. This 
method, rather than the traditional step­down approach, is designed to 
reduce fuel consumption and noise 
during the landing phase of a flight.  
In March 2009, Alaska Airlines initiated 
an FAA­approved procedure to allow our planes to follow an optimized 
descent into the Anchorage airport.  
A more gradual descent approach  to Anchorage will save an estimated 
30,000 gallons of fuel per month. 
Turboprops on Turbojet Routes In 
2008, Horizon Air, working with the 
FAA, developed procedures to allow 
Q400 aircraft on traditionally turbojet arrival routes. Those procedures have 
reduced fuel and emissions by delay­
ing aircraft descents and maintaining 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 21Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint  | The Way We Fly
TRADITIONAL  STEP -DOWN  APPROACH
airportairport
low  
powerOPTIMIZED  PROFILE  DESCENTmore efficient cruise speeds in 
congested airspace. Since that time, 
we’ve successfully implemented those 
procedures in Seattle, Los Angeles, and Vancouver. On some routes, the 
savings averages 39 miles—while also 
keeping the aircraft at much higher, 
more fuel­efficient altitudes.
Electronic Flight Bag The Elec tronic 
Flight Bag (EFB) is an electronic 
tablet­style computer device that 
brings information and flexibility to 
the flight deck. It allows flight crews  
to perform flight management tasks 
more easily and efficiently with less paper. Common EFB benefits include 
paper savings, weight (and therefore 
fuel) savings, early satellite weather detection, and efficient reporting of 
flight time elements. Horizon Air 
replaced its heavy, paper­intensive flight manuals with EFBs in 2008 in 
an effort to conserve paper and fuel 
and to enhance safety and on­time 
performance. A similar program is 
being evaluated at Alaska Airlines.FAA Next Generation The FAA’s Next 
Generation Air Transportation System 
(NextGen) is a plan to modernize the 
national airspace system through 2025, by replacing the current radar­
based air traffic control system with 
satellite­based technology, enabling 
more efficient flight routes. These 
more efficient routes will use less fuel and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
According to the Air Transport 
Association, this more efficient air navigation system will trim fuel use 
and greenhouse gas emissions by 
10% to 15% nationally. Under the “Greener Skies” project (see next 
page), we are taking a leading role in 
bringing NextGen operational and 
environmental benefits to the Seattle 
region. We will also work to replicate those benefits where possible in other 
locations throughout our system.optimized profile descent, also known as 
Continuous descent approach, is a navigation 
procedure that reduces both noise and carbon 
emissions during the landing phase of a flight. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 22Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint  | The Way We Fly
GREENER  SKIES  ANNUAL  BENEFITS
fuel saved:
2.1 Million Gallons
emIssIon redu CtIon:
22,400 Metric Tons (≈ 4,100 Cars)
noIse eXposure redu CtIon:
≈ 750,000 People● Typical Flight Path
● RNP Flight PathSea­Tac Airport
West Side ApproachGreener Skies
Alaska Airlines tested new flight pro­
ce dures to reduce our environ mental 
impact during airport approaches  on the west side of Seattle­Tacoma International Airport (Sea­Tac) in 
summer 2009.
The project is being conducted in 
partnership with the Port of Seattle, 
the Boeing Company, and the FAA. 
Dubbed “Greener Skies,” it is focused on using satellite ­based flight guidance 
technology (RNP) pioneered by Alaska Airlines to operate more efficiently and reduce aircraft fuel consumption, 
emissions, and noise in the Puget 
Sound region. Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air are seeking FAA approval 
of the procedures, which could be used by all properly equipped carriers 
at Sea­Tac. This project places Sea­
Tac, our primary hub, on the leading edge of the national move to a 
modern, satellite­based air transpor­
tation system.
Testing began June 16, 2009, on an 
Alaska Airlines 737­700 during a non­
commercial flight. Typically, aircraft follow a lengthy approach pattern and 
make a series of stair­step descents 
before landing. Using RNP satellite 
guidance technology and a contin u­
ous descent, aircraft can fly from 
cruise altitude to an airport runway 
along a shorter, more direct path at 
low power.
In addition to fuel and emissions 
savings, the new procedures will 
reduce overflight noise exposure for 
an estimated 750,000 people living 
within the affected flight corridors.RNP and continuous descent proce­dures are part of the Next Generation 
Air Transportation System, the FAA’s 
plan to modernize the National Air­
space System through 2025. This initiative will increase efficiency,  
enhance safety, and reduce environ­
mental impacts.
If you’d like to get involved or  
if you have questions about the 
Greener Skies initiative, contact Megan.Lawrence@alaskaair.com. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 23Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint  | The Way We Fly
alaska air group made recent headlines based on our support of alternative 
fuels and our participation in related projects.
alasKa aIrlInes JoIns 
boeIng’s b Iofuel group
Puget Sound Business Journal | July 13, 2009altaIr fuels and  
14 a IrlInes s Ign 
bIofuel mou
Flightglobal | december 15, 2009
World’s largest  
aIrlInes Comm It to use 
bIofuel In Jets
Earth & Industry | January 6, 2010alasKa aIrlInes JoIns 
susta Inable avIatIon 
fuel users group
Biofuels Digest | July 14, 2009the fuel We use
Alternative jet fuels represent an 
opportunity for the future. There  
are exciting initial successes in the 
development of alternative, less­carbon­intense jet fuels. Alaska Air 
Group is participating in various 
projects to support the development, 
testing, and commercialization of 
alternative fuels. Through our mem­ber ship with organizations such as 
the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group, of which we are currently  the only domestic airline participating 
member, we have pledged to consider 
fuels that mini mize biodiversity 
impacts; require minimum land, 
water, and energy to produce; and 
don’t compete with food or freshwater 
resources. We are committed to 
driving sustainability practices into the global fuel supply chain. At this 
time, however, the technology and 
capacity have not been adequately developed for biofuels to fully 
substitute for fossil fuels.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 24Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint
GROUND  SUPPORT  VEHICLE   
POWER  SOURCE
+65%
of Horizon Air’s vehicles are electric
10%
of Alaska Airlines’ vehicles are electricCarbon  emIssIons  from  veh ICles 
The remaining 1% of our carbon 
emissions comes from two sources: 
fuel burned by our fleet of ground 
support equipment (GSE) vehicles and consumption of fuel and electricity 
to heat, cool, and light our buildings.
Ground Support Equipment Our GSE 
consists of forklifts, automobiles, and 
aircraft service vehicles, such as bag­
gage tugs and belt loaders. GSE are typically powered by petroleum­based 
fuels and therefore contribute to our 
overall carbon footprint. Over the years, 
both Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
have initiated a variety of programs to move away from fossil­fuel­powered 
GSE and explore cleaner alternatives. 
Electric Vehicles We are currently 
replacing fuel­burning vehicles with 
electric equipment where it makes 
economic, safety, and compliance sense. Horizon Air’s strategy has 
been to methodically convert our 
vehicle fleet, wherever practical,  from fuel­powered to electric. A large 
proportion of Horizon Air’s vehicle 
fleet is located at airports where the infrastructure is available to support its growing fleet of electric GSE. As of 
January 1, 2010, over 65% of Horizon 
Air’s station­based ground support vehicle fleet consists of electric 
vehicles. At Alaska Airlines, the GSE 
fleet is approximately 10% electric. 
Many of the airports where Alaska 
Airlines operates do not currently have the capacity to recharge large 
fleets of electric vehicles. And at many 
of Alaska Airlines’ airports, we do  not manage any GSE at all; they are 
owned and operated by contracted 
ground service providers. Alaska Airlines has been testing and evalu­
ating electric vehicles for our largest 
operation in Seattle, Washington.  
We look forward to working with the 
Port of Seattle as it upgrades airport infrastructure to accommodate the 
placement of vehicle recharging 
stations over the next three years. 
Alternative Fuels in Vehicles Over the 
past three years, Alaska Airlines has 
converted or replaced a portion of  our gasoline­powered GSE fleet with cleaner­burning propane units or 
hybrid GSE. In August 2009, we were 
one of eight airlines that signed an agreement to buy renewable synthetic 
diesel vehicle fuel at Los Angeles 
International Airport. This deal will provide our contractor’s vehicle fleet 
with biodiesel beginning in 2012.  
This biodiesel will boast a carbon 
footprint of almost zero and will also 
greatly reduce particulates and sulfur 
emitted by GSE.WORk-FROM -HOME  PROGRAM
approximately 45% of alaska airlines reservations agents and 75% of horizon air reservations agents participate in a work‑from‑home program.  
this eliminates the need for these employees to drive to work and removes 
more than 300 cars from our local roadways each day. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 25Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint
Carbon  emIssIons  from  buIldIngs
Building Electricity, Heating, and 
Cooling Although small by compar i­
son to the footprint of our aircraft fleet, our building operations contribute to overall carbon emis sions through the 
use of energy that provides heating, cooling, and lighting. Many of our 
facil ities are leased from local air  ports, 
where we have limited control over 
heating, ventilating, and air­condition­
ing systems; however, opportunities 
are available in our owned and long­term­lease buildings, such as our 
corporate headquarters.
Energy Consumption Our energy 
conservation program is still in its 
fledgling state. We’ve begun conserv­
ing energy in the buildings we own  by upgrading to more efficient light 
fixtures, lighting systems, and air­
conditioning and heating systems throughout the Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air operations. We’ve recently 
adopted LEED
® principles into Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon Air’s standard 
facilities contract language. LEED, an 
acronym for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a tool for improving the quality of buildings, 
minimizing their impact on the 
environment, and reducing operating costs. Although none of our buildings 
are currently LEED certified, we are  
in the process of obtaining LEED certification for our first construction 
project in 2011. 
Alternative Energy We are also com­
mitted to investigating the use of 
alternative energy sources to heat 
and/or power our buildings. Our target is to complete a feasibility study 
and implementation plan for at least 
one facility by the end of 2010. 
 horizon air’s strategy has been to methodically 
convert our vehicle and equipment fleet, wherever 
practical, from fuel‑powered to electric. as of 
2010, over 65% of horizon air’s gse runs on 
electricity instead of fossil fuel.
We’re replacing our fuel‑burning ground support equipment (gse) with electric 
equipment (like these aircraft pushback tractors, shown above) wherever practicable.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 26Our Environment  | Our Carbon Footprint  | Carbon Emissions from Vehicles and Buildings
WHy ARE ALASkA AIRLINES  AND  HORIzON AIR’S 
RECyCLING  PROGRAMS  DIFFERENT ?
horizon air owns and operates catering facilities in seattle, portland, and 
boise, where the majority of waste is deplaned. this gives horizon air 
tighter control of how the waste is managed, and ultimately, recycled. 
additionally, due to the shorter duration of horizon air flights, the waste stream is more consistent and contains less food and food packaging 
wastes. about 92% of the materials used in service are made from 
recyclable materials, such as plastic, aluminum, or paper.
at alaska airlines, approximately 60% to 70% of our waste is deplaned  
and disposed of at contract flight kitchens. alaska airlines’ flights are  
longer, with a more complex food and beverage service than a typical 
horizon air flight. first‑class meals, buy‑on‑board meals, and multiple 
beverage services increase the overall waste totals and decrease the percentage of reclaimable materials. mater Ials and  Waste
Alaska Air Group has a strategic goal to reduce the use of nonsustainable 
resources and to recycle inflight and 
office waste materials. Achieving this goal depends on innovation and 
collaboration by employees in many 
functional areas, key suppliers, air­
port management and staff, and 
regulatory bodies. 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
employees are making sure that our 
commitment to environmental stew­
ardship is more than just talk—by 
pursuing corporate initiatives, such  
as collection of recyclable materials on flights, to grassroots efforts, such 
as the waste reduction initiatives launched by individual station employ­
ees in offices, at airports, and in 
maintenance facilities around our 
system. Throughout the company, employees challenge themselves  
and each other to find ways to  
reduce, reuse, and recycle resources. 
The following describes some of  
our recycling and waste reduction programs along with some of  
our challenges.
DID yOU kNOW
an estimated 7.5 million pounds 
of trash is generated by the u.s. aviation industry every day. 
natural resources defense 
Council 2006 research found 
that 75% of that trash is 
recyclable, but only 20% reaches a recycling center.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 27Our Environment
Materials
We have recently committed to 
replacing our current inflight servic­
eware (materials used during cabin 
food and beverage service) and other products with more sustainably 
sourced alternatives. For years, our 
inflight cocktail napkins have been 
printed on 100% recycled content. 
Now, we are looking for more sus­tainably sourced and biodegradable 
hot beverage cups and main cabin 
cutlery. Additionally, we are working with our bottled water supplier 
(Athena) to provide water in 
50% recycled ­content bottles.Waste
Most of our flying public is conscious of the volume of waste that is gener­
ated in a single flight, and many ask 
what and how much is recycled. In this area, we have some great success 
stories—and some great challenges.
THE  SUCCESS  
At Horizon Air, we have had a long 
and successful history of collecting 
and recycling inflight waste, with 
focused attention since the mid­1980s. Horizon Air currently recycles 
69% (by weight) of all waste generated 
during inflight service. Flight atten­dants collect newspapers, magazines, 
aluminum cans, plastic cups, and 
plastic and glass bottles from pas­
sengers for recycling. Wine corks, 
cardboard, shrink wrap, coffee grounds, and aluminum and plastic 
pop rings associated with inflight 
service are recycled at Horizon Air’s main food and beverage locations  
in Seattle, Portland, and Boise. In the  aIr
on may 14, 2008, the port of portland honored horizon air with an a viation 
environmental excellence a ward for its efforts in recycling items used during 
inflight service. horizon air recognized for recycling efforts
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 28Our Environment  | Materials and Waste
THE CHALLENGE
Alaska Airlines is no less concerned 
about inflight waste reduction. In 
2008, we began our co­mingled 
inflight recycling program. We originally focused on collecting and 
recycling inflight waste at Seattle­
Tacoma International Airport, in 
sup port of our broader goal of increas­
ing the recycling recovery rate of all 
Alaska Airlines food service waste.  
We chose our Seattle kitchen as our 
starting point for monitoring and implementing our inflight recycling 
program for two reasons: Our Seattle 
contract catering kitchen is our largest and busiest and manages the majority 
of Alaska Airlines inflight waste and 
catering materials, and the Seattle area 
has a well ­developed foundation and 
marketplace for co ­mingled recyclable materials. In 2009 in Seattle, flight 
attendants captured 32% by weight  
of recyclable materials generated  
in flight. This fell off significantly from the 60% collection rate we measured 
in 2008, the first year we implemented 
the program. One of the key contri­butors to the decline in our collection 
efforts occurred in summer of 2009, 
when we temporarily suspended our recycling program in response to 
H1N1 virus concerns. Unfortunately 
the recycling program was not fully 
resumed as planned.
We are committed to fixing this prob­
lem and increasing our recovery rate. In 2010, we’re setting an ambitious 
target of 100% collection and recovery 
of all inflight recyclable materials 
systemwide.
horizon air’s flight attendants capture 83% of all recyclable materials (plastic, 
aluminum, and glass) generated during inflight service. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 29Our Environment  | Materials and Waste  | In the Air
Another challenge remains in improv­
ing the percentage of collected material 
that is, in fact, recycled by our catering 
kitchens. Alaska Airlines contracts with food service kitchens in 23 locations. 
Food service waste is deplaned and 
managed at all contract catering 
kitchens, but currently only seven of 
these facilities recycle the materials generated by Alaska Airlines. Our 
analysis shows four key contributing 
factors to this lack of buy­in: 
1. Limited ability at the local level  
to collect and handle recyclable 
materials. Not all states and municipalities have the infra­
structure to support robust 
recycling programs. 
2. Limited staff on short turnaround 
timelines.3. Limited dock space to place recycling compactors.
4. Most kitchens service international 
flights, which by current regulation 
must incinerate or autoclave all of 
their regulated wastes, so many 
kitchens do not have a practice  
of recycling.Alaska Airlines will continue to advocate for and encourage contract 
flight kitchens and airports to set  
up recycling programs. We will also 
evaluate the feasibility of deplaning inflight waste at the airport rather 
than sending it back to the catering 
kitchens in the food service carts. HOW DO WE MEASURE  OUR  WASTE ?
alaska airlines has an “onboard Waste green t eam” composed of 
members from the flight attendant group, Catering, and fleet service.  
the team works with assistance from local airports, such as portland  
and seattle, to perform periodic waste assessments. during a waste assessment, the team dons disposable coveralls, gloves, and boots to 
gather waste from the aircraft and beverage carts, then sorts the waste by 
type (aluminum, paper, nonrecoverable, etc.) and weighs the end results. 
this helps us evaluate how much of the waste materials could be recycled 
and how much is collected for recycling by the inflight staff.“Our inflight recycling 
efforts have been among 
our greatest points of 
pride for as long as  
I can remember—
through them, we’ve 
helped care for the 
planet while giving 
countless customers yet 
another reason to think 
favorably of us.” 
Jeff pInneo,  
president and C eo, horizon air
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 30Our Environment  | Materials and Waste  | In the Air
Materials
As two of the early leaders in e ­ticketing 
and ticketless travel, Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air have eliminated 
thousands of tons of excess paper.  In December 2008, both Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon Air eliminated 
paper ticket jackets. This saves 
approximately 10 million ticket 
jackets, or roughly 850 pulp trees,  
per year. We have also continued  
to reduce printed material through  
the condensing or co ­branding of 
required forms and converting to 
electronic format, such as electronic airway bills. In the past five years, we’ve eliminated over 30% of the 
paper forms we use to conduct 
business. There are many oppor­
tunities to further expand these paper­saving initiatives throughout 
the company—for example, many of 
our operational programs currently rely heavily on paper. We look forward 
to future progress in transitioning  
to paperless systems.
We also have taken steps toward 
incorporating sustainability criteria 
into our procurement process for evaluating the purchase of new 
products and services; however, this 
effort is still in the early stages of maturity. Waste
Office and airport buildings partici­pate in varied recycling programs 
(dependent on municipal­level capa­
bilities)—generally paper, aluminum, and plastics are collected. Other 
materials that we recycle around our 
system include stretch wrap, packing 
pea nuts, toner cartridges, fluorescent 
light tubes, pallets, computer equip­
ment, used oil, antifreeze, scrap 
metal, and batteries. Recycling of 
office and airport waste materials is currently decentralized, with program 
responsibility delegated to local 
managers. We are working on ways  
to evaluate and measure our efforts  
in order to improve the collection and 
recycling of these materials. Although 
our office facilities already participate 
in waste recycling programs, we will continue to identify opportunities  
to expand and streamline recycling capabilities throughout our system.on the  ground
alaska airlines line maintenance employees in 
seattle recycle approximately 4,000 steel oil cans 
per week. 
By eliminating paper 
ticket jackets, Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon 
Air save 10 million 
ticket jackets, or about 
850 pulp trees, a year.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 31 Our Environment  | Materials and Waste
Deicing
An additional area of environmental 
concern is deicing fluid management. 
Operating in cold climates requires a 
plan to ensure that frost/ice buildup on aircraft wings does not compromise 
flight safety. Today’s industry standard 
for ensuring safe flights during winter 
weather involves spraying aircraft sur­
faces with a diluted mixture of ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. These 
chemicals mix readily with water  
and snow. The ability of glycol to biodegrade quickly after use is both 
positive and negative in terms of 
environmental impact. On the plus side, it is relatively nontoxic and does 
not remain in the environment for  
an extended period of time. On the 
minus side, the quick biodegradation 
may remove oxygen from local waterways and harm aquatic life. 
Opportunities for reducing deicing 
fluid are restricted by FAA regulations, aircraft manufacturer procedures, and 
available technology. Collecting and 
managing runoff is constrained by airport design and operations and 
available technology. At many large 
airports, the stormwater runoff is 
collected and treated; however, many 
smaller airports do not have deicing collection systems. In partnership 
with local airport authorities, Alaska 
Airlines and Horizon Air follow numerous best management prac­
tices aimed at reducing the volume of 
deicing fluid runoff—such as deicing pads, vacuum trucks, ramp scrubbers, 
etc. All employees who deice are given 
training in the local procedures and best management practices for 
preventing stormwater pollution  
at each airport we serve.
Noise 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air maintain a strong focus on reducing 
airplane noise and its impact on the 
communities we serve. Our noise reduction program focuses on three 
areas: improved technology, effective 
land use management, and noise­
reducing operational procedures. Examples of our actions to reduce 
noise levels include the following:
• Fleet modernization is a key com­
ponent to noise reduction. Our oldest and noisiest planes have 
been retired. Our current fleet is 
among the youngest and quietest in the United States. Our entire 
fleet meets or exceeds federal noise 
certification standards.
• Actively pursue FAA approval of 
quieter landing procedures, such as 
Optimized Profile Decent (OPD).
• We actively participate in discus­sions with airports regarding land 
use and operating procedures  
to minimize noise impacts to 
surrounding areas.
• By working with local airport 
authorities and the FAA, we have 
helped to develop and use noise­
reducing takeoff procedures as our standard procedure for all flights.
• Horizon Air’s Q400 aircraft has a 
cumulative 25.9 dB noise level below the published EPA Stage 4 
Aircraft Noise Standards.
Compliance 
Alaska Air Group recognizes that environmental compliance is funda­
mental to running a successful 
business and has structured the Corporate Compliance Office to 
include Environmental Affairs. The 
director of environmental affairs,  
who is supported by three environ­
mental managers, reports directly to the chief ethics & compliance officer. The director and each manager are 
responsible for environmental com­
pliance within designated regions  
of the United States, Canada, and 
Mexico. The Environmental Affairs Department ensures compliance with 
all federal, state, and local environ­
men tal laws and regulations. It also 
develops corporate environmental policy, provides technical guidance  to internal operating departments, 
con ducts environmental training, 
performs audits, and reports add ItIonal  env Ironmental  top ICs
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 32Our Environment
environmental performance to upper 
management and the Alaska Air 
Group Board of Directors.
Employee Engagement
No amount of corporate activity is 
possible with out the engagement of 
its employees, and this report would not be complete without mention of the remarkable contributions being 
made by hundreds of individuals 
throughout the com pany on behalf  
of our planet. 
Employee Education
Employees who work at our airports and with chemical products complete 
several hours of environmental train­
ing every year. Training covers the basics of waste management, pre­
venting water pollu tion, handling 
hazardous materials, and preventing and responding to hazardous mate­
rials spills. Selected subcontractor staff are also trained to our high 
standards. In 2009, both airlines instituted sustainability training for new employees. 
Additionally, through the efforts of 
individuals and local “Green Teams,” 
more employees are keeping environ­
mental issues top of mind. 
Employee Involvement
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air are committed to serving our communi­
ties by developing meaningful and 
enduring relationships with organiza­tions representing diverse causes and 
concerns, including environmental 
ones. In addition to our corporate giving programs, our employees give 
generously of their own time, talent, 
and treasure to a variety of organiza­
tions in the communities we serve 
and many do so by volunteering for environmentally focused organizations. 
We encourage our employees to be 
involved in their communities by offering the following programs: Under our Dollars for Doers program, 
our employ ees are given $10 per hour 
by the company to be donated to  
the organ ization(s) for which they 
volunteer, up to $1,000 per year,  per employee. Our Matching Gift Program brings the company and 
individual employees together in 
support of organizations our employ­ees have strong relationships with. 
Under this program, Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air will match employee 
contributions to nonprofit institutions 
or organizations.
Charitable Giving 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air Corporate Giving support health and 
human services, arts and cultural 
programs, and education and environmental organizations. We 
focus on communities we serve and 
where a signi ficant number of our 
employees live or work. Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air are also proud to be associated with The 
Nature Conservancy of Alaska, Washington, and Oregon, the 
Washington Wildlife and Recreation 
Coalition, as well as other environ­
mental organizations, such as the 
Alaska Raptor Center. We’ve recently 
added the National Forest Foundation to our charity miles donation website. 
For more information on how you  
can contribute your extra mileage  
plan miles to an environmental 
charity, please visit our website  
at www.alaskaair.com/as/www2/
company/csr/charity­miles.asp. 
the alaska airlines/horizon air seattle green 
team held an e‑Cycle event on earth day, 
april 22, 2009. employees brought in hundreds of old computers, television sets, and other 
electronic waste from home that were 
responsibly reused or recycled. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 33Our Environment  | Additional Environmental Topics
loo KIng
 for Ward
We can see for miles and miles— 
and that’s not good enough
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 34 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 34
IN THIS  SECTION
Goals and Commitments for 2010 and Beyond
SummaryBeing good stewards of our environment 
is not only good business—it’s the right thing to do. We’re seeking to make meaningful changes to minimize any environmental impact, and our efforts are centered on reducing emissions from fuel consumption in the air and on the ground. We’ve already made significant improvements, but there  is more to be done. Our ambi tious  
goals for 2010 and beyond demonstrate that we’re not resting on any past accomplishments. And we’ll keep raising the bar as we improve our ability to monitor environmental impacts  
and track our progress.loo KIng for Ward
We can see for miles and miles—  
and that’s not good enough
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 35 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 35
goals  and  Comm Itments   
for  2010 and  beyond
Alaska Air Group’s strategic commit­
ments are to measurably reduce our 
impact on the environment and 
become an environmental leader in the domestic airline industry. Our 
Green Initiative strategic objective  
has three specific goals, summarized 
earlier in this report: 
1. Reducing emissions from fuel 
consumption. 
2. Reducing emissions from heating 
and electricity consumption in 
buildings. 
3. Reducing use of nonsustainable 
resources and recycling inflight and 
workplace waste materials. We will continue to develop our strategic management of environ­
mental goals, setting explicit targets, 
leading initiatives, and monitoring  our progress to achieve both break­
through solutions and build continuous 
improvement into our operations  
and business processes. 
Specific goals for the near future  
are provided in the table on the following pages.
In the future, we will continue to invest in enhancing the efficiency of our 737 fleet 
(such as the 737‑800, shown above) as well as move to an all Q400 fleet—the 
most fuel‑efficient aircraft in its class. We are commited to becoming an environmental 
leader in the domestic airline industry and to 
measurably reducing our impact on the 
environment.
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 36Looking Forward
IMPACT  AREA PROjECT NAME DESCRIPTION
Reduce emissions from fossil fuel 
consumptionFly more 
efficientlyGreener Skies Obtain FAA approval to fly Required Navigation Performance procedures, being designed under the Seattle Greener Skies project, at least during low­traffic periods, in 2011.  
This project represents a partnership between Alaska Airlines/Horizon Air, the Port of Seattle, the 
FAA, and The Boeing Company. The purpose of the project is to bring quieter, more fuel ­efficient 
approach paths to Seattle ­Tacoma International Airport, saving equipped airlines more than 
2 million gallons of fuel and 22,400 metric tons of CO
2 annually, as well as reducing noise exposure 
for hundreds of thousands of people in the Puget Sound region. ALASkA AIRLINES  | HORIzON AIR
Implement enhanced flight­planning capabilities in order to reduce the amount of additional fuel loaded on each flight, above what is required to safely conduct the flight. The below capabilities will 
be implemented by year­end 2010 as part of this fuel efficiency effort: 
Flight Plan Review Implement a system by year ­end 2010 to provide closer estimates of fuel boarded 
and used for each flight. Improved fuel planning can mean less fuel burned and emissions produced 
to carry additional fuel. Safety always remains the paramount consideration when deciding how 
much fuel to board. 
ALASkA AIRLINES
Aircraft Performance Monitoring Implement a program by year­end 2010 to track aircraft perfor­mance as it relates to fuel consumption and efficiency. The program allows staff to be alerted if an 
aircraft’s fuel efficiency changes. 
ALASkA AIRLINES
Improved Plan Takeoff Weight Prediction  Implement by year ­end 2010 a system to review the 
variability of bag counts for weekly and seasonal fluctuations to improve estimated planned takeoff weights. More accurate planning can reduce the amount of unnecessary fuel loaded. Safety always 
remains the paramount consideration when deciding how much fuel to board. 
ALASkA AIRLINES
Flight Planning  Implement by year ­end 2010 the new flight ­planning features for Alaska Airlines to 
optimize the fuel efficiency of flight routes. The flight ­planning system can dynamically calculate routes 
that utilize wind direction and speed to determine the most fuel ­efficient flight path.  ALASkA AIRLINES
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 37Looking Forward  | Goals and Commitments for 2010 and Beyond
IMPACT  AREA PROjECT NAME DESCRIPTION
Promote  
the develop ment 
and adoption of sustainable aviation fuelsLead Northwest regional effort to identify best practices related to the responsible development  and commercialization of sustainable aviation fuels. 
ALASkA AIRLINES  | HORIzON AIR
Continue negotiations regarding the purchase of renewable jet fuel and diesel derived from camelina. 
ALASkA AIRLINES  | HORIzON AIR
Address emissions on  
the groundParticipate in the Port of Seattle GSE Consortium. Seattle­Tacoma International Airport (SEA) has  
a goal of adapting and upgrading infrastructure to accommodate electric vehicle charging stations 
by second quarter 2012. Alaska Air Group will increase the percentage of its electric GSE in SEA, 
including bag tractors, gate pushbacks, and belt­loaders, as this infrastructure becomes available.  
ALASkA AIRLINES  | HORIzON AIR
Reduce emissions from heating and 
electricity consumption in buildingsLAX Board Room Obtain LEED certification on LAX Board Room by year­end 2011. ALASkA AIRLINES  | HORIzON AIR
Corporate 
Headquarters 
HVAC upgradesUpgrade and install more efficient heating/cooling systems at Alaska Airlines Corporate 
Headquarters by year­end 2010. ALASkA AIRLINES
Reduce use of nonsustainable 
resources and recycle inflight wasteInflight recycling Increase the recycling rate of inflight waste with a target of 100% by year­end 2010. The focus  
is on both the collection of recyclable materials inflight and the recycling of such materials once 
deplaned. ALASkA AIRLINES
Inflight 
servicewareIdentify inflight serviceware products that can be replaced with organic, sustainable, recyclable, or compostable alternatives and initiate a replacement plan by year­end 2010. 
ALASkA AIRLINES
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 38Looking Forward  | Goals and Commitments for 2010 and Beyond
summary
At Alaska Air Group, we’re committed 
to proactively applying our pioneering 
spirit of innovation and our deep caring 
for customers and the environment to the continual pursuit of more sus  tain­
able air transportation. Environmental 
performance and leadership are prior­
ities for Alaska Air Group. 
We have always cared about the 
environment and living up to our corporate responsibility, but in light  
of emerging global issues and  
higher expectations of business, we 
are taking it to the next level. Moving toward more sustainable air 
transportation will require intensive 
focus and the creative solutions of 
Alaska Air Group leadership, our environmental specialists, all employ­
ees, and our suppliers, partners, and 
other stakeholders. We hope that 
communicating our commitment, 
challenges, and progress unleashes the creativity and innovation of 
everyone touched by Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air. We are proud of what we have accomplished, but  
fully acknowledge that we are at the 
beginning of a journey. Please join us! 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 39Looking Forward
We greatly appreciate your comments 
and suggestions regarding this report. Please contact us at 
www.alaskaair.com/consumeraffairsInvItatIon for  feedba CK
 
This report has been produced as an electronic document as 
part of our commitment to environmental responsibility. If you choose to print out all or part of it, please recycle the printed pages when you are finished. 
Alaska Air Group | 2009 Environment Report 40 Alaska Air Group  |  2009 Environment Report 40
