2017 REPORT
Creating lift through sustainabilityGrowing
our family.
Refining
our course.
SustainabilitySustainability  
goal summary.
65Report  
appendix.
68Report contents.
We are all  
about people.
11We make  
flying matter.
57Report  
introduction.
03We fly  
greener.
32We invest for  
strong communities.
49Report
introduction.
3Welcome to our  
2017 Sustainability 
Report. 
Within these pages, we share the details 
of our progress and challenges over the 
past year, and what lies ahead as we 
work toward operating our business in  
a sustainable manner.
Many of our goals evolved this year, primarily because we added people, aircraft and 
new destinations after welcoming Virgin America into the Alaska Air Group family. 
Our efforts are organized by four strategic focus areas that guide our processes and 
behaviors as we continually seek ways to enhance and advance sustainable aviation 
practices, strengthen our culture, and support the communities around us.
We are all about people. 
Our business is fundamentally about lifting people up. We do this 
by empowering our employees, by providing stellar service to our 
guests and by giving back to those in need in the neighborhoods 
where we fly. It’s all about treating people with respect and valuing 
their individual gifts.
We fly greener. 
From napkins to fuel to the way we fly, we make conscious choices every 
day to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Through 
innovation and creativity, we are always looking for new ways to boost the 
efficiency of our fleet, reduce our waste and decrease our consumption of 
raw materials. 
We invest for strong communities. 
We are inspired by flying and the opportunities it creates. We want to see 
more students, from all backgrounds, have the chance to become future 
leaders in aviation—or any industry. We invest in many ways to support the 
communities in our backyards—especially youth, education and workforce 
development, with the goal of reaching 100,000 youth by 2020.
We make flying matter. 
The airline industry has the ability to make a big difference in 
people’s lives, beyond travel for business or leisure. We aim 
to make a positive impact through things like charity miles, 
disaster relief efforts, honoring those who serve, and by 
protecting the beautiful places we live and fly.Our focus areas:
4 Report introduction        Alaska Air Group is a publicly held incorporated 
entity, and the holding company for four operating 
subsidiaries: Alaska Airlines, Inc. (“Alaska”), 
Virgin America Inc. (“Virgin America”), Horizon 
Air Industries, Inc. (“Horizon”) and McGee Air 
Services, Inc. (“McGee”). With headquarters in 
Seattle, the three carriers provide commercial 
passenger and cargo transportation services 
throughout North America, including Mexico, 
Canada, Hawaii and Costa Rica.
This is Alaska Air Group’s seventh sustainability 
report, highlighting the progress we’ve made in 
the last year and our goals for upcoming years. 
This report provides basic information about 
Alaska Air Group’s environmental and social 
impact from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 
2017, unless otherwise stated; whenever possible, 
we have included data showing trends though 
multiple years. 
In 2016, Alaska Air Group formed a wholly 
owned subsidiary called McGee Air Services, a 
dedicated airline services company to provide 
airline services to Alaska Airlines. Additionally, 
on December 14, 2016, Alaska Air Group closed its acquisition of Virgin America, bringing 
together two of the country’s favorite airlines. 
Our acquisition of Virgin America positions us as 
the fifth largest airline in the U.S., with a national 
footprint and an unparalleled ability to serve 
West Coast travelers. Virgin America provides a 
platform for the growth of our low-fare, high value 
service providing a powerful West Coast network 
for our guests, as well as enhanced international 
partnerships reaching over 900 destinations 
around the globe.
Report content is predominantly focused on our 
U.S.-based inflight and ground-based operations, 
including our maintenance facilities and offices. 
While our commitments span our operations 
throughout the U.S., Canada, Costa Rica and 
Mexico, these operations represent the majority 
of Alaska Air Group’s environmental, social, 
and economic impacts. Vendor operations and 
supply chain are not included. This report does 
not include McGee Air Services, since currently 
McGee does not have a significant impact on our 
material sustainability aspects. Instead, the report 
focuses solely on our aircraft operations. About this report.
5 Report introduction        6
Creating lift.
Message from our CEO.
Each spring, hundreds of aspiring young aviators pour 
through our maintenance hangar doors in Seattle 
and Portland as part of Aviation Day. These kids 
come from all walks of life and their excitement is 
contagious. One of the key lessons they learn —before 
test-driving the flight simulator, learning about the fuel 
efficiency of our split scimitar winglets, and kicking 
the tires on our sleek 737s—is Bernoulli’s principal  
of lift.
Seventeenth-century Mathematician Daniel Bernoulli 
discovered how the pressure differential created from 
participles moving over and under a wing at different 
speeds drives it to rise up and push forward, creating 
lift. It’s that force that enables an aircraft to leave the 
runway and become aloft. No matter how long I work 
in aviation, I continue to find that moment amazing—
the collective force of those particles and the air flow 
lifting a large machine, and the people within it, safely 
into the air.
At Alaska Airlines, the principle of lift inspires us. We 
love aviation—that’s why we work in this business. We also know that being a resilient, responsible business 
requires us to create lift on all fronts—for our people, 
our environment, our guests and communities, and 
our economics. It means investing in our people, 
innovating to reduce our environmental impact and 
resource use, using our flying to support those in 
need, and enabling and inspiring young people to 
pursue their dreams. 
Ultimately, it means being responsible for our impact, 
controlling what we can control, delivering value for 
all those who depend on us, and always striving to do 
better. And just like lifting an airplane, shared success 
over the long term requires balance and a symphony 
of efforts aligned to move us all forward and up. 
The year 2017 was unique for Alaska Airlines as 
we took a significant step forward as a strong, 
resilient business in a competitive and consolidating 
industry—in which the top four airlines make up 85% 
of the market. Remaining independent has been a 
priority for us, for the sake of all our stakeholders, 
so that we can continue to grow jobs, create value, 
Report introduction      Message from our CEO7
 7
have a positive impact in our communities, and be a great airline to fly. Having closed our 
acquisition of Virgin America in December 2016, we made significant progress in 2017 to 
integrate cultures, operations, labor contracts and all aspects of our business including our 
sustainability programs, goals, and reports. The integration became our short-term focus—
because the faster the integration was complete, the sooner our people could hone their focus 
on doing what they do best: running a great airline that is both responsible and responsive to 
the world around us. 
Alaska Airlines, Virgin America, and Horizon Air have incredibly rich histories of innovation 
and drive—drive to disrupt and challenge an industry, drive to offer a unique and special 
experience for guests, and drive to care for each other and our communities. Bringing our 
companies and our people together effectively will make us stronger for the long term. This 
combined strength will support the people and families who depend on us, and will help us 
invest in and grow our efforts for lift.
As of mid-2018, the integration is more than 85% complete, and we are grateful for the new 
colleagues who have joined us from Virgin America. They are inspiring our progress as we 
move forward together.
In 2017, we are especially proud of:
• Reducing waste an additional 21%, including through industry-leading inflight waste 
reduction and recycling programs—contributing to a 54% reduction in per-passenger 
inflight waste since 2010.
• Using mobile technology tools to cut paper consumption in half since 2012.• Integrating and embedding our strong safety culture across all aspects of the operation, 
including Virgin America, leading to a 21% increase in employee safety reporting over the 
prior year, for an 84% improvement since 2012. 
• Contributing over $15 million in funds, travel, and employee volunteerism to support the 
communities where we live and fly.  
• Beginning to fully integrate our sustainability programs across our now larger operation.
As we look ahead, there is always more work to do in these areas. We will focus in the near 
and medium term where more work is needed, including:
• Working with partners to increase utilization of sustainable aviation fuels and evolving our 
fleet and technology to improve the rate and quality of fuel use. As we integrated a new 
fleet, our fuel efficiency slipped 0.03%—essentially flat—galvanizing us for improvement.
• Completing our integration and improving employee engagement by aligning around the 
purpose, values and plan we developed together in 2017—staying close to our people; 
listening and using new technologies to stay in touch; enhancing training; and deepening a 
culture of respect.  
Every year, I come away from Aviation Day proud of our people and what we do each day to 
take people where they need to go safely, while also growing careers and opportunities, giving 
back to our communities, being conscious of our impact, and delivering value to our owners. 
I also realize that this work is never done. I invite you to learn more about our environmental 
and social impact in the pages that follow—and to join us in this journey of lift. 
Sincerely, 
Brad TildenReport introduction      Message from our CEO8
 8 Report introduction      Q&A with Alaska Airlines VP of External Relations 
Q&A with Alaska Airlines 
VP of External Relations 
Diana Birkett Rakow
What does sustainability mean to Alaska Airlines?
Creating an airline people love takes airplanes and energy—as well as fantastic people. Doing it well takes 
resources, and genuine connection. 
For us, sustainability means running our business in a way that is responsible to all who depend on us—
operating efficiently and safely, taking care of each other and our guests, reducing negative impacts and 
enhancing positive ones. It’s a balancing act. Our efforts to date have focused on reducing our footprint 
both in the air and on the ground by how we manage our fleet, fuel and technology. We’ve also focused 
on using our business to do good—whether that’s inspiring kids to live their dreams or flying a Make-A-
Wish family to Hawaii, Korean War veterans to Washington, D.C. or wounded animals to the nearest vet 
hospital in Alaska. 
Why is sustainability important to us?
Our company was born in the state of Alaska, where there is a strong connection to the land and to 
community for food, family and livelihood. And, while we’ve grown as an airline, we’ve carried those values 
with us. We believe in being responsible about our impact, creating true connections with each other and 
our guests, and being stewards of the environment especially in the beautiful places we live and fly. Our 
business indeed requires resources—but it is in our DNA to be conscious of their use, to treat people and 
the environment with respect, and to give back. 
9 Report introduction      Q&A with Alaska Airlines VP of External Relations 
What role did growth and the acquisition of Virgin 
America play in our sustainability initiatives?
Many of our goals evolved this year to simplify and focus on the 
things most core to the sustainability impacts of our much larger 
organization, which has a more diversified fleet, and hubs and 
homes in more communities. 
In 2017, we integrated Virgin America’s Airbus aircraft, as well as our 
new E-175 aircraft flown by Horizon Air. With the new fleet mix, our 
fuel emissions remained about flat. So while we’re adding winglets 
on our 14 remaining Boeing aircraft and looking toward the arrival 
of the first of our even more fuel-efficient 737 MAX aircraft in 2019, 
we’ve also welcomed A321neos and developed plans to adjust 
Airbus interiors for lighter, more fuel-efficient operations.
On the employee side, our Airbus flight attendants will join the 
inflight recycling program later this year, with the transition to a 
single service flow across our fleet. This will expand and accelerate 
our waste reduction efforts across the operation.
And we’ve been fortunate to inherit some new partners such as 
Naturebridge, in the San Francisco Bay Area, which inspires kids to 
connect and grow through the natural world. Naturebridge’s work 
is consistent with our goal to reach 100,000 opportunity youth by 
2020, and we’re grateful for all they do to lift young people up.Most important, perhaps, we’ll continue to support the integration 
of our people and teams—through unified labor contracts, making 
decisions according to our shared values, and learning from, and 
listening to, the diverse perspectives across our company.
What’s different in this report year?
Focus. With a larger organization, we honed our efforts into four key 
areas:
• We are all about people. As an airline, our business is 
fundamentally about lifting people up—by investing in our 
employees and empowering them, by providing stellar service 
to our guests, and by giving back to those in the communities 
where we fly. It’s all about treating people with respect and 
valuing their individual gifts. As you read our 2017 Sustainability 
Report, you’ll see stories about how our employees fuel our 
sustainability goals in a unique way.
• We fly greener. From napkins to fuel to the way we fly, we 
make conscious choices every day to reduce the environmental 
impact of our operation. Through innovation and creativity, 
we are always looking for new ways to boost the efficiency of 
our fleet, reduce our waste, and decrease consumption of raw 
materials. Our employees created and launched our recycling 
program 10 years ago and, with continuous improvement, we 10
 10
now have one of the most comprehensive recycling programs of any U.S. airline—
thanks especially to our flight attendants who collect recycling each day. In 2017, 
the International Council on Clean Transportation ranked Alaska Airlines No. 1 in fuel 
efficiency among all 13 major U.S. airlines for the seventh consecutive year. And we 
recently became the first airline to eliminate the use of plastic straws.
• We invest for strong communities. We are inspired by flying and the opportunities 
it creates. We want to see more students, from all backgrounds, have the chance 
to become future leaders in aviation—or any industry. We invest in many ways 
to support the communities in our backyards—especially youth, education, and 
workforce development, with the goal of impacting 100,000 youth by 2020. In 
2017, we supported 1,300 different charitable organizations, and our employees 
volunteered more than 32,000 hours. Among other programs, we funded 
scholarships through the PortJobs program at Seattle Tacoma International Airport Report introduction      Q&A with Alaska Airlines VP of External Relations 
for airport workers to get training and education to advance their careers. And we 
launched a new partnership with GoBike in San Jose California, making an affordable, 
sustainable mode of transportation easier to use for our guests and residents alike. 
• We make flying matter. The airline industry has the ability to make a big difference 
in people’s lives beyond travel. We aim to make a positive impact through things like 
Charity Miles, disaster relief efforts, Honor Flight and our Fallen Soldier program, 
which honors those  who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. We flew 549 
kids through the Alaska Native Science and Engineering Program from places in rural 
Alaska to STEM-related education programs in Anchorage.
This is shared work, and we are proud to be in it together. We hope you enjoy reading 
about our progress, and appreciate all you do to keep us moving forward and creating lift.We are all about people.
11Our diverse, passionate, and dedicated team of people embodies a culture that displays 
an unwavering commitment to the safety of our guests and employees alike, and 
continually embraces the challenges of an ever-changing industry. In return, we strive 
to create a rewarding workplace for the long term, which provides opportunities for 
people to grow in their careers, and treats all individuals with fairness and respect.
This includes the environment we create together, as well as how we recognize and 
celebrate our people. Each year we name and honor our Customer Service Legends, 
and in 2017, 13 truly remarkable people were recognized for their long-term service to 
Alaska Air Group. These Legends are a model to all of us. We also regularly celebrate 
and profile our people through our #IamAlaska blog. We recognize employees who 
go Above and Beyond to solve challenging problems and those who receive positive 
feedback from guests. In 2017, we awarded over $100M in performance-based 
bonuses to all our people. We are truly a people-driven business, and are incredibly 
proud of all of our employees, suppliers and vendors at Alaska Air Group, who take this 
focus to heart. 
We recognize that the future of our company depends on how we work together; we 
cannot succeed without our people, who make it possible for us to provide high value 
to our guests at affordable prices and with truly personal and caring service.Our strategies
Because our ability to succeed depends so heavily on our people, we choose to focus 
our attention on four priority areas:Our success rests on the shoulders of our 21,500 employees and numerous 
suppliers, who drive our ability to innovate, provide stellar service, and give back  
to those in need. 
Employee  
and guest 
safety.
Diversity and 
inclusion in the 
workplace.
Employee 
engagement.
Ethical labor 
standards for 
suppliers.
12 We are all about people           Employee and  
guest safety. 
Safety is our #1 core foundational value,  
and always will be. 
We are committed to achieving the highest 
possible level of safety for every employee, every 
guest, every flight, every day. By encouraging our 
employees to preemptively report their concerns, 
and by including safety metrics in our annual 
bonus program and operating under the first safety 
management system in the U.S. to be accepted by 
the FAA, we’ve created a culture of safety woven 
throughout every aspect of our business.The result? According to AirlineRatings.com, 
Alaska Airlines and Virgin America are standouts 
in the industry and at the forefront of safety, 
innovation, and launching of new aircraft. Alaska 
ranked among the top 20 safest airlines in the 
world and is one of only two U.S. or Canadian 
airlines to be named. Virgin America ranked as one 
of the top 10 safest low-cost carriers in the world. 
13 We are all about people      Employee and guest safetyOur goals: Increase employee safety 
reporting by 26%  over 2017 baseline 
(reports per employee) and decrease 
medium risk (3+) safety events by 20% .
Progress 
Promoting and incorporating a culture of safety into all 
aspects of our operation is paramount to the way we 
run our business, and critical to our long-term success. 
Our Safety Management System (SMS) places the 
responsibility for safety in every employee’s hands 
by reporting what they see in the workplace, helping 
to prevent incidents and identify risks before they 
occur. Simply put, an SMS is a systematic approach to 
managing safety, including organizational structures, 
accountabilities, policies and procedures.
Our SMS includes Safety Risk Management, which 
involves analyzing and assessing the level of risk 
presented with a hazard or change in procedure, 
and then developing ways to lower the risk to an 
acceptable level. Alaska assesses risk on a scale of 1–5, determined by identifying the negative outcomes 
that might occur if the hazard were left in place. We 
then analyze the severity of this outcome along with 
the likelihood that it will happen. Events with higher 
severity that are likely to occur more frequently result in 
a higher risk value.  
Because of solid improvement with Risk Level 3+ 
events in the last seven years, we changed our 2020 
goals to reflect improvements that will only apply 
from 2017 on. As a result, 2017 will now serve as the 
baseline year for future progress. Safety reporting per employee
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20173
2
1
0Reports2020  
TARGET
increased safety reporting by 
21% 
at Alaska Air Group 
since 201630% 
at Virgin America 
since 2016ANDReport It!
14 We are all about people      Employee and guest safetyExpanding and growing our operations—by 
uniting with Virgin America and increasing the 
number of flights at Alaska Airlines and Horizon 
Air—caused our Risk Level 3+ events to increase 
to 10 in 2017. However, our safety reporting rate 
per employee increased by 21% over 2016 for 
all of Alaska Air Group. This was attributed to 
the new tools that were implemented in 2017 to 
make reporting easier and more accessible for 
employees.
In 2017, we launched our new Report It! reporting 
software for use by all employees. Report It! 
allows employees to use both desktop and mobile 
tools to file employee safety reports in a central 
data repository. This makes the sharing of safety 
information between divisions easier, faster, and 
more accurate. This new technology has helped 
to increase reporting by 30% over 2016 levels at 
Virgin America. 
Virgin America also began operating under 
Alaska Air Group’s industry-first FAA-accepted 
Safety Management System in 2017. With Virgin 
America’s successful integration into our SMS 
and reporting tools, we ensure our rigorous internal policies and practices are followed by 
everyone in the Air Group family to achieve the 
highest possible level of safety.
Additionally, we continue to integrate safety goals 
into our company-wide Performance-Based Pay 
program to drive positive safety behaviors and 
to target areas of specific focus. We awarded 
more than $90,000 to 230 employees who 
prioritized safety in the workplace as part of our 
Safe Operations Award & Recognition (SOAR) 
program. Since 2014, the SOAR program has 
awarded more than $350,000 to employees.
$90K 
in 2017230 
employees
who prioritized safety
were awarded
15 We are all about people      Employee and guest safetyChallenges
As the integration of Alaska Airlines and Virgin 
America continues and employees face a variety 
of aircraft types and new locations, we will 
closely monitor our processes and procedures 
to ensure we operate using the highest margins 
of safety. We will remain vigilant for emerging 
safety risks and continue to encourage robust 
employee safety reporting.
We have moved from designing and 
implementing our SMS into a phase of 
continuous improvement. As we grow and our 
growth produces more change, we will need 
to keep a tight control over how our SMS is 
operating to ensure we’re getting desired results.
Additionally, as former Virgin America employees 
continue through the integration, they will be on 
the change/learning curve of SMS, so we will 
need to continue to work at building a strong 
culture of SMS knowledge with former Virgin 
America employees.Looking forward
In 2018, we are focused on the basics of a great 
operation, including continuing to deepen and 
integrate our safety-first culture. Now that our 
industry-first Safety Management System is 
fully implemented, we look forward to spending 
2018 focused on improvements rather than 
implementation. We will also increase visibility 
of our higher risk trends from the past year by 
including them in our 2018 safety Performance-
Based Pay goals.CASE STUDY
Ready, Safe, Go.
In 2017, we launched the “Ready, Safe, Go” safety campaign for 
employees at Virgin America. After identifying a need to ensure 
all Virgin America employees were integrated into our safety 
culture, we prioritized the campaign to be one of the first cultural 
touchstones that new employees would encounter during the 
merger. Every Virgin America station received a Ready, Safe, Go 
packet of collateral, posters and banners, President Peter Hunt gave 
a video address about the campaign, and all employees completed 
a training introducing them to Ready, Safe, Go and the Alaska Safety 
Management System.
A key component of Ready, Safe, Go is that all employees are 
empowered to stop the operation if they ever feel something isn’t 
safe, they feel rushed, or something just doesn’t look right. Taking a 
safety delay is not only a tool for employees to stop an operation, it 
also helps us learn as a company where potential hazards might be. 
16 We are all about people      Employee and guest safetyDiversity and inclusion  
in the workplace.
Diversity makes us stronger. It fuels innovation, 
sparks creativity and cultivates an atmosphere 
of continuous learning and improvement.
Diversity of thought, experience and perspective 
helps inform and influence decisions. It makes us 
stronger when we foster an inclusive environment 
that recognizes, respects and appreciates the 
different backgrounds, perspectives and cultures 
of our employees. 
Embracing diversity and inclusion is as important 
as ever. Even as we make progress to be inclusive 
and celebrate diversity, events and acts of 
violence and bias across our nation raise doubt 
in our people and in our communities. How 
we respond and create an environment where 
all people feel valued—in our workplace and 
on board our aircraft—matters deeply to our 
relationship and trust with our employees. We hire the best, and promote employees 
based on their skills, knowledge, experience and 
performance—regardless of race, color, national 
origin, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, 
age, disability, or religion. We aim to reflect the 
diversity of the communities we serve. 
But having a diverse workforce does not 
necessarily equate to an inclusive workforce; we 
are committed to building trust, discussing diversity 
and inclusion openly, and encouraging compassion 
so that all our employees feel included.
17 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceOur goal: Integrate diversity and inclusion 
initiatives into people strategies of our four 
largest work groups, representing 85%  of 
employees. 
We believe that championing a culture of diversity and inclusion 
starts from the top. In 2017, we are proud to have achieved 
50% gender balance company wide. Our independent board 
directors are 40% women. We were proud to be recognized for 
our gender diversity in governance by the Women’s Forum of 
New York, and for diversity overall by the Puget Sound Business 
Journal and National Association of Corporate Directors. In 
addition to ranking second* among the top 25 companies 
in the U.S. for women on its board, Alaska’s board includes 
leaders from diverse backgrounds, including members of Asian, 
Native Alaskan and Hawaiian ancestry. Having diversity on our 
board is valuable, with varying perspectives leading to better 
discussions, decisions and results.Alaska received its fourth perfect score of 100% for 
workplace equality on the 2018 Corporate Equality Index, 
with Virgin America close behind at 95%. The Corporate 
Equality Index measures corporate policies and practices 
relevant to LGBTQ employees and designates us as a Best 
Place to Work for LGBTQ equality. In the past year, Alaska has 
sponsored dozens of LBGTQ events in communities we serve, 
including the Pride Celebration in Seattle and the Seattle Gay 
and Lesbian Film Festival.Progress
40% 
of board independent 
directors are women 50% 
gender balance 
company wide
* McKinsey 2017
18 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceAlaska is a proud supporter of all 
members of our military , both past 
and present. A significant number of our 
employees are veterans, and we show 
our support in many ways throughout 
the year. We support veteran job 
seekers through information sessions, 
an Alaska-hosted web portal for veteran 
job seekers, and our Military Fellows 
program, which places former and 
current military personnel in temporary 
management positions, allowing them 
to translate their valued leadership skills 
in a corporate environment. Some of 
our notable activities around veterans in 
2017 included:The Stand Up and  
Be Counted campaign
Where we ask our employees to 
disclose if they are a veteran. This 
helps us better understand our 
employee population and further 
engage veterans. The Fallen Soldier program
An employee-driven volunteer effort to honor 
those who served by transporting the remains 
of our nation’s fallen heroes with the greatest 
care and respect. All our employees have 
access to this program, which provides the 
military protocols to follow when transporting 
a fallen soldier, and we openly share the tools 
from our program with other airlines. We do 
not track the number of fallen transports and 
ceremonies, and there are no cameras or 
identifying information allowed. When a fallen 
soldier arrives at one of the airports served by 
this program, the entire plane and gate area 
goes quiet in honor and respect.Honor Flights
Where we help the men and women 
who have served enjoy once-in-a-
lifetime visits to Washington, DC. To 
date, we have flown more than 600 
World War II, Korean War and Vietnam 
veterans to Washington DC to view their 
war memorials. 
19 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceOur 14 Business Resource Groups (BRGs)  are groups of 
employees who join together, based on shared characteristics 
or life experiences, to celebrate a common cause. BRGs 
are generally based on providing support, enhancing career 
development, and contributing to personal development in 
the work environment. In 2017, our BRGs created plans that 
directly align to advancing our inclusive culture, initiatives 
and business. These include groups that support our Black/
African American, LGBTQ+ and women's communities within 
Alaska. A series of learnings were conducted with BRG leaders 
to better align their focus with Alaska’s diversity and inclusion 
goals and we can already see impacts: Most impactful is the 
partnership between our Marketing team and BRG leaders, 
to ensure our consumer marketing campaigns are vetted with 
our internal communities before release in order to make sure 
they are reflective of the diversity of the people in the markets 
where we fly. BRG members are also engaged and visible in 
the community on issues of importance to their specific areas 
of interest—such as through the United Negro College Fund, 
prevention of human trafficking, women's rights organizations, 
and local community Pride events.
In February 2017, we hired our first director of diversity  
and inclusion to develop a comprehensive Diversity & Inclusion 
(D&I) Strategy that aligns with Alaska’s purpose and values. 
The D&I team has also been conducting listening tours to learn more about our frontline issues related to diversity and 
inclusion and has worked on making their presence known 
through the use of “pop-ups”—information booths at employee 
events that provide a chance for employees to meet the 
diversity team and BRG Leaders to learn more about what they 
do and what resources they have available. Going forward, 
these booths will also include someone from leadership 
to provide employees with an opportunity to express any 
feedback or concerns in person. We also added D&I related 
questions in our employee engagement survey, with hopes of 
building a baseline and to help inform our go-forward strategy 
from feedback received. 
Finally, in late 2017 we began to talk more openly about 
issues of sexual harassment and assault on board our 
aircraft and stated publicly that we have no tolerance for any 
sexual misconduct on board our aircraft or any place in our 
workplace. This is a critical societal issue. Our flight attendants 
receive extensive training on safety, conflict de-escalation, 
and the prevention of human trafficking—and all employees 
can report any incident 24/7 via a confidential hotline number 
printed on the back of their badges. We can do even more, 
however. We are talking with our employees, labor partners, 
law enforcement and experts in the field so that we can create 
a more respectful and inclusive experience for the flying public 
and airline employees.
20 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceChallenges
We faced several challenges in 2017. We need to find better ways 
to study and communicate information surrounding our diversity 
initiatives and goals so that we can better determine where 
improvement is needed and how to effectuate change. Our diversity 
team will meet with leaders to discuss information ownership and 
sharing as a crucial first step in the design of goals that are aligned 
with our values.
And while we have strong employee BRGs, we learned in 2017 that 
these groups needed more support to create strategic plans, set 
clear expectations, and support D&I goals aligned to the goals of the 
company. The diversity & inclusion team spent a great part of the 
year helping to refresh the BRGs and develop plans as it relates to 
the Air Group business strategy.CASE STUDY
CEO action for diversity and inclusion.
In June 2017, our CEO was one of the first 100 CEOs 
to sign the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion, 
a pledge to advance diversity and inclusion in 
the workplace. Alaska is one of more than 300 
companies whose CEOs are working together to 
create ways for workers to feel more comfortable 
sharing their experiences, and to gain a greater 
awareness of others’ perspectives. Leaders who 
have signed the commitment openly agree to 
cultivate environments where diverse experiences and perspectives are welcomed, support and 
promote open dialogue on complex conversations 
about diversity and inclusion, and support other 
companies in doing the same. Additionally, our 
CEO and all managing directors and above have 
now been through the White Men as Full Diversity 
Partners Learning Lab, a training designed to help 
attendees more fully understand their culture’s 
impact on their workplace and become active 
partners in diversity.
21 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceLooking forward
In 2018, we will take information from the employee engagement 
survey and other studies to look at improvements we can make in the 
areas of diversity and inclusion, and work to create a database where 
the D&I team can access consistent, clear and concise information to 
assist with the tracking and management of our goals.
To support our outreach, recruiting, and retention efforts, we will 
continue to build partnerships and implement programs to help us 
achieve our goal. This has the potential to take many forms, such 
as student career nights, an expanded internship program, and 
working with HBCU collectives to help build our talent pipeline with 
outreach that represents the diverse communities we serve.
Additionally, we will collaborate with our BRGs to provide more 
tools, connect with employees, and empower courageous 
conversations. Those scheduled for 2018 include:
Courageous Conversations by Women In Tech (WIT). 
This was a panel discussion that provided an opportunity to ask 
questions related to diversity and inclusion, and hear an open 
discussion from our leadership on events happening in the world 
that may impact our personal and professional lives.Courageous Conversations by Air Group Black Employees  
Advocates and Allies (ABEA): The Person of Color (POC)  
Perspective on Career Navigation. 
For this panel discussion, customer service and passenger 
service employees are invited to learn about their career journey 
possibilities through the lens of POC panelists who once worked in 
their roles and have since moved into management roles at Alaska. 
AAG Women in Leadership Summit. 
For Alaska’s first-ever Women in Leadership Summit, we aim to 
engage, connect and share learning across the community of 
women managers and directors of Alaska. This full-day event is 
intended to be a starting point for woman to find their voice within 
the company and to help navigate the internal barriers that often 
hold women back.
We are also implementing a plan to prevent and address sexual 
misconduct, itself a reflection of marginalization and the opposite 
of inclusion. With input from our people, partners and experts, 
we are conducting training for all flight attendants and leadership, 
updating reporting methods to address issues quickly and fairly, and 
have continued listening and seeking input from our people and 
communicating our values clearly. 
22 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplace23
At age seven, Constance von Muehlen decided she wanted 
to be a helicopter pilot. A few years later she did exactly 
that, becoming a Black Hawk pilot for the U.S. Army after 
attending Johns Hopkins University, then moving up to lead 
a squadron as an officer. In her civilian career, she came 
aboard as a leader in the maintenance and engineering 
team at Alaska Airlines and recently was promoted to chief 
operating officer of Horizon Air.
Asked what roadblocks there were along the way for her as a 
woman in mostly male-oriented jobs, von Muehlen said, “I’m 
sure there were a few hurdles, but I guess I just saw them as 
opportunities. ” 
Her approach to her roles, both in serving her country and 
serving her airline, has been about being confident, being 
humble and bringing in others. “Everyone brings skills that 
can contribute to the team effort, ” said von Muehlen. “That’s 
how I’ve approached every role I’ve taken, and I learn from 
those around me. ” 
The admitted ‘people person’ says she loves stoking high-
level thinking. “Get eight of us in a room with different 
backgrounds and we’ll come up with a far better solution 
than if I thought through it myself. ” From her military 
background, von Muehlen learned that everyone has something to contribute. “There is a brilliance in every 
person, especially in those with views and backgrounds that 
are different from your own. ” 
Providing opportunities for employees to succeed is the 
heart of Alaska Air Group companies’ diversity and inclusion 
efforts, which von Muehlen has helped champion. In 2016, 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air held a series of leadership 
labs for managers, which helped them identify inherent 
biases. Leaders set about breaking down the biases and 
supporting employees by giving diversity a voice, through 
Business Resource Groups. One of the groups, WING 
(Women’s Interactive Network Group), works specifically 
to help women move forward in their careers. We have also 
made strides in hiring more military veterans, who bring new 
skills and mindsets to our company. 
And, in 2017  CEO Brad Tilden joined 160 U.S. business 
leaders to sign a “diversity and inclusion pledge. ” “We 
have a responsibility to take greater action to ensure every 
individual feels comfortable at work and can bring their full 
talents to their job to help us be the best company we can 
be. We know that diverse and inclusive teams function best, 
and they help companies and communities innovate and 
flourish, ” says Tilden.EARNING OUR WINGS  
Creating opportunities for 
every person to succeed.
23 We are all about people      Diversity and inclusion in the workplaceEmployee engagement.
Great service begins with great employees,  
and ours are some of the best in the business. 
We hire people whose values align with our own: 
our employees do the right thing, are kind-hearted, 
deliver on performance and own safety. They are 
remarkable. Beyond hiring exceptional people, we 
look for opportunities to provide them with the 
skills, development and training needed to deliver 
exceptional service. Our diverse, talented, and 
dedicated employees are the backbone of our 
organization, going above and beyond every day 
to contribute to Alaska’s success and purpose: 
creating an airline people love. To attract and retain an expert workforce, we 
strive to create an environment that embodies the 
elements of a great place to work by providing 
opportunities for each person to grow in their 
careers, cultivating trust and camaraderie, and by 
treating all employees with fairness and respect. 
We are committed to the growth and development 
of every individual who works here, and that 
they feel valued, heard, and have a range of 
opportunities to be remarkable.
24 We are all about people      Employee engagement$135M 
to employeesWe rewarded employee achievements through incentive 
pay and recognition programs with a combined total of $135 
million.
35K 
employees recognized
by guestsOur employees were recognized by guests and each other 
more than 35,000 times through our guest survey, Alaska 
Listens, and on our internal website, Alaska’s World. 
AMERICA’S  
best  
EMPLOYERSAlaska ranked among Forbes’ “America’s Best Employers” for 
the third year in a row.
We revised the questions in our Employee Engagement 
survey to improve clarity, capture more relevant data, and 
align the topics with our company values. 
Our goals: Increase employee engagement 
scores to 80%  or more, with no less than 
75%  for any division and be nationally 
recognized as a great place to work.
Progress
2017 was a year of significant change at Alaska Air Group, including the integration 
of Virgin America and changes to our regional operations at Horizon Air. Significant 
change impacts employee engagement, which was reflected in our survey scores. 
Employees experienced uncertainty as cultures came together, workgroups were 
integrated and leadership underwent changes at Horizon. We are anticipating stability 
once we are largely finished with merger-specific activities. Even in this environment of 
change, we recognized some important accomplishments in 2017 and committed to 
new efforts to stay connected to, and in dialogue with, our people:
25 We are all about people      Employee engagementWe started the year with “Momentum,” a day-long experience to 
welcome Virgin America teammates and build relationships at the two 
airlines. All 3,000 Virgin America teammates and 500 to 600 Alaska 
Airlines employees attended. The events were a chance to learn about 
Alaska Air Group, rub elbows with new colleagues and ask tough 
questions of company leaders. It was important to start building an 
understanding of our business and build relationships with our leaders.
We engaged over 300 employees in listening sessions and focus 
groups across the organization to better hear and understand concerns, 
enable employees to recommend solutions, and ensure diverse 
voices and perspectives were heard by leadership. These provided 
tremendous insight into the pain points our employees are facing and 
what we can do better, and were an opportunity to build understanding 
and empathy between Alaska and Virgin America employees. 
We established regular forums for two-way communication between 
teams and leaders across the company, including all-employee 
webcasts accessible on mobile devices and monthly calls for 
supervisors, managers and labor leaders.We continue to respond to employee questions on all topics 
through our intranet. 
We launched a new career advancement program called Pilot 
Pathways to enable and accelerate career progression for pilots at  
Air Group. We also invested deeply in training and hiring new pilots 
across our operation. In 2018, learnings from these pilot-specific 
programs will be applied to other workgroups as we invest in growing 
and expanding careers for our people. 
We kicked off our partnership with Great Place to Work to refresh 
our action planning process and apply the best practices of other 
top employers. Going into 2018, we are equipped with an improved 
understanding of the underlying issues and a solid action plan to work 
toward our goal together.As we grow, we are committed to learning from our employees about how to 
preserve core elements of Alaska’s small-company feel that translates into deep 
and genuine connections with each other and our guests. 
300 
employees engaged 
in listening sessions
3,000
+500
26 We are all about people      Employee engagementChallenges
This year presented a big challenge for our company culture as we 
brought people together from Alaska Airlines and Virgin America to 
create one team. While we share a commonality of great customer 
service and a fantastic product, creating a new, combined culture—
combined with growing significantly to nearly 21,500 
employees —has caused some growing pains, as is common in 
mergers.
Based on the feedback we received from our 2017 engagement 
survey and the qualities and actions of other top companies, 
we have some clear opportunities to support and engage with 
employees though strong policies and practices, dedicated 
management and leadership, and robust communication strategies.
We engaged employees from across Alaska Airlines, Virgin America 
and Horizon Air to inform our integrated purpose and values and 
strengthen our integrated culture. Going forward, we’ll prioritize 
rallying clearly together around our purpose—creating an airline 
people love—and strengthening each workgroup’s connection to 
this through a clear, shared Air Group plan for 2018. We are also 
investing in recognition and focusing on regular, transparent two-
way communication including using new technology. 
We are working to ensure that leaders hear and appreciate 
employee questions and concerns and are taking steps as a  
result of their feedback. 
Looking forward
We have a clear opportunity to be more strategic and proactive 
about achieving our goals this year. 
In 2018, we will be working to weave engagement programs into 
the normal rhythm of business at Alaska. This year, our always-
evolving engagement commitment will feature division and leader 
action plans, and increased accountability by introducing metrics, 
dashboards, and surveys to track and measure progress. Gathering 
additional data from surveys and listening sessions across all 
workgroups will allow us to assess progress and continuously 
improve. We will also examine what best practices we can learn 
from other top workplaces.
We remain committed to improving in partnership with all of our 
fantastic people.
27 We are all about people      Employee engagementCASE STUDY
Here to Hear.
The data we received back from the employee 
engagement survey made it clear we have 
challenges ahead, important changes and 
improvements to be made, and that the Virgin 
America integration was taking a toll on 
employees. To meet the most pressing needs of 
our employees, we needed to further analyze 
the data and really understand the opportunities. 
In December 2017, we launched two new 
programs that were born out of feedback from our 
employees.
First, we hosted four focus groups, as discussed 
under Progress. The second program we launched 
in response to employee feedback is the Here 
to Hear program. As part of this program, 57 
managing directors and executive leaders are 
paired with 46 frontline workgroups in 20 different 
locations. The goal, in brief, is to get closer to 
each other and deepen understanding. Visiting 
leaders learn more about the jobs of our frontline 
employees, understand how decisions effect their work, share and discuss important company news, 
and partner with local leadership to advocate 
for the needs of the workgroup and provide 
the support needed to make improvements. 
Employees in the group get new perspectives 
on what’s going on around the company, and 
the chance to connect more deeply with leaders 
they wouldn’t normally see. In just a few months 
the program has had a positive impact on both 
employees and leaders. One local manager 
reflected that their team appreciates the visits. “It 
is great to build new connections and realize that 
we’re all just people, pulling for the same goal. ” In 
a report about his experience, one senior leader 
shared: “Most of the time was spent getting to 
know the folks I met i.e. background, family, what 
they do etc. I think they were appreciative that 
someone outside their usual leadership structure 
actually cared to know who they were and what 
they did. From my perspective I learned a lot about 
what it takes to run an airport and truly appreciate 
the chance to do so.” 
28 We are all about people      Employee engagementEthical labor standards  
for suppliers.
Suppliers are critical to our operations; we rely 
on them for countless functions, from fueling 
our planes to helping us deliver award-winning 
customer service.
We rely on them to be safe, ethical, and to help 
us achieve our business goals. We adopted the 
Alaska Air Group Airport Code of Labor Standards 
in 2013, which covered labor practices, health 
and safety to ensure safe, humane and legally 
compliant working conditions are provided for 
anyone working in our service. As our operations continued to grow and the breadth of our supply 
chain increased, there was a need to ensure 
all our suppliers, vendors, contractors, and 
business partners were covered by a new, more 
comprehensive Supplier Code of Conduct, which 
was finalized and implemented this year.
29 We are all about people      Ethical labor standards for suppliersOur goal: Embed Alaska’s  
Supplier Code of Conduct   
into all supplier contracts.
Progress
In 2017, we launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct (SCC) that reflects 
our values and communicates what we stand for. The new code replaces the 
Airport Vendor Code of Labor Standards and, in addition to labor practices, 
expands its scope to include safety and health, business practices, corporate 
social responsibility, downstream suppliers and diversity, and a concern 
reporting process. All suppliers, their employees, sub-contractors, and agents 
must comply with this code while conducting business with us or on our 
behalf. Currently, 71% of airport vendors have incorporated Alaska’s Code 
of Labor Standards. During 2018 and beyond, we will work to have the SCC 
directly incorporated into all supplier contracts.2014 2015 2016 2017
71%
compliance in 2017Suppliers incorporating Alaska’s Code of Labor 
Standards into contracts
30 We are all about people      Ethical labor standards for suppliersChallenges
Our suppliers range from large global organizations to small 
niche providers, some of whom already have their own codes 
of conduct in place and others who don’t. At this stage after 
the launch of our new Supplier Code of Conduct, we are just 
beginning to learn where our future challenges may lie. 
Looking forward
We have set a standard process for 2018 to include the new 
SCC in all sourcing contracts and to engage in discussions 
with suppliers and vendors about this in all assessment and 
contracting processes.CASE STUDY
Concern Reporting System.
Our intent is to address and remedy valid concerns 
affecting anyone working on behalf of Air Group. 
A Concern Reporting System was introduced to 
suppliers and their employees in 2017. Individuals 
with concerns about suppliers and their activities 
or alleged violations are able to file an anonymous 
report, online or by phone. Alaska’s director of 
ethics and compliance works with our Supply Chain 
Management team to notify suppliers of reported 
non-compliance. Suppliers are generally tasked 
with investigating reports of non-compliance. If 
warranted, a notice of non-compliance is issued 
to the supplier and a remediation plan is agreed 
upon between the supplier and Air Group with the 
intention of bringing the supplier under compliance 
within 60 days, depending on the situation. An example of this system in action came from 
one of our California stations, where our station 
operations received direct complaints from a 
group of the supplier’s employees related to timely 
payment of wages. Supply Chain Management 
partnered with our Airport Operations leadership 
team and worked with the supplier to review and 
understand the concerns. The supplier created a 
plan to resolve the issue via a change in accounting 
processes. The supplier followed up by visiting the 
station to acknowledge the issues and communicate 
the new process. We continue to monitor the 
situation and are encouraging any further concerns 
to be brought forward through our Concern 
Reporting System.
31 We are all about people      Ethical labor standards for suppliersWe fly  greener.
32Alaska has a proud tradition of innovation in environmental performance. From our 
fleet to our fuel to the facilities we manage, we’re always looking for ways to improve 
the efficiency of our operations and reduce the burden we place on the planet. 
With 21,500 employees, dozens of buildings, and a 281-aircraft fleet, our day-to-
day operations leave a significant environmental footprint. Given the impacts of our 
business, it is our responsibility to continuously innovate to improve the sustainability of 
our flights and operations, increase our performance, and protect the beautiful places 
we live and fly. 
Reducing our impact on the environment is not only the right thing to do, it’s also good 
for business; a sustainable approach to the way we perform, purchase, and provide 
service creates long-term value for us, our employees and our guests. From napkins to 
fuel, every choice we make has an impact, so we are devoted to making choices that 
help preserve the health and allure of the communities we love.Our strategies
Our strategy is focused on the key areas where we have the greatest impact or see the 
most opportunity for innovation:We’re always looking for ways to improve the efficiency of our operations and 
reduce the burden we place on the planet.
Reducing  
our aircraft  
emissions.
Reducing waste  
from our  
inflight service.
Decreasing  
our paper 
consumption.
33 We fly greener            Reducing our  
aircraft emissions. 
Fuel use and emissions remains our top 
opportunity.
We face increasing global pressure regarding 
carbon footprint reductions, as well as stakeholder 
concerns about the financial risks of carbon 
exposure. Consumers are concerned about 
the impacts of climate change and corporate 
customers are working to reduce carbon 
emissions across the life cycle of their products 
and in the delivery of services, including the 
transportation of people and goods. It also makes good business sense for us to reduce our fuel 
consumption and do our part to take care of 
our planet. All combined, these make reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions a strategic 
priority for us.
34 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsAs a member of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and Airlines for 
America (A4A), we are working alongside other airlines to address the challenge of 
climate change. We have adopted a set of global targets to mitigate CO 2 emissions 
from air transport, and are working to meet these goals through:
Improved technology, including the deployment of sustainable 
low-carbon fuels 
More efficient aircraft operations 
Infrastructure improvements, including modernized air traffic 
management systems 
A single global market-based measure to fill the remaining 
emissions gap on international routes 
The efficiency of aircraft can be likened to that of a car on a road trip: to maximize your 
car’s fuel efficiency, you start by purchasing the most fuel-efficient model available and 
you maintain its engine to perform optimally. You remove excess weight and travel the 
most direct route, limiting your stops and idle time. You fill every seat to ensure your fuel 
efficiency per passenger mile is maximized. And, if you can, you use alternative sources 
of fuel to reduce your carbon footprint. At Alaska, we break our emissions reduction 
strategy down into three overarching categories that reflect this analogy: what we fly, 
how we fly, and the fuel we use. Alaska Airlines’ carbon offset program.
Alaska Airlines’ fleet is among the industry’s most fuel efficient. In order to further 
minimize our impact to the environment, Alaska partners with the Carbonfund.org 
Foundation to reduce the environmental impact of each flight. Purchasing carbon offsets 
helps to reduce the impact of each flight’s CO 2 emissions by investing in projects that 
reduce C02 elsewhere in the U.S. Our team has carefully selected projects that are high 
quality and verified, so you know your contribution is making a difference. 
LEARN MORE   
35 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsOur goal: Decrease aircraft CO 2 emissions 
by 17% per RTM over 2009 through 
increased fuel efficiency and sustainable 
aviation fuels.
Our original goal has been to reduce mainline 
emissions by 20% per revenue ton mile, over 
2009 levels. Last year, we adjusted this goal 
to account for the merger with Virgin America 
and the inclusion of an additional fleet, which 
impacted our entire operation. As 2017 was the 
first full year of flying a more diverse aircraft fleet, 
comprised of our Boeing, Airbus and new Embraer 
E175 aircraft, we anticipated—and witnessed—a 
leveling of our progress. 
In 2017, our overall emissions intensity (CO 2 
per revenue ton mile, or RTM) increased very 
slightly by 0.3% (2 units/RTM) for the first time 
since 2004, which is when we began measuring. 
However, we maintained our emissions intensity at 13% improvement per RTM over our 2009 
baseline year and continued to outpace the 
industry goal of a 1.5% emissions reduction  
per year.
As we complete the major milestones of 
integration and evolve our integrated fleet to 
optimize operations, we will continue to make 
progress toward our emissions reductions goals. 
Even with the significant changes of 2017, our 
performance this year sets us up for further 
improvement in the years ahead; ultimately, the 
integrated airline will make it possible to invest 
more in innovations and efficiencies for the  
long term.Progress
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1,600
1,500
1,400
1,3001,700
Metric tons of C02eTotal GHG emissions and intensity trend
6M
4M
2M
08MIntensity ratio (mt CO2e/million RTMs
2020
GOAL
GHG Intensity Total GHG emissions
13%
fewer emissions
per RTM over 2009
36 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissions34K
gallons per aircraft saved
per year from winglets
=300K
gallons saved
per year
This past year we finalized installation of split scimitar winglets 
on all our eligible 737 aircraft, improving average fuel efficiency 
by over 34,000 gallons per aircraft each year. Aircraft fitted with 
split scimitar winglets are roughly 4.5% more fuel efficient than 
those without winglets; all our new 737NG aircraft are modified 
when we receive them, making the aircraft as fuel efficient as 
possible as soon upon entry into service. In 2017, the scimitar 
winglets modification saved an additional 4.5 million gallons 
of fuel.
We also invested in our fleet. By adding 14 new 737-900ERs and 
retiring the last 15 of our older 737-400 aircraft, we anticipate 
savings of more than 300,000 gallons of fuel per year. Alaska 
Airlines now flies a 100% Boeing “NG” (Next Generation) fleet.In our Airbus fleet, we took delivery of our first four A321neo 
aircraft in 2017. Virgin America flew the inaugural flight as the 
first airline worldwide to fly an Airbus A321neo. Equipped 
with ultra-efficient CFM LEAP-1A engines, the new aircraft fly 
102 seat miles per gallon—compared to the A319, which gets 
65 seat miles per gallon. This is like replacing an old pickup truck 
with a new Prius!
Horizon Air added 10 new E175s to their fleet this year, with 
another 16 planned for 2018. While less efficient per passenger 
than the Q400s they are replacing, the E175s will allow us to fly 
longer routes with more guests. This gives us room to grow our 
capacity, while ultimately improving fuel use and emissions per 
passenger. 14 
new 737-900ERs
+What we fly
37 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsWe implemented new RNP approaches and departures 
at two more airports, saving an estimated 35,000 
additional gallons of fuel each year. Required Navigation 
Performance (RNP) is a performance-based navigation 
technique that uses a combination of onboard navigation 
technology and the GPS satellite network to fly safer, 
more reliable approaches. In 2017, RNP technologies 
saved an estimated 1.2 million gallons of fuel due to 
reduced track miles. Further growth in the use of RNP approaches requires 
modernization of the nation’s air traffic control system, 
for which Alaska has been a vocal proponent. While air 
traffic control reform did not pass Congress in 2017, 
Alaska continues to lead in advocating for innovation and 
use of technologies like RNP that support sustainability. 
We will continue working with government and the 
industry to find ways to move forward without wholesale 
reform.
The Arrival Fuel Program continued in 2017. This 
program encourages smart choices that optimize the use 
of fuel when planning and selecting alternate landing sites, 
saving an estimated 300,000 gallons of fuel in 2017.
gallons of fuel saved
from using RNP in 2017 How we fly
01200009The fuel we use
In 2017, we continued to build strong foundational 
partnerships with industry leaders in the sustainable 
aviation fuels arena. We are working with the port 
authorities, other industry leaders, local and state 
government representatives, and major producers to 
develop the strategy for a sustainable fuels path for 
SeaTac, San Francisco and other airports on the West 
Coast. We also expanded our partnership with the Port 
of Seattle to define a strategic path toward a sustainable 
future and reduced emissions in the aviation space 
through the use of sustainable aviation fuels.
38 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsChallenges
With the integration of Virgin America, we inherited a fleet of Airbus A320s and 
A319s that are smaller and hold fewer passengers, which are therefore less efficient 
per passenger due to their weight and configuration. The merger also caused a 
temporary delay in implementing important efficiency projects for our Airbus fleet, 
while we integrate our airlines, establish baselines, and identify opportunities for fuel 
efficiency improvements among both fleets. 
Additionally, procuring sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) that is priced competitively 
with traditional fuel has been difficult, as the decrease in traditional fuel prices 
prevents producers from building commercial-scale production facilities and the 
production of other alternative fuels, such as bio-diesel motor vehicle fuels, provide 
higher margins and lower barriers to entry for producers. To keep our costs low, 
we can’t purchase a meaningful volume of SAF until the price is closer in cost to 
petroleum-based fuels. We are searching for the best ways to obtain the volume of 
fuel that we need, in one of our hub locations, at the right price. In the meantime, 
we continue to make progress by partnering with alternative fuel companies, 
stakeholder groups, and industry steering committees—and we are ready to buy and 
use sustainable aviation jet fuel as soon as it becomes commercially available and 
cost-competitive.CASE STUDY
Preconditioned air units.
In 2017, Horizon Air began rolling out the use of preconditioned air units (PCAs)—units 
that plug into a landed aircraft’s ducting system to provide warm or cool air, depending 
on the weather. Previously, an aircraft’s auxiliary power unit (APU) was used for heating 
and cooling, using jet fuel to keep the interior at a good temperature—just like when 
you idle your car to keep warm in the winter or cool in the summer. PCAs replace the 
use of the aircraft’s APU by supplying air from the airport, eliminating the need to idle 
and burn fuel to keep the passenger cabin comfortable. 
Currently deployed at 90% of Horizon stations, PCA use saved an estimated 165,000 
gallons of fuel and thousands of dollars in maintenance costs in 2017.
39 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsCASE STUDY
Sustainable aviation fuels.
Alaska has long supported the development of sustainable aviation 
fuels. In 2011, we were the first domestic carrier to fly multiple flights 
using sustainable aviation fuels, and most recently, the first carrier to 
fly using ground-breaking fuel made from forest residuals. By using 
the leftover branches and stumps from forest harvests, we eliminate 
pollution that comes from burning and create a better ecosystem 
on the forest floor for replanting. Using forest residuals is a better 
alternative than virgin plant matter that could otherwise be used as 
food. Forest residuals are also abundant and can be collected from 
sustainability-managed forests and private lands.
Looking forward
In 2018, we will continue to harmonize our 
processes and procedures as we integrate 
Virgin America’s Airbus fleet into our mainline 
operations. This will include improvements to the 
per passenger fuel efficiency of our Airbus fleet by 
improving the space utilization on board through 
the removal of unnecessary heavy equipment, 
inflight entertainment equipment and excess 
wiring, and the addition of lighter weight seats. 
We will also equip our brand-new E175s with 
RNP approach capabilities; although 100% of our 
Boeing and Bombardier fleets are 100% equipped 
for RNP approaches, currently the E175s are not. 
We anticipate that RNP will be fully equipped and 
approved for these aircraft in 2018.
We’ll continue to renew our fleet with 737-
900ERs and A321neos in 2018 and prepare for 
our first delivery of the 737-9 MAX in 2019, which 
we expect to be 14% more fuel efficient than the 
737-900ER. Additionally, we anticipate progress with  
many of our important alternative fuel  
alliances in 2018: 
• Our biofuel infrastructure feasibility study with  
Sea-Tac Airport was completed in January 
2017, and will provide critical insight to this 
process. 
• We will be partnering with two West Coast 
airports to develop infrastructure roadmaps 
that support the cost-effective integration of 
SAFs.  
• We’ve begun discussions with the Port of 
Portland to study how a new ordinance - 
restricting the addition of new fossil fuel 
infrastructure - will impact future infrastructure 
used for blending SAFs. 
• We joined a team at San Francisco Airport 
to develop a strategic path forward for 
sustainable aviation fuels.
40 We fly greener      Reducing our aircraft emissionsReducing waste from our 
inflight service. 
Our robust, inflight recycling program is the 
most comprehensive of any U.S. airline. 
Our recycling efforts began in the late 1980s, when 
a grassroots team of Horizon Air employees began 
taking cans and bottles to their local recycling 
centers after their shifts. Their enthusiasm was 
infectious, and soon employees in other locations 
were doing the same. Over time, their efforts 
became easier, as airports started offering 
recycling facilities onsite. 
In 2006, the U.S. aviation industry was generating 
approximately 7.5 million pounds of waste every 
day, with only 20% making it to a recycling center, 
according to a study by the Natural Resources 
Defense Council (NRDC). 
 In 2007, Alaska Airlines’ Green Team implemented 
a recycling program similar to Horizon’s that 
applied to the airline’s larger aircraft operation. 
Starting small, with only newspaper and cans, it 
grew into a consistent commingled process—to 
include plastic, paper, aluminum and glass—
and it was implemented across several diverse 
geographical locations. This is the process in place 
today on each and every one of Alaska Air Group 
flights. Intrinsically part of our West Coast focus 
(where sorting recyclables has been an institution 
for years), inflight recycling is one way we engage 
guests in our environmental efforts. 
41 We fly greener      Reducing waste from inflight serviceCASE STUDY  
From bottles to cans.
Employees on Alaska’s Green Team have steadily 
lobbied for cans instead of bottles for several years, 
and we listened. Although some breweries were 
initially reluctant to modify their packaging, quality 
canned beer has become the norm in many places 
around the country, and thanks to the persistence 
of one of our Green Team members in our catering 
department, in 2017 we were able to switch the last of 
our beer from glass bottles to aluminum cans. 
Aluminum cans offer us numerous advantages over 
bottled beverages: they are more easily recyclable in 
all markets, weigh less, are safer and easier to pack, 
and keep beer fresher. Each month we go through 
approximately 96,000 cans of beer. With cans each weighing .40 lbs. less than their bottled counterparts, 
we save 38,000 lbs. of weight—and roughly 400 
gallons of fuel—on our flights every month with the 
same amount of beer. Aluminum beer cans are also 
100% recyclable, and can be back on store shelves in 
60 days.
Next, we’ll be looking to reduce waste by replacing 
the large aseptic juice boxes with single serve 
aluminum cans. These drink boxes are more difficult 
to recycle than aluminum cans, and the beverage 
itself is often wasted when partially full boxes must be 
disposed at the end of each flight because only one 
serving was poured. 
In addition to having the most comprehensive inflight recycling 
program of any U.S. airline, we’re proud of the variety of food 
and beverage items that allow us to delight our guests and which 
continue to earn our airline accolades for customer service. We 
strive to strike a balance by sourcing sustainably-made items and 
proactively pursuing recycling and other alternative methods  
of disposal.
Recycling is a point of pride for our flight attendants; without 
their hard work and dedication our recycling efforts would not 
be so successful. These efforts are also supported by our Inflight 
Food and Beverage Department. Recycling is included in employee 
performance assessments, and it is a measurement for our catering 
vendors, who follow relevant catering policies and procedures that 
contribute towards our goal. With landfill rates at approximately 
$100 per ton on the West Coast, recycling makes good business 
sense for the catering vendors in charge of waste disposal.
Alaska Airlines also remains the sole domestic airline that collects 
compostable material, which is collected in green compost bags on 
each flight. Flight attendants capture several tons of coffee grounds 
each year, which are diverted to composting facilities instead of the 
landfill. We also source napkins, cups, and other service ware items 
that are reusable, compostable, or easy to recycle to reduce waste, 
lower our costs, and reduce the environmental impacts caused by 
harvesting and processing virgin materials.
42 We fly greener      Reducing waste from inflight serviceOur combined waste to landfill dipped from 0.24 to 0.19 
lbs. per passenger in 2017, with our total waste to landfill 
reduced by 749 tons over 2016. This reduction is largely 
due to our robust, recycling efforts. Flight attendants 
captured a weighted average of 82% of all recyclable 
materials used on board our aircraft, including cans, 
bottles, cups, paper, and plastic serving ware. To date, 
we have reduced our waste to landfill by 54% since our 
baseline year of 2010.
In 2017, we worked with our beer vendors to replace 
the last of our bottled beer with aluminum cans. Not 
only is aluminum safer and easier to recycle across our 
different markets, the weight reduction helps with our 
fuel-efficiency efforts.This year we also switched to plant-based Dansani 
water bottles, which are renewably-sourced, fully-
recyclable, and made from 30% plant material. We also 
reintroduced a policy to refill passenger water cups, 
rather than requiring a new cup during each round of 
service (after determining that cross-contamination is not 
be an issue). 
Our goal: Reduce inflight waste sent to 
landfills by 70%  over our 2010 baseline 
(lbs./passenger).
Progress
20162010
.24lb.41lb
.19lb 2017
 (lbs) per passenger
54%
less sent  
to landfill
per passenger,  
over 201082%
recyclable 
material 
captured
Inflight waste to landfill 
.12lb 2020 
GOAL
43 We fly greener      Reducing waste from inflight serviceChallenges
Packaging and sourcing sustainably is always a challenge. 
Individually-portioned snacks are not currently available in 
sustainable packaging. Cardboard boxes are subject to damage 
from condensation so they must be wrapped in plastic that protects 
them from disintegration, which creates extra packaging waste. 
Items that are purchased at the airport and carried onboard by 
passengers might be too large for our waste collection containers 
(as is the case with pizza boxes) or may not be recyclable at all. 
Other continuing challenges include finding ways to recycle in 
cities where recycling is not the norm and recycling facilities aren’t 
available, as well as finding more efficient ways for flight attendants 
to keep recycling separated from garbage during the inflight 
collection process. We would also like to explore serving filtered 
water in reusable containers instead of the single-serve plastic 
bottles currently used, but we have not yet found a system that 
provides the outstanding quality and taste we want for our guests.
Looking forward
In 2018, our efforts will largely focus on introducing the inflight 
recycling process to our Virgin America flight attendant colleagues 
in the fall of 2018 and ensuring their efforts are congruous and 
measurable. We’ll also be working to streamline catering 
equipment between Alaska and Virgin, to improve the 
efficiency  and ease of our recycling processes. Once all crews 
have been trained and our processes aligned, we will develop 
a baseline of data on Virgin America flights from which we can 
measure progress going forward. 
We will pursue several other opportunities in 2018, such as reducing 
the footprint of our catering equipment and supplies. For example, 
we are investigating opportunities to reduce plastic straw use and 
replace plastic stir sticks with ones made of bamboo or 
other more sustainable materials. Premium Class snack boxes will 
also be removed, and guests will simply be offered a choice of 
snacks to streamline service and reduce the waste created by the 
individually-wrapped boxes. We will also re-implement an inflight 
program to save supplies onboard—such as opened, but unused, 
rolls of cups—that are currently disposed of at the catering kitchens. 
We anticipate individual 8 oz. waters will be substituted with bulk 
bottled water  on Virgin America flights in fall of 2018, and we will 
investigate different options for bulk water packaging. Except for a 
small amount of plastic coming from international flights, we recycle 
close to 100% of all large water bottles used onboard. 
44 We fly greener      Reducing waste from inflight serviceAt home, recycling is simply a matter of 
putting the right item in the right container. 
It’s a little more complicated when you’re 
working in a narrow tube, with 165 people 
eating and drinking around you and very 
little storage space. Despite the challenges, 
Alaska and Horizon flight attendants 
recycled 82% of newspapers, cans, plastic 
cups and other materials in 2017. Alaska’s 
industry-leading inflight recycling program 
means today’s guests produce 54% less 
garbage per person than they did in 2010. 
Veteran Flight Attendant Jan Christensen 
sets the recycling bar particularly high 
during a flight—nothing goes to waste that 
doesn’t need to. 
“I’m known as a recycling guru. I love doing 
it,” she said. “I don’t want to leave a lot of 
garbage for the next generation.”
And of course, she’s got a system: she 
comes through with the beverage cart when collecting inflight items, allowing her to 
stack plastic and coffee cups separately and 
make a stack of cardboard boxes and other 
paper in a neat pile, keeping everything 
compact and organized so it only has to be 
handled once. 
Christensen, who’s been a flight attendant 
for 43 years, is so committed to recycling 
that she’s volunteered for several of the 
airline’s regular “recycling sorts” where 
volunteers literally sort through trash that 
comes off the aircraft to measure whether 
or not we’re living up to our recycling goals. 
It’s a dirty job, but essential to keep the 
recycling program on track.
The little bit of extra time that Christensen 
takes to recycle onboard is well worth 
it when she sees the reaction of our 
environmentally-minded guests. 
According to her, “They love it. They don’t 
even question it.”EARNING OUR WINGS  
Jan Christensen,  
master recycler  
in the sky.
“I don’t want 
to leave a lot 
of garbage 
for the next 
generation. ”
45 We fly greener      Reducing waste from inflight serviceDecreasing our paper 
consumption. 
There’s an old joke in the airline business that 
says, “you know you’re ready for departure when 
the paperwork weighs the same as the plane.” 
We aim to change that. From baggage tags, 
safety cards, menus, business forms and more, 
our operations involve the use of hundreds of 
different types of paper items each month. As 
concerns over the effects of excessive paper use 
on the environment have grown in recent years, 
we started thinking: what if there’s a better way?
Using new technologies as they become available, 
Alaska Air Group is pushing to become as 
paperless as possible. It started in 1995, when 
Alaska became one of the first carriers in the 
nation to offer ticketless travel; we’ve since gone on to adopt several other strategies in our 
efforts to transition away from paper, such as 
online software, mobile applications, and digital 
documentation. As we move forward, we are 
finding that electronic and digital solutions not 
only save paper, time, and money, they also make 
our systems and records easier to update and 
maintain...all while reducing our impact on the 
environment.
46 We fly greener      Decreasing our paper consumptionOur goal: Reduce paper consumption  
by 50%  per departure over 2012.
We’ve made great progress this year! Although our operations grew last year, Alaska and Horizon 
reduced paper consumption by an additional 5% per departure over 2016—that’s 39% less paper 
per departure and 23 million fewer sheets of paper than we used in 2012. By adopting innovative 
technology-based alternatives to printed manuals and forms, we’re reducing our printed paper 
outputs, while making our processes more efficient, saving time and reducing our operational costs.  2012
 2013
 2014
 2015
 2016
 2017
GOAL100%
95%
90%
74%
65%
61%
50%
39% 
less paper 
per departurefewer sheets of paper 
than 2012Paper consumption by departure
Progress
47 We fly greener      Decreasing our paper consumptionChallenges
Our merger with Virgin America in 2016 created a great deal of printed collateral to 
support integration activities, including a new print service ordering platform. As a 
result, we’re facing the challenge of streamlining the new systems. In 2017, we focused 
on gaining a better understanding of how the merger impacts our operations in terms 
of paper consumption—namely, identifying paper consumption habits and sources and 
integrating them into our operating system.
Looking forward
Although transitioning the heavy pilot manuals to electronic tablets has reduced the 
paper needs of our pilots by a great deal, there is still work to be done. In summer 
2018, we look forward to launching a digital flight release program called “JetPack” for 
Horizon pilots, and we will begin looking at opportunities to extend these capabilities 
to our Airbus fleet as well in 2019. By digitizing the documentation needed for flight 
releases, we will decrease pilot paper use by an additional 30-60 pages per flight. 
Beginning in 2018, we will develop a paper consumption baseline for our Airbus 
operation and McGee Air Services, our ground service vendor, so that we can begin 
to track progress and identify opportunities to reduce paper use. We will also place 
a greater focus on copy paper consumption as we aim to reduce copy paper by five 
million pieces over the next three years. With Alaska and Virgin America operations 
merged, we will see impacts on print services and paper consumption, but we don’t 
anticipate this to be an obstacle to achieving our goal.CASE STUDY
Remembering dot-matrix printers.
After a year in development, our teams 
created a better passenger boarding 
process—by digitizing it. The new mobile 
flight departure process uses digital apps 
in place of the printed materials employees 
previously used. Not only is the paperless 
process saving paper, printing supplies, 
and trees, it also makes the boarding 
process faster, easier, and more accurate. 
Previously, customer service agents 
(CSAs) spent 3-4 minutes printing the final 
passenger list on old dot-matrix printers before walking it down the jetway to the 
flight attendants, who would give it to the 
pilots. A simple printer malfunction could 
lead to flight delays. Armed with the new 
CSA control app and JetPack, the new pilot 
mobile app, the process now takes only 
11 seconds. CSAs are able to mark off any 
missing guests, who can then be paged for 
final boarding before the flight is marked 
as ‘closed, ’ and all the information is sent 
to the flight attendants and pilots with an 
alert. That’s it!
48 We fly greener      Decreasing our paper consumptionWe invest 
for strong 
communities.
49In Alaska Airline’s early days, our routes included “milk runs”—daily flight circuits that 
brought milk, food, mail, and vital supplies to remote Alaskan villages. With no roads 
connecting them to the outside world, many of these communities were reliant on air 
service; the milk runs were essential. Today, though we’ve grown into a major national 
airline, we still fly the milk runs. We never take for granted how integral air service is to 
our neighbors in Alaska. And, of course we also fly people, and sometimes animals as 
well. From the more remote areas we are their only means to healthcare appointments, 
to see a veterinarian, to visit loved ones or to shop for essentials. 
In all our communities we aim to make tough moments more hopeful through 
partnerships with Angel Flight West and Make-A-Wish, and to create a strong future for 
all who live and work in the communities we call home by investing in youth, equity, and 
opportunity. 
As a people business, we truly believe we are better off when everyone is better off. We 
exist to provide a better way to fly and to support our communities, our employees and 
their families. We are also focused on the issues that are important to our communities, 
such as growing aviation careers, connecting and inspiring kids to educational 
opportunities, and being deeply connected to the people in our communities, so that 
we can understand and serve their unique local needs. Our strategy
Through targeted investments, partnering with other organizations, and harnessing the 
power of our workforce, we support and enable strong communities and sustainable 
futures for all. We are inspired by opportunity, helping kids realize their dreams and investing in 
the future in the places we call home.
Economic and  
educational  
outcomes.
50 We invest for strong communities             Economic and educational 
outcomes. 
We strive to cultivate diverse talent in 
communities to fuel the future, from kids to early 
careers, enabling more young people to realize 
their dreams.
We believe deeply in the importance of  
expanding opportunity—to grow our employees’ 
careers and enable underrepresented youth 
to have more choices to achieve their future 
goals. We invest and advocate for education and 
workforce development, including aviation careers, 
STEM, innovation, and expanding possibilities.
The national gap in diversity among STEM 
occupations is notable, with 70% fewer people 
from underrepresented groups, such as people of color and women, entering STEM career 
pathways. We are working to close that gap. 
We want to help increase both awareness of the 
opportunities available, and representation within 
these fields. The North American airline industry 
will need 117,000 more pilots and 118,000 more 
technicians over the next 20 years, according 
to forecasts, yet the magnitude of opportunities 
available and the pathways that align with these 
opportunities are not always clear, especially for 
underrepresented groups.
51 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes Alaska gives program support to nonprofits 
providing pathways to STEM careers to 
underserved youth and adults. We host career 
development workshops, experiences, job fairs, 
and speaking engagements, and we partner with 
other employers and companies to engage youth 
around career and workforce development in 
the aviation industry. Through these activities we 
have impacted the lives of more than 69,500 
youth and workers since 2012. By 2020, 
our goal is to positively influence the futures 
of 100,000 youth and workers by providing 
them with the knowledge and skills needed to 
both succeed and flourish. Our progress and 
success are measured by the number of youth 
and workers who participate in our programs 
for a minimum of two hours, complete degree 
programs, and learn new skills.
We are proud to report that we met or exceeded 
our 2017 goals and will continue to look at ways to positively impact youth and opportunity in our 
communities. While our giving highlights multiple 
focus areas, we are doubling our efforts to 
inspire and educate, and have increased our goal 
to reflect the higher number of youth and worker 
lives we hope to impact in the coming years.
70K
46K
0Youth & workers supported 
100K 2020 
GOAL
2017
20122016
52 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes Our goal: Improve economic and 
educational outcomes for 100,000  
youth and workers.
Progress 
In 2017, more than 23,410 youth and workers participated in Alaska-sponsored 
programs, bringing our cumulative number of youth and workers impacted by our 
efforts to 69,580 since we began measuring in 2012. Of the over $15 million in 
philanthropic contributions that Alaska Air Group provided in 2017, 35% was specifically 
directed at educational and workforce development.
The programs we support and track include a variety of local education initiatives, 
events, activities, partnerships, donations and employee volunteer time. Employees 
of the company have also served on key government-appointed committees and 
leadership councils focusing on helping youth prepare for future success.$15M
philanthropic contributions
in 2017$15M
  education & workforce development
  social
  medical
  civic
  youth
  environment
  arts
  sports35% $What our giving supports
53 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes 54
The Alaska Native Science Engineering Program (ANSEP) is a key recipient of our support. ANSEP’s objective is to effect systemic change in the hiring 
patterns of Alaska Natives in science and engineering by placing students on a career path to leadership.
In 2017, Alaska Airlines renewed its partnership with ANSEP as part of our commitment to education in our communities. With this second, three-year $1 
million grant, Alaska Airlines’ total investment in ANSEP is now $2 million. Over the next three years, funds will help transport nearly 2,000 students from 
rural areas of Alaska to Anchorage to attend ANSEP’s Middle School Academy education program at the University of Alaska Anchorage. Our support 
provides access to educational opportunities and the associated economic benefits not otherwise available for thousands of Alaskans. 
More  than 40 employees volunteered to coach and speak with students at the Alaska Airlines Aerospace Education Center (AAAEC) at Seattle’s Museum 
of Flight. This immersive, aerospace learning experience gives students a chance to experience the magic of flight and learn about aviation careers and 
pathways from Alaska Airlines employees.  
We partnered with The Road Maps Project in South King County to host multiple sessions at a one-day program called DiscoverU, impacting more than 90 
students in 2017. DiscoverU provides high school students with the opportunity to explore their career interests, tour companies and learn about the skills 
and education needed to get there. 
 
The Choices Program is a leading recipient of funds in Seattle and Portland. We are excited to contribute to the 1.5-day workshop where employees engage 
with youth about the importance of staying in school. To date, 3,000 youth from areas with high drop-out rates have been through the Choices Program. 
Alaska also proudly partners with Port Jobs at Sea-Tac airport through its economic opportunity and workforce development initiative called “Airport 
University.” The program provides a career trajectory for our employees and other airport workers by providing them the training and professional skills 
needed to advance to better positions in airport operations. In 2017, 88 airport workers completed a course at Airport University, bringing the total number 
of workers supported through the program to 453 since 2012. This year we renewed our partnership with Port Jobs through 2020 and are providing a $1.5 
million grant to support training, workforce development, job placement, and education funding. Out of this funding, approximately $150,000 is dedicated to 
a scholarship fund for airport workers seeking additional educational opportunities.Some of the more notable initiatives of the past year include:
40+
employees
volunteered to coach students2K
students 
will attend ANSPE’s  
leadership program
3,000
youth 
learned about the importance  
of staying in school90
students 
explored their career interests
453
workers
completed a course at  
Airport University since 2012
54 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes Challenges
Although we measure our progress by the number of participants 
that we interact with, we cannot directly correlate this experience 
with their future career success. There is no guarantee the youth 
who participate in our programs will go on to pursue careers in 
STEM and aviation. It is our hope that these programs and events 
provide inspiration for the youth and workers in our communities 
to pursue success in the career of their choice with passion, 
determination and focus. Success is dependent upon many factors. 
We are working hard with nonprofits and community-based 
programs to develop strategies to lift up and support youth and 
workers. We can’t do this alone; what matters is collective impact. 
Another challenges we face is that Airport University (Seattle) is 
limited by funding and resource availability. Although there is a great 
deal of interest in the program, we are not currently able to offer 
all the programs that have been requested. We also don’t have a 
way to track and measure the long-term impacts of our efforts on 
attendees, and so we don’t have a success rate metric to back up 
our funding requests.
Looking forward
In 2018, we aim to grow our impact and focus and expand our 
support of STEM careers in our core markets along the West Coast 
through additional programming and increased funding. CASE STUDY
No Time to Sleep.
We were proud to support a new event this year 
called No Time to Sleep, to help inspire youth 
towards education, aviation, and following their 
dreams. The event brought in over 1,200 graduating 
seniors from the Highline and Tukwila school 
districts, where the students heard directly from our 
Chief Football Officer and Seahawks Quarterback 
Russell Wilson, and others about why it’s important 
to pay attention in school and focus on your dreams, 
and how aviation careers close to home are great 
careers to pursue. Alaska employees volunteered 
during the event, showing their caring spirit and giving back to the community. The Museum of 
Flight served as a key partner, providing the perfect 
backdrop of aviation history to host the graduating 
seniors at its Aviation Pavilion. We surprised the 
students by selecting a representative from each of 
the high schools to honor for their determination, 
passion, and focus on achieving their goals. These 
student leaders each received a $1,000 scholarship 
to the school they would attend following 
graduation. Students left the event excited and 
inspired to pursue their dreams. We are now working 
to host the event annually. 
55 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes 56
Take a 10,000-foot hangar, assemble 250 
employee volunteers, add 63 aviation 
industry partners and set 1,200 kids loose 
for a day where the sky’s is the limit. Those 
are the keys to Alaska Airlines Aviation Day, 
where youth learn about rewarding careers 
in the aviation industry. Held annually each 
spring in Seattle, Portland and Fairbanks, 
Aviation Day gives young people the 
chance to dream big. They can fly a flight 
simulator with a pilot, turn a wrench on a 
jet engine with a mechanic, evacuate an 
aircraft with a flight attendant and build a 
glider with an engineer.
“We want to build a bridge from high 
school onto college and then to a career 
in aviation or aerospace, ” said Alaska First 
Officer Allen Cassino. “We are laying out 
the stepping stones to show youth in our 
local communities just that. They can be a 
pilot! They can be an engineer! They can 
be an aircraft mechanic! Maybe even an 
executive at Alaska Airlines!”The mission of Alaska Airlines’ Aviation 
Day is to inspire youth in our community 
and help them realize the potential careers 
in aviation and aerospace. Activities are 
hands-on and the learning is real-life, 
including testing their mechanic skills on 
a real aircraft engine, learning to get an 
aircraft ready for preflight, understanding 
the physics of lift, and piloting a simulator 
or a simulated aircraft evacuation.
Alaska First Officer Erin Recke said she 
volunteers because she completely 
supports the Aviation Day mission. “For me, 
having under-served kids show up in our 
hangar and have their horizons expanded, 
is why I spend literally hundreds of hours 
volunteering for Aviation Day, ” Recke said. 
“If even one of the nearly 1,000 people 
through the door has a life-changing 
experience as a result of their participation 
in our event it will have been worth all the 
time, money and energy spent making 
Aviation Day happen. ”EARNING OUR WINGS  
Turning aviation 
dreams into careers.
56 We invest for strong communities      Economic and educational outcomes We make  flying matter.
57As an airline we are interested in 
getting people from Point A to Point B; 
however, we also believe in leveraging 
our resources and engaging in activities 
that make a positive difference in 
people’s lives. 
Because we care greatly about the places and communities in which we live, work, and 
fly—and because it’s the right thing to do—we donate our time, energy, money, miles 
and more. We support charity organizations whose missions reflect the passions of 
our employees and guests and contribute to the well-being of the locations we serve. 
Through volunteer days and targeted support campaigns we are able to empower 
youth from all backgrounds to find success in school and in life. We are able to help 
ensure that the beautiful places we serve continue to stay beautiful by contributing to 
and promoting carbon emissions offset projects. And we are able to lend a hand during 
times of crisis through donations and charity drives: for kids and families who need 
hope, for people who need to get to health care or away from a dangerous situation, 
and by jumping in to help by bringing supplies and first responders in and people out 
when disaster strikes.
58 We make flying matter             Employee involvement
One of the most important parts of our business is our people. 
Our employees are highly engaged in the community and Alaska 
supports their personal time and monetary contributions to the 
community through our matching gifts and Dollars for Doers 
program. Employees are able to donate through our Gift Matching 
program, which matches up to $1,000 per employee, and through 
our Dollars for Doers program, which allows employees to earn $10 
in donations for every hour they volunteer, up to $1,000.00 per 
year. In 2017, employees raised over $464,759 in funds that were 
matched by the company through our Gift Matching program for 
a total of $989,518. Employees participating in Dollars for Doers 
earned and donated $236,163 and volunteered more than 41,670 
hours to support organizations of their choice.41.7K
hours volunteered
$236K
donated$465K
raised by employees
$990K
funds raised
 +GIFT MATCHING DOLLARS FOR DOERS PARTICIPANTS
$10
in donations 
matched for a total of for a total of for every
hour
volunteered
59 We make flying matter             Charity Miles
Our Charity Miles program offers Mileage Plan members a unique and meaningful 
way to support important causes. Members can donate their miles to help select 
philanthropic organizations who used the miles towards accommodating special 
requests and transporting clients to achieve the organization’s mission. In 2017 
alone, more than 52,300,000 miles were donated by our passengers, valued at 
approximately $1.4 million.  
Our Charity Miles program currently has 10 organizations that resonate with our 
Mileage Plan members. In 2017, our Hero Miles program received the most Charity 
Miles and allowed the Fisher House to provide wounded, injured and ill service members 
travel from the medical center to their home, and enabled travel for their family or close 
friends to visit them while they were being treated at the medical center. Make-A-Wish 
Foundation also received a generous number of miles from Mileage Plan members. 
Make-A-Wish uses the miles to grant wishes to children with serious illnesses or injuries. 
In addition to providing miles directly to organizations, Mileage Plan members 
can also select to support the Alaska Airlines Charity Miles Pool, which distributes 
accumulated miles to organizations Alaska is working with, and often includes a 
donation to disaster relief efforts for the transportation of medical staff and volunteers. 
In 2017, Alaska Airlines listed its first Charity Miles partner that focuses strictly on 
education: the United Negro College Fund (UNCF), which sponsors and supports 
students with scholarships, projects, and counseling. Donated miles are used to 
provide transportation for these students to visit potential colleges and universities. 52.3M           $1.4M
miles donated
To support the following 10 organizations:
60 We make flying matter              8K
metric tons of CO 2In 2017, our guests offset 222 metric tons of CO2e through carbon 
offset contributions. Collectively, our airlines and our guests have 
offset 8,138 metric tons of CO2e since 2013. 
Additionally, last year Virgin America offset its corporate headquarters’ 
annual footprint plus an additional 1,000 metric tons as part of 
Earth Day celebrations. Virgin America worked with Carbonfund.
org to select offset projects focused on reducing emissions through 
renewable energy and energy efficiency. Some examples include:
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Biodigester, a methane capture and 
elimination project in Chino Basin, California, that creates clean, 
renewable energy and reduces more than 8,000 tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalent from the atmosphere every year, while also 
protecting the quality of the region’s groundwater. 
IdleAire, a truck stop electrification project that reduces tailpipe 
emissions from trucks by connecting truck cabins with electricity at 
rest stops to eliminate the need to keep engines running for power. 
This approach saves one gallon of diesel per hour, reducing emissions 
at a rate of 19.64 lbs. of CO2e per gallon saved.
The Hilarides Dairy Project in Lindsay, California that helps reduce 
heat-trapping methane emissions, which reduces approximately 
18,500 metric tons of CO ₂ emissions each year. The project also 
encourages he project also encourages the development of new 
technologies, reduces local water pollution and provides an alternative 
source of income for local farmers.In-kind donations
In addition to the engagement of our 
employees and Mileage Plan members 
around Charity Miles, we also provide 
airline tickets for organizations to 
support their fundraising and other 
travel that supports them in achieving 
their mission. In 2017, we provided 
airline tickets to over 1,300 nonprofit 
organizations with $7 million in in-kind 
ticket donations. The carefully selected 
community-based organizations who 
receive these donations use the airline 
tickets for auctions and raffles to 
raise support for their organizations. 
Additionally, some of the tickets were 
donated for philanthropic efforts, such 
as medical travel—as was the case with 
Shriners Hospital and Angel Flight West, 
both organizations whose mission it is to 
arrange air travel for children and adults 
with serious medical conditions and 
other compelling needs.Carbon offsets
Even though our fleet is already among 
the most carbon-efficient in the industry, 
air travel still impacts our environment. 
As part of a collective effort to reduce 
the environmental impact of each flight, 
we encourage everyone to offset their 
travel through contributions to carbon 
offset projects from our nonprofit 
partner, the Carbonfund.org Foundation. 
Purchasing carbon offsets reduces the 
impact of a flight’s carbon dioxide (CO 2) 
emissions by investing in projects that 
reduce CO 2 elsewhere in the U.S. Our 
team has carefully selected high quality 
and independently verified projects to 
ensure all contributions are making a 
difference.
61 We make flying matter             Disaster Relief
Part of running a great airline is supporting the communities we serve, especially in times of need. Alaska frequently makes monetary and Charity Miles donations to organizations 
such as the American Red Cross and Airlink to support relief efforts in the wake of natural disasters, and matches donations made by employees through our Gift Matching program. 
In 2017, more than $375,000 (cash and in-kind) was donated in support of relief efforts for hurricanes, wildfires, flooding and an earthquake. In addition, we waived travel fees 
for customers who were affected and added extra flights to accommodate those needing to evacuate impacted areas. We are proud of our employees who jumped in to help by 
donating their time, money, supplies, and more to support these communities in their time of need. 
In 2017, some of our disaster relief efforts and donations included:
Donated $25K to Save the Children 
to support recovery efforts of the 
earthquake in Mexico City. We also 
donated an additional 2.5M miles 
into the disaster relief pool to help 
transport specialized disaster relief 
teams to those devastated, and 
matched employee donations to  
both the American Red Cross and 
Save the Children.Donated 2M miles from our 
Charity Miles Pool to Airlink, a rapid 
response disaster relief organization 
that links airlines with pre-qualified 
non-governmental organizations 
to transport aid workers and cargo 
to disaster areas. With our support, 
Airlink’s nonprofit partner, Team 
Rubicon, flew three waves of rapid 
response volunteers to bring aid 
and assistance to the communities 
impacted by the flooding in 
Wisconsin and Illinois. Contributed $10K to the Pacific 
Coast Chapter of the Red Cross, who 
provided shelter, meals, and mental 
health services to those impacted by 
the flooding and mudslides that caused 
damage and loss of life in Santa Barbara 
and Montecito, California. Received $50K by Salvation Army 
Northern California to support 
wildfire relief efforts. We also held 
hygiene supply drives at our hub 
locations (Seattle, San Francisco and 
Portland) to provide those affected by 
the Northern California wildfires with 
much-needed items such as soap, 
toothbrushes, and shampoo. Donated $100K and 1M miles 
to the American Red Cross along 
with matched employee donations 
to the Red Cross, Airlink, Airline 
Ambassadors and Angel Flight West 
to support relief efforts in the wake 
of Hurricane Harvey.
62 We make flying matter             To many it may seem like a small thing, but for lower 
income high school students, traveling to tour colleges—
and getting there for the start of school—can be quite a 
challenge. This can be an even bigger barrier for African-
American students who wish to attend historically black 
colleges. 
This is where Alaska Airlines steps up. The United Negro 
College Fund (UNCF) is one of Alaska Airlines’ Charity 
Miles partners, along with nine other organizations 
supported year-round by Alaska Mileage Plan members 
through the donation of frequent flier miles.
Hannah Stoddard will soon graduate from Washougal 
High School in Washington State. She grew up attending 
predominantly white schools, where she frequently 
experienced racism. As a result, her grades began to suffer 
and her motivation to go to school waned out of fear for 
how she would be treated. 
Luckily, she heard about the United Negro College Fund 
Portfolio Project, which aims to increase the number 
of minority and low-income college and scholarship 
applicants. The project has helped her with everything from 
college testing to finding scholarships. Mentors helped her 
create a resume and portfolio and fine-tune her college 
application essay.Because of the racism she faced, Stoddard wanted to 
attend a college where she would feel comfortable and 
fit in. “I decided that attending a historically black college 
would provide me with the support I need to find success, ” 
said Stoddard, who plans to study chemistry and become a 
doctor. 
After some college visits, she’s decided on Howard 
University, a Washington D.C. school known for its cultural 
diversity and research. Being able to use Alaska miles was 
instrumental in helping her decide, edging out Spelman 
College in Atlanta, Georgia. 
“I was able to be on campus and experience life as a 
student at Howard. Before that I had only seen the online 
tours of both campuses, and I was not impressed. By 
actually being there I was able to see how beautiful the 
campus really is, and I could finally see myself as a student 
there, ” she said. 
Stoddard is also looking forward to using Alaska miles to 
visit her family in Washington over the holidays, something 
she would not have been able to afford on her own.EARNING OUR WINGS  
Alaska helps students go places.
63 We make flying matter             1.57M
565K1M
miles donated10K 
miles for 
every home runAlaska Airlines miles donations
In 2017, Alaska and its Mileage Plan members donated a total of 1,565,314 miles to 
the UNCF, with Alaska’s guests contributing 565,314 miles to the program. Through 
our partnership with the Seattle Mariners we donated an additional one million 
miles—10,000 miles for every home run. 
Miles donated supplement a one-million-mile seed gift from Alaska Airlines, and help 
students fly to college tours, travel back and forth between school and home, and 
participate in a variety of leadership development programs and other programming 
offered by UNCF.
“There are so many expenses when you’re in college or planning to go to college,” said 
Linda Thompson-Black, Pacific Northwest area development director for UNCF. “Many 
of our students are living in poverty and may be awarded a scholarship that they can’t 
afford to take advantage of because of the other costs. These miles are so important in 
helping defray some of the expense.”
Silicon Valley Innovation Summit 
Alaska Airlines also served as the official airline sponsor of the 2017 UNCF Innovation 
Summit in Silicon Valley, which included a career fair and tech-empowerment workshop 
for 100 African-American students who are committed to pursuing careers in the IT 
industry. Alaska’s sponsorship enabled students travel to the event to connect and 
engage with tech industry CEOs, recruiters, and industry peers, and get a glimpse 
behind the curtain at the campuses of Silicon Valley’s tech giants.for a total of
miles donated
by Mileage Plan members
miles donated
by Alaska Guests
64 We make flying matter             Sustainability  
goal summary.
6566 Sustainability goal summary             
On track Flat Lagging Discontinued / merged  
CATEGORY 2020 GOAL FY2017 2017 PROGRESS
Employee  
and guest  
safety.Decrease medium risk safety events (>3+)  
by 20% over 2017. newOur previous goal of no more than 3 events per year was achieved in 2016. The new goal 
incorporates Virgin America and establishes 2017 as the baseline year.
Employee safety reporting increased to 26%  
over 2017 baseline (reports per employee).newOur previous goal of increasing safety reporting by 27% over a 2012 baseline was achieved in 
2016. The new goal incorporates Virgin America employees and establishes 2017 baseline year.
Employee 
engagement.Employee engagement scores at 80% or more 
(with no less than 75% for each division). -13%Employee engagement scores declined in 2017, in part related to our merger integration, from 
82% to 69%. Focus groups and listening sessions were conducted to give employees more 
opportunities to discuss issues and partner on next steps.
Great Place To Work recognition by at least 
one external national organization. 1 Alaska was ranked among Forbes’ “America’s Best Employers” for the third year in a row.
Integrate diversity and inclusion initiatives 
into people strategies of our four largest work 
groups, representing 85% of employees.new This new goal incorporates Virgin America and establishes 2017 as the baseline year.
Ethical labor 
standards  
for suppliers.Embed Alaska’s Supplier Code of Conduct  
into all vendor contracts. newThis goal has been modified from “Incorporate Code of Labor Standards into 100% of covered 
vendor contracts by 2020.” We launched a new supplier code of conduct program in 2017 and 
will share our progress in our 2018 report.
Reduce 
emissions.Sustainable aviation fuel in use at one or  
more of our airports. NANegotiated an MOU with Sea-Tac airport to bring sustainable aviation fuels to local operations. 
No longer a standalone goal. Beginning in 2018, we will track this goal as part of reducing aircraft 
emissions.
Reduce aircraft emissions by 17% per RTM  
over 2009 baseline. 0.03%Emission intensity down 13% over baseline towards 17% goal. Reflecting the integration of Virgin 
America’s fleet, total emissions increased slightly for the first time in 14 years. [Goal modified 
from 20% to reflect integrated operations with the acquisition of Virgin American, and Horizon 
Air regional flying].67
CATEGORY 2020 GOAL FY2017 2017 PROGRESS
Reduce 
emissions 
(cont).Electric vehicles increased to 44% of 
motorized fleet for Alaska & Horizon combined. 35%This goal has been discontinued, as vehicle emissions account for less than 0.5% of AAG total. 
Inventory of electric GSE remains at 35%, not including acquired Virgin America inventory.
Facility energy consumption reduced by 15% 
from 2008 baseline. (BTU/ft2) NAThis goal has been discontinued, as emissions from facility operations account for less than 0.5% 
of AAG total emissions.
Reducing 
inflight  
waste.Inflight waste to landfill reduced by 70% over 
2010 baseline (lbs./passenger).-21%Waste to landfill per passenger was reduced from an estimated 0.24 to 0.19 lbs./passenger in 
2017—a 54% over our baseline year. Key actions included replacing remaining glass beer bottles 
with aluminum alternatives and reinstating our cup refill policy. Flight attendants captured 82% of 
all recyclable material.
Recycling programs instituted at 100% of 
ground-based facilities.NATracking discontinued due to insufficient material impact relative to other goals. Recycling and 
composting programs at ground facilities will continue. 
Reduce  
paper 
consumption.Paper consumption reduced by 50% per 
departure over 2012. -5%Paper consumption per departure was reduced 5% in 2017 and 39% over our baseline year, 
largely due to innovations in providing technology to frontline employees.
Inflight consumable serviceware is 100% 
sustainably-sourced.NAThis will continue to be a focus area, integrated with our inflight waste reduction goal.
Economic and 
educational 
outcomes.Increase economic and education outcomes 
for 100,000 youth and workers.23,000An additional 23,000 youth and members of the workforce participated in our sponsored 
educational initiatives in 2017. Since 2014, we’ve reached over 69,000, on track to meet our 
goal of 100,000. We combined our educational outcomes goal with our original goal to “create 
economic opportunities and job skills for 700 workers in the Sea-Tac area”.Sustainability goal summary             
On track Flat Lagging Discontinued / merged  Appendix.
6869
As part of Alaska Air Group’s commitment to 
disclose information about our sustainability 
performance, below is a compilation of 
environmental and social indicators including 
our greenhouse gas emissions, energy and 
water consumption, philanthropic activities, and 
employee numbers. 
Unless otherwise noted, the data includes all of Alaska Air Group for 2017, and information prior to 2017 
does not include Virgin America. For those metrics where Virgin America operations are not included, 
the percent coverage of Virgin America contribution to our total operation is equal to 20% of revenue 
passengers and 26% of revenue passenger miles (RPMs) and available seat miles (ASMs). Data for McGee 
Air Services is not covered, as it represents less than 1% of AAG 2017 revenues.
For specific information regarding our complete 2017 operational or financial data and/or performance, 
please refer to our investor relations website at: investor.alaskaair.com
Appendix             70
Greenhouse gas emissions
The statement of greenhouse gas emissions was prepared based on a calendar 
reporting year that is the same as the Alaska Air Group (AAG or the Company) 
financial reporting period.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions information was prepared by an independent 3rd 
party in accordance with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. These emissions have been verified according to 
ISO 14064-3: 2006, Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions.Total GHG emissions by source (metric tons)
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Gross Global Emissions (Scope 1) 7,493,569 5,087,097 4,840,491 4,503,254 4,337,569
Aircraft (Scope 1) 7,453,560 5,061,825 4,816,259 4,476,725 4,310,793
Vehicle (Scope 1) 10,369 7,874 8,733 8,223 7,963
Facility Heating (Scope 1) 5,733 4,862 4,981 5,471 5,872
Facility Electricity (Scope 2) 9,906 12,536 10,518 12,836 12,940
GHG emissions intensity per unit of operation—revenue passenger miles (RPM), available seat miles (ASM), and 
revenue ton miles (RTM). 
Normalized emissions / emissions intensity
INTENSITY METRIC 2017 2016* 2015* 2014* 2013*
All sources Metric tons CO 2e per 
thousand RTM1.458 1.456 1.485 1.495 1.518
All sources kg CO 2e per thousand 
RPM148 148 151 152 155
All sources kg CO2e per thousand 
ASM125 125 126 128 130
All sources Metric tons CO 2e per 
thousand RTM1.458 1.456 1.485 1.495 1.518
* Years 2016 and earlier have been recalculated to take into account historic Virgin America emissions, to align with 
our intensity-based emission reduction goals.Appendix             71
Other greenhouse gases 
produced (metric tons)
2017* 2016 2015 2014 2013
Methane (CH4) * 28 24 47 44 42
Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 228 155 155 145 139
Sulphur Oxide (SOX) 355 265 225 211 204
Nitrogen Oxide (NOX) 3,166 2,336 1,991 1,850 1,772
* It is understood by the industry that CH4 emissions are not produced from cruising, but CH4 emissions are produced 
during landing and takeoff.
Avoided emissions (metric tons of CO2e) 
estimated from improvements in emission intensity.
UNIT 2017 2016 2015 2014
Total avoided emissions 
from 2009Metric tons CO 2e2,498,401 1,917,434 1,302,055 824,603
Year over year avoided 
emissionsMetric tons CO 2e580,967 615,379 477,453 322,834
Total avoided fuel 
consumption from 2009Gallons 244,665,117 188,137,814 127,843,368 80,950,752
   These figures are estimated from improvements in emission and energy intensity per available seat mile (ASM). For 
calculation and comparison purposes, Virgin America consumption and emissions data was not included. Carbon offsets 
purchased by Alaska Air Group (Scope 2) and passengers (Scope 1)
2017 2016* 2015* 2014* 2013*
Voluntary Carbon Offsets (Scope 2) 2,147 1,147 1,574 1,146 932
Voluntary Carbon Offsets: Passenger 
Purchased (Scope 1)222 218 151 250 310
Total 2,369 1,406 1,725 1,396 1,242
* Virgin America offsets only.Appendix             72
Energy
Energy consumed and generated 
by Alaska Air Group during normal operations.
UNIT 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Aircraft Fuel  
(non-renewable) Gallons 757,056,000 514,100,000 488,769,000 454,306,000 437,465,000
Aircraft Fuel  
(non-renewable)GJ 107,653,363 73,105,020 69,502,952 64,602,313 62,207,523
Aircraft Fuel 
(renewable) GJ 0 356 0 0 0
Vehicle Fuel  
(non-renewable) GJ 163560 115663 NR NR NR
Facility Energy  
(non-renewable)GJ 208,680 194,072 192,291 206,877 212,648
Total Energy 
Consumed GJ 108,025,604 73,414,754 69,695,243 64,809,190 62,420,172
Total Energy 
Consumed MWh 30,007,112 20,392,987 19,359,790 18,002,553 17,338,937
On-Site Renewable 
Energy Generated MWh 4.3 15 NR NR NREnergy intensity per unit of operation
revenue passenger miles (RPM), available seat miles (ASM), and revenue ton miles (RTM).
METRIC 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
All sources Metric tons CO 2e 
per thousand 
RTM1.458 1.456 1.485 1.495 1.518
All sources kg CO 2e per 
thousand RPM148 148 151 152 155
All sources kg CO 2e per 
thousand ASM125 125 126 128 130
All sources Metric tons CO 2e 
per thousand 
RTM1.458 1.456 1.485 1.495 1.518
Aircraft energy 
intensity per seatFuel gallons per 
ASM0.0126 0.0124 0.0126 0.0129 0.0132
Aircraft energy 
intensity per 
passengerFuel gallons per 
RPM0.0150 0.0146 0.0150 0.0152 0.0154Appendix             73
Projects
Aircraft fuel-saving projects 
initiated or finalized in 2017. 
Completed split scimitar winglets on all eligible 737 aircraft (14 additional aircraft) 476,000
Deployed preconditioned air to additional Horizon hub locations 165,000
Retirement of 737-400 aircraft 334,000
New RNP approaches at Nome (OME) and Kotzebue (OTZ) 35,000
* Calculations do not include savings realized from ongoing projects.Waste
Total solid waste (tons) disposed of
including the amount that was diverted from landfill (recycled).
2017* 2016 2015 2014 2013
Solid Waste Disposed to Landfill 
(inflight)3,090 3,839 3,057 4,173 2,451
Solid Waste Recycled** (inflight) 1,963 1,851 1,772 1,796 1,562
Plastic (#1 PETE) 509 NR NR NR NR
Aluminum 231 NR NR NR NR
Paper 399 NR NR NR NR
Glass 825 NR NR NR NR
Hazardous Waste (RCRA) Disposed 49.7 43.9 NR NR NR
Hazardous Waste (RCRA) Recycled 129.0 44.6 NR NR NR
* Does not include Virgin America operations. 
** Inflight waste is a measure of the weight of all materials that are collected by flight attendants in garbage and 
recycling bags during inflight service on domestic flights. Total weight is estimated by sampling and weighing the 
contents of the garbage and recycling bags from a minimum of 30 flights per airline per year. Appendix             74
Other environmental metrics
Total volume of water used by Alaska Air Group 
during normal operations. 
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Municipal Water Usage 63,349 68,204 82,807 70,431 65,278
Water usage is tracked where it is metered separately and where AAG has operational control of the facilities.
Company compliance 
with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
2017* 2016*
Reportable spills* (gallons) 10,715 25
Reportable spills* (number) 3 1
Environmental penalties ($) 0 0
Environmental penalties (number) 0 0
* Chemical spills subject to local and state reporting requirements. Metrics do not include Virgin America operations.Employee snapshot
Total employees at Alaska Air Group companies (2017)*
including full-time, part-time, temporary, and contracted.
Total number of employees 21,250
U.S. employees 21,143
International employees 107
Self-employed or contract workers 0
Represented in trade union or collective bargaining agreement 18,320
Full-time employees 18,612
Part-time employees 2,638
* Does not include approximately 1,700 McGee Air Services employees. Appendix             75
Philanthropic activities
Total funds and in-kind donations 
distributed by Alaska Air Group.
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Cash donations $6,675,790 $5,311,898 $3,859,170 $2,594,842 $1,610,972
Foundation Grants $286,500 $307,500 $250,000 $172,000 $141,500
In-kind giving (value) $7,801,080 $7,602,378 $7,161,443 $6,623,538 $6,634,510
Employee matching funds $464,759 $400,570 $449,076 $299,799 $207,997
Dollars for Doers $236,163 $196,667 $212,536 $140,535 $90,323
Charity miles (miles) 52,311,670 53,821,104 50,113,883 53,727,227 52,550,619
Charity miles (value) $1,438,571 $1,480,080 $1,378,132 $1,477,499 $1,445,142
Giving as a % of  
adjusted net income1.87% 1.48% 1.39% 1.69% 2.23%
TOTAL $15,464,292 $13,819,013 $11,932,225 $9,830,714 $8,685,302
Number of tracked hours volunteered by employees
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Employee volunteer hours 41,671 27,128 21,000 NR NREmployee safety
Total number of injuries reported by employees that occurred on the job, 
including those that resulted in personnel not being able to work as a result of their injury.
Incidents per 200,000 hours worked (per 100 FTEs)
2017 2016 2015
Alaska Airlines – On the Job Injuries 5.14 5.81 5.53
Alaska Airlines – Lost Time Injuries 3.07 3.70 3.11
Horizon Air – On the Job Injuries 9.16 9.25 9.99
Horizon Air – Lost Time Injuries 4.28 2.65 3.68
Virgin America – On the Job Injuries 2.85 NR NR
Virgin America – Lost Time Injuries NR NR NRAppendix             76 Appendix             
Glossary of terms
ASM Available seat mile Airline passenger carrying capacity. It is equal to the number of 
seats available multiplied by the number of miles flown
CO2e Carbon dioxide 
equivalentsA standard unit for measuring a carbon footprint. It expresses the 
impact of each different greenhouse gas in terms of the amount 
of CO2 that would create the same amount of warming.
GHG Greenhouse gases A greenhouse gas is a gas that absorbs infrared radiation (IR) and 
radiates heat in all directions. Examples include: carbon dioxide 
(CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (NOX).
GJ Gigajoules A measurement of energy equal to one billion (109) joules. 6 
GJ is about the chemical energy of combusting 1 barrel (159 l)  
of crude oil.
LTI Lost time injury Accidents resulting in personnel not being able to work as a 
result of their injury.
MWh Megawatt hours A megawatt hour (Mwh) is equal to 1,000 Kilowatt hours (Kwh). 
It is equal to 1,000 kilowatts of electricity used continuously  
for one hour.
NR Not reportedOJI On the job injury Employee Injuries that occur while at work.
RPM Revenue passenger mile A measure of traffic for an airline flight calculated by multiplying 
the number of revenue-paying passengers aboard by the 
distance traveled.
RTM Revenue ton mile One ton of revenue traffic (passenger and/or cargo) transported 
one mile.
RNP Required navigation 
performanceA type of performance-based navigation (PBN) that allows an 
aircraft to fly a specific path between two 3D-defined points in 
space using satellite technology.  This safer, more reliable, and 
more direct navigation system saves fuel by reducing track miles.
Scope 1 Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources such as the 
combustion of jet fuel, natural gas, or motor vehicle fuel. 
Scope 2 Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy.flysustainably.comSustainability