Alaska Air Group  
Sustainability Report
2012
Reporting period
January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2011WHO WE ARE 
Alaska Air Group is committed to leading our industry in environmental stewardship. We are dedicated to 
honorable and responsible relationships with our customers, employees, investors, business partners and 
the communities where we fly.
This is Air Group’s first full Sustainability Report and expands on our first Environmental Report that we 
published in 200. This Sustainability Report summarizes the significant effects of our environmental, 
economic and social goals, progress and impacts. Our intention is to transparently document our 
corporate social responsibility efforts and use this report as a platform for dialogue and collaboration to 
drive continued improvement and innovation. We report on the facilities that are maintained by Alaska Air 
Group. Although we do not document the environmental or social impacts of our suppliers, where relevant 
we describe collaborative improvement efforts and procurement restrictions.
This report covers Air Group’s two carriers, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air. We describe aggregated data 
for Air Group as well as separate data for the two airlines where the information is relevant and available. This report summarizes data from Jan. , 200, to Dec. 3, 20. Where available, we include data showing 
trends over multiple years. This report is consistent with Level B requirements of the internationally 
recognized Global Reporting Initiative. Although the report has not been externally assured, financial and governance data drawn from our 20  Annual Report (as reported on Form 0k) were audited by 
KPMG. Our current plan is to publish a Sustainability Report every other year. We continue to build our 
infrastructure of key performance indicators, refine our measurement and reporting systems, and develop 
our processes for sustainability-related goal-setting and deployment.
© 202 by Alaska Air Group, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this report may be reproduced without permission of Alaska Air Group, Inc.WelcomeContents
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS AND 
PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
WHO WE AR E
About Alaska Air Group
Key Facts and Figures
Corporate Governance
WHAT WE ARE COMMITTED TO
Engaging With Our Stakeholders
 Our ‘Higher’ Purpose & Strategic Focus Areas
 HOW WE REACH FOR  
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Aiming at Environmental Sustainability  
Reducing Our Carbon Footprint
Tackling Our Materials Waste & Recycling
Addressing Other Environmental Impacts 45
 46
 48
5
 52
 58
 60
64
7
 72
 74 
82 WAYS WE ADVANCE  
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY
Creating Direct Value
Creating Indirect Economic Impact
HOW WE EMBRACE  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Ensuring Safety & Satisfaction
Developing & Caring for People
Partnering with Labor
Contributing to the Community
LOOKING FORWARD
Alaska Air Group ValuesGlobal Reporting Initiative Alignment /
 
GRI Index
Invitation for Feedback 2 
 46 
 3
 45 6
9
 20
22
25 
 26
 28
36
 402
A message from Brad Tilden
PRESIDENT AND  ChIEf Ex ECuTIvE Off ICER
AlASkA AIR GRO uPLEADERSHIP MESSAGE
All of us at Alaska Air Group are very proud 
of the good value and service we provide to 
our passengers—a mission that’s especially 
crucial to people in the state of Alaska who 
live in isolated communities and rely on us 
as their lifeline to the outside world. But we 
also strive to do much more than that.
Our goal is to be a good airline, a good business, a good 
employer and a good steward for the environment. We believe 
the only way to accomplish these objectives over the long term 
is to run our business successfully and produce profits that 
enable us to offer low fares to our customers, reinvest in our 
business, reduce our impact on the environment and be a 
great place for our people to work. Accomplishing all of this  
is difficult in our industry and during these times, but it is our 
objective and I’m pleased that we’re making headway in a 
number of areas. It’s also important to say we have much  
more to do.
Air Group’s 20 2 Sustainability Report covers our efforts in 
200 and 20 and conforms to the Global Reporting Initiative, 
an international standard for triple bottom line reporting on 
performance, people and our planet. I’d like to touch on sev -
eral of our efforts here.
Everything we do begins with a fundamental premise that we’re 
committed to the highest ethical behavior and doing the right 
thing for all of our stakeholders. We operationalize this through 
Five Focus Areas, which our strategic plan is based upon. 
Safety and compliance is our top priority—and we will not 
compromise on this. From there, we believe in treating our people well so they’ll 
treat our passengers well. We’re a company of nearly 3,000 people strong, who earn almost $  billion a year in wages
 
and benefits to support their families, make house and car  
payments, and pay for schooling. Their outstanding efforts 
have also earned them $240 million in bonuses over the past 
three years (equal to a month’s extra pay for most employees in 200 and nearly a month in 20). During the same time,
 
Air Group contributed $427 million to their pension plans.
We also continue to adapt and innovate for our customers 
while offering them an ever-increasing roster of destinations. 
Hawai‘i, a market we serve from eight cities on the mainland, 
has grown to 20% of our network in less than five years.  
Additionally, our new flights to Kansas City, Philadelphia and 
Fort Lauderdale continue a transcontinental expansion we 
launched a decade ago.
Satisfied customers lead to profitability and reasonable returns 
for our investors. In the past two years, we earned record 
adjusted profits and exceeded our industry-leading goal of a  
0 percent return on invested capital over a business cycle.
Even as we’ve grown, we’ve become more efficient. Our sister 
carrier Horizon Air completed its migration to a fleet of Bom -
bardier Q400s in 20. This project complemented Alaska’s 
upgrade to an all-Boeing 737 fleet. These best-in-class fuel-effi -
cient aircraft not only save us millions of dollars a year, they’ve 
been a key factor in reducing our carbon emissions by 30 per -
cent since 2004 (measured flying one passenger one mile).
Air Group’s success is founded on the award-winning service, 
professionalism, pride and passion of our people. Caring is not 
just what our customers notice when they fly with us—it’s who 3 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
we are. We call this culture “Alaska Spirit” and “Horizon 
Heart,” and it permeates the relationship we have with our  
customers and communities in many ways.
After our maintenance employees observed fallen soldiers 
being transported on their final journey home, for example, 
they developed a more respectful process—one that other  
airlines are now adopting. Off the job, our people volunteer 
thousands of hours of service to charities. Their efforts  
augmented $7. million in corporate giving last year to organi -
zations such as the Make-A-Wish Foundation, which celebrated 
its 25th anniversary of partnership with Alaska in 20.
We are striving to minimize our environmental impact in a vari -
ety of ways. One of these projects is called “Greener Skies Over 
Seattle.” Using a satellite-based system known as Required 
Navigation Performance, or RNP, we’re streamlining landing 
approaches to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. The result 
is enhanced safety and reliability along with reduced carbon 
emissions through better airspace efficiency. Alaska pioneered 
RNP, which has been adopted at airports across the nation and 
represents a foundational piece of the FAA’s NextGen air traffic 
management system. The FAA forecasts that ongoing NextGen 
work will save .4 billion gallons of fuel through 208, reducing carbon emissions by 4 million metric tons annually—or the 
equivalent of taking nearly 3 million cars off the road every year.
To help support the aviation industry’s goal to end its growth in 
carbon emissions by 2020 and cut emissions in half by 2050, 
Air Group joined the first U.S. regional group of its kind to look 
at alternative aviation fuels. Sustainable Aviation Fuels North -
west concluded last year that the Pacific Northwest has the 
feedstocks, fuel-delivery infrastructure and political will needed to create a viable biofuels industry. During the fourth quarter  
of 20, Alaska and Horizon became the first domestic carriers 
to operate multiple biofuel-powered flights—we flew 75 flights 
from Seattle to Washington, D.C., and between Portland and 
Seattle—to further highlight aviation’s need for an affordable 
and sustainable supply of alternative fuel.
We’ve also continued other efforts to conserve natural 
resources—from using sustainable inflight service items to 
recycling onboard waste to powering our aircraft on the ground 
with electricity and other sources that are more efficient than 
aviation fuel. Our inflight recycling programs set industry  
standards and have been part the culture at Horizon since  
the early 980s.
As much as we’ve accomplished, though, there is more to do 
to benefit our employees, customers, investors and the planet. 
I’m confident that the dedication, resourcefulness and determi -
nation of our people will lead to even greater success. As we 
embrace the skies ahead, our Five Focus Areas will guide us. 
Our priority, as always, is our unwavering focus on safety every 
day and on every flight. We’ll keep working together to provide 
our passengers with low fares and friendly, knowledgeable  
people they can depend on. In short, we’re determined to make 
Alaska and Horizon the easiest airlines to fly on by continuing 
to be more efficient and effective—both internally and in how 
we affect the world around us.“Our goal is to be a good airline, a good 
business, a good employer and a good 
steward for the environment.”WHO WE ARE 4
BIll AYER
Chairman of the Board
Alaska Air Group
“Our ‘Alaska Spirit’ drives everyone in the company to take great 
care of our customers and each other—as well as the world around 
us. Our goal of becoming the domestic airline leader in 
environmental stewardship is founded on operating the most fuel-
efficient aircraft in their class, a wide range of sustainability 
practices, and a history of innovation that also makes flying safer 
and more reliable.” 
GlENN JO hNSON
President
horizon Air
“Caring for the environment, our people and the communities we 
serve is not only the right thing to do—it makes good business 
sense too.
That’s why I am so passionate about each of the elements of our 
Corporate Social Responsibility program, which ranges from 
environmental stewardship to corporate giving to our employee 
assistance programs.
I’m very proud of the work our people have done, and of the  
energy our team puts into these important responsibilities day  
in and day out.”PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
1st5 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
(Data source:
DOT Form 4  and 298C)#1In fuel efficiency 
domestically per 
revenue ton mile 
and revenue 
passenger mile30%
Reduction in carbon footprint intensity at Alaska 
Airlines since 2004; 27% reduction at Horizon Air 
since 2004.
ZERO  INCIDENTS OF  
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
REGULATIONS 9%
   reduction in facilities’ energy use / square foot since 2008BIOFUEL
Commercial biofuel flights 
completed in November 20:
75
Alaska Airlines stations that use 
ground power for aircraft parked at 
gates instead of onboard auxiliary 
power unit:
100%
* occasional minor exceptions in Alaska
90%
of Horizon Air inflight recyclables 
collected; 49% of recyclables  
captured at Alaska Airlines in 20airport wind turbine-solar panel 
installation in Nome, Alaska$B
in wages and benefits earned by  
Alaska Air Group employees in 20
$287M
2011 ADJUSTED NET INCOME  
IN A CHALLENGING BUSINESS 
ENVIRONMENT$.2B
Carried 700,000 visitors to Hawai‘i, contributing to nearly  
$.2 billion in direct visitor expenditures in 20, and adding 
350 quality jobs to Hawai‘i’s work force25M
Passengers in 20
114M
Pounds of cargo in 20
$00M
per year spend with diversity-qualifying suppliersHIGHEST IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION  AMONG 
TRADITIONAL NETWORK CARRIERS IN NORTH AMERICA, 2008-202 
(J.D. Power & Associates)
$7.1M
in cash and in-kind donations in 20GOLD STANDARD 
AMERICAN HEART 
ASSOCIATION’S FIT 
FRIENDLY AWARD#1On-Time  
Performance
operational excellence 
award to Alaska Airlines 
in 200 and 20
16 COMMUNITIES SERVED IN THE STATE OF ALASKA THAT HAVE NO ROAD ACCESS. (Data source: FlightStats.com)6 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
Address vehicle fleet emissions. 65% of Horizon Air’s vehicle fleet consists of  
electric vehicles. 0% of Alaska Airlines’ vehicle 
fleet is electric (unchanged since 2009). Page 33.
Reduce facilities energy consumption 30% by 2020, 
relative to 2008 levels (measured by Btu per square 
foot in buildings maintained by Air Group).  
[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]Horizon Air decreased energy consumption per 
square foot of building space 30% over the past 
two years. Alaska Airlines decreased consumption 
2.8% since 2009, though it increased .7% in 200. Air Group achieved a combined 9% reduction in 
facilities energy since 2008. Pages 34-35.
More efficient heating and cooling system installed 
at Alaska Corporate Headquarters. Page 34.
Completion of first wind/solar installation in Nome, Alaska, is expected to produce 5,000
 
kilowatt hours of power annually. Page 35.Evaluate fleet efficiency opportunities in 202. 
Increase percentage of electric motorized equip -
ment to 20% by the end of 203. [Alaska Airlines].
Establish baseline GSE fuel use in 203 by imple -
menting a system to accurately track all types of 
GSE fuel consumption. [Alaska / Horizon]
Obtain LEED certification for Board Room at Los Angeles International Airport in 202.
 
[Alaska Airlines].ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY: Reduce Emissions from Heating and Electricity Usage in BuildingsContribute to an industry-wide goal of reducing 
CO2 emissions by 50% by 2050, relative to 2005  
levels. [Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY: Reduce Emissions from Fossil Fuel Consumption
Alaska Airlines achieved a 7.8% reduction in CO2 
emissions per revenue passenger mile (RPM) since 2009. Horizon Air achieved a 3.4% reduction per 
RPM during the same period. Air Group’s carbon 
footprint intensity has decreased nearly 30% since 
2004. Page 28.
Promote the development and adoption of 
sustainable and affordable aviation fuels.  
[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]Alaska and Horizon helped form the group Sustain -
able Aviation Fuels Northwest, which published a report in May 20 that found the region has the 
feedstocks, delivery infrastructure and political will to create a biofuels industry. In November 20, 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air launched 75 com -
mercial flights powered by biofuel. Pages 32-33.Continue to improve emissions reductions  
through fleet renewals, weight reduction efforts  
and innovative flying efficiencies.
Air Group will continue to actively pursue opportu -
nities to purchase sustainable aviation biofuels 
where it is economically sustainable. We will  
evaluate factors such as supply, distribution  
infrastructure, price and sustainability. Preferably, 
the supply would come from a Pacific Northwest, 
Los Angeles-area or Hawai‘i location.  SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT PROGRESS 202 AND BEYONDOur sustainability impacts
and performance at a glance.
l  ON TRACK
l  IN PROGRESSl  NEEDS IMPROVEMENT (Alaska Airlines)
l  ON TRACK (Horizon Air)l  ON TRACKThis Progress on Performance chart reflects Air 
Group’s material sustainability impacts, risks and 
opportunities. It includes our performance through 
Dec. 3, 20, outlines our goals and, where rele -
vant, summarizes our progress against goals.7 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Increase the rate of recycled inflight waste with a target of 00% by year-end 200. The focus is on 
collecting recyclable materials inflight and recycling 
these materials on the ground. [Alaska Airlines]Original 2009 goal of 00% diversion of inflight 
recyclables (paper, plastic, glass and aluminum) 
was not met, and the goal was reduced to 65% in 20. As of 20, Alaska Airlines collected 49% of 
all recyclable inflight materials, and 95% of all 
catering locations accepted these materials for 
recycling. Pages 36-37.Modified Goal: Collect and divert 70% of all inflight recyclable materials by year-end 202, and increase collection rate to 90% by year-end 205 [Alaska].
Expand catering location recycling efforts to 00% 
of all catering locations by 2Q 202.ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY: Recycle Our Waste
Increase inflight recycling rate by specific type: Horizon Air’s flight attendants collected 90% of all inflight recyclables in 20. This is an increase of 
7% since our last reporting period in 2009. All 
goals except for aluminum were met or exceeded.   
20 Results: aluminum 78%; paper 77%; plastic 
7%; glass 00%. Pages 36-37.Collect and divert more inflight recyclables by 
increasing our diversion rate by waste stream type: aluminum 85%; paper 80%; glass 00%; plastic 
75%.  
00% of non-airport company-owned facilities 
where Alaska and Horizon control the disposal 
have recycling programs by 2020.  
[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]New goal. Establish a standardized recycling program for the 
five largest company-owned non-airport facilities in Seattle by year-end 202.SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT
PROGRESS 202 AND BEYOND
l  NEEDS IMPROVEMENT
l  ON TRACK
l  NEW8 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
Reduce costs per available seat mile (CASM)—the 
cost to fly each aircraft seat one mile —excluding 
fuel to 7.5 cents at Alaska and 2 cents at Horizon.Neither Alaska nor Horizon met the plan goal for 20. Both airlines continue to work on lowering 
costs in a variety of ways, such as investing in 
larger aircraft, driving more direct sales to alaskaair.
com and improving productivity through more effi -
cient processes.Continue to reduce CASM at Alaska and Horizon to 
remain competitive with lower-cost airlines  for the 
long-term.ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY:  Focus on Low Costs and Low Fares
SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT PROGRESS 202 AND BEYONDOur sustainability impacts
and performance at a glance.
l  NEEDS IMPROVEMENTENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY: Reduce Consumption of Non-Sustainable Resources
Decrease paper use 25% by weight by 2020, relative to 202 baseline. [Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air] New goal. Identify largest-volume office paper consumption 
and establish a baseline.
Identify inflight serviceware products that can be 
replaced with organic, sustainable, recyclable or compostable alternatives. [Alaska / Horizon]  In 200, we eliminated our main cabin plastic cut
-
lery in favor of plant-based compostable utensils.  In 20, we replaced our main cabin polystyrene 
coffee cup with recyclable paper cups on all Alaska 
and Horizon flights. Page 36.Initiate a replacement plan for remaining materials. 
Replace existing juice box with one made from FSC- 
certified materials.l  NEW
l  ON TRACKThis Progress on Performance chart reflects Air 
Group’s material sustainability impacts, risks and 
opportunities. It includes our performance through 
Dec. 3, 20, outlines our goals and, where rele -
vant, summarizes our progress against goals.9 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY:  Optimize Profit and Value Created
Air Group met its goal by increasing capacity 4.7% in 200 and 6.8% in 20. The company ordered 5 
new aircraft and accepted delivery of three 737-800s in 20. Alaska and Horizon added service to 25 
new markets during the past three years.  
Page 47.Establish Alaska Air Group as the preferred carrier 
for travelers living on the West Coast.
Accept delivery of three 737-800s and four 737-900ERs in 202 and up to nine more in 203.Grow Air Group capacity (measured by available 
seat miles) 4% to 8% annually, assuming accept -
able profitability.
Air Group exceeded its goal by earning a 0.7% return on invested capital in 200 and .7% in 20. Page 47.Continue to keep 0 cents on every dollar we
 
collect (before taxes) by responding nimbly to 
changing market conditions and continuing  
to lower costs.Earn a 0% return on invested capital over a  
business cycle in order to continue offering low 
fares while making reasonable profits that sustain  
competitive wages and benefits and company  
and job growth.SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT PROGRESS 202 AND BEYOND
Air Group spent $09 million last year with diverse 
suppliers. The first- or second-largest cost for  
airlines is fuel. With few “diverse” suppliers (small, 
minority-owned, and/or women-owned businesses) 
in this area, it can be challenging to spend signifi -
cantly in this category. We are developing better 
practices for tracking diverse spend across the 
company. Page 48.Develop performance standards for our integrated 
buyers that ensure a minimum of one diverse sup -
plier is included in all RFPs issued by Supply Chain 
Managment. If no qualified diverse supplier can be 
found, buyers will document steps taken to try and 
identify diverse suppliers.Target an average of 3% annual growth in the total 
number of diverse suppliers utilized within our 
supply chain.  
[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]
l  NEWl  ON TRACK
l  ON TRACK0 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
Air Group is moving to SMS to build upon the 
many systems already in place to provide better 
and more efficient oversight that is integrated 
across all aspects of the organization and to ensure 
safety risks are managed to acceptable levels.  
Alaska is at the second of four levels of implemen -
tation; Horizon is at the first level. Page 52.Full implementation of SMS framework to establish 
interim target of reducing risk and be completed by 
year-end 205 and reduce Risk Level 3+ events to 5.5 events per 0,000 departures(on our way 
toward Zero events).SOCIAL & COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY:  Be the Industry Leader in Safety & ComplianceOur sustainability impacts
and performance at a glance.
SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT PROGRESS 202 AND BEYOND
Reduce employee injuries. Alaska Airlines’ lost-time injury rate increased about 4% to 5.9 injuries per 00 full-time employ
-
ees from 200 to 20. The increase was due to 
injuries reported by several specific work groups.
Horizon’s lost-time injury rate decreased in the 
past two years from 2.95 to 2.26 (surpassing the 200 and 20 goals of 3.7 and 3.0, respectively). 
The decreasing rates are attributed to an increased 
emphasis on reporting hazards and ensuring those 
hazards are eliminated or minimized. Page 54-5.Reduce lost-time injuries by 5% over baseline to 4.66 per 00 employees. [Alaska Airlines]
Reduce lost-time injuries to 2.82 per 00 employees. 
[Horizon Air]
Continuous improvement in customer satisfaction 
scores.Alaska Airlines met the 200 goal of 75% in every 
month and the 20 goal of 77% for  months. Horizon met the 200 goal of 78-80% (depending on the season) for nine months and the 20 goal of 8% for  months. Pages 56-57.Establish a “Hassle-Free Customer Experience” 
metric, assess our baseline performance, and 
establish future improvement goals and initiatives.  SOCIAL & COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY:  Enhance Customer Experience and SatisfactionImplement an integrated Safety Management  
System (SMS) for Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
and reduce Risk Level 3+ events, which represent 
elevated risk to the operation, such as significant aircraft/ asset damage, injuries to employees and 
customers or a significant reduction in safety).
Some 3,400 Air Group employees completed awareness training in 20 and certified their
 
commitment to follow the code.Continue to deliver awareness training to all employees to achieve 00% awareness of the 
code of ethics. Actively engage stakeholder 
groups in ethical decision-making.Foster an active reporting culture and dedication to 
ethical behavior by increasing awareness of and 
compliance with our code of conduct and ethics.l  IN PROGRESS
l  NEEDS IMPROVEMENT (Alaska Airlines)
l  ON TRACK (Horizon Air)
l  NEW
l  ON TRACKThis Progress on Performance chart reflects Air 
Group’s material sustainability impacts, risks and 
opportunities. It includes our performance through 
Dec. 3, 20, outlines our goals and, where rele -
vant, summarizes our progress against goals. ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Close our defined-benefit pension funds, honor our 
pension obligations and ensure generous defined 
contribution retirement plans for employees.SOCIAL & COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY:  Develop, Engage and Care for People
Alaska Airlines added nearly $280 million to its defined-benefit pension plans in 200 and 20.The funded status was 8% at the end of 20. The 
company announced it will freeze the pension plan 
covering 735 management and dispatch employees at the end of 203 and replace it with a generous 
defined contribution plan. Page 46.
Maintain a “small company feel” by connecting 
employees through an eight-hour Flight Path  
seminar. [Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]In 20, ,260 Alaska Airlines employees com -
pleted the seminar. Page 59.Continue to fund the defined-benefit program and 
offer generous market-based defined contribution 
retirement plans for employees.
Horizon Air employees will commence Flight Path in 20 2, with the goal of all 3,000 Air Group 
employees completing the seminar by the end of 203.SUPPORTING GOAL / PROJECT PROGRESS 202 AND BEYOND
Increase employee engagement and satisfaction for 
Air Group as a whole.Employee engagement increased slightly at Alaska 
Airlines over the previous survey taken in 2009. Engagement decreased 6% at Horizon Air, which 
is attributed to major changes involving the 
carrier’s transformation plan. However, in an interim survey taken in April 202 engagement 
exceeded pre-transformation scores. Page 58.
Increase the diversity of our leadership teams.[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air]Achieve a rating in the 90th percentile or a rate of 
4.09 on the Kenexa Employee Engagement Index by the end of 207.  
Improve how we measure factors relevant to 
increasing applicant pool diversity to ensure our 
diversity outreach efforts are effective. Create  
formal expectations around coaching, mentoring 
and sponsoring employees.
Continue to encourage philanthropy through our 
company and our individual employees.[Alaska Airlines / Horizon Air] Air Group contributed $7.2 million in cash and in-kind donations to environmental, social / community 
services, medical (emergency / research), educa
-
tional, sports and arts organizations in 20. This represented an increase from $5.64 million in 200. 
Pages 66-67.Focus our corporate giving on medical / social and 
youth / educational issues. Implement an employee 
giving and volunteerism portal with a participation 
goal to be defined.Strong partnerships established with our Employee 
Resource Groups and Inclusion Advisory Council to 
identify potential barriers. Page 62-63.l  ON TRACK
l  IN PROGRESS
l  NEEDS IMPROVEMENT
l  NEEDS IMPROVEMENT
l  ON TRACKIN THIS SECTIONWho we are:
We are committed.  
We are engaged.  
We are passionate.
We are Alaska Air Group.
Alaska Airlines and horizon Air realized long ago that our business is about 
people more than planes. Our core values of Alaska Spirit and horizon heart 
embody this knowledge.
These values encompass our commitment to our customers, employees  
and investors. They also represent Alaska Air Group’s culture of continually 
embracing the challenges of an ever-changing world, including the need for 
ongoing sustainability improvements and innovation.
 4 About Alaska Air Group
 5 Key Facts & Figures
 6 Corporate Governance  WHO WE ARE 4
About Alaska Air Group.
Alaska Air Group is the holding company 
for two operating subsidiaries, Alaska
Airlines and Horizon Air. The Seattle-
based carriers provide passenger and
cargo transportation to more than 90 
destinations in the United States,  
Canada and Mexico. Air Group is a  
publicly held incorporated entity and its 
stock is traded on the NYSE.
Alaska Airlines, the nation’s seventh-  
largest carrier, operates from hubs in
Anchorage, Alaska; Los Angeles; Port -
land, Oregon; and Seattle. Alaska flies 
7 Boeing 737s to 62 destinations.
Horizon Air operates a fleet of 48 Bom -
bardier Q400 turboprop aircraft to 39
destinations from Portland and Seattle.
In 20, Horizon changed its business 
model to become an all-capacity  
purchase agreement (CPA) carrier for 
Alaska. While Horizon remains a sepa -
rate airline and subsidiary of Air Group, 
seats on the regional carrier’s aircraft are
marketed and sold by Alaska Airlines. 
Alaska also determines where, when and
how much Horizon flies, and buys all 
capacity produced under the CPA.
Air Group has been integrating many 
previously separate systems as shared
services to both airlines for several years,  and the transition of Horizon Air’s 
external brand to Alaska Airlines was 
completed in mid-202.
Both airlines outsource heavy aircraft 
maintenance to U.S.-based vendors.
Alaska also contracts out most of its 
ramp/ground operations and some
customer service agents. We select our 
partner vendors based on several
factors, including their safety record, 
safety programs, commitment to
training, hiring criteria, diversity and 
commitment to process improvements.
Recent significant changes in our busi -
ness include additional service to 25 new
markets in the past three years; a 28.3% 
increase in Air Group’s stock pricefrom the end of 20 0 to Dec. 3 , 20; 
and a 2-for-  stock split in mid-March
202 (our historical financial information 
has been adjusted accordingly).
Beneficial ownership tables can be found in our 20  proxy statement. As of
Dec. 3 , 20, our largest shareholders 
and their ownership percentages were:
BlackRock Institutional Trust  ......... 7.77%  
Primecap Management Co.  ........... 7.43%  
PAR Capital Management  .............. 5.6%  
Vanguard Group  ............................. 5.49%  
Renaissance Technologies Corp.  ...5.35%Recognition
Air Group’s commitment to safety,  
customer service, innovation and indus -
try leadership was recognized by several 
awards during the past two years. 
Among them:
“FAA Diamond Award” for maintenance training excellence in 200 and 20 
(Alaska and Horizon individually).
“Highest in customer satisfaction among 
traditional network carriers” in the J.D. 
Power North America Airline Study in 200 and 20  (as well as 2008, 2009 
and 202).
“World’s top-performing airline” by  
Aviation Week magazine in 20 0.
“On-Time Performance Award” (Alaska) by FlightStats.com in 200 and 20.
“Airline Technology Leadership Award” 
by Air Transport World magazine in 20.
“Business Generator Recycler of the 
Year” (Horizon) by the Washington State Recycling Association in 200.
Joseph S. Murphy Industry Service Award 
for outstanding public and community 
service by Air Transport World  magazine, 
announced in January 202.5 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Alaska Airlines and horizon Air together serve more than 90 destinations  
in the united States, Canada and Mexico.12,806
Total employees
$287.4M
Adjusted net income
$5.2B
Total assets30 Billion
Seat miles
25 Million
Passengers114 Million
Cargo pounds (freight & mail)
$108M
Cargo revenue
FresnoFresnoKelownaKelownaEdmontonEdmonton
BellinghamBellingham
WenatcheeWenatchee
YakimaYakima
PascoPasco
Walla WallaWalla WallaPullmanPullman
LewistonLewiston
Sun ValleySun ValleyMissoulaMissoulaKalispellKalispell
HelenaHelenaGreat FallsGreat Falls
BillingsBillings
BozemanBozemanVictoriaVictoria
EugeneEugene
MedfordMedfordRedmond/
BendRedmond/
Bend
Santa BarbaraSanta BarbaraSanta RosaSanta Rosa
Mammoth/YosemiteMammoth/Yosemite
MiamiMiamiWashington, D.C. - NationalWashington, D.C. (Reagan National)New York City / NewarkNew York City / NewarkBostonBoston
PhoenixPhoenixReno/Lake TahoeReno/Lake Tahoe
Las VegasLas VegasOaklandOakland
BurbankBurbank
OntarioOntario
Orange CountyOrange County
San DiegoSan Diego
Los CabosLos CabosMazatlanMazatlan
ManzanilloManzanillo
Ixtapa / ZihuatanejoIxtapa / ZihuatanejoAnchorageAnchorage
CordovaCordova
YakutatYakutat
Glacier Bay / 
GustavusGlacier Bay / 
Gustavus JuneauJuneau
WrangellWrangellPetersburgPetersburg
KetchikanKetchikanDutch HarborDutch HarborKing SalmonKing SalmonDillinghamDillinghamBethelBethelNomeNomeKotzebueKotzebue
FairbanksFairbanks
KodiakKodiak
AdakAdak
OrlandoOrlando
GuadalajaraGuadalajaraLong BeachLong BeachChicago (O'Hare)Chicago (O'Hare)
DenverDenverBarrowBarrow
Prudhoe BayPrudhoe Bay
St. LouisSt. LouisSitkaSitka
Puerto VallartaPuerto VallartaPhiladelphiaPhiladelphia
Kansas CityKansas City
LoretoDallas / Fort WorthDallas / Fort Worth
Mexico CityMexico CityLa PazLa PazHonolulu (Oahu)Lihu’e (Kauai)
Kahului (Maui)
Kona (Hawaii)Minneapolis/St. PaulMinneapolis/St. Paul
TucsonTucson
HoustonHouston
Fort LauderdaleFort LauderdaleAustinAustinAtlantaAtlantaSacramentoSacramento
San FranciscoSan Francisco
San JoseSan Jose
Los AngelesLos AngelesPortlandPortlandSeattleSeattleVancouverVancouver
SpokaneSpokaneCalgaryCalgary
Palm SpringsPalm SpringsBoiseBoise
LoretoMontereyMontereyYEAR ENDING 20 CODE OF CONDUCT & ETHICS 
Alaska Air Group maintains a Code of Conduct & Ethics that all employees,  
officers and directors of Air Group, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air must read 
and understand. The code outlines responsibilities for everyone to observe the 
highest standards of business and personal ethics while promoting the best 
interests of the company.   
All new employees receive training on the code and certify their commitment to 
follow it. In 20, the board of directors and all active management and wage-
scale employees (about 3,400 people) at both airlines completed the course.  
In 202, all union employees will also be required to take the course or review 
the code.  
In addition, Air Group maintains an active reporting culture and encourages 
employees, vendors, customers and other interested parties to call the ethics 
hotline or submit a safety hazard or other internal mechanism to report inci -
dences of non-compliance with laws and regulations. All reports are thoroughly 
investigated and results are reported quarterly to the Board of Directors Safety 
and Audit Committees.
To read Air Group’s Code of Conduct & Ethics or for more information about 
our corporate governance, visit www.alaskaair.com/investors and click on  
“Corporate Governance.”WHO WE ARE 6
Ensuring ethics:  
governance and compliance.
Corporate Governance
We have a commitment to our employ -
ees, customers and investors to behave 
ethically and in compliance with the law. 
Our commitment guides the decisions 
and actions we make every day as well as 
our approach to corporate governance.
The Alaska Air Group Board of Directors, 
the highest governance body of the  
company, monitors our commitment 
through their oversight of the company’s 
governance and ethics practices.  
Management regularly reviews aspects  
of its results with the full board and its 
committees. Board committees include: 
The Safety Committee  (Air Group is 
one of only a few airlines to have a 
board committee focused exclusively 
on safety) assists the board in dis -
charging its responsibilities regarding our No.  priority. The board estab
-
lished this committee in 200  to 
assure the company’s stakeholders 
that airline safety is its highest priority 
and the responsibility of every 
employee, and that Air Group strives 
to be unsurpassed in airline safety 
and compliance.  •
The Audit Committee  assists the 
board in ensuring: ) the integrity and 
reliability of Air Group’s financial 
statements; 2) compliance with all  
relevant legal and regulatory require-  
ments; 3) the independence and 
qualifications of our independent • accountants; and 4) the adequacy of 
internal controls and financial risk 
management.
The Governance and Nominating 
Committee  assists the board in identi -
fying and nominating individuals to •Alaska Air Group Board of Directors Demographics
Director Demographics  
(AAG, AS, QX)Number of Directors
Directors on Board: 0 (00%)
Independent Directors on Board: 8 (80%)
Males: 7 (70%)
Females: 3 (30%)
Minorities: 3 (30%)
Committee  
DemographicsAudit Comp &  
Leadership  
DevelopmentGov/Nom Safety
# of Directors 3 (30%) 3 (30%) 4 (40%) 4 (40%)
# of Males  (0%) 3 (30%) 3 (30%) 3 (30%)
# of Females 2 (20%) 0 (0%)  (0%)  (30%)
# of Minorities 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 3 (30%) 2 (20%)
Age 50-54 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%)
Age 55-59  (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%)
Age 60-64 2 (20%)  (0%) 2 (20%) 3 (30%)
Age 65-69 0 (0%)  (0%)  (0%) 0 (0%)
AAG Board  
Leadership RolesIndependent/  
ExecutiveMale/Female Age Range Minority  
(Y/N)
AAG Board Chair Executive Male 55-59 N
AAG Lead Director Independent Female 60-64 Y
Audit Committee Chair Independent Female 55-59 N
Comp & Leadership  
Development ChairIndependent Male 60-64 N
Gov/Nom Committee Chair Independent Female 60-64 Y
Safety Committee Chair Independent Female 60-64 N*These numbers represent each of the boards—Alaska Air Group, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air.7 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
serve on the board and its commit -
tees and develops and recommends 
corporate governance principles  
applicable to the company.  
The Compensation and Leadership 
Development Committee  discharges 
the board’s responsibilities regarding 
compensation of elected officers of 
Air Group and its subsidiaries, and 
annually discloses the company’s pay 
practices of its five most senior  
management in compliance with 
applicable rules and regulations.
The Alaska Air Group Board of Directors 
participates in an annual officer and 
director questionnaire in which mem -
bers provide information on themselves 
and rate each of the committees and 
the performance of the board as a 
whole. During this reporting period, the 
chair of the board, Bill Ayer, also served 
as chief executive officer of Alaska Air 
Group, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air. 
In mid-May 202, Alaska Airlines Presi -
dent Brad Tilden assumed the role of 
CEO for Air Group and its two subsidiary 
airlines.•
Company shareholders, including 
employee shareholders, can provide  
recommendations or directions to the 
highest governance body by submitting  
a proposal for inclusion in the proxy 
statement in accordance with the  
company’s bylaws.Information about director compensa -
tion, nominating policies and other 
board-related issues appear in Alaska Air Group’s 20 Annual Report and 202 
Proxy Statement available online at www.
alaskaair.com/investors.IN THIS SECTIONWhat we are committed to:
Safety and compliance.
People focus.
hassle-free customer experience.
Energetic and compelling brand. low fares, low costs and
network growth.
Safety and compliance are the foundation of all that we do at Alaska Air Group. 
We possess an unwavering commitment to the safety of our passengers and 
employees, and to conduct our business with honesty, integrity and 
professionalism. We also strive to provide consistently high value to our 
customers at affordable prices and with unforgettable customer service.  
 20
 22Engaging With Our Stakeholders
Our ‘Higher’ Purpose & Strategic Focus Areas20 WHAT WE ARE COMMITTED TO
Engaging with  
our stakeholders.
Air Group’s stakeholders include business and leisure travelers, corporate customers, 
employees, shareholders, the communities where we do business, our suppliers and partners, 
and airports. We determine material issues to report on in a variety of ways, including customer 
satisfaction and employee surveys, frequent flier and industry forums, Employee Resource 
Groups, our Corporate Travel Advisory Board and Community Advisory Boards, internal staff 
experts, and communication with other stakeholders (as outlined in the table to the right).
The issues and indicators in this report, especially those summarized on pages 6 through 11, 
are those we identified as most important to our stakeholders.
We are developing methods for conducting materiality analysis and engaging stakeholders to 
more rigorously identify and prioritize material issues, gather feedback on our progress, and 
talk about issues and opportunities. Our goal is to ensure that stakeholder priorities inform our 
key performance indicators, data collection, reporting and improvement efforts.2 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Alaska Airlines hosts several consumer advisory boards and functions:
1) Frequent Flier “MVP Gold” Advisory Board:
•2-4 Alaska Airlines’ frequent fliers (outspoken loyalists) are invited to Seattle quarterly 
to share their insights about new policies, programs, services, issues and new concepts.
• Individuals formally participate on the board for two years, however, they informally keep 
in touch with the leadership team after their term.  
2) Frequent Flier “MVP Gold” luncheonsAlaska Airlines hosts 8-0 luncheons annually at locations throughout our route system as 
a gesture of thanks and to hear feedback from some of our very best customers.
• Leaders and frontline employees from many major work areas share lunch topics with 
customers and actively respond to questions. 
• Top themes, suggestions and issues are documented and shared with the Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air leadership teams.CONSUMERS
(THE FLYING PUBLIC)
Air Group obtains input from corporate customers primarily through our Corporate 
Travel Advisory Board. In addition to a range of other topics, conversations include CSR-
related issues such as carbon credits, reporting, our Greener Skies initiative, etc.CORPORATE 
CUSTOMERS
Employee feedback is solicited and constantly utilized through direct interaction between 
supervisors, officers and union leaders; employee surveys; popular Q&A forums on our 
employee websites; and via our many Employee Resource Groups.EMPLOYEES
We monitor concerns and impacts in the communities where we conduct business 
through our employees, Sales and Marketing staff, Employee Resource Groups, industry 
forums, public agencies, and other organizations. We also engage with best practice 
organizations around diverse topics such as disability outreach and community educa -
tional concerns. Our Community Advisory Boards, which consist of regional groups of 
local leaders in the state of Alaska, help Air Group stay in touch with issues facing those 
unique communities. We also collaborate with advocacy groups, such as those for the 
disabled, with input and recommendations from a Disability Advisory Board.COMMUNITIES
Air Group actively partners with airport authorities in each of our destinations to ensure 
a safe, compliant and positive travel experience for our customers. AIRPORTS  
We routinely engage with investors through announcements of our financial results, 
Air Group’s annual shareholder meeting, industry conferences and face-to-face 
meetings.INVESTORS22 WHAT WE ARE COMMITTED TO
Safety and compliance are the foundation of everything we do. We have an  
unwavering commitment to safety and compliance, and we will not compromise  
this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives.With roots in our namesake state,  
Alaska Airlines has always served as a 
lifeline for many communities we serve 
by providing transportation, medicine, 
mail and other supplies to locations 
accessible only by air and sea or with 
limited road access. Horizon Air shares 
its sister carrier’s passion for providing 
great service and being a good neighbor 
in the community. 
Looking ahead, Air Group’s road map for 
202 and beyond is founded on five focus areas. Continuously improving our envi -
ronmental and social sustainability 
performance is core to achieving these 
strategic objectives.
Our social sustainability initiatives repre -
sent proactive steps we’re taking to 
achieve “Safety and Compliance” and 
“People Focus”—from ensuring the 
safety of customers and employees to 
developing and engaging our people.  
We also see social sustainability as a key 
factor in customer loyalty, which involves our “Hassle-Free Customer Experience” 
focus area.
Sustainability—both environmental 
stewardship and social responsibility—is 
an increasingly important element of our 
“Energetic and Compelling Brand.”
Finally, our relentless pursuit of fuel  
efficiency not only lowers our carbon 
footprint, it allows us to offer our  
customers lower fares.
While airplanes and technology enable us to do what we do, we recognize that this is 
fundamentally a people business, and our future depends on how we work together 
to win in this extremely competitive environment. As we grow, we want to strengthen 
our small company feel while also providing people of all backgrounds equal access 
to opportunities based on individual abilities and performance. We will succeed 
where others fail because of our pride and passion, and because of the way we treat 
our customers, our suppliers and partners, and each other.2SAFETY AND COMPLIANCE
PEOPLE FOCUSOur ‘higher’ purpose  
and strategic focus areas.
123 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
We cultivate loyal customer relationships by offering an intuitive and trouble-free 
experience at all touch-points that is enabled by industry-leading technology, and by 
reliable and best-in-class customer service.
We will create a deeper emotional connection between our brand, our people, our 
customers and our communities. We will position our brand as friendly, genuine, 
and relevant to a changing customer profile, and we will use our brand and our  
technology to develop a more direct relationship with our customers. We will be the 
industry leader in environmental stewardship.
We will become known for our low fares and high value in order to broaden our 
appeal, reduce our vulnerability to low-cost carriers, and fuel growth. We will fund 
low fares by relentlessly pursuing simplicity, low overhead and high productivity.  
We will establish ourselves as the preferred airline for all travelers living on the West 
Coast by defending and growing Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, and by growing 
Hawaii and California. We are targeting 4% to 8% annual growth for the Alaska main -
line operation, assuming acceptable profitability.3
4
5HASSLE-FREE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
ENERGETIC AND COMPELLING BRAND
LOW FARES, LOW COSTS AND NETWORK GROWTH
We recognize that our business promise—to fly our passengers to their 
destinations safely, on time and with their bags while providing great customer 
service—requires large quantities of jet fuel. Even though Air Group flies only 
3% of domestic airline capacity, we burn more than 1 million gallons of jet fuel 
a day. That is why we continuously seek ways to reduce our reliance on fossil 
fuels and make meaningful changes to minimize our impacts on the planet. 
Environmental sustainability efforts are key to reducing our waste and energy 
costs, driving innovation, providing good value to our customers and benefiting 
our bottom line. These efforts are also simply the right thing to do. 
26 Aiming at Environmental Sustainability  
 28 Reducing Our Carbon Footprint
36   Tackling Our Materials Waste & Recycling
 40 Addressing Other Environmental Impactshow we reach for  
environmental sustainability:
Reduce our carbon footprint.  
Minimize resource use.  
Eliminate waste.  
Develop technology innovations.
IN THIS SECTIONAIR GROUP ’S CARBON  FOOTPRINT  INTENSITY  (EMISSIONS  PER REVENUE  PASSENGER  
MILE )HAS  DECREASED  30% SINCE  2004. O UR ABSOLUTE  TOTAL  FOOTPRINT  HAS  
DECREASED  3%, EVEN  WITH  INCREASED  FLYING  DURING  THE  PAST  THREE  YEARS .
4.5
4.05
3.95
3.85
3.75
3.65
3.55
3.45
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 200 20CO2e (MILLION  METRIC TONS)INTENSITY RATIO250
225
200
75
50
0� TOTAL CO2E 
n GHG INTENSITY
209.2224.4
20.595.5
86.5
74.6
64.357.63.944.02 4.04.
3.98
3.633.753.89
Total CO2e (carbon dioxide-equivalent) emissions and emissions per revenue passenger mile (RPM)26 HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Aiming at  
environmental sustainability.
Alaska Air Group aims to be the domes -
tic industry leader in environmental 
stewardship. Arguably, we have achieved 
this goal—at least as measured by fuel 
efficiency—even as we recognize that 
our industry is just scratching the surface 
of becoming truly sustainable.
We focus the bulk of our attention on 
minimizing the amount of fossil fuels  
we burn. We also work continually to 
minimize our environmental footprint 
in the areas of materials, waste, deic -
ing fluids and noise pollution. 
Air Group’s Corporate Environmental 
Policy includes a clear statement of our 
intention and expectations regarding full 
compliance with all environmental laws 
and regulations, using energy and mate -
rials responsibly, replacing hazardous 
materials and products, and promoting  
a culture and competence to continually 
improve environmental stewardship. Our 
Corporate Environmental Policy is avail -
able at www.alaskaair.com; click “About 
Us” at the bottom of the page, then click 
“Social Responsibility.”In support of our Environmental Policy, 
Air Group has made a strategic commit -
ment to measurably reduce our impact 
on the planet. The four core elements of 
our environmental strategy are: 
. Reducing emissions from fuel 
consumption;2. Reducing emissions from heating and 
electricity consumption in our facilities;3. Reducing consumption of non
 
sustainable resources; and 4. Recycling our inflight and operational 
wastes.
The following sections describe actions 
we are taking to operationalize this strat -
egy, starting with how we’re working to 
reduce our carbon footprint.
Aircraft Emissions
About 99% of our carbon emissions 
come from burning aviation fuel—we 
use more than  million gallons each 
day. Fuel consumption is our biggest 
environmental and financial challenge. Alaska Air Group  
AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS 
   Sulfur Dioxide Nitrogen Dioxide
2004  ,62,908  4,329,9  
2005  ,58,065  4,202,4782006 ,60,603 4,735,5482007 ,65,868  5,386,6842008 ,598,03 5,043,6492009 ,455,576 4,047,663200 ,504,748 4,673,7820 ,564,947 4,825,02
This table summarizes Air Group’s total sulfur and 
nitrogen oxides emissions (measured by kilograms per 
year). Fuel conservation programs keep the total amount 
of these pollutants at a steady level, even though our 
business continues to expand.27 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORY
We use third-party experts and standard methodology  
to assess our greenhouse gas emissions.
Our carbon footprint is calculated annually by a third-party environmental  
consultant using standard greenhouse gas (GhG) Inventory protocol. Both 
direct emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels (Scope 1) and 
indirect emissions generated during the production of energy we consume 
(Scope 2) are inventoried to determine our carbon footprint. The inventory 
includes all major sources of emissions for which Alaska Air Group has 
operational control, including both of our wholly owned subsidiaries—Alaska Airlines and horizon Air. Activity data from selected emission sources are 
compiled by Alaska Air Group personnel and evaluated by a consultant. A 
seven-year emissions inventory appears below.
Air Group has been focused on reducing 
emissions for years and operates the 
most fuel-efficient airline fleets in the  
country. We continue to look for every 
opportunity, no matter how small, to fur -
ther conserve fuel and reduce emissions.
We increase the fuel efficiency of our air -
craft the same way you might with your 
personal car: buying the most efficient 
model, removing unneeded weight, trav -
elling the most direct routes available, 
limiting idling time, traveling at optimal speeds and maintaining engines to 
ensure optimal performance. Record-
breaking year-over-year load factors 
(percentage of seats filled) from 2008 to 
20 have also helped improve our effi -
ciency as we are flying more passengers 
with nearly the same amount of fuel.LEADING  THE  PACK  IN FUEL  EFFICIENCY
#1
Alaska Airlines ranks # among the  largest domestic 
carriers in fuel efficiency per revenue ton mile (RTM) and 
revenue passenger mile (RPM).
(20 Data source: DOT Form 4  and 298C)Alaska Air Group FLEET COMPOSITION 
Carrier  Fleet Composition   Average Fleet Age   
      (Years)
Alaska Airlines  (2) Boeing 737-900 Jet   8.8  
     (58) Boeing 737-800 Jet  
    (7) Boeing 737-700 Jet
    (30) Boeing 737-400 Jet  
    7 Aircraft Total
Horizon Air (48) Bombardier Q400 Turboprop  6.628 HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Driving down costs and emissions 
through what we fly.
Alaska Airlines has decreased the  
intensity of our carbon emissions (per 
revenue passenger mile) by 7.8% since 
our last reporting year in 2009 and 29.8% 
since our baseline year of 2004. At the 
same time, Air Group’s total carbon 
emissions have decreased by 3.2% in the 
past eight years, even though our busi -
ness has increased by over 27%.
Alaska is currently the most-efficient 
domestic carrier in the United States  
in terms of fuel per revenue passenger 
mile. We’ve taken an early lead on the 
majority of our competitors, but main -
taining this position and additional 
efficiency improvements will only be 
more difficult.
Horizon Air has also steadily reduced the 
intensity of its carbon emissions, posting 
a remarkable 3.4% reduction in CO2 
intensity since 2009 and a 27% decline 
since 2004. (See table on previous page 
for Air Group figures.)
 
 Our strategies for driving fuel efficiency 
improvements fall into three categories:  
Alaska and Horizon currently operate 
two of the most fuel-efficient fleets in  
the nation as a result of aircraft replace -
ments over the past several years. 
Aircraft environmental performance is 
further enhanced through aerodynamic 
improvements such as winglets and 
weight-reduction efforts.
Alaska Airlines operates a 00% Boeing 
737 fleet, having completed a transition 
from the less-efficient MD-80 in August 2008. Installing winglets on all appropri -
ate aircraft has further increased their 
efficiency 3% to 5%.
Alaska will continue to maintain these 
fleet efficiencies as we add more 737-
800s and -900ERs and retire older, less 
fuel-efficient 737-400s over the next five 
years. We plan to take delivery of 3 air -
craft and retire three 737-400s by 204 for a net increase of 0 jets. All new AAG 
aircraft will be equipped with winglets.29 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Alaska Airlines has recently made improvements to our aircraft interiors to 
reduce fuel burn and lessen environmental impacts. Beginning in 2012:
New 737-800 deliveries include lighter-weight carpets (existing carpeting will be 
replaced by attrition);
We will initiate an aircraft carpet recycling program—recycling the fibers into 
plastic bottles;
Our 737-900ERs will have a light-weight seat design with featherweight leather;
All new deliveries will have efficient mercury-free LED cabin lighting rather than 
flourescent lighting.Horizon Air completed its fleet transition 
to an all-Bombardier Q-400 turboprop 
fleet from a mix of Q400s, Q200s and 3 CRJ-700s in 20. The Q400 burns 30% 
to 40% less fuel and produces equiva -
lently lower emissions than comparable 
jets. The fleet transition is anticipated to save more than .3 million gallons of 
fuel per year.
Overall, the substantial capital  
investment by Alaska and Horizon in 
new aircraft has lowered fuel bills and  
emissions and eliminated the costs  
associated with a mixed fleet’s 
complexity.
Fuel efficiencies can also be achieved  
by reducing unneeded weight. Weight-
reduction considerations have been 
integrated into all business decisions 
involving our aircraft. Details about these 
projects appear in the next section.
Providing heating and cooling to our aircraft parked at the gates is now achieved with ground 
power rather than the aircraft’s auxiliary power unit. This saves an estimated 2.7 million gallons of 
fuel per year. Photo: Don Wilson, Port of Seattle.
leading breakthroughs 
in the way we fly.30 HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Maximizing flying efficiency is a second 
key strategy for reducing fuel consump -
tion and associated emissions. Imple-  
menting and testing alternative approach 
routes, improving ground procedures 
and detailed testing of new products for 
more efficient flight operations are all 
examples of how we continuously 
improve the way we fly. The main fuel 
conservation projects that have been 
introduced or expanded since our last 
reporting year (2009) include:
Greener Skies: This project represents a 
partnership between Alaska and Hori -
zon, the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA), Port of Seattle, and Boeing. 
Together, we’re working to implement 
quieter, more fuel-efficient arrival routes 
into Seattle-Tacoma International  
Airport. The routes use satellite-based 
technology, namely Required Navigation 
Performance (RNP) and Optimized  
Profile Descent—two key pieces of the 
FAA’s “NextGen” air traffic management 
system.
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air hope to 
receive FAA approval to start flying these 
arrivals regularly in 203. The Greener 
Skies project is expected to save RNP-
equipped airlines more than 2 million gallons of fuel annually, which translates 
into savings of 22,400 metric tons of 
CO2. Noise exposure for about 750,000 
people in the Puget Sound region will 
also be reduced. The project serves as a 
template for implementing NextGen 
across the nation.
Ground Power at Gates: This project 
uses ground power, rather than the auxil -
iary power unit (APU) on the aircraft,  
to provide heating, cooling and electricity 
while airplanes are parked at the gates. Ground power burns 0 times less fuel 
than an APU.
Currently, our APU reduction procedures are in effect at 00% of Alaska Airlines’
 
stations most of the year, with the excep -
tion of about a dozen rural stations in 
the state of Alaska. These stations do not 
provide ground power or air conditioning 
during the winter because it’s too  
difficult to operate and hook up the 
extra equipment in extreme weather.
We have expanded this program in the 
past two years to all Alaska Airlines’  
stations. Since 2009, this project has 
contributed an estimated net fuel sav -
ings of about 3 million gallons per year.
Improved Flight Planning:  Phased imple -
mentation of this project began in 2009. The goal is to provide closer prediction 
of actual fuel required and boarded on 
each flight. Improved fuel planning can 
mean less fuel burned and emissions 
produced by carrying less additional fuel. 
Since 2009, we estimate these efforts 
have contributed an average fuel savings of 30,000 gallons per year.  
Additional projects scheduled for imple -
mentation in 202 include:
Optimized Profile Descent (OPD):  
Also known as continuous descent 
approach, OPD is a navigation proce -
dure in which aircraft maintain a 
continuous descent angle while 
approaching an airport. This method 
reduces fuel consumption, emissions 
and noise over the traditional step-down 
approach.
Alaska Airlines is assisting the FAA in 
developing OPD procedures throughout 
our system. We currently use OPD in 
Anchorage and are planning to expand 
the procedure to five more airports in the 
coming year.
Wide Area Augmentation System:  WAAS 
builds on Horizon’s previous advances 
in-flight management system technology 
—made in conjunction with Alaska Air -
lines—such as Required Navigational SHARING OUR POWERFUL NAVIGATION TECHNOLOGY
leading technology innovation  
that saves fuel and emissions.
Alaska Airlines pioneered the development and introduction of Required 
Navigation Performance (RNP) in the mid-1990s to enhance the safety and 
reliability of its operations in terrain- and weather-challenged Juneau, Alaska. 
RNP, which uses onboard computers and the satellite-based Global 
Positioning System, also saves fuel and emissions by enabling aircraft to fly 
more direct routes than those available with conventional navigation. Alaska 
Airlines is the only domestic carrier with a fully equipped RNP fleet. We shared 
this technology with the aviation industry and now use RNP at nearly two 
dozen airports across our network. RNP is a cornerstone of the f ederal 
Aviation Administration’s NextGeneration air traffic management system.
TRADITIONAL STEP-DOWN APPROACH OPTIMIZED PROFILE DESCENT
using an arrival procedure known as Optimized 
Profile Descent, aircraft descend continuously 
with their engines at idle to reduce noise and 
carbon emissions. Alaska Airlines collaborated 
with the fAA to develop this satellite-based 
navigation procedure in Anchorage and plans 
to use it at other airports in our route system. Airport
 Airportlow  
Power3 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Performance and the Global Positioning 
System (GPS) satellite network. WAAS 
takes the technology a step further by 
using additional satellites that monitor 
and improve the precision and reliability 
of GPS signals. This complementary sys -
tem to RNP allows Horizon to fly more 
precise approaches into every airport and 
enables landing in certain low-visibility 
weather conditions.
Currently, seven of Horizon’s 48 aircraft 
are WAAS-equipped. Our goal is to equip 
all remaining 4 aircraft with WAAS tech -
nology by the end of 202. At present, 
WAAS technology annually conserves about 50,000 gallons of jet fuel. WAAS 
will also enable Horizon to fly the RNP 
approaches developed for the Greener 
Skies program, saving the airline another 
500,000 gallons per year.
APU on Demand: This project uses 
advanced technology to eliminate the 
need to operate the auxiliary power unit 
(APU) during flights to and from 
Hawai‘i. The FAA approved this proce -
dure after thorough testing showed 
APUs can be restarted reliably en route, saving Alaska an estimated  million
 
gallons a year.Lighter-weight Carpet:  Beginning  
this year, new Alaska Airlines aircraft 
deliveries will be supplied with new car -
pets that reduce aircraft weight by 60 to 
90 pounds (depending on aircraft type). 
Carpet on existing aircraft will be 
replaced by attrition. When the project is 
complete, we estimate the weight sav -
ings will conserve about 60,000 gallons 
of fuel per year. While this represents 
smaller savings than some of our other 
projects, we believe every effort helps.Oven Removals:  One unutilized catering 
oven will be removed from each 737, 
reducing aircraft weight and saving an 
estimated 300,000 to 700,000 gallons of 
fuel each year.
Engine Wash Programs:  Alaska Airlines  
is running trials to determine if various 
engine-washing technologies will 
improve fuel efficiency. The final analysis will be completed in 202.Creating groundbreaking 
collaborations to shift  
the fuel we use.32 HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Air Group is collaborating with the Boeing 
Co., Port of Seattle, FAA and other indus -
try stakeholders to lead the way into the 
future of aviation by fostering the devel -
opment, testing and commercialization 
of sustainable alternative fuels.
Biofuels represent a critical element in 
cutting aviation’s carbon footprint and 
are key to a sustainable future for the 
industry. Biofuels will enable us to fly 
cleaner, foster job growth in a new indus -
try and insulate airlines from the volatile 
price swings of conventional fuel—
which, in turn, will help make air travel 
more economical.
Alaska began our biofuel journey in 2009 
when we became the first domestic  
carrier to join the Sustainable Aviation 
Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), pledging 
ourselves to using only biofuels that 
meet high third-party standards for  
sustainability. We also support the  
Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels 
Initiative (CAAFI(R)) through our mem -
bership in Airlines for America (A4A) and 
we’re members of the A4A Alternative 
Fuels Environmental Working Group.In July 20 0, Alaska Airlines, Boeing, 
Washington State University, local  
airports and more than 35 other stake-  
holders launched Sustainable Aviation 
Fuels Northwest. SAFN is the nation’s 
first regional stakeholder effort to explore 
the feasibility, challenges and opportuni -
ties for creating an aviation biofuels 
industry in the Pacific Northwest.
After extensive study, SAFN released a 
report in May 20 that determined the 
region has the diverse feedstocks for bio -
fuels, existing delivery infrastructure and 
political will needed to create a viable 
biofuels industry in the Pacific North -
west. There currently is no commercially 
available supply of aviation biofuels in 
the region or the nation. A copy of the 
report and summary may be viewed or 
downloaded at www.safnw.org.
In November 20, Alaska Airlines and 
Horizon Air launched the first multiple 
commercial flights in the United States 
powered by aviation biofuel. The two car -
riers operated 75 flights from Seattle to 
Washington, D.C., as well as roundtrips 
between Portland and Seattle using a 20 
percent blend of sustainable biofuel.Approximately 30,000 gallons of biofuel 
blend was sourced from Dyanmic Fuels. 
SkyNRG brokered the deal to ensure that 
the biofuel portion was produced using 
Roundtable for Sustainable Biofuel (RSB) 
sustainability criteria. The fuel was pro -
duced from used cooking oil that met 
rigorous international aviation and mili -
tary safety, performance and certification 
standards. The biofuel blend reduced our 
greenhouse gas emissions by 34 metric 
tons, the equivalent of taking 26 cars off 
the road for a year.
These flights demonstrated the feasibility 
of biofuels to power commercial planes. 
While tomorrow’s fuels are ready to be 
used in today’s planes, the United States 
needs to develop a viable industry to pro -
vide an adequate and affordable supply 
of aviation biofuels for to benefit the 
industry and the environment. Even with 
a robust biofuels industry, airlines would 
remain partially dependent on fossil fuels 
under current standards that permit a 
maximum 50/50 blend with petroleum-
based fuel for aviation applications.Alaska Airlines and 
horizon Air launched 
75 commercial flights 
powered by aviation 
biofuel in November 
2011.
33 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Carbon Emissions  
From Vehicles
The carbon footprint from our ground 
vehicles is minute compared with our 
aircraft fleet. But there are still oppor-
tunities to improve local air quality and 
reduce fuel consumption.
Our best opportunity to reduce emis -
sions from our ground support 
equipment (GSE) fleet is by switching 
from fossil fuel-powered to electric GSE 
wherever feasible. We are limited by  
airport infrastructure (space, charging 
stations and electrical grid modifica -
tions), weather conditions (ability of 
equipment to navigate snow and ice), 
and the eGSE market (for example,  
electric versions are not available for 
GSE such as deicing trucks, lavatory  
service trucks, etc.).
Alaska Airlines’ goal is to increase 
motorized equipment that is electric from our current 0% to 20% in the Lower 48 states by the end of 203.The Seattle eGSE project will help us 
achieve this goal. In 2009, we partnered 
with the Port of Seattle to replace fossil 
fuel-powered ground support equipment 
for Alaska and Horizon with electric 
equipment, with a commencement date of 202. This project will replace more 
than 200 fuel-burning vehicles (aircraft 
tugs, belt loaders and bag tractors) with 
electric equivalents over two years. With 
airport electricity coming from clean 
hydropower, this will eliminate 3,000 
metric tons of CO2 per year and improve 
local air quality.This project has been delayed to ensure 
completion of necessary electrical infra -
structure upgrades, and we have revised 
our goal to begin replacing these vehi -
cles in 203.
At Horizon Air, we’ve been strategically 
replacing fossil fuel-powered GSE with 
electric ones for more than six years. 
The number of all-electric vehicles has 
increased from less than 22% in 2005 to 
65% of our motorized airport vehicle fleet in 20. The Seattle eGSE project 
will replace 48 additional Horizon Air 
fuel-powered vehicles with emission-free 
equivalents.    
REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INDUSTRY-WIDE 
Airlines for America (A4A), the industry trade association, joined with the Inter -
national Air Transport Association and Regional Airline Association in adopting 
an industry-wide commitment to cut CO2 emissions in half by 2050, relative to 
2005 levels.
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air oppose mandatory climate regulation on com -
mercial aviation because we believe these requirements restrict the ability of all 
carriers to invest in fuel- and carbon-reduction efficiencies. Fuel represents our 
largest cost—a powerful incentive to foster voluntary innovation.ALASKA AIR GROUP ENERGY INTENSITY OF BUILDINGS
2008 2009 200 20ENERGY  INTENSITY  (Btu/SQUARE FOOT)
Air Group reduced building energy intensity by 9% toward our goal of a 30% reduction by 2020.  
Current data is not normalized for annual weather and temperature differences.200,000
50,000
00,000
50,00034 HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Reducing energy use  
at our facilities.
The majority of our facilities are leased 
from local airports. Our five-year plan in 
locations where we own and operate 
offices, terminals, cargo facilities, and/or 
maintenance buildings is to renovate 
many of these existing structures with 
new lighting, heating systems and insula -
tion to improve energy efficiency while 
reducing costs and emissions. We’re 
also incorporating Leadership in Energy 
Efficiency and Design (LEED©) principles 
into all of our standard facilities projects. 
A sample of some of our past and pres -
ent energy-efficiency projects follows.
Los Angeles Terminal 6: Our newly  
renovated Terminal 6 at Los Angeles 
International Airport opened in March 
202 after 3 months of construction. 
This project consolidated and stream  
lined Alaska and Horizon operations 
with closer proximity to U.S. Customs 
checkpoints and airline codeshare  
partners. The facility, which includes our 
first LEED Silver-certified Board Room, 
incorporates numerous energy-efficiency 
and environmental features:
Ultra-high efficiency, low-flow water 
fixtures that save 30% over traditional 
fixtures.•Low-emitting adhesives, sealants, 
paints, wood laminates and furniture.
Energy-efficient lighting systems and 
controls and the use of green power 
purchased from local companies.
84% of eligible appliances and equip -
ment are Energy Star certified.
Efficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems ( 5% more
 
efficient than California industry 
standards).•
•
•
•75% of construction waste was sorted 
and recycled.
Sustainable baggage handling system, 
which adjusts to energy-saving mode 
during non-peak hours.
Alaska Airlines Corporate  
Headquarters Upgrade:  Upgrading and 
replacing the heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning (HVAC) system is projected 
to reduce energy usage by 20%. This will reduce our carbon footprint by about 70 •
•Alaska Airlines completed a first-of-its-kind wind 
turbine-solar installation at Nome Airport in 
September 2011.35 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
tons per year and save $27,000 annually 
in energy costs. Completed in August 
20.
Horizon Air Seattle General Office Light -
ing Retrofit:  Replacing older fixtures with 
more energy-efficient lighting is expected 
to reduce monthly electricity usage 38 
percent and provide an annual cost  
savings of $6,000. The upgrade also  
prevents 68,000 pounds of CO2 from 
being released into the environment—
similar to taking five cars a day off the road. Completed in July 20 .
Nome Terminal Wind / Solar Energy
 
Project:  Alaska Airlines completed a first-
of-its-kind wind turbine/solar panel 
installation at our Nome Airport facility in September 20 . The wind turbine  /
solar panel array is specially designed 
to operate in the severe arctic climate 
and is expected to provide 6% of the 
facility’s annual electricity needs. This 
project is intended as a test to determine 
the feasibility of pursuing alternative 
energy projects at our other airport ter -
minals in the state of Alaska.All of these projects are helping us 
achieve our commitment to reduce 
energy consumption 30% (per square 
foot of building space) by 2020. Since 
our 2008 baseline year, we’ve reduced energy use by 9% (see graph on previ
-
ous page).Energy-efficiency projects scheduled for 
the upcoming year include:
 Anchorage Regional Headquarters:  
HVAC and lighting upgrades.
Petersburg Terminal: Remodel, includ -
ing lighting, boiler, insulation, roof 
replacement, HVAC and electrical 
upgrades.
Portland Concourse A Offices: HVAC 
upgrades.
Prudhoe Bay Terminal: Lighting 
upgrades, window and door 
replacements.
Seattle McGee Building: Computer 
room air conditioning and electrical 
system upgrades.
Seattle Air Cargo: HVAC upgrades.
Seattle Horizon Air General Office: 
HVAC upgrades.
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport 
Board Room: HVAC replacement.•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Electric ground service 
equipment, like this 
belt loader, makes up 
approximately 65% of 
horizon Air’s airport 
vehicle fleet.50
40
30
20
0
0TRASH TALK
horizon Air’s decades of focus leads the industry.
horizon Air has been collecting and recycling food and beverage waste since 
the mid-1980s. In 2009, we conducted “waste assessments” and determined 
that flight attendants were diverting more than 85% of all recyclables from the 
trash. horizon was recycling almost 70 percent of all inflight waste. Even 
coffee grounds were being composted. The Washington State Recycling Association took notice, presenting horizon with its “Business Generator 
Recycler of the Year” award in 2010.36
Tackling our materials, 
waste and recycling.
Providing service to more than 24 million  
passengers each year uses a lot of 
resources—approximately 24 million 
plastic cups, napkins and boarding 
passes, among other items. That’s why 
one of our key environmental strategies 
is to reduce consumption of resources 
and recycle inflight waste. 
Inflight Materials and Recycling
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air both take 
recycling seriously, but have slightly dif -
ferent approaches and circumstances.
Horizon has been recycling inflight waste 
successfully since the late 980s.  
Highlights since 2009:
Successfully trained Alaska CPA  
carrier SkyWest on inflight recycling 
procedures and standards. Prelimi -
nary data on a limited number of waste assessments in 20 indicate 
SkyWest is capturing 90% of all recy -
clables and recycling 52% of all waste.
Recyclable paper coffee cups replaced 
non-recyclable polystyrene cups in the 
main cabin, reducing inflight waste to 
landfill.
Flight attendants collect 90% of all 
inflight recyclables. This is an increase •
•
•of 7 percentage points since our last 
reporting period in 2009.
Actual waste recycled (by weight) has 
fallen from 69% to 49%. Contributing 
factors are believed to be: removing 
individual plastic water bottles now 
that all water is poured from a larger 
bottle (a net benefit to the environ -
ment overall); adding buy onboard 
snacks and picnic packs to our cabin 
service; and outside food and bever -
ages brought onboard by our 
passengers. 
Alaska began its inflight recycling pro -
gram through a grassroots effort by our 
Green Team in 2007. Two years later, we •formed an ambitious goal to collect 00 
percent of all recyclable material (plastic, 
paper, aluminum and glass) generated 
during inflight service.
We began measuring our progress toward that goal in 200, missing the 
mark by capturing 44 percent of all 
inflight recyclables. This made us realize 
that we couldn’t expect our flight atten -
dants to collect all of the recyclables if we 
did not first ensure the materials they 
worked so hard to collect would actually 
be recycled by our contract catering 
kitchens. After contracting with a nation -
wide recycling vendor, 95 percent of our 
kitchens are now equipped to recycle HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITYn 200
n 20RECYCLABLES  CAPTURED:  
ALASKA AIRLINES
50
40
30
20
0
0
COLLECTION  RATE44%49%MATERIALS  COLLECTION  AND  RECYCLING : HORIZON AIR
00
80
60
40
20
0
COLLECTION  RATE % RECYCLEDn 2009
n 200
n 2083%85%90%
69%
64%
49%37 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
commingled materials. We also 
increased our collection rate (the percent 
of recoverable materials diverted by flight 
attendants) to 49 percent in 20 (see 
chart at right). 
To further advance this effort, we’ve 
made recycling a service standard in our 
Flight Attendant Manual instead of sim -
ply encouraging it. We’ve also increased 
the number of annual waste assess -
ments to obtain accurate data. Previous 
assessments yielded helpful information 
about recycling, but were insufficient in 
sample size for statistical comparison.
We’ve also identified inflight serviceware 
products that can be replaced with 
organic, sustainable, recyclable or com -postable alternatives. Here is a summary 
of our efforts in the past two years:
Replaced our non-recyclable polysty -
rene main cabin coffee cups with 
recyclable paper coffee cups.
Provided compostable plant-based 
cutlery in lieu of plastic cutlery to our  
main cabin passengers.
Added a vegan meal to our inflight 
menu for the main cabin.
Alaska’s 202 recycling goals include:
Increase our recycling collection rate 
to 70 percent. 
Communicate proactively with our 
flight attendants to determine areas 
for improvement; provide guidance •
•
•
•
•on separating materials and highlight 
airports that have robust recycling 
programs; and recognize outstanding 
collection efforts.
Engage with fleet service providers to 
ensure that cabin waste is collected 
and recycled.
Ensure that recycling capabilities are available at 00% of our flight 
kitchens.
Replace our aseptic juice box with one 
made of FSC-certified material.
The recycling programs at Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air divert an estimated 800 
tons of mixed recyclables from local 
landfills each year.•
•
•AIR GROUP  GREEN TEAM ENGAGES EMPLOYEES
The Alaska Airlines / horizon Air Green Team is an Employee Resource Group 
(ERG) whose mission is to educate, inspire and engage employees around 
environmental stewardship. The team accomplishes this through brown bag 
seminars, lectures, volunteer events and regular communications. The Green 
Team was instrumental in launching Alaska Airlines’ inflight waste recycling 
program and continues to provide assistance for routine waste assessments. 
More information about our ERGs appears on page 65.38
Reducing materials use 
on the ground.
Office Waste
Alaska and Horizon operate as a tenant 
at most destinations throughout our  
system, where airports generally admin -
ister garbage and recycling programs.  
We work within the current waste and 
recycling management systems and  
collaborate with airport staff to make 
improvements.
Many of our hub airports, such Portland 
and Seattle, have innovative and award-
winning recycling programs that we use 
to minimize our waste to landfill. 
At small airports and office buildings, the 
local staff is responsible for contracting 
with waste haulers and recycling ven -
dors. This results in an uneven 
application of recycling policies and  
procedures from facility to facility. In  
general, data are not readily available to 
evaluate waste disposal and recycling 
practices at many of these locations, 
which provides an opportunity for 
enhancing and standardizing our waste 
management practices.
In 20, we began a project to streamline 
our recycling programs at our five largest 
corporate buildings. We conducted a 
complete assessment of the types and quantities of waste and the type and  
level of service utilized. We then devel -
oped a plan to improve and standardize 
these services. We will roll out our new 
recycling programs in 202 and have 
committed to expanding this to our 
other facilities where we are responsible 
for managing waste disposal.
Industrial Waste
Industrial wastes such as hazardous 
materials are generated during aircraft 
and ground support equipment mainte -
nance activities. The majority of our 
industrial wastes include lubricants, 
paints and thinners, sealants and adhe -
sives, solvents and cleaners, batteries, 
and light tubes. Our hazardous waste 
policy is aimed at ensuring permanent disposal through treatment, recycling  
or thermal destruction of all regulated 
hazardous wastes. No hazardous waste 
is sent to landfills, even when allowed  
by law.
Materials Use and Supply Chain
Supply Chain Management is working  
to develop a sustainable procurement  
policy that will become a foundational 
part of our strategic sourcing and pro -
curement processes. It will include  
developing measures of the effects on 
the environment of the products and  
services we use.  
Our main goal in the upcoming year is to 
build greater awareness with our staff 
through training on sustainable procure -
ment principles. We also continue to HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY39 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
seek out more opportunities to reduce 
our impact to the environment from the 
products we use. This includes aircraft 
weight reduction, reduced fuel / energy 
use and evaluating local supply sources 
to minimize carbon emissions created 
through long-haul or air freight 
transportation.
Paper Sourcing and Usage
The responsible use of paper is one area 
that concerns many of our employees 
and provides an opportunity for improve -
ment. With our use of boarding passes, 
baggage tags, coffee cups, cocktail nap -
kins, office paper and technical forms, 
consumption is an important environ -
mental impact for the airline industry.  
We also recognize that preserving and 
renewing our forests is a valuable strat -
egy in managing our carbon dioxide 
emissions.  
We recently established a print and paper 
procurement policy. Our intent is to pur -
sue the highest level of environmentally 
friendly paper and print resources that 
balance the economic and operational 
needs of the products we use. Key princi -
ples in our paper reduction policy are:Sorting inflight waste for recycling.
Reduce overall printing and paper 
consumption by working with internal 
customers to create reduction strate -
gies. Reducing use is the greatest 
advantage to the environment and for 
economic success.
Strive for the most environmentally 
friendly paper and print choices by 
selecting FSC products and using EPA •
•guidelines for minimum recycled  
content paper. Seek out chlorine-free  
processed papers that effectively  
balance environmental, economic and 
operational viability.
Work with our printer and graphic 
designers to identify the most envi -
ronmentally sound choices for paper 
selection.•40
Addressing other 
environmental impacts.
Deicing 
An additional area of concern related  
to water is deicing fluid management. 
Operating in cold climates requires a 
plan to ensure that frost / ice buildup  
on aircraft does not compromise flight 
safety.
Today’s industry standard for ensuring 
safe flights during cold weather involves 
spraying aircraft surfaces with a diluted 
mixture of ethylene glycol or propylene 
glycol. These chemicals mix readily with 
water and snow and most reclamation 
methods are ineffective or impractical.
The ability of glycol to biodegrade quickly 
is both positive and negative. On the 
plus side, it is relatively non-toxic and 
does not remain in the environment for 
an extended period. On the minus side, 
the quick biodegradation may remove 
oxygen from local waterways and harm 
aquatic life.
Opportunities for reducing deicing fluid 
are restricted by safety considerations, 
FAA regulations, aircraft manufacturer 
procedures and available technology. 
Collecting and managing runoff is  
constrained by airport design and  
operations, available technology and 
fight safety.At many large airports, stormwater run -
off is collected and treated; however, 
many other airports do not have deicing 
collection systems. In partnership with 
local airport authorities, Alaska Airlines 
and Horizon Air follow numerous best 
practices aimed at reducing deicing fluid 
runoff from deicing pads, vacuum trucks, 
ramp scrubbers, etc. All employees who 
deice are trained in procedures and best 
practices for preventing stormwater pol -
lution at each airport we serve.
Noise  
All of Alaska and Horizon’s aircraft are 
compliant with Stage 3 noise criteria as 
required by the FAA. Additionally, Alaska 
Airlines’ 737-NG (74% of our fleet) and 
Horizon’s Q400 aircraft meet Stage 4 
regulations. Aircraft meeting Stage 4 standards are at least 0 decibels quieter 
(as measured at specified flyover, lateral 
and approach points) than the previous 
Stage 3 noise standards. Horizon’s Q400 
is currently one of the quietest aircraft in 
domestic operation.
Spills
Accidents occasionally happen when 
handling airport chemicals such as jet 
fuel or deicing fluid and materials spill inadvertently. Our internal policy is to document and monitor all releases of  
gallon or more (or smaller if it creates a 
safety or environmental concern). We 
rely on a network of employees who are 
specially trained in spill response, waste 
management and environmental issues. 
The “environmental coordinators” super -
vise and manage spills at the facility 
level.
Most of our spills are limited to paved 
surfaces where environmental damage is 
avoided or limited. We documented 27 reportable spills in 200 and 22 report
-
able spills in 20 . Of those, 5 were 
considered significant (more than 25  
gallons, affecting flight operations or 
requiring cleanup by external respond -
ers). None of these releases resulted in 
discharges to the environment.
Occasionally, there are remediation proj -
ects that arise from cleaning up historic 
industrial uses and fuel spills. Our policy 
is to work with local airports to restore 
these sites to local and state cleanup 
standards. Alaska Airlines has three open 
sites with ongoing remediation projects 
in Anchorage, Fairbanks and Juneau, 
Alaska.HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITYA ground service employee deices an Alaska Airlines Boeing 737 before takeoff.
COMMITTED  TO COMPLIANCE
0
Number of sanctions for non-
compliance and amount of monetary 
fines4 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Water Use
Water consumption is not a material 
environmental impact for Alaska Airlines 
or Horizon Air. Water is used mainly for 
sanitary purposes, with relatively minor 
amounts used for maintenance, wash -
ing, and / or landscape irrigation. Airport 
water, used for onboard coffee and sani -
tary service, is generally not metered 
separately. Annual metered water  
consumption in 20 0 and 20  was 
approximately 8 million gallons.
Potable Water
Bottled water is provided to our passen -
gers during onboard beverage service. 
Coffee / hot water is supplied to our cus -
tomers via an onboard water system and 
is sourced through the municipal drink -
ing water supply at local airports. All of 
the equipment we own and operate that 
is used to provide drinking water (water carts, aircraft water tanks, etc.) is rou -
tinely sanitized in accordance with EPA, 
FAA and Food and Drug Administration 
regulations. Periodic random samples 
are collected from watering points 
onboard the aircraft to verify the water 
meets EPA drinking water standards. In 20, we analyzed samples from our 
entire fleet and found no instances of E. 
coli bacteria contamination.  
 
 
 Compliance
A dedicated Environmental Affairs 
Department is tasked with ensuring that 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air ground 
operations are compliant with EPA, state 
and local environmental regulations.  
They are assisted by specially trained 
employees, known as “environmental 
coordinators,” who are assigned to each 
of our facilities. Compliance is verified 
during an internal environmental audit 
program conducted by Environmental 
Affairs staff.
Federal, state and local authorities also 
visit our facilities to verify compliance with the rules and regulations. In 200 and 20 approximately 22 Alaska and 
Horizon facilities were inspected by vari -
ous government agencies. None of these 
inspections resulted in monetary fines or 
sanctions for non-compliance with  
environmental laws or regulations.42
10 ways we are reducing our environmental impact.
IN THE AIR
2. WINGLETS
To further improve the aerody -
namics of our aircraft, Alaska 
is using winglets (turned up 
extensions at the tips of the 
wings) to increase fuel effi -
ciency 3% to 5%. Page 30.
6. NOISE
More than 80% of our 
combined fleet (all Q400s 
and 737-NGs) meet fAA 
stage 4 noise require-
ments, which are at least 
10 decibels quieter than 
current stage 3 
requirements. Page 42.5. BIOFUELAlaska and horizon have been 
advancing and promoting the devel -
opment and use of alternative 
sustainable biofuels in the Pacific 
Northwest. In 2011, we were the  
first domestic carriers to fly mulitple 
scheduled routes powered by a  
biofuel blend. Pages 34-35.
IN THE AIR1. INVESTMENTS IN 
EFFICIENT AIRCRAFT 
Alaska Airlines’ Boeing 737-900 jet and horizon Air’s Bombar
-
dier Q400 turboprop are the 
two most fuel-efficient aircraft in 
their class. Page 30.HOW WE REACH FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY43 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
10 ways we are reducing our environmental impact.
9. RECYCLING
Alaska and horizon flight atten -
dants divert more than 800 tons 
of cups, cans, bottles, newspa -
pers and other materials from 
landfills each year through their 
award-winning inflight recycling. 
Pages 38-39.    3. WEIGHT REDUCTION
By removing redundant equip -
ment and replacing other 
equipment with lighter-weight 
alternatives, Alaska saves an 
estimated 585,000 gallons of 
fuel each year. Page 31.
ON THE GROUND7. CARBON EMISSIONS
Alaska Air Group’s fleet 
improvements and flying 
efficiencies have reduced 
carbon dioxide-equivalent 
emissions by 30% per 
revenue passenger mile  
since 2004. Pages 30-32.8. MATERIALSAlaska and horizon 
endeavor to use service 
materials that can be 
easily recycled or are 
sourced sustainably 
whenever feasible.  
Page 39.  10. GROUND POWER AT GATES using ground power instead of the 
aircraft auxiliary power unit while 
airplanes are parked at the gate 
annually saves Alaska Airlines 
approximately 3 million of gallons 
of fuel. Page 30.4. FLIGHT  MANAGEMENT  
SYSTEM  TECHNOLOGY   
Required Navigation Performance 
(RNP) and Wide Area Augmentation 
System (WAAS) technology use a 
combination of onboard computers 
and satellites to fly more precise 
approaches, reduce fuel burn and 
enable landings in low-visibility 
weather. Pages 32-33.Alaska Air Group maintained a strong financial position in a tough economic 
environment, thanks to the work of our dedicated employees, substantial 
investments in a fuel-efficient fleet, collaborative relationships with labor and 
our loyal customers. Air Group provides the backbone of economic prosperity 
for some of the regions in which we operate. Directly and indirectly, we help 
create jobs, support small business and diverse suppliers, and provide the 
necessary transportation infrastructure for economic activity.Ways we advance  
economic sustainability:
Record adjusted net income.  
Employee bonus payments.  
Regional economic development.
Creating jobs and business.
IN THIS SECTION
 46 Creating Direct Economic Value  
 48 Contributing Indirect Economic Impact 46
Creating direct economic value
for our employees and investors.
Alaska Air Group has made substantial 
changes to our business during the past 
decade, which arguably has been the 
most difficult in commercial aviation  
history. As a result of these changes and 
the ongoing dedication of our people, Air 
Group has become one of the most prof -
itable airline companies in the nation. 
Alaska is also one of only two carriers 
founded before airline deregulation in 
978 that has never declared bankruptcy. 
Air Group achieved record full-year 
adjusted net income of $287.4 million,  
or $3.92 per diluted share, in 20 com -
pared with our previous record of $262.6 
million, or $3.57 per diluted share, in 200 (figures adjusted for 2-for- stock split in March 202).
As of Dec. 3, 20, Air Group held $.3 
billion of long-term debt (including  
current portion); $.2 billion equity; and 
capitalized operating leases of $800 mil -
lion. Our adjusted debt-to-capital ratio 
was 62% : 38%.
Air Group paid its nearly 3,000 employ -
ees almost $  billion in wages and 
benefits in 20 —24% more than in 
200. While large concentrations of our 
employees live and work in Washington, Oregon, California and Alaska, they are 
also located in many of the cities we 
serve throughout the United States and 
in Canada and Mexico. Labor organiza -
tions represent 83% of Alaska employees 
and 47% of those at Horizon.
Based on our business philosophy and 
financial success, we offer our employees 
attractive careers with jobs that pay  
competitively, include great benefits and 
provide a positive economic influence  
on the communities we serve. Our  
compensation philosophy is to provide 
competitive base pay rates, market-based 
benefits packages, and the same gen-
erous incentive pay plans for every 
employee.
Wages vary significantly by job category 
due to different professional certification 
requirements of many airline jobs. Nearly 
all full-time employees who reach the top 
of their respective pay scales, however, 
earn annual income that is near or above 
the United States’ average annual house -
hold income of $5,94 (2006-200, per 
U.S. Census).
Incentive pay provides additional com -
pensation. In 20, Air Group employees 
earned almost $73 million in incentive pay—or nearly one month’s pay for most 
people. These bonuses represented 25% 
of our company’s profits. The incentive 
pay came from two separate programs.
Our Operational Performance Rewards 
Program pays a monthly bonus of $50 to 
every employee when we meet our  
on-time performance goal and another 
$50 for achieving our customer satisfac -
tion goal. The Performance Based Pay 
program rewards every employee with an 
annual bonus based on achieving targets 
measuring safety risk, customer satisfac -
tion, costs and profit.
Additionally, Air Group contributed 
nearly $280 million to its defined-benefit 
pension plans, despite having no 
required contribution, and provides 
employees with a generous market-based 40 (k) retirement program.
Air Group employees improved their pro -
ductivity 9.5% in 200 over the previous year and another 4.5% in 20 (mea
-
sured by number of passengers served 
per full-time employee). We still lag  
several key competitors and will strive to 
keep improving productivity while retain -
ing our high-quality customer service 
and operational performance.HOW WE ADVANCE ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITYAIR GROUP  COMPENSATION
$,00M
$,000M
$900M
$800M
$700M
2002002 2003 2004  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 200 20n INCENTIVE  PAY
n WAGES  & B ENEFITS47 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE
#1
On-Time Major North American Airline 
200 and 20 (Alaska Airlines)
(Data source: FlightStats.com)
“We are pleased to report record adjusted earnings for
the second year in a row [ 2011]. The improvement was 
due to schedule optimization and network expansion, 
high load factors, lower non-fuel unit costs, and industry-
leading customer service and operational performance. 
We have made many changes over the past decade to 
transform our business and build a foundation for 
sustained profitability and measured growth, and we 
will continue to make the necessary changes as we move 
forward.” 
BIll AYER,  
Chairman of the BoardSome highlights of Air Group’s economi -
cally related accomplishments include:
Achieved a 2-month return on 
invested capital of 0.7% in 200 and .7 percent in 20.
Increased our capacity 4.7% in 200 
and 6.8% in 20.
Alaska and Horizon added service to 
25 new markets during the past three 
years.
Alaska ordered 5 new aircraft and 
accepted delivery of three Boeing 737-
800s in 20.
Completed a $50 million share repur -
chase program in early January 202. 
Since 2007, Air Group has invested 
$262 million to repurchase 8.4 million 
shares (pre-split).
Redesigned alaskaair.com to establish 
more direct customer relationships 
and increase Air Group revenue.  
This led to a December 20 record  
of more than 55 percent of total book -
ings on our website rather than 
through third-party sales channels.•
•
•
•
•
•48
Contributing  
indirect economic impacts.
Supporting  
Small and Local Suppliers 
Air Group recognizes the importance of 
supporting local, small, and women- and 
minority-owned businesses. Our supplier 
diversity program provides many benefits 
to the company and regional economies 
in which we do business. Purchasing 
goods and services from diverse suppliers 
strengthens our ties to local communi -
ties and our customer base while 
promoting competition, increasing qual -
ity and lowering costs. Sourcing with 
diverse suppliers also spurs innovation, 
improves our responsiveness, ensures 
compliance for government contracts, 
and contributes to our value and reputa -
tion in the communities where we fly.
Our spend with diverse suppliers 
exceeded $99 million in 200 and $09 million in 20.
One key way we support supplier diver -
sity is by getting involved. Air Group is 
an active corporate member of the 
Northwest Minority Supplier Develop -
ment Council (MSDC®), a regional 
affiliate of the National MSDC; Win with 
Washington (WIN), a women-owned business organization; and the ASTRA 
Women’s Business Alliance, a regional 
affiliate of the Women’s Business  
Enterprise National Council. Air Group 
also participates on the MSDC Board of 
Directors, and in many other local and 
regional outreach, matchmaking and 
supplier education events throughout 
the year.
Overall, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
provide an economic benefit to every one 
of the more than 90 cities we serve. About half of our nearly 3,000 employ
-
ees live and work in Washington state’s 
Puget Sound region, where Air Group 
plays a significant economic role. We 
also contribute substantially to two other 
local economies: Alaska and Hawaii.
Supporting the State of Alaska
It’s difficult for those who do not live in 
The Last Frontier to fully grasp the 
immense and diverse landscape that 
makes up Alaska. The state boasts more 
coastline than the rest of the nation  
combined. There are more than ,300 
miles that separate the southernmost city, Ketchikan, with the top-of-the-world 
community of Barrow.
Alaska Airlines serves 9 communities in 
the state of Alaska and only three are 
accessible by road. With fewer miles of 
paved roads than the smallest state of 
Rhode Island, Alaska’s remote nature 
and limited road infrastructure makes air 
transportation an absolute necessity.
Alaska Airlines plays a critical role in its 
namesake state’s economy, which 
includes resource industries that include 
oil and gas, mining and seafood as well 
as tourism. Federal military spending 
makes up the balance of the state’s 
economy.  
Oil and Gas:  Alaska Airlines flies more 
than 79,000 people and some 2.9 million 
pounds of cargo to Prudhoe Bay each 
year. The community is located at the 
start of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System 
(TAPS) and the heart of the oil and gas 
industry in the state. More than 630,000 
barrels of oil a day flowed through TAPS 
in 20, which represented 0% of the 
nation’s daily consumption and more 
than 90% of state revenues. HOW WE ADVANCE ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITYAlaska flies more than 150 flights a week to hawai‘i, which represents 20% of the carrier’s network.49 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Seafood:  Wild Alaska seafood has long 
been a significant part of the state’s 
economy and the industry represents 
Alaska’s largest employer. Alaska Airlines 
plays a key role in sustaining this indus -
try. In 20, we shipped more than 6.9 
million pounds of fresh Alaska seafood 
to market with an estimated resale value 
of $50 million.    
Tourism:  The visitor industry continues 
to grow and contribute to the state’s 
economy and is the second-largest employer in Alaska. Nearly .6 million 
tourists visited the state in 20  and 
spent in excess of $.4 billion. Many of 
these visitors traveled on Alaska Airlines.
Bringing Positive  
Economic Impact to Hawai‘i
Since we began service to Hawai‘i in October 2007, we have grown from 2 to more than 50 flights a week and now 
serve four islands from eight destina -
tions along the West Coast and in Alaska. 
More than 60% of our Hawai‘i nonstop 
markets are not served by other airlines 
and more than 70% of them originate 
from secondary West Coast gateways. 
Providing a convenient, direct connec -
tion to the Islands from markets that 
previously did not exist has helped 
Hawai‘i attract a new visitor base and 
boosted its economy.
In 20 , we carried roughly 700,000  
visitors to Hawai‘i, contributing to nearly 
$.2 billion in direct visitor spending and $25.2 million in Hawai‘i state govern
-
ment tax revenues. In addition, our flight crews stayed in 38 hotel rooms per 
night, providing more than $6.5 million 
to Hawai‘i’s visitor industry.As a result of our presence, 350 jobs 
were added to Hawai‘i’s workforce. We 
also helped local small businesses. We 
began working with husband and wife 
teams in both Līhu‘e and Kona to cater 
our flights to the Mainland. With these 
contracts, both companies were able to hire a total of 2 more employees and generated more than $.7 million in 
additional annual revenues for their 
businesses.HELPING IN HAWAI‘I
$1.2B
contributed to Hawai‘i’s economy in direct visitor spending 
by the roughly 700,000 visitors we flew in 20.how we serve:
Dedication to safety
and compliance.  
Caring for our customers
and people.  
Giving back  
to our communities.
 52 Ensuring Safety & Satisfaction   
 58 Developing & Caring for People
 60 Partnering with Labor
64 Contributing to the CommunityIN THIS SECTIONThere is something special about the airline business. Air Group flies 
thousands of passengers and pounds of cargo each day with an unwavering 
commitment to safety, operational excellence and exceptional customer service. 
Ours is a culture of compassion and caring, where our people have the 
opportunity to touch the lives of millions of travelers every year with untold acts 
of kindness. We call it Alaska Spirit and horizon heart. 52 HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Driving for
safety excellence.
work groups, and the Safety Hazard 
Report or Safety Hotline reported directly 
to the Safety Division. Except for willful 
disregard of safety procedures, no 
employee will ever be disciplined for 
reporting a safety hazard or event.
Safety reports are examined to identify 
hazards; determine appropriate safety 
and / or operational improvements;  
monitor the effectiveness of corrective 
actions; and proactively promote 
employee awareness of potential oppor -
tunities for improvement. The collected 
information is reviewed and analyzed to 
facilitate early detection and improved 
awareness of operational deficiencies 
and adverse trends.
With continuous improvement in mind, 
we are designing and implementing what 
the FAA and industry call a Safety Man -
agement System, or SMS, over the next 
three years. SMS builds upon many sys -
tems already in place at Air Group to The safety of our customers and employ -
ees at Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air 
overrides any other consideration.
We ensure safety by complying with all 
external safety standards and procedures, 
applying more vigorous internal policies 
and practices, and encouraging our 
employees to report all actual and poten -
tial hazards. Air Group has made 
tremendous advances to improve our 
safety culture during the past decade. 
This culture starts at the top with the 
Board of Directors Safety Committee  
and permeates throughout the organiza -
tion to station- and department-level 
safety committees and frontline employ -
ees. Our Safety Committee, chaired by 
former FAA administrator and National 
Transportation Safety Board chair Marion 
Blakey, is tasked with monitoring our 
entire safety system.  Passenger Safety
We apply our safety standards uniformly 
across all of Alaska and Horizon’s oper -
ating divisions, our CPA carrier SkyWest, 
and all airline codeshare partners. This 
“single level of safety” ensures that infor -
mation is shared and high safety 
standards and policies are consistent 
between all companies that serve our 
passengers.
One of the many ways we strive to 
improve is through our comprehensive 
safety reporting systems, which aim to 
identify and prevent incidents before  they 
happen. Our people have a variety of 
mechanisms to voice their safety  
concerns, and the duty to report any 
potential or existing hazard falls on each 
and everyone in the company. 
Our reporting system is comprised of 
irregularity reports in all operating divi -
sions, Aviation Safety Action Program 
(ASAP) reporting for nearly all frontline Every Air Group employee is responsible for safety. Among them are nearly 950 highly skilled technicians who maintain the Alaska and horizon 
aircraft fleets.53 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
provide better and more efficient over -
sight. It is integrated across all aspects 
of the organization to ensure safety risks 
are managed to acceptable levels.
This Safety Management System will 
change the way we analyze information 
and positively affect the safety of our 
employees and passengers by raising 
safety awareness, proactively predicting 
and correcting issues, and promoting 
continuous improvement.  
Having an open, transparent and non-
punitive safety culture is at the heart of 
the company’s philosophy. A robust 
safety reporting culture paired with  
ongoing operational oversight keeps 
awareness of safety issues high at the 
frontline employee level.54 HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Improving employee safety,  
health and wellness.
believe this approach allows for goals to 
reflect performance longevity rather than 
a single-year extreme (high or low).
Alaska Airlines’ goal for 202 is to reduce 
lost-time injuries by 5% over baseline 
(average of the preceding three years) to 
4.66 LTI per 00 employees—with a 
stretch goal of 4.42.
From 200 to 20, Alaska’s LTI rate 
increased about 4% from 5.0 injuries per 
00 employees to 5.9. This resulted 
from injuries reported by several work 
groups, notably flight attendants, as well 
as a slight change in the way we calcu -
lated the rate. We’re increasing our focus 
on this issue—particularly in Inflight  
Services—to reverse the trend and lower 
injuries.
Horizon’s 202 goal is to reduce our lost-  
time injury rate to 2.82. We’ve exceeded 
our goals for the past two years, lowering 
the LTI rate from 2.95 to 2.26 (surpass -
ing the 200 and 20 goals of 3.7 and 
3.00, respectively). Horizon’s on-the-job 
injury rate also dropped from 7.94 to 
5.88 per 00 employees.
We will continue to strive for no lost-time 
injuries at both Alaska and Horizon. No 
employees died in the line of duty during the 200-20 reporting period.Employee Safety
Fundamentally, ensuring our employees’ 
safety and helping them be healthy is a 
natural extension of our corporate ethics 
and values.  Work-related injuries lower 
morale, cost time and money, and can 
create hardship for our people and their 
families.  
Many of our employees work in challeng -
ing environments of wind, rain, snow, 
heat and high noise levels. They work in 
and around multimillion-dollar machines 
performing tasks that can, unfortunately, 
result in injury. One of our primary goals 
is to reduce the risk of injuries by proac -
tively identifying safety concerns in order 
to prevent injuries and accidents before 
they happen. We accomplish this 
through our culture of reporting,  
system-wide safety committees, and by 
monitoring and investigating injuries 
and accidents.
Employee Safety Committees
Employee Safety Committees are active 
groups of volunteer employees who dis -
cuss incidents and injuries, collaborate, 
and create solutions to enhance safety at 
their location. Although only some state 
agencies require these committees, 
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air strive to set the highest standards by making the 
groups mandatory at all of our loca -
tions—whether they’re required or not. 
Air Group’s Safety Division supports 
these committees through training and 
recognition. We convene annual safety 
symposiums where select members of 
each local safety committee are invited 
to attend seminars and hands-on train -
ing to improve their effectiveness.
Monitoring and Preventing  
Employee Injuries  
Air Group’s Injury Review Boards, which 
meet monthly, have successfully identifed 
injury trends, raised awareness for 
employees and applied appropriate  
measures to reduce worker injuries.
Following the adage “what gets mea -
sured gets managed,” Alaska and 
Horizon track employee on-the-job inju -
ries (OJI) and lost-time injuries (LTI). 
OJIs are overall injuries, including minor 
bumps and bruises. LTIs are more signif -
icant injuries requiring a doctor visit and 
missing at least one day of work.
After several approaches to goal-setting 
in the past several years, we’ve developed 
challenging yet flexible and realistic 
safety goals based on our average injury 
rate for the preceding three years. We 55 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Health and Wellness
Alaska Air Group established a goal 
many years ago of providing a market-
based, competitive package of pay and 
benefits, including comprehensive health 
care coverage, that remains affordable to 
the company and our employees. We 
offer several medical plan options to 
meet the requirements of our diverse 
population.
Reducing Smoking
 For almost three decades, we’ve hired 
non-nicotine users in states where that  
is a permitted requirement for hire, 
resulting in fewer smokers among our 
population than similarly sized compa -
nies and contributing to an overall 
healthier population. For those employ -
ees and family members who do smoke, 
we offer a nationally recognized cessa -
tion program at no cost. We’re also 
working with the American Cancer  
Society for other ways to strengthen our 
commitment to a healthier work force.
 Focusing on Wellness
While we want to make quality health 
care accessible to our employees and 
their families when they need treatment, 
we also want to help them become and 
remain healthier so they can lead pro -
ductive lives at work and at home. Air Group provides a variety of ways to help 
people take care of themselves and their 
families, including our subsidized health 
club agreements, Weight Watchers sup -
port, health fairs, corporate flu shot 
program, and on-site CPR and first aid 
training.Alaska Airlines
 2009  2010  2011 2009  2010  2011
On-the-job injuries 8.0 8.3 8.45 8.94 7.94 5.88
Lost-time injuries 4.53 5.00 5.9 3.70 2.95 2.26
Rates are the number of injuries per 00 employees annually (average of 2,000 work hours)ALASKA AIRLINES & HORIZON AIR EMPLOYEE INJURY RATES
9.00
7.00
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2009 200 20OSHA RATE
PER00 EMPLOYEES ANNUALLY
ü ALASKA  OJI   n ALA SKA LTI   ü HORIZON OJI   n HORIZON LTI 
Horizon Air“We’re invested, not only financially, but with company 
pride that has an emotional level. We treat our guests as 
if they are coming into our home, choosing to have a 
sincere, face-to-face connection that sets us apart from 
other carriers.”
lYNN M llARD,  
Alaska Airlines flight Attendant 56
Ensuring  
customer satisfaction.
While we operate using airplanes and 
technology, we recognize that ours is 
fundamentally a people business.  
Measuring customer satisfaction and 
communicating goals with our employ -
ees has become an integral part of our 
business. 
The primary way Air Group measures 
satisfaction is through a monthly survey 
that asks customers to rate our service in 
a variety of touchpoints throughout their 
journey—from booking a trip to collect -
ing baggage at their destination. About 
3,000 surveys are reviewed each month.
Four key metrics comprise an overall  
satisfaction score. As the chart to the 
right shows, Alaska Airlines and Horizon 
Air have consistently achieved their goals 
during the past two years (which built on 
steady improvement during the previous 
three years). Good businesses continu -
ally strive to improve, and in 202 Alaska 
increased its customer satisfaction goal to 78% while Horizon raised its target  
to 82%. On-time performance is also a 
fundamental aspect of good service,  
and both airlines have also consistently 
exceeded higher goals in each of the past 
two years.
We also employ two unique means of 
staying connected with our most frequent 
customers. One way is by hosting town-
hall style lunch meetings with our top-tier frequent fliers in a different 
Alaska Airlines city each month. We also 
meet with a panel of 2 elite travelers 
every quarter to help us define our cus -
tomer strategies.
All of these efforts have contributed to 
Alaska Airlines winning four consecutive 
J.D. Power awards for the highest cus -
tomer satisfaction rating among 
traditional carriers in North America.HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY2010 Goals 2010 Results 2011 Goals 2011 Results
ALASKA
Customer satisfaction survey  
(monthly online survey results)75% Exceeded goal  
2 of 2 months77% Exceeded goal  
 of 2 months
On-time performance (% of flights  
arriving within 5 minutes of schedule)80% Exceeded goal  
2 of 2 months83% Exceeded goal  
 of 2 months
HORIZON
Customer satisfaction survey 78-80% Exceeded goal  
 of 2 months8% Exceeded goal  
9 of 2 months
ALASKA AIRLINES 2011  
EMPLOYEE SURVEY HIGHLIGHTS
Employees rated this statement highest in the entire survey:
There is a strong emphasis on customer service at this company.
89% favorable: + point from 2009 survey 
Below are a few of the statements among the most favorable:
I am proud to work for this company.
84% favorable: +3 points from 2009 survey
The people I work with cooperate to get the job done.
84% favorable: +3 points from 2009 survey
I believe this company has an outstanding future.76% favorable: +0 points from 2009 survey 
 
Employees responded with the lowest rating to this statement:
Within this company people are held accountable for poor performance.30% favorable: + point from 2009 survey
Below are a few responses among the least favorable:
My ideas and suggestions count.
39% favorable: +2 points from 2009 survey
There is open, honest two-way communication in this organization.4% favorable: +2 points from 2009 survey
I regularly receive appropriate recognition when I do a good job.
43% favorable: No change from 2009 survey
We strongly believe the key to satisfying customers is engaging employees. These 2011 employee survey results demonstrate that our people 
understand the importance that Air Group puts on customer service. See the next page for more on employee engagement and development.Alaska and horizon have both exceeded operational and customer satisfaction goals over the past two years. Meeting these goals is an important 
component of our employee incentive programs.     57 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
CUSTOMER SERVICE
HIGHEST IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION  
AMONG TRADITIONAL NETWORK CARRIERS
IN NORTH AMERICA, FOUR YEARS IN A ROW 2008-20
(J.D. Power and Associates)58
Developing and caring  
for people.
Employee Engagement
Our people are at the heart of our 
accomplishments, and we believe that 
treating them well is the best way to 
inspire great performance. That requires 
more than simply paying good wages 
and benefits. Air Group focuses on many 
efforts to improve employee engage -
ment: foster diversity and inclusion to 
make every employee feel valued, attract 
a wide spectrum of job applicants and 
reach the best business decisions;  
provide educational opportunities for  
our people and for the next generation 
(through charitable giving) that lead to 
career advancement; maintain a culture 
of candid communication that clearly 
articulates our challenges, successes  
and goals; and much more.
We use periodic surveys (typically every 
8 months) as one tool for monitoring 
the pulse of employee engagement and 
identifying our strengths and opportuni -
ties for improvement.
The 20  results showed that Air Group’s 
overall level of employee engagement 
decreased slightly since the 2009 survey. 
Engagement increased % at Alaska and dropped 6% at Horizon.The results at Horizon were attributable 
to the major business transformation it launched in September 200. Its goal 
was to achieve consistent profitability 
while maintaining superior operational 
performance and customer service. Key 
components included transitioning to a 
single fleet of Bombardier Q400 turbo -
prop aircraft; becoming an all-capacity 
purchase agreement carrier for Alaska 
Airlines; adopting Alaska’s brand exter -
nally; reducing costs; and providing 
market-based pay and benefits aligned 
with appropriate productivity goals. An 
abbreviated employee survey conducted in June 202, after much of the business 
transformation had been completed, 
indicated employee satisfaction with 
Horizon as a place to work had increased 33% since the 20 survey. 
The Alaska results found that three-quar -
ters of employees believe the airline has 
a bright future—a significant increase 
since 2009. This likely reflects Alaska’s 
improving profitability and growth since 
we made substantial business changes 
in the mid-2000s to remain competitive. 
However, it is clear more must be done 
to break down silos, communicate  
honestly and openly, and hold people HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYCARING FOR EACH OTHER
Employee Assistance f unds  
help employees through financial hardship.
Alaska Airlines Captain Al Brunelle founded the Alaska Airlines  Employee 
Assistance f und (EAf) in 1992 to help fellow colleagues who may be suffering 
financial hardship due to a medical or catastrophic event. Assistance granted 
is a gift—not a loan—and is not required to be repaid.
In 1995, horizon Air founded its own Emergency Assistance f und. Along with 
offering grants to employees in need, horizon’s EAf provides interest-free 
loans that can be repaid through payroll deduction.Both EAf s are nonprofit organizations made up of employees who volunteer 
to serve on the respective boards of directors, representing all divisions of 
Alaska and horizon. One hundred percent of contributions go toward 
assisting employees.
The Alaska Airlines EAf is striving for a donation goal of $1 per paycheck from 
every employee, and about 30% of the company’s work force gave to the 
organization in this way in 2011. The EA f raised approximately $286,000, 
which helped some 73 employees pay their mortgages, COBRA insurance, car 
payments and insurance, and medical and grocery bills while they recovered 
from an injury or illness.
About 10% of horizon employees participate in their EAf through payroll 
deduction, auctions and other donations. The horizon EAf helped employees 
cover basic living expenses along with medical bills.59 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
accountable who aren’t performing well. 
We can also do a better job of listening 
to each other, and better communicate 
our future vision to employees.
Collectively, Alaska Air Group is working 
to more clearly share our vision, support 
employee involvement, improve recog-
nition and professional development 
opportunities, and establish open channels 
of communication.
Flight Path
This one-day seminar was developed in 
response to survey data and provides 
employees with the opportunity for inter -
active learning with company officers 
and other leaders as well as time to ask 
questions. Flight Path represents a col -
laborative effort by more than 50 trainers 
across the company. It is designed to 
help employees better understand the 
financial, operational and cultural 
aspects of the airline business, experi -
ence our aircraft “turn” process using an 
iPad, and see how their individual efforts 
contribute to our company’s success. 
Learning & Development Strategy
Education at Air Group comes in many 
forms—from online computer skill devel -
opment to classroom sessions to on-the-job and employee engagement 
training. 
Leadership training is provided to three 
target groups: emerging, current and 
experienced leaders. Elective (or volun -
teer) development opportunities for 
interested employees are also offered in 
such areas as airline economics, busi -
ness writing and effective presentation skills. While these programs continue  
to be popular among new and emerging 
leaders, we need to enhance learning 
opportunities for experienced leaders. 
Our Talent Development team has  
outlined a five-year plan for implement -
ing a learning organization philosophy at 
Air Group.WORKING  TOGETHER
Alaska Airlines leadership and the 
company’s labor Coalition have 
met quarterly for 10 years in a 
proactive effort to collaborate and 
improve relations between 
management and unions.60
Partnering with labor.
Labor Relations
Alaska Airlines’ workforce is 83% union -
ized while 47% of Horizon Air employees 
are represented by a collective bargain -
ing group. During 200 and 20:
Alaska signed a five-year agreement 
with the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal 
Association as well as four-year  
contracts with the International  
Association of Machinists for its  
clerical, office and passenger service 
employees, and the Transport Work -
ers Union for its dispatchers.
Horizon signed five-year contracts 
with the International Brotherhood of 
Teamsters for its pilots and aircraft 
technicians, a four-year agreement 
with the Transport Workers Union for 
its dispatchers, and a three-year con -
tract with the Canadian Auto Workers 
for station employees in Canada.
In 20,  all remaining union groups rati -
fied contract agreements that included 
participation in Air Group’s Performance 
Based Pay (PBP) program. This mile -
stone achievement aligned everyone at 
both airlines around a common incentive 
pay plan to help all of our people focus 
on the same initiatives and issues. PBP •
•
is designed to pay annual bonuses at the 
target rate of 5% of eligible earnings. In 
200 and 20, PBP paid 9.4% and 6.7%, 
respectively.Alaska and Horizon seek to work  
proactively with union leaders of each of 
our represented work groups. In addition 
to regular interactions between unions 
and management, company executives 
and leaders from all collective bargaining 
groups meet quarterly. These forums 
enable union representatives to hear 
updates and ask questions about the 
company’s performance, strategic initia -
tives and other issues.HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYAlaska Air Group Labor Contract Summary
Union Workgroup Total  
EmployeesContract  
RatifiedContract  
Amendable
Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) Alaska Airlines Flight 
Attendants2,774 Mar. 0, 2009 May , 202
International Association of Machinists  
and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)Alaska Airlines Customer Ser -
vice, Reservations, Operations, 
Accounting Specialists and  
Clerical Agents2,660 Feb. , 20 Jan. , 204
Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) Alaska Airlines Pilots ,46 May 9, 2009 Apr. , 203
Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA) Alaska Airlines  
Aircraft Technicians626 Nov. 5, 20 Oct. 7, 206
International Association of Machinists  
and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)Alaska Airlines Ramp Service  
and Stores Agents587 Dec. 7, 2009 July 3, 202
Transport Workers Union (TWU)Alaska Airlines Dispatchers 36 May 4, 20 March 24, 205
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Local 224 Horizon Air Pilots 583 Nov. 30, 200 Dec. 4, 205
Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) Horizon Air Flight Attendants 5 Dec. 2, 2009 Dec. 2, 20
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Local 986 Horizon Air Aircraft Technicians 323 Dec. 5, 200 Dec. 6, 204
Canadian Auto Workers (CAW) Horizon Air  
Canadian Station Employees70 May 26, 200 Feb. 4, 203
Transport Workers Union (TWU) Horizon Air Dispatchers 5 Oct. 4, 200 Aug. 26, 204
Total 9,6016 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
About 9,600 employees at Alaska Airlines and horizon Air belong to a collective bargaining unit.62
Creating an environment  
of inclusion.
Prioritizing Diversity
Air Group’s shared goal at Alaska and 
Horizon is to foster a diverse and inclu -
sive culture where highly engaged 
employees drive excellent operational 
performance and exceed customer 
expectations.  
Creating this culture is a journey. At Air 
Group, this has included educating 
employees about inclusion and the value 
of diversity, developing an Inclusion 
Advisory Council, advancing community 
outreach, and supporting the develop -
ment of Employee Resource Groups.
Education
Alaska Airlines started pursuing diversity 
training more than a decade ago with  
the goal of having all employees attend a 
class. Today, all new employees undergo 
diversity training within their first 30 days 
of work and all Air Group leaders are 
required to attend a full-day workshop on 
leading diverse teams. We are are work -
ing to include diversity concepts in all 
initial and recurrent training programs. 
We also offer deeper learning on specific 
topics that is available to all employees 
at least once a month.Inclusion Advisory Council
The IAC consists of management and 
frontline employees who participate on 
four subcommittees to support our 
diversity and inclusion strategy. These 
committees are: Ad Hoc Consultancy, 
committed to quickly researching and 
responding to issues as they arise;  
Discussion Starters, committed to facili -
tating quick diversity conversations into 
regular meetings; Employee Resource 
Group (ERG) Support, committed to 
helping our ERGs achieve their goals; 
and Demographics, committed to ana -
lyzing company data.
Community Outreach
Many of our community outreach events 
are supported in large part by our inter -
nal diversity programs. Through these 
programs we support groups such as 
Washington Women’s Education and 
Employment (WWEE), Hire America’s 
Heroes (HAH), Habitat for Humanity, 
the Organization of Black Airline Pilots 
(OBAP), Women in Aviation Interna -
tional (WAI), Washington State 
University Future Cougars of Color, 
United Negro College Fund and many 
others.Demographics
Increasing the diversity in our leadership 
teams continues to be a significant 
opportunity for Air Group, especially with 
respect to people of color. 
“We recognize this is an area we can do 
better in and we are committed to mak -
ing changes,” President and CEO Brad 
Tilden says. “I want anyone who joins 
our company to be able to look at our 
leadership teams and know they can get 
there. And, fundamentally, a diverse and 
inclusive environment is simply the right 
thing to do.”HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYFEMALE  & PEOPLE  OF COLOR  
AS A PERCENT AGE  OF AIR GROUP  SUPERVISORS & ABOVE
50%
40%
30%
20%
0%
0
200 2038%
%4%
2%
FEMALE  & PEOPLE  OF COLOR  
AS A PERCENT AGE  OF ALL AIR GROUP  POSITIONS
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
0%
0
200 205%
7%53%
20%n FEMALE
n PEOPLE OF COLORFEMALE  & PEOPLE  OF COLOR  
AS A PERCENT AGE  OF AIR GROUP  DIRECTOR & ABOVE
50%
40%
30%
20%
0%
0
200 2022%
0%34%
9%
Increasing diversity in leadership positions 
continues to be a goal of AAG. We are 
proactively seeking ways to recruit, develop,  
and support women and people of color.63 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Green Team ERG members participate on a restoration project at Snoqualmie Point Park, Wash.
64
Nurturing employee 
involvement and contribution.
Employee Resource Groups
Eleven ERGs were active at Alaska and 
Horizon at the end of 20, each sup -
ported by a vice president or higher 
executive sponsor. Each ERG is uniquely 
positioned to support company initia -
tives in ways that are important to the 
collective group. ERGs provide a power -
ful structure for helping employees, 
supporting community outreach such as 
grass-roots environmental projects and 
contributing to the success of business 
projects.
Our Hawai‘i project team, for example, 
partnered with the Pacific Islander  
Culture Club to ensure an authentic 
experience for customers in our new 
Hawai‘i markets. The Green team is  
supporting an environmental restoration 
event, among other activities. Our  
Women’s Interactive Network group has 
focused on providing networking and 
career development help to members.EXPOSURE/GOODWILL 
$13,400
Employee dollars donated via ERGs
561,946
Exposure (number of people engaged
in the community by ERG events)HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
VOLUNTEER EFFORTS
2,679
Employee volunteer hours with ERGs
INTERNAL  
(PERSONNEL  / DEVELOPMENT HOURS):
2,318
Employee attendance at ERG eventsEmployee Resource Groups at Air Group
Group Name           Executive Sponsor  Mission / Specialty      Major Activities  
ACCESS: Employees with Disabilities  Fred Mohr        Community outreach, internal and  
      VP, Maintenance  external policy assistance, charity outreach  
      and Engineering  and coordination with community events
AMG: Air Group Military Group    Ben Minicucci  Military recruiting and screening, Education  
      Chief Operating Officer on hiring and retaining veterans, engage-     
         ment and professional development
BERG: Black Employee Resource Group        Bill Ayer   Professional development, promotion of  
      Chairman of the  people of color, community engagement  
      Board of Directors  and activities
BOOMERS: Baby Boomers   Gary Beck,   Internal programs for Boomer employees,  
      VP, Flight Operations  personal development, engagement and  
         education of Boomers in the work force
GLOBE: GLBT Employees   Glenn Johnson  Events for the LGBTQ community, best  
      President, Horizon Air practice promotion for company around  
         benefits and workplace equality, marketing  
         support
GREEN: Environmental ERG   Keith Loveless  Internal environmental projects, recycling  
      VP, Legal and  best practice events and outreach, airport  
      General Counsel  policy and procedure around resource use  
 
LCRG: Latin Culture Resource Group  Brad Tilden  Internal candidate/professional develop-  
      President and CEO   ment, market review of new products/  
         services for Latin market
NEN: Native Employees Network  Joe Sprague  Employee engagement and community  
      VP, Marketing  building, professional development, State  
         of Alaska outreach
PICC: Pacific Islander Culture Club  Andrew Harrison  Marketing of Hawai‘i, Pacific Island  
      VP, Planning and  community events, internal and  
      Revenue Management external networking
WING: Women’s Interactive Network  Jeff Butler   Personal development, supporting and  
      VP, Customer Service  fostering women in leadership roles,  
      Andy Schneider   networking, career advancement and advice  
      VP, Inflight Services
Y-GEN: Young Generation   Kris Kutchera  College outreach, Y-GEN specific  
      VP, Information Technology engagement, network and promotionsNorthwest Disability Community 
Boards, MDA Activities, Best  
Practice Workshops
Hire America’s Heroes Events,  
Military Base Visits, Recruitment 
Fairs
Habitat for Humanity, NBMBAA 
conference, UNCF
Social gatherings, chapter building 
throughout the Alaska / Horizon 
system, retirement education
Pride parades in Portland, Seattle 
and elsewhere in the system, com -
munity promotion with the GSBA, 
Out & Equal Seattle affiliate
Earth Day projects in Portland and 
Seattle, promotion of Green initia -
tive at Alaska / Horizon, internal 
recycling program revisions, Green 
project proposals
Portland Timbers outreach, His -
panic Seafair, 20 National Society 
of Hispanic MBAs conference
Prom Princess, State of Alaska  
Federation of Natives, Seattle Spirit 
Walk
Rock & Roll Marathon, Great Aloha 
Run Honolulu, Sunset Celebrations 
Festival,
Resume workshops, WWEE  
community breakfast and clothes 
drive, hosting of female board of 
directors, interview tips
Toys for Tots drive, food drive, trivia 
night, MSU promotional event, UW 
promotions65 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2     2010   2011   2012 Goals
In-Kind & Monetary Support       $5,640,000         $7,20,000         $7,000,000
Employee Matching Gifts         $00,000         $63,000         $00,000
Dollars for Doers         $7,462         $92,700         $00,000
Charity Miles  43,507,592 miles 46,43,922 miles        *
Alaska Airlines Foundation         $55,000         $65,500         $98,000
* We promote the Charity Miles program to our customers but have not set a contribution goal.
GIVING BACK: Air Group is setting contribution goals for the first time in 20 2
DID YOU  KNOW65% of upper management at 
Alaska and horizon serves on the 
boards of nonprofit organizations.DID YOU KNOW?Portland Jazz Festival, Seattle Art 
Museum, Seattle Symphony and Sitka 
Summer Music Festival ArtsFund, 
among others.
Education: Teaching institutions and 
programs that are of importance to 
our employees and their families are 
supported through our Employee Gift 
Matching and Dollars for Doers pro -
grams (donations and volunteer 
hours are also matched for other 
50(c)(3) organizations). Some of our 
key partnerships include the Indepen -
dent Colleges of Washington, Oregon 
Alliance of Independent Colleges & 
Universities, University of Washington 
and the University of Alaska system, 
as well as many other schools and 
scholarship programs.•Civic & Environment:  We help protect 
our environment by supporting organ-
izations such as the Alaska Raptor 
Center, National Forest Foundation, 
The Nature Conservancy, and  
Washington Wildlife and Recreation 
Coalition, just to name a few. 
Medical (Emergency / Research):  
Alaska and Horizon regularly respond 
to the need for health and human  
services relief, especially in the state 
of Alaska where transportation infra -
structure limits access to medical 
facilities. Through in-kind contribu -
tions, we assist hundreds of indivi-  
duals with their emergency and 
medical transportation needs. Our 
partnerships with Angel Flight West 
and Shriners Hospitals provide well  
 •
•66
Contributing to the community 
through spirit and caring.
Alaska Air Group’s corporate giving  
program is a fundamental part of who 
we are as a company and is founded on 
two of our core corporate values—Spirit 
and Caring. We proudly strive to help many 
worthy and wonderful causes within our 
communities.
Corporate Giving:  
Monetary & In-Kind Support 
We focus our giving on communities  
we serve now or in the near future and 
where a significant number of our 
employees live or work. We favor organi -
zations and efforts that are most likely  
to enhance a community’s cultural, eco -
nomic and environmental vitality and 
improve the quality of life for its citizens. 
Our corporate giving has extended to  
five strategic areas: 
Arts / Culture:  Our giving focuses on 
art education and increased resources 
for the arts. We believe that building 
audiences and generating support for 
the arts are crucial to the growth of 
the next generation and continued 
strength in our communities. Organi -
zations that receive our support 
include the the Anchorage Symphony, 
Lionel Hampton Jazz Festival,  •HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYDID YOU  KNOW65% of upper management at 
Alaska and horizon serves on the 
boards of nonprofit organizations.DID YOU KNOW?
Air Group employees  
helped staff a recent 
Make-A-Wish call bank 
event.
OUR HEART  AND  SPIRIT
Employees organized or were involved in more than 56 community events in 
2011. While we do not have an accurate system to track our employee 
volunteer hours, we do know some 480 employees logged more than 4,500 
hours of volunteer work. Our 2012 goal is to launch a new volunteer website to 
more accurately gather and measure employee volunteer efforts.67 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
over ,000 complimentary passenger 
seats each year for those needing 
treatment in another city.  
Social / Community Services:  From 
Make-A-Wish Foundations to Special 
Olympics, Alaska and Horizon have 
established many partnerships within 
our communities. Our in-kind support of 
air transportation enables many organi -
zations to raise money and grant special 
wishes to children.Starting in 202, the Alaska Airlines Cor
-
porate Giving program will focus on two 
primary areas of interest: medical / social 
and youth / eductaional issues.
In addition to our giving program, the Alaska Airlines Foundation is a 50  
(c)(3) private foundation based in 
Anchorage, Alaska. A small number of 
cash grants ranging on average from $5,000 to $5,000 are given to other non
-
profit organizations classified as public 
charities. These grants focus on educa -
tional efforts that address a unique need 
or value to a community. The Alaska Air -
lines Foundation has donated more than $600,000 over the past 2 years to a 
number of groups. Through the Alaska •
Airlines Foundation we are able to  
support educational achievement by 
focusing on programs that promote and 
support vibrant communities. All grants 
are reviewed and approved by the Alaska 
Airlines Foundation Board of Directors. 
Employee Giving
If our employees are engaged in the 
community they’re more engaged with 
Alaska Airlines. Giving back to the  
community is an integral part of our  
corporate vision and our culture. Alaska Air Group encourages and supports the 
hard work employees are doing as volun -
teers in their communities. The Dollars for Doers program gives employees $0 
per hour of volunteer work, to be 
donated to the non-profit organization up to $,000 per year, per employee. 
Across our system, our employees use 
their hearts and hands serving as board 
members with non-profit organizations, 
volunteering in their communities and 
participating in fundraisers. In many 
cases, our employees also engage with 
these community groups through the 
Employee Resource Group program, 
both as volunteers and financial 
supporters. 68
Examples of  
our corporate citizenship.
INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE
 More than 55 pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other 
employees donated some 2,000 hours for our 20  Aviation 
Day to help local Boy Scouts, high schoolers and other children 
learn about career paths in the aviation industry.
The free events were held in Portland and Seattle to give 4-  
to 8-year-olds a chance to learn how aircraft fly and explore 
career opportunities in aviation. Nearly 425 Boy Scouts from 
more than 50 troops in Oregon and Washington earned  
Aviation Merit Badges during the two events.
Participants were able to visit the flight deck of a Boeing 737, 
inspect a jet engine, build and fly a glider model, and jump 
down the emergency evacuation slide of Alaska’s cabin 
simulator.
Several employees, including CEO Bill Ayer and President Brad 
Tilden, flew their own light planes to the event. They were joined by an F-5 Eagle from the 42nd Fighter Wing of the 
Oregon Air National Guard. Air Force Academy and Civil Air 
Patrol representatives were on hand to talk about careers in 
military aviation.
HELPING THOSE IN NEED
In November 2009, Alaska and Horizon employees rallied 
around what has become an annual “Pack the Plane” project to 
fill a cargo aircraft with 5,000 bags (54,000 pounds) of food to 
benefit our local communities. Each station in the system is 
invited to participate by partnering with a local food bank.  
Food and money collected this way benefits almost every city 
we serve.HOW WE EMBRACE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
We exceeded our goal in 2009 by packing two cargo airplanes with 64,000 pounds of food and $,00 in cash donations from employees. In 20, we raised $38,686 in financial donations and collected 2,600 pounds of food—the equivalent of
 
packing 7½ cargo planes. 
ENLISTING OUR C USTOME RS
Alaska Air Group provides opportunities for our customers to 
participate in giving with our Charity Miles program. Members 
of the airlines’ Mileage Plan can donate some or all of their 
accumulated frequent flier miles to these charities: Angel Flight 
West, Dream Foundation, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, Hero Miles, Make-A-Wish Foundation, Medical Teams 
International, The Nature Conservancy, National Forest  
Foundation, and to a general charity pool that is used for disaster-relief organizations. In 20, about 3,200 customers 
generously donated more than 43 million frequent flier miles  
to our Charily Miles program. 
GIVING BACK IN OUR HOME STATE
As part of our commitment to the state of Alaska, we collabo -
rate with community leaders throughout the state. Members  
of the Alaska Airlines Community Advisory Board decide on 
corporate contributions and how best to help the communities 
we serve. The board meets three times a year to decide on 
donations and talk directly with Alaska Airlines management 
about concerns, needs and potential solutions.lumi, a snowy owl who had been found 
severely injured far from home, was given a 
new chance at life in the wild thanks to the 
Alaska Raptor Center in Sitka. Alaska Airlines 
flew the owl and her handlers from the center in 
Sitka to Barrow, Alaska, in 2011. here, lumi is 
released by members of the ukpeagvik Inupiat 
Corp., an Alaska Native corporation with 
headquarters in Barrow.
69 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Alaska Airlines provides support to the Sitka Raptor Center by 
donating transportation for many injured and rehabilitated 
birds from all across the state of Alaska. In 20, we helped to 
release a previously injured snowy owl back into its natural 
habitat north of the Arctic Circle in Barrow. Lumi, a snowy owl 
who had been severely injured far from home, had spent nearly 
eight months in captivity while she recovered at the center in 
Sitka, Alaska. In addition to providing transportation for the 
owl and Raptor Center staff, several of our employees partici -
pated in the release.
SUPPORT ING OUR SOLDIERS
As federal contractors, Alaska and Horizon have a regulatory 
obligation to strengthen military outreach efforts, but we also 
view this as a moral obligation. For this reason, Air Group has 
developed programs and forged strong community relation -
ships to ensure we are reaching the men and women who have 
served our country.
Among our programs is the Air Group Military Group (AMG), 
whose mission is to partner with the company to help guide 
education and outreach efforts around our military. AMG was 
founded by Stephanie Cootsona, manager of baggage  
performance. Stephanie also serves in the Air Force Reserves 
as the first sergeant for the 446th Aerospace Medicine Squad -
ron, is vice president of the First Sergeant Diamond Council for 
McChord Air Field, and serves as treasurer for Hire America’s Heroes. HAH is a 50(c)(3) organization sponsored by Air 
Group with goals that include connecting corporate employers 
with veterans seeking civilian employment.Air Group also has a Military Recruitment Outreach team that 
partners with AMG to ensure we are actively supporting the 
recruitment, retention and promotion of veterans.
Our Fallen Soldier program was developed by 4 aircraft tech -
nicians who saw a need to ensure a respectful and seamless 
transfer of remains of soldiers killed in action. With military 
protocols in mind, this group developed a handbook detailing 
every step and built a mock casket for training. Protocols 
involve taking care of military escorts, who are required to stay 
with the remains of a fallen soldier at all times, as well as any 
family members who may be on the flight.
Air Group will launch a military apprenticeship program in 
202 designed to increase the employability of veterans actively 
seeking civilian employment. The goal with this program is to 
engage veterans into specified temporary roles within the com -
pany so they can gain exposure to Air Group culture.
Patriotic baggage cart specially designed by AAG employees for the 
transport of fallen soldiers.looking forward:
Restating our  
commitment  
to sustainability. 
Continuing to advance our environmental, social, and economic sustainability 
is a strategic priority for Alaska Air Group. We are committed to working in 
partnership with our employees, customers, partners and suppliers to develop 
innovative solutions and continuous improvements that move our company 
and society toward sustainability.
IN THIS SECTION
 72 Alaska Air Group Mission & Values
 74 Global Reporting Initiative Alignment / GRI Index
 82 Invitation for Feedback  72 LOOKING FORWARD
Alaska Air Group values.
ALASKA AIRLINES SHARED VALUES 
Alaska Spirit.  Alaska Spirit is the heart of Alaska Airlines. It 
springs from our rich heritage as a pioneer in a state where avi -
ation plays a vital role in the life of every resident. Throughout 
our system, our Alaska Spirit defines the unique character of 
Alaska Airlines. Our fun-loving, energetic and adventurous per -
sonality flows from this spirit, as does our belief in service and 
community involvement. From our Alaska Spirit comes the 
pride, passion and perseverance that sets Alaska Airlines apart.
Resourcefulness.  Our bias toward action and our readiness to 
adapt to change and to master difficult challenges exemplify 
the “can do” heritage of Alaska Airlines. We embrace an atmo -
sphere where hard work, initiative and teamwork are a 
tradition, and where creativity and innovation flourish.
Integrity.  Our actions will reflect our absolute commitment to 
ethical and honest behavior. When faced with uncertainty, we 
will always use our best judgment to do the right thing.
Professionalism.  As proven professionals, we each bring a high 
level of individual skill, expertise and commitment to our work. 
We take great pride in the fact that our individual and collective 
accomplishments have earned broad respect and a reputation 
for safe, reliable, quality service.
Caring.  Caring about and helping people is the soul of Alaska 
Airlines. We regularly go the extra mile to help our customers, 
our community and each other with friendliness, caring and 
genuine concern. We believe our lives are enriched by individ -
ual acts of kindness and compassion.CRITICAL SUCCESS FACTORS
Safety.  We have an uncompromising commitment to safety. 
The well-being of our employees and customers will override 
any other consideration.
Continuous Improvement.  Our continuous improvement is 
driven by the willingness of each individual employee to 
embrace change, to pursue innovation and creativity, and  
to learn.
Quality People.  We will attract and develop talented people 
who share the values and spirit of Alaska employees.
Profitability.  Our corporate and individual success depends 
upon consistently producing profits sufficient to support 
growth and provide a reasonable return to our investors.
Quality Service.  We differentiate ourselves from our competi -
tion by providing genuinely personal and caring service to  
our customers and continually finding better ways to meet  
their needs.
Reliability.  We will provide consistent, on-time service upon 
which our customers can depend.73 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
HORIZON AIR SHARED VALUES
Integrity.  Integrity is the cornerstone value of Horizon Air. That 
means we have an uncompromising commitment to honesty 
and fairness—to being ethical, trustworthy and responsible in 
all we do.
Heart.  “Heart” is what defines the unique spirit and character 
of Horizon—a family of energetic, optimistic and enthusiastic 
people who enjoy what they do. From their “heart” comes the 
pride, commitment and, above all, the caring that truly sets 
Horizon apart.
Partnership.  We value the partnership of talented individuals 
combining their efforts to achieve results beyond the sum of 
their independent contributions. Partnership at Horizon is built 
on a foundation of trust, cooperation and mutual respect.
Innovation / Initiative.  We encourage initiative, innovation and 
creativity throughout the organization. Drive, determination 
and hard work—coupled with the active pursuit of new and 
creative solutions—are essential to Horizon’s continued 
success.
Continuous Improvement.  We seek excellence in our business 
and are committed to an environment of continuous develop -
ment, learning and improvement. We embrace change as a 
means to grow, both corporately and individually.CORE PROMISES TO CUSTOMERS. Get them to their destination … 
2. On time…
3. With their bags.
4. If things do go wrong, as sometimes they do, then “service 
recovery” can make all the difference. A warm smile, sincere 
concern and a skilled, empathetic response can often turn a 
negative experience into a positive one.74
Global Reporting Initiative Index.LOOKING FORWARD
. Strategy And Analysis
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
.
.2Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization.
Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.2-46-
2. Organizational Profile
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
2.
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.92.0Name of the organization.
Primary brands, products, and/or services. 
Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
Location of organization’s headquarters.
Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically  
relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
Nature of ownership and legal form.
Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries).
Scale of the reporting organization.
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership.
Awards received in the reporting period.44444
4
44i, 44
3. Report Parameters
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
3.
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.
Date of most recent previous report (if any).
Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)
Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.
Process for defining report content.
Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 
State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 
Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly 
affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.i
i
i
82
20
i
i, 34
iSTANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile DisclosuresN/A: Not Applicable  
N/R: Not Reported  
P/R: Partially Reported75 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
3. Report Parameters
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
3.9
3.0
3.
3.23.3Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied 
to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge 
from, the GRI Indicator Protocols.
Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., 
mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).
Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 27, 54-8
N/A
i
74-77
i
4. Governance, Commitments, And Engagement      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
4.
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.0
4.
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.54.64.7Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 
such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 
Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.
For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that 
are independent and/or non-executive members.
Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 
Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 
arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance).
Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.
Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its  
committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity.
Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 
social performance and the status of their implementation.
Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environ -
mental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed 
standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 
Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and 
social performance.
Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 
Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 
or endorses. 
Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the  
organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond 
routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 
List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 
Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 
Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 
Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those 
key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.4, 6-7
7
7
7
7
N/R6
6, 26, 
72-73
N/R
7
N/R
32-34
P/R 332
20
2, 56
20, 5776 LOOKING FORWARD
G3 DMA DESCRIPTION PAGE
DMA EC
Aspects
DMA EN
Aspects
DMA LA
Aspects
DMA HR
Aspects
DMA SO
Aspects
DMA PR
AspectsDisclosure on Management Approach EC  
Economic performance  
Market presence
Indirect economic impacts
Disclosure on Management Approach EN  
Materials
Energy
Water
Biodiversity
Emissions, effluents and waste
Products and services
Compliance
Transport
Overall
Disclosure on Management Approach LA  
Employment
Labor/management relations
Occupational health and safety
Training and education
Diversity and equal opportunity
Equal remuneration for women and men
Disclosure on Management Approach HR  
Investment and procurement practices  
Non-discrimination
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Child labor
Prevention of forced and compulsory labor
Security practices
Indigenous rights
Assessment
Remediation
Disclosure on Management Approach SO  
Local communities
Corruption
Public policy  
Anti-competitive behavior
Compliance
Disclosure on Management Approach PR  
Customer health and safety
Product and service labelling
Marketing communications
Customer privacy
Compliance
Human Trafficking 
Business continuity and emergency preparedness
Service quality
Provision of services or facilities for persons with special needs46-47
4-5, 48-49
48
36 
34 
4 
N/A 
26 
,56 
6, 4  
33 
25
48 
60-6  
52,54  
59 
62  
N/R 
48 
6 
60-6  
6
N/R
N/R
N/A 
N/R 
N/A
 
66 
6 
33 
6 
6
52 
N/A 
N/R 
N/R 
6 
N/R 
N/R 
2 
N/RSTANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs)    77 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Economic
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
EC
EC2
EC3
EC4
EC5
EC6
EC7
EC8
EC9Economic performance        
Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 
community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 
Coverage of the organization’s defined-benefit plan obligations. 
Significant financial assistance received from government.
Market presence        
Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.
Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 
Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation.Indirect economic impacts       
 
Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, 
or pro bono engagement. 
Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 46-49
 
N/R
46
N/R
N/R
48
N/R 
 
66
 
48-49
Environmental      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
EN
EN2
EN3
EN4
EN5
EN6
EN7
   
EN8
EN9
EN0Materials         
Materials used by weight or volume. 
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 
Energy         
Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 
Indirect energy consumption by primary source.
Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.
Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 
result of these initiatives. 
Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.
Water         
Total water withdrawal by source. 
Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 
Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.   N/A
N/A 
N/R 
N/R 
32-35
30-32  
35
34-35
4  
N/A  
N/A  
 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators      78 LOOKING FORWARD
Environmental, continued      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
EN
EN2EN3
EN4EN5
EN6
EN7EN8EN9
EN20EN2
EN22
EN23
EN24
EN25
EN26
EN27
EN28
EN29
EN30Biodiversity         
Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  
protected areas.
Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas. 
Habitats protected or restored. 
Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity.
Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of 
extinction risk. 
Emissions, effluents and waste            
Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 
Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 
NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 
Total water discharge by quality and destination. 
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 
Total number and volume of significant spills. 
Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, 
III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 
Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting  
organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 
Products and services         
Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation.
Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 
Compliance  
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations. 
Transport  
Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and 
transporting members of the workforce.
Noise
Initiatives to reduce noise
Overall  
Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. N/A 
N/A N/A  
N/A
N/A
27  
N/R
26-36 N/A  26  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  
N/A 
N/A
4
N/A
 
42 
 
N/A79 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
LA
LA2
LA3
LA5
LA4
LA5
LA6
LA7
LA8
LA9
LA0
LA
LA2
LA3
LA4Employment         
Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender.
Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 
Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.
Labor/management relations            
Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety           
 
Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 
advise on occupational health and safety programs. 
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender.
Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or  
community members regarding serious diseases.
Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.Training and education           
 
Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in  
managing career endings. 
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender.Diversity and equal opportunity           
 
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 
group membership, and other indicators of diversity.Equal remuneration for women and men          
 
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. N/R
N/R
N/R
N/R
 
60
N/R
54
54-55 
N/A 
N/R
N/R
N/R
N/R
7, 63  
 
 
N/R80 LOOKING FORWARD
Social: Human Rights      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
HR
HR2
HR3
HR4
HR5
HR6
HR7
HR8
HR9
HR0
HRInvestment and procurement practices           
Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights 
concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 
Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions 
taken. 
Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 
including the percentage of employees trained. 
Non-discrimination             
Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining         
 
Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 
violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor           
 
Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 
to the effective abolition of child labor.Forced and compulsory labor           
Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 
contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices            
 
Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are rele -
vant to operations.Indigenous rights            
Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment            
Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.Remediation            
Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal
grievance mechanismsN/R
 
N/R
 
N/R 
N/R
N/A
 
 
N/A
N/A
 
N/R
N/R
N/R
N/R  
   
   
 8 ALASKA AIR GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 2
Social: Society      
SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE
SO
SO9
SO0
SO2
SO3
SO4
SO5
SO6
SO7
SO8Local communities         
Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs.
Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.
Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 
communities.
Corruption            
Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 
Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 
Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Public policy           
 
Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 
Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.Anti-competitive behavior           
Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.Compliance           
 
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. N/R
N/A
N/A
N/R
6
N/A 
N/R
N/R
N/R
4
Social: Product Responsibility       
PR
PR2
PR3
PR4
PR5
PR6
PR7
PR8
PR9Customer health and safety       
Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of  
significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products 
and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.
Product and service labelling           
Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such 
information requirements. 
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 
labeling, by type of outcomes. 
Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Justice           
 
Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promo -
tion, and sponsorship. 
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy           
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance           
 
Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 
services. N/R
N/R
 
N/R
N/R
56
N/R
N/R
N/R
N/R  82
Invitation for feedback.LOOKING FORWARD
We are committed to accurately and transparently reporting our environmental, 
social and economic impacts, risks and opportunities. f eedback, input and 
suggestions are welcome. Please email your comments to: www.alaskaair.com/
consumeraffairs. We are also interested in dialogue with all stakeholders about 
the issues and challenges of sustainability in our industry and business.© 2012 Alaska Air Group