2018 Environmental, Social and Governance ReportStock Code: 2600 (HKSE)   ACH (US)   601600 (China)
2018
Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report2 President’s Statement
4 1 About this Report
4 1.1 Reporting Period
4 1.2 Reporting Scope
4 1.3 Reporting Guidelines
5 1.4 Report Data Specification
5 1.5 Reporting Specifications
7 1.6 Access to the Report
8 1.7 Response to the Report
9 2 About Chalco
9 2.1 Company Profile
10 2.2 Core Philosophy
11 2.3 Honors and Awards
13 3 Stakeholder Engagement
13 3.1 Communication Channels
15 3.2 Materiality Assessment and Result
21 4 Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value
21 4.1 Promoting the Improvement of Corporate Governance
29 4.2 Solidifying Sustainable Development
32 4.3 Enhancing Risk Management and Control
39 5 Green Development – Achieving Green Production
39 5.1 Reducing Environmental Impacts
47 5.2 Effective Usage of Natural Resource
52 5.3 Promoting Responsible Mining
56 5.4 Environment Performance
59 6 Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety
59 6.1 Safeguarding the Occupational Health
65 6.2 Safeguarding Legal Rights
69 6.3 Paying Attention to Employee Development
73 7 Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production
73 7.1 Upholding Business Ethics
73 7.2 Promoting Industry Development
75 7.3 Improving the Product and Service Experience
79 7.4 Improving the Effectiveness of Operation
81 7.5 Building Sustainable Supply Chain
84 8 Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society
84 8.1 Supporting Poverty Alleviation
90 8.2 Serving the Neighbourhoods
92 9 Looking to the Future
93 Appendix 1  The Material Laws and Regulations Complied by the 
Group During the Reporting Period
96 Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index
103 Your FeedbackContents2
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
President’s StatementDEEPENING AND ENHANCING REFORM AND INNOVATION 
SPEEDING UP TRANSFORMATION AND UPGRADING
Comprehensively Accelerating Chalco’s Green and High-quality 
Development
In the year of 2018, it was the first year of implementing the spirit of the 19th National Congress 
of the Communist Party of China, and it was the first year for Chalco to start the journey of green 
and high-quality development. Establishing the objectives of “low cost, high quality, excellent mechanism,and good efficiency”, Chalco unswervingly pursues the strategy of prioritising cost-
saving and continuously enhances the cost advantage; establishing the image of “Requiring Top-
quality Aluminum, Requiring Chalco” in the market, Chalco unswervingly promotes high-quality development, through optimising the industrial location and adjusting the product structure, to provide top quality and high tech products; establishing an operational mechanism that adapts to market competition and has great vitality, Chalco unswervingly deepens and reforms its management;continuously improving the quality and efficiency of its development, Chalco unswervingly accelerates the establishment of a world-class company in the industry of aluminum to achieve excellence, dominance, and expansion. In the past year, advancing with the new development concept,the Company has delivered fruitful results:
– Breakthroughs in innovation and development.
New results have been achieved from the high-sulfur bauxite desulfurisation and other research and development projects; significant benefits are gained from the promotion of electrolytic aluminum energy-saving technology; production lines of refined alumina (5N alumina) for demonstration have been completed and applied; the major production modules of the smart factory have been put into use; the platform for excellent technology and innovative services have been selected into the 2018 Big Data Industry Development Demonstration Project of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. In the year of 2018, the production of top-quality alumina has successfully replaced the imported alumina,as more than 70% of the indicators were superior than imported products, rewriting the history of producing high-purity aluminum with imported alumina in China.
– Stepping towards a new phase by coordinating the development.
Chalco has continued to promote supply-side structural reforms, and the second-round comprehensive adjustment of the economic structure has been started in China. Shanxi Huasheng, other branches and subsidiaries have implemented flexible production in some of the electrolytic aluminum production lines. The quick establishment and operation of the Carbon Project of Fushun Aluminum have driven the new growth of Chalco. The business of alumina and electrolytic aluminum is deliberately transferred to areas with advantages in coal resources, clean energy resources, high environmental capacity,and coastal ports. In the year of 2018, the market-oriented debt-to-equity swap project has overcome the huge difficulties of the stock market’s sluggishness and was unconditionally approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, thereby being successfully implemented.3
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
President’s Statement (Continued)– Green development taking a new step.
In the year of 2018, leading the green development of the aluminum industry, Chalco 
has started the “Battles for Safety, Environmental Protection, and Quality” and invested RMB1.192 billion to specifically address 188 issues, to continuously consolidate the foundation of management, to establish demonstration companies of safety management such as Guangxi Branch, to promote the green technologies such as harmless treatment of electrolytic aluminum spent potlining (overhaul slag), and to strategically locate the hydropower aluminum production plants in Yunnan Province.
– Open development delivering results.
Chalco has made a major breakthrough in its “Overseas Acquisition and Overseas Establishment” strategy. A contract to acquire 1.75 billion metric tons of bauxite resources has been signed successfully for the Boffabauxite project, which has reversed the situation of the Company’s insufficient resources; Boffabauxite Project, Port Project, and Guangxi Fangchenggang Alumina Project have started at the same time, taking a solid step towards the overseas establishment of Chalco. In the year of 2018, Chalco seized on the high international alumina prices to enter the overseas market and realized the historic transformation of China’s metallurgical grade alumina from an importer to an exporter.
– Sharing the new advantages of development and agglomeration.
Chalco’s three major business platforms, namely Chalco Trading, Chalco Logistics, and Chalco Materials, have a strong momentum for development and play an important role in unleashing Chalco’s superiority of collaboration. The unified procurement of materials, integration of logistics resources, and the leading position in the industry have given the Company the advantage and the power to lead the industry. In the year of 2018, Chalco stimulated vitality of the Group through resource integration, which includes the completion of the merger and reorganisation of Zunyi Alumina and Zunyi Aluminum and the launch of a pilot program to promote management reform.
He Zhihui
President
Aluminum Corporation of China Limited4
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
About this ReportThis Report covers Aluminum Corporation of China Limited’s (“Chalco” or the “Company”) 
and its branches’ and subsidiaries’ (collectively referred to as the “Group”) latest sustainability related information in the year of 2018. This Report mainly includes the environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues that are of interest to stakeholders and related to the sustainable development of the Company to facilitate the stakeholders to better understand the values, management approaches, measures and related performances of the Company’s sustainable development. This report is to be read in conjunction with the Company’s 
2018 Annual Report 
(especially the Corporate Governance Report) to provide a comprehensive understanding of the Company’s performance.
The Board believes that reliable and independent environmental and social strategies and policies 
are critical to the Company as a production company. The Board is fully responsible for the Company’s environmental and social strategies and reporting and has reviewed and approved this Report.
1.1 REPORTING PERIOD
This Report covers the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (the “Reporting Period” or the “Year”), unless otherwise specified. The information presented in this Report includes the Company’s specific policies and performance in the ESG aspects. Due to the continuity and comparability of the information disclosed, the timeframe of selected contents is adjusted where necessary.
1.2 REPORTING SCOPE
This Report covers Chalco and its branches and subsidiaries. The scope of environmental key performance indicators (“KPI”) only covers the factories of its branches and subsidiaries.
1.3 REPORTING GUIDELINES
This Report was prepared with reference to: the Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide (the “ESG Guide”) contained in Appendix 27 of the Rules Governing 
the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; the Notice on 
Strengthening Listed Companies’ Assumption of Social Responsibility and the Guidelines on 
Listed Companies’ Environmental Information Disclosure of the Shanghai Stock Exchange;  
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”); and 
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)’s  Guidance on Social Responsibility 
(ISO26000:2010) . Moreover, the selection of information for disclosure was also based on the 
result of the materiality assessment.5
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
About this Report (Continued)This Report has complied with “comply or explain” provisions of the ESG Guide and reported 
according to the “recommended disclosure”. Please refer to Appendix 2.
The reporting principles (of Materiality, Quantitative, Balance, and Consistency) outlined in the 
ESG Guide have been adopted in the Company’s reporting practices.
1.4 REPORT DATA SPECIFICATION
The data quoted in this Report is final statistics. If there are any discrepancies between the financial disclosures in this Report and the Company’s Annual Report, the figures in the Annual Report shall stand. The financial data in this Report is in Renminbi (“RMB”) unless otherwise specified.
1.5 REPORTING SPECIFICATIONS
In this Report, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless otherwise specified:
“China” refers to The People’s Republic of China
“CPC” or the “Party” Refers to The Communist Party of China
“18
th Party Congress” refers to 18th National Congress of CPC
“19th Party Congress” refers to 19th National Congress of CPC
“SASAC” refers to State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration 
Commission
“Federal Reserve” refers to Federal Reserve System
“SEHK” refers to The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
“GRI” refers to Global Reporting Initiatives
“Chalco” or the 
“Company”refers to Aluminum Corporation of China Limited6
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
About this Report (Continued)The “Group” refers to Aluminum Corporation of China Limited and its 
branches and subsidiaries
“Chinalco” refers to Aluminum Corporation of China
“Shanxi Branch” refers to Shanxi Branch of Chalco
“Guangxi Branch” refers to Guangxi Branch of Chalco
“Guizhou Branch” refers to Guizhou Branch of Chalco
“Qinghai Branch” refers to Qinghai Branch of Chalco
“Lanzhou Branch” refers to Lanzhou Branch of Chalco. On September 17, 2018, the Company held the 31
st meeting of the sixth session 
of the Board of Directors and confirmed the capital increase to Chalco Gansu by transfer of Lanzhou Branch.
“Chalco Gansu” refers to Chalco Gansu Aluminum Electricity Co., Ltd.
“Liancheng Aluminum” refers to Chalco Gansu Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Chalco Logistics” refers to China Aluminum Logistics Group Corporation Co., Ltd.
“Chalco Materials” refers to Chalco Materials Co., Ltd.
“Chalco Shandong” refers to Chalco Shandong Co., Ltd.
“Zhongzhou Aluminum” refers to Chalco Zhongzhou Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Ningxia Energy” refers to China Aluminum Ningxia Energy Group Co., Ltd.
“Baotou Aluminum” refers to Baotou Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Chalco Trading” refers to China Aluminum International Trading Co., Ltd.7
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
About this Report (Continued)“Shanxi New Material” refers to Chalco Shanxi New Material Co., Ltd.
“Zunyi Aluminum” refers to Zunyi Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Zunyi Alumina” refers to Chalco Zunyi Alumina Co., Ltd.
“Guizhou Huajin” refers to Guizhou Huajin Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Chalco Mining” refers to Chalco Mining Co., Ltd.
“Fushun Aluminum” refers to Fushun Aluminum Co., Ltd.
“Shandong Huayu” refers to Shandong Huayu Alloy Materials Co., Ltd.
“Shanxi Huaxing” refers to Shanxi Huaxing Alumina Co., Ltd.
“Shanxi New Materials” refers to Chalco Shanxi New Material Co.,Ltd.
“Chalco Hong Kong” refers to Chalco Hong Kong Limited
“Lvliang Mining” refers to Chalco Shanxi Lvliang Mining Co., Ltd.
1.6 ACCESS TO THE REPORT
This Report is available in both Chinese and English. Should there be any discrepancy 
between the Chinese version and the English version, the Chinese version shall prevail.
Electronic copies are available as follows:The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong: https://www.hkex.com.hk
The Shanghai Stock Exchange:www.sse.com.cnThe Securities Times: http://www.zqrb.cn/Chalco:www.chalco.com.cn8
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
About this Report (Continued)1.7 RESPONSE TO THE REPORT
If you have any comments on the Company’s Social Responsibility and ESG reporting, please 
contact the Company.
Phone no.: 8610-8229 8332
Fax no.: 8610-8229 8158Email: ir@chalco.com.cn
Besides, a feedback questionnaire is attached at page 104 of this Report, and you are 
welcome to complete and send it to the email address above.9
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
About Chalco2.1 COMPANY PROFILE
Chalco, a large listed company controlled by Chinalco, was incorporated on September 10th, 
2001 in China and has become a leading company in China’s non-ferrous industry, with a 
strong portfolio of assets among global companies. Chalco’s stocks are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (stock code: ACH), SEHK (stock code: 2600), and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601600).
Chalco is the only large company in China’s aluminum industry which is engaged in the whole 
value chain, from the exploration and mining of bauxite and coal, to the production,sales 
and R&D of alumina, primary aluminum and aluminum alloy products, to international trade, 
logistics, and power generation from both fossil fuels and new energy.
Chalco has always been committed to ensuring the development and utilisation of 
national strategic resources. The Company has played an important role in many industry areas,including aviation and aerospace, rail transit, and civilian high-end alloys. The Company is proud to have provided key aluminum extrusions for China’s first man-made satellite, Long March rockets, Shenzhou spacecrafts, Chang’e Programme, jumbo air crafts, high-speed trains, and many other construction and transportation projects.
This is a pivotal stage for transforming the Chinese growth model, improving the economic 
structure,and fostering new drivers of growth. With the philosophy of scientifically controlling the up stream, optimising the midstream and rapidly developing the downstream, Chalco has been speeding up structural readjustment, promoting transformation and upgrading, continuously improving the industrial chain, deepening reform and innovation, and accelerating the pace of production. These measures have been taken with the goal of making Chalco a competitive world-class company, adding value for its shareholders, increasing benefits for the Company,and raising the incomes of its employees. In driving and achieving these goals,Chalco can contribute to a new chapter of the Chinese Dream.10
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
About Chalco (Continued)2.2 CORE PHILOSOPHY
Corporate Social Responsibility 
philosophy:Turning Stone into Gold and Benefiting Mankind
Core values: Responsibility, Integrity, Openness, and Excellence
Chalco’s vision: To Become a World-class Global Company with Global 
Competitiveness in the Non-ferrous Industry
Corporate’s spirit: Striving for Better Performance and Innovating for 
Prosperity
Corporate’s mission: Bring Benefits to the Country, Shareholders, Employees,
Customers, Communities and 
Environment Corporate’s 
image:Responsible, Integrious, Ecological, Rule of Law, Peaceful, 
and Harmonious
Operation philosophy: Creating Value and Maximizing Returns
Management philosophy: Striving for Excellence and Collaborating for Efficiency
Cultural Atmosphere Transparency, Honesty, Simplicity, and Open-mindedness
Business concept: Working without Corruption and Performing with Virtues
Safety concept: Safety relating to Effectiveness and Employees Relating to 
Wealth11
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
About Chalco (Continued)2.3 HONORS AND AWARDS
Chalco’s honors and awards in the year of 2018 are listed below.
Company Awarded Award Awarding Unit   
Chalco 2018 All-Asia Executive  
Team Most Honored 
Companies AwardInstitutional Investor  
(financial magazine)
Jinyi Award Most Valuable 
Hong Kong Connected SecuritiesSecurities Times
Guangxi Branch Guangxi Patent  
Gold AwardThe Department of Science 
and Technology of Guangxi Province
Guangxi Patent  
Silver AwardThe Department of Science 
and Technology of Guangxi Province
Excellent Engineering  
Design Award  (Ministerial Level)China Nonferrous Metals 
Industry Association
Guangxi Top 100 Confederation of Guangxi’s 
Enterprises and Employers
The Third Batch of National 
Green FactoriesThe Ministry of Industry and 
Information Technology of China
1 On June 29, 2018, the Board of Directors of Chalco issued a progress announcement on the merger and 
reorganisation of Zunyi Alumina and Zunyi Aluminum. Zunyi Aluminum, a subsidiary of Chalco, successfully 
completed the merger with Zunyi Alumina, another subsidiary of Chalco. The company name of "Zunyi Aluminum Co., Ltd." is unchanged after the merger.12
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
About Chalco (Continued)Company Awarded Award Awarding Unit    
Chalco Shandong The High and New  
Technology Enterprise  
in Shandong ProvinceThe Department of Science 
and Technology of Shandong Province, the Department of Finance of Shandong Province, and Shandong Provincial Tax Service, State Taxation Administration
ZunyiAluminum
1Nationwide Model Home of 
WorkersAll-China Federation of Trade 
Unions
Zunyi Aluminum Guizhou Pioneer Worker Trade Union of Guizhou
Chief Financial Officer and 
Secretary of the Board of Directors, ChalcoGolden Bauhinia The “Best 
Chief Financial Officer of Listed Company”
Asian Best CFO in the sector 
of basic material
Institutional Investor  
(financial magazine)13
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Stakeholder EngagementChalco understands the importance of stakeholders for its sustainability development with the 
focuses on receiving opinions from and balancing the interests of internal and external stakeholders, and proactively responds to the expectations and concerns of all stakeholders.
To further explore Chalco’s sustainability issues, the Company has conducted stakeholder 
identification and ESG-related materiality assessment in order to improve its sustainability management system through external professional advice.
The key stakeholders identified and confirmed by Chalco are “Major Shareholders”, “Governments 
and Regulators”, “Employees”, “Customers”, “Peer Companies”, “Potential Investors and Financial Institutions”, “Suppliers”, “Contractors”, and “Communities”. Chalco has fully considered the needs of various stakeholders and been in close contact with stakeholders.
3.1 COMMUNICATION CHANNELS
Chalco, attaching great importance to the participation of, relationships with, and expectations of stakeholders, not only understands and responds to the opinions and appeals of stakeholders through various channels, but also reviews and improves its performance at the ESG aspects. The Company’s effectiveness of communication with stakeholders is enhanced through continuous improvement in its stakeholder communication mechanism.
Communication channels
Stakeholders Communication Channels Expectations and Concerns   
Major Shareholders Annual General MeetingCorporate announcementsOn-site investigationProtecting the rights and 
interests of shareholders
Improving corporate 
governance
Improving business 
performance
   14
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)Stakeholders Communication Channels Expectations and Concerns    
Governments and Regulators Regular reporting and 
submission of information
Regular communication with 
regulatory authorities
Meetings/SeminarsOperating in compliance with 
laws and regulations
Fulfilling tax obligation
Promoting local economic 
development
Creating local job 
opportunities
Ensuring occupational health 
and safety for employees
Producing and operating 
safely
Employees Workers congressesCollecting boxes for 
recommendationOccupational healthRemuneration and benefitsCareer developmentEmployee caring
Customers Business communicationCustomer feedbacksSound quality assurance 
system
Providing quality products and 
services
Peer Companies Communication with local 
labour departments
Participation in industry 
forums
Visits and inspections with 
industry peersPromoting industry 
development
Potential Investors and Financial 
InstitutionsListing information 
disclosures
Briefings for investorsRoadshowsBriefings for analystsDisclosing information timely 
and accurately
   15
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)Stakeholders Communication Channels Expectations and Concerns    
Suppliers
ContractorsTenderingSeminars&ConferencesEntry requirements and 
evaluation
On-site investigationEntry managementContinuous evaluation
Communities Charitable activitiesStakeholder engagementImproving community 
environment
Supporting community 
welfare
Targeted Poverty  
Alleviation
   
3.2 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND RESULT
Chalco has conducted its materiality assessment for its sustainable development through an independent third party. The materiality assessment included ESG issues identification, ESG issues prioritization, result analysis and validation. The environmental and social materiality matrices of Chalco are illustrated from the two dimensions of the “Importance to Stakeholders” and the “Importance to Chalco”.
As part of the screening and identification of ESG issues, Chalco extracted relevant issues 
from SEHK’s ESG Guide, GRI’s 
Sustainability Topics for Sectors (2013)2, and the ISO’s 
Guidance on Social Responsibility (ISO26000:2010) , the General Administration of Quality 
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of China’s and the Standardization Administration of China’s 
Guidance on Social Responsibility Reporting (GB/T36001–2015) , and the result of peer 
benchmarking to form its pool of ESG issues (the “Pool”). A clear definition of each issue was given to facilitate the understanding of all stakeholders. Subsequently, Chalco’s management selected the most relevant issues from the Pool based on their knowledge about the Group’s business and the industry. The opinions from the stakeholders on the most relevant issues were then collected through questionnaires.
2 GRI’s Sustainability Topics for Sectors (2013) is Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to 
know?  released by GRI.16
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)Chalco invited internal and external stakeholders to participate in the materiality 
assessment, including “Major Shareholders”, “Board of Directors”, “Board of Supervisors”, “Management”, “Government and Regulators”, “Employees” and “Customers”. “Peer companies”, “Potential Investors and Financial Institutions”, “Suppliers”, “Contractors”, “Retail Investors”, and “Communities”so as to obtain the stakeholders’ expectations for and concerns over Chalco’s sustainability development. The participants gave important comments to the Company on identifying its material issues. The number of valid questionnaires received was 3,993.
Chalco considers the environmental and social aspects as equally important for its sustainable 
development and divides its materiality into two major aspects: environmental and social. Chalco constructed its materiality matrices according to the analytical results of the questionnaires to illustrate its material ESG issues to its stakeholders.
Fourth step: Validating the results
The Company's Board validated and endorsed the material issues to ensure that the 
issues are adequately relevant to the Company, thereby disclosing in the Report in a 
targeted manner.Third step: Results analysis
Responses were analysed under two dimensions, the "Importance to Stakeholders" and 
the  "Importance to Chalco" to understand the shared concerns between the 
stakeholders and Chalco. As a result, 8 ESG issues (ranked at 5 or above out of 10) were  
considered as material.Second step: Prioritizing ESG issues
Selected issues were incoporated in online questionnaires. 
The Company's stakeholders were invited to rank the ESG issues by materialit yFirst step: Identifying ESG issues
A total of 17 ESG issues were screened for the Company by drawing on  
different guidelines, standards, and from industry benchmarking.17
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)Chalco’s Environmental and Social Materiality Matrices
3 In the materiality assessment, the “Major Shareholders” ‘s, “Board of Directors” ‘s, “Board of Supervisors” ‘s, 
and “Management” ‘s opinions represent “the importance to Chalco”. on behalf of “Main holders”, “Government 
and Regulators”, “Employees”; the views of “Customers”, “Peer Companies”, “Potential Investors and Financial Institutions”, “Suppliers”, “Contractors”, “Sticky” and “Community and the Public” represent “importance to stakeholders” The importance of the opinions of the various stakeholders in “Importance to Stakeholders” is the same.18
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)
19
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)ESG issues prioritization
Materiality 
(Sorting from high materiality to low materiality)EnvironmentalAspectsSocialAspects
   
1 Air Emission and Management Health and Safety of Employees
2 Discharge and Management Employment and Welfare
3 Solid Waste Generation and 
Management Employee Development and Training
4 Energy Use and Efficiency Labour Standards
5 Water Use and Efficiency Corporate Governance
6 Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emission 
and Management Anti-corruption
7 Land Management and Restoration Supply Chain Management
8 Bauxite Tailings Fair Competition
9 Community Participation and 
Contribution   
Chalco has been able to identify 8material issues by analysing the results of the survey and disclosed them in detail in this report. In the future, the Group will continue to deepen and strengthen the communication with stakeholders.20
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Stakeholder Engagement (Continued)The results of the materiality assessment show that stakeholders consider the following issues 
to be material for Chalco:
Environmental Aspects Responding Section  
Air Emission and Management Green Development – Achieving Green Production
Discharge and Management
Solid Waste Generation and 
Management
Energy Use and Efficiency
Social Aspects Responding Section  
Employee Health and Safety Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety
Employment and Welfare
Employee Development and 
Training
Labour Standards  21
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating ValueChalco strives to improves its corporate governance and to fulfil its corporate responsibilities in 
the political, economic, and social spheres. The Company strives to improve its major business in terms of quality and scale and to give full play to its role as a state-owned enterprise (“SOE”) to demonstrate the values of a SOE directly under the central government (“CSOE”). With pragmatic and prudent management, Chalco’s commitments to shareholders, investors, employees, and partners are fully fulfilled.
4.1 PROMOTING THE IMPROVEMENT OF CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
The Group has become a leading company in China’s non-ferrous industry, with a strong portfolio of assets among global companies. Chinalco has been the Company’s ultimate holding company, which directly held 33.87% equity interest of the Company and together with its subsidiaries held an aggregate of 36.62% equity interest of the Company. The Company issued 2,118,874,715 A shares upon the confirmation of the issue of shares to purchase assets on February 25, 2019
4. As of the issuance, Chinalco has directly held 29.67% 
of the Company’s shares, and together with its subsidiaries, holds 32.06% of the Company’s shares.
If you would like to know more about the Company’s operation and management, please 
refer to its 
2018 Annual Report.  Please refer to the Company’s website for information on 
the organisational structure of the Company: http://www.chalco.com.cn/chalco/gsgk/cyqy/A120107web_1.htm.
4 The details are set out in the announcement of the Company dated 26 February 201922
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Chalco has strictly complied with the requirements of the Company Law of China,China 
Securities Regulatory Commission’s Code of Corporate Governance for Listed Companies 
in China and Rules Governing the Listing of Stocks on Shanghai Stock Exchange, Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on SEHK, and The New York Stock Exchange Listed 
Company Manual . The Company has formulated a clear governance system, procedures 
and working processes, continued to deepen and improved the governance structure 
“Three Boards and One Layer” consisting of General Meeting, Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors, and Management, as well as other governance systems. Chalco’s goals are to further improve the Company’s governance, to regulate the work flow and management processes of the Company’s operations, and to maintain sustainable, stable, and sound development, creating values for both the shareholders and the society.
Chalco’s “Three Boards and One Layer”
Boar d of Dir ectors
Audit 
CommitteeNomination 
CommitteeRemuneration 
CommitteeDevelopment and 
Planning CommitteeOccupational 
Health, Safety and 
Envir onment 
CommitteeBoar d of SupervisorsGeneral Meeting
Management23
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)General Meeting
The general meeting is the highest authority of Chalco, legally exercising its rights: to decide 
on the Company’s management principles and investment plans; to review and approve profit distribution and loss recovery plans; and to revise the Company’s constitution and the rules and procedures for general meetings, meetings of the Board of Directors and Board of Supervisors. During the reporting period, Chalco held 3 general meetings, and reviewed and passed 33 proposals.
Board of Directors
Board of Directors is the operating decision-making body of Chalco, accountable to the general meeting. The Board of Directors legally exercises its duties including but not limited to the following items: executing the resolutions of general meetings; deciding on the Company’s development strategies, business plans and investment plans; and formulating the Company’s annual financial budget, financial statement, profit distribution plan, loss recovery plan, as well as any proposal to increase or decrease registered capital. The Board also determines basic management systems, including policies and processes for the management of risk, internal controls and compliance, equity incentive plans etc., as well as supervises the implementation of the Company’s regulatory obligations.24
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Company’s sixth session of Board of Directors 
consisted of 9directors:Mr. Yu Dehui5, Chairman and Executive Director; Mr. Lu Dongliang, 
Mr. Jiang Yinggang, and Mr. Zhu Runzhou,Executive Directors; Mr. Ao Hong6, and Mr. 
WangJun, Non-Executive Directors; and Ms. Chen Lijie, Mr. Hu Shihai and Mr. Li Dazhuang, Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board held 18 meetings, reviewed and passed 79 proposals during the Reporting Period.
Board of Supervisors
The Board of Supervisors is the Company’s supervisory body, accountable to the general meeting. The Board of Supervisors legally exercises its duties to inspect and investigate the Company’s financial and risk management and internal controls, to supervise and appraise the performance of the Board of Directors, senior management and their members, as well as to give opinions and make recommendations.
As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Board of Supervisors consisted of: Mr. Ye Guohua
7, 
Chairman; and Mr. Wang Jun8 and Mr. Wu Zuoming, Supervisors. The Board held 8 meetings, 
reviewed and approved 14 proposals during the Reporting Period.
5 On February 21, 2019, Mr. Yu Dehui proposed to resign as the chairman and the executive director of the Company 
and from all other positions in each of the special committees under the Board due to work and reform needs. Mr. 
Lu Dongliang proposed to resign as the president of the Company due to work and reform needs and took effect on the same day. As considered and approved at the 39
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board convened by the 
Company on the same day, the Board elected Mr. Lu Dongliang as the chairman of the sixth session of the Board of the Company. On the same day, the Board of the Company considered and approved to appoint Mr.He Zhihui (“Mr. He”) as the president of the Company as well as to agree to nominate Mr. He Zhihui as a candidate for an executive director of the sixth session of Board of Directors of the Company.
6 Due to change in work arrangements, Mr. Liu Caiming proposed to resign as a Non-executive director of the 
Company on 25 May 2018 and the resignation has taken effect on the same day.
7 On November 20, 2018, Mr. Liu Xiangmin proposed to resign as the chairman and supervisor of the Company’s 
Board of Supervisors due to work transfer. The Company held the 14
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board 
of Supervisors and agreed to nominate Mr. Ye Guohua as a candidate for a shareholder representative supervisor of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors of the Company on the same day. After the election of the 2
nd 
Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on December 11, 2018, Mr. Ye Guohua was elected as the shareholder representative supervisor of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. On the same day, the Company held the 15
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors to elect Mr. Ye Guohua 
as the chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. The resignation of Mr. Liu Xiangmin took effect on the same day.
8 On December 24, 2018, Mr. Wang Jun proposed to resign as the supervisor of the Company due to work transfer. 
On the same day, the Company held the 16
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors and agreed 
to nominate Ms. Shan Shulan as a candidate for a shareholder representative supervisor of the sixth session of the Board of Supervisors. After the election of the Company’s first Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting held on February 20, 2019, Ms. Shan Shulan was elected as the shareholder representative supervisor of the sixth Board of supervisors of the Company. The resignation of Mr. Wang Jun took effect on the same day.25
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Management
The main functions of management include being in charge of the Company’s production and 
other operations, organising the implementation of the Board of Directors’ resolutions and the Company’s development strategies, annual business plan, investment plan, financial budget plan, as well as formulating and carrying out performance appraisals and the remuneration incentive scheme. The Board of Directors reviews the functions and performance of management to protect the interest of the Company as a whole. Executive management reports on the signing and implementation of major contracts, the use of funds, and the Company’s profit and loss situation.
As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Company’s key management included: Mr. Lu 
Dongliang
9, President; Mr. Jiang Yinggang10, Senior Vice President; Mr. Zhu Runzhou, and Mr. 
Tian Yong11, Vice President; Mr. Zhang Zhankui12, Chief Financial Officer and the Company’s 
Secretary (Board Secretary). For specific information on management, please see the Company’s website: http://www.chalco.com.cn/chalco/gsgk/glry/A120110web_1.htm.
9 Due to change in work arrangements, Mr. Ao Hong proposed to resign as the President of the Company on 13 
February 2018. The Company approved to remove Mr. Ao Hong from the position of President and approved to 
appoint Mr. Lu Dongliang as the President of the Company and to dismiss Mr. Lu Dongliang from the original position of Senior Vice President of the Company at the 20
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board held by the Company 
on the same day. The resignation and appointment have taken effect on the same day. As Mr. Ao Hong will not hold any executive position in the Company upon his resignation as the President of the Company, Mr. Ao Hong was reassigned from an Executive Director to a Non-executive Director.
10 The Company approved to appoint Mr. Jiang Yinggang as the Senior Vice President of the Company and remove him 
from the position of Vice President at the same time at the 27
th meeting of the sixth session of the Board held on 26 
June 2018, and the appointment and removal have taken effect on the same day.
11 The Company approved to appoint Mr. Zhu Runzhou as the Vice President of the Company at the 24th meeting of the 
sixth session of the Board held by the Company on 25 May 2018, and the appointment has taken effect on the same day. Due to change in work arrangements, Mr. Xu Bo proposed to resign as the Vice President of the Company on 6 June 2018. On the same day, the Company appointed Mr. Tian Yong as a Vice President of the Company at the 25
th 
meeting of the sixth session of the Board held by the Company, and the resignation and appointment have taken effect on the same day. Due to the re-arrangement of work for other appointment,Mr. Leng Zhengxu had resigned as Vice President of the Company on 26 October 2018, and the resignation took effect from the same day.
12 On February 20, 2019, Mr. Zhang Zhankui proposed to resign as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 
of the Board of Directors (the Company’s Secretary). On the same day, the Company held the 38
th meeting of the 
sixth session of the Board of Directors to approved to dismiss Mr. Zhang Zhankui from the positions of the Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Board of Directors (the Company’s Secretary) and approved the appointment of Mr. Wang Jun as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Board of Directors (the Company’s Secretary).26
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Committee
During the Reporting Period, Chalco has further specified the work of the Occupational 
Health, Safety and Environment Committee (“OHSEC”) by revising its duties. OHSEC is responsible for decision-making and execution related to occupational health and safety and environmental protection issues of Chalco. OHSEC also studies and assess major issues in the areas of occupational health and safety and environmental protection across the Company’s business. The President of the Company serves as the director of the OHSEC, and the Vice President of the Company in charge of safety and environmental protection serves as the deputy director. In order to comprehensively respond to the issues related 
to occupational health and safety and environmental protection, OHSECis composed of the 
personnel from the Safety, Environmental Protection and Security Department (“SESD”), the President’s Office, the Human Resources Department, the Financial Management Department, the Investment Management Department, the Corporate Management Department, the Marketing &Procurement Department, the Internal Audit Department, the Sci-Tech Management Department, the Information Management Department, the Legal Department, the Culture Department, Chalco Trading, Chalco Hong Kong, Chalco Energy, and Chalco Logistics. SESD, which is under OHSEC, has been established to assist OHSEC in its daily duties.
The major tasks of OHSEC:
– Promote, implement and fulfil the national policies, laws, regulations and standards 
related to occupational health and safety and environmental protection
– Research and develop Chalco’s development strategies, guidelines, policies and targets 
related to occupational health and safety and environmental protection
– Study major issues related to occupational health and safety and environmental 
protection across Chalco’s business, and review management systems related to occupational health and safety and environmental protection
This Report basically presents the Chalco’s corporate governance system and corresponding work during the Reporting Period. If you want to know more details, please refer to the 
Report on Corporate Governance and Internal Control in the  2018 Annual Report  of the 
Company.27
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Improving the System – Enhancing the Effectiveness of Governance 
In the year of 2018, Chalco has continuously improved the Chalco Business System (CBS). 
The system provides a unified appraisal system and problem-solving procedures for the Company’s operation and management. It provides experiences for the Company to improve standards, to summarize and share best practices, to accelerate the training of talents, and to continuously improve performance and reduce costs. Based on the Company’s vision, core values, and the Company’s medium- and short-term governance goals, the Company has implemented CBS to incorporate corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) into precise management. Under the governance structure “Three Boards and One Layer”, Chalco has continuously strengthened and improved the corporate governance through system building.
Enhancing the Quality Control of Statement
Chalco has continued to optimise the preparation of various statements and strictly monitor the quality of information and data. During the Reporting Period, the Company progressed towards the establishment of financial informatization. The coverage of the SAP system basically includes the branches and subsidiaries; the figures in the statement required for annual audits are automatically retrieved from the SAP system. The establishment of the SAP system greatly improves the productivity of financial personnel and the accuracy of the financial information. The Company invited tax consultants, professional auditors, and professional management software consultants to provide training to the branches and subsidiaries, and the outcome was excellent. In addition, the Company carries out the financial responsibility system. It keeps adopting the monthly report scoring system and incorporates the scoring results into the assessment of the financial director. The increasing importance of accounting in the Company ensures quality preparation of the financial statements and reports.28
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Maintaining Investors’ Relations
In the year of 2018, Chalco has continued to increase its communication with investors in 
different channels. During the Reporting Period, Chalco has received 47 batches of world-renowned institutional investors and analysts (304 visitors in total), and has announced results 4 times and received a total of 474 investors and analysts.
In the year of 2018, Chalco conducted roadshows and 130 investor meetings (468 investors in 
total) in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Europe, as well as major cities in China after the releases of Chalco’s 2017 Annual Report and 2018 Interim Report. Chalco has been given compliments by domestic and foreign investors. Besides, investors have been offered a chance to explore Baotou Aluminum’s, Chalco Shandong’s and Shanxi New Materials’ businesses in detail. Through a series of measures to improve its operations and effectiveness in recent years, and the open, transparent and efficient communication with domestic and foreign investors, the Company has gained recognition in the domestic and overseas capital markets. Chalco was named the “Most Respected Company – Best Corporate Governance” in 
Institutional 
Investor’s 2018 All Asia Executive Team Survey and recognized as one of the “Most Honored 
Companies” in Asia. Chalco also won the awards of the Securities Times’ “Jinyi Award – Most Valuable Hong Kong Connected Securities”.29
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Safeguarding the Interests of Creditors
In the first half of 2018, due to the tight capital supply in the international market and the 
interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve, the issuances of domestic bonds in China and US dollar bonds were difficult in the market. In response to this difficulty in financing, Chalco has proactively established various plans and prepared several financing tools. With the announcement of the bank reserve requirement ratios cut by the People’s Bank of China in July 2018 and the slowdown in the interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve, Chalco seized the opportunity to launch the issuances of US dollar bonds and corporate bonds, completing the issuance of RMB5 billion domestic bonds and USD400 million senior Bonds with 20–40 basis points lower than the market rate and saving around RMB24 million financial cost. The Company has transitioned safely from the matured USD perpetual bonds and ensured the stability of the offshore capital and preventing overseas regulatory risks.
4.2 SOLIDIFYING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
While enjoying the development opportunities brought by the country and society, Chalco has proactively integrated CSR into management, integrated sustainable development into its own long-term development goals, maintained competitiveness for the successful development of enterprise, and shouldered its responsibilities to stakeholders. Guided by the responsibility concept with the CSR philosophy of “turning stone into gold and benefiting mankind”, Chalco has integrated the working guidance for CSR into “five steps” management process, incorporating CSR into daily corporate management systems, making the relevant departments accountable for results, and making such responsibilities part of performance appraisal criteria.
Chalco’s Five Steps of Integrating CSR into Management
Clarify the concep tEstablish indicator 
systemSet the accountable  
body; set management 
procedureOptimise the syst em; 
establish long-term 
mechanismMake CSR 
management module  
and negative list30
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Organisational System Building for Fulfilling Responsibilities
Chalco’s CSR Management Structure
Executive LevelDepartment/ Branch & 
Subsidiary Leve lThe Company Level
The Company's 
Leadship Group for 
CSRPersonnel 
Responsible for CSR 
in department sFull-time/ Part-time 
Liaison Offiers for 
CSR
Corporate Office of  
CSRFull-time Officers for 
CSR
The Branches' and 
Subsidiaries'  
Leadership Groups  
for CS RFull-time Officers for 
CSR/ Part-time 
Liaison Officers for 
CSR
In order for Chalco to better carry out the social responsibility work and to keep track of 
the latest progress of various work, Chalco has established a leadership group for CSR with Chairman of the Board of Directors as the group leader and the President as the representative of CSR management. With the guidance by the leadership group for CSR, specific agencies have been set up at the department,branch, and subsidiary levels to make the relevant departments accountable for management of their responsibilities in five fields: company governance, the environment, employment and employee rights, operating practices and community responsibility. In addition, officers and liaison officers for CSR have been appointed to execute the Company’s CSR policies in every section of operation.31
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Chalco’s CSR Responsibilities and Corresponding Departments
Management 
of 
Departments' 
Responsibilitie sGovernanc e
Office of Boa rd of Diector s
President's Office
Huma n Resources 
Department
Financial Management 
DepartmentEnvironme nt
Corporate Management 
Department
Safety, Environmental 
Protection and 
Security Department
Sci-Tech Mana gement  
DepartmentEmployment and 
Labour Rights
Huma n Resources 
Department
Culture Department
Labour UnionFair Operatio n
President's Office
Marketing & Procurement 
Department
Investment Mana gement 
Department
Internal Audit De partment
Discipline Inspection and  
Supervision Department
Community
Office of Bo ard of 
DIrector s
President's Office
Culture Department
Labour Union
Enhanced Effectiveness through Consolidating Governance 
System
During the Reporting Period, Chalco launched various CSR work plans to enhance 
performance, to improve customer satisfaction, to reflect its operation philosophy, and to bring benefits to stakeholders. The Company has achieved good results in the performance, customer satisfaction, operation philosophy and community building, which laid a solid foundation for Chalco to further optimise its reform of CSR management system in the future and provided valuable experience for the Company to fully introduce its concept of sustainable development. Besides, it has effectively enhanced the confidence of all departments and units of the Company to execute CSR work plans.32
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)•The outputs of major products have increased in 
different degrees. The cost control of some  
products has reached the advanced level of the 
industry. The business performance has been  
steadily improved .Steadily Improve 
Performanc e
•Comprehensive solutions and products are 
welcomed by domestic and overseas customers.Continuously Improve 
Customer Satisfaction
•The requirements of CSR are integrated into  
corporate operations; the stakeholders' 
expectations and need sareincorporate dinto dail yPromote the Reflection of 
Operation Philosophy
•The investor rights are maintained; the investment  
in environmental protection is increased; the 
employees are cared; Community building and 
target poverty alleviation are actively participated .Benefit Stakeholders
4.3 ENHANCING RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
Chalco has closely followed the national requirements for state-owned holding enterprises 
and the newest requirements of the industrial standards and internationally accreditation requirements, and continuously updated internal management measures to achieve comprehensive compliance. In the future, Chalco will focus on preventing environmental, social and governance risks, further strengthen the risk management and control at the corporate operation level and assume comprehensive management of operational risks to meet the investors’ and other major stakeholders’ requirements and expectations to the Company.33
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Implementing Environmental and Social Risk Management and 
Control
Under the increasingly serious situation of environmental and social risk, Chalco strives to 
enhance the management of employee safety, ecological and environmental protection and community investment. Through enhancing safety and environmental protection supervision and accountability, the Company implements safety and environmental protection work and improves the capability and level of safety and environmental protection management. The Company has integrated environmental and safety monitoring and instruction into 
a comprehensive system by proactively adopting safety management standardization, 
continuously enhancing safety management, and actively responding to the national green policies and environmental protection policies. Of particular note is the simple policy of listing and assessing safety problems required by the SASAC in a coordinated and systematic manner. Chalco has been determined to carry out CSR work to invest and serve the local communities, in which the Company has proactively connected with the community and carried out investment work in the locations where the operation projects are located, thus achieving a win-win situation between the communities and the Company.
In the year of 2018, Chalco fully entered into the spirit of the “Chinalco’s Battles for Safety, 
Environmental Protection, and Quality”promoted in the pledge ceremony. Upholding the commitment to putting into the implementation of the working plans established in early 2018, the Company has adhered to the new development concept, adhered to the bottom-line thinking, adhered to the problem-oriented approach, focused on the key issues, innovated work approach, and enhanced coordination. These working plans have been effective to a certain extent in the areas of employee safety, ecological and environmental protection, and product quality. In the year of 2018, Chalco summarized and listed the issues related to safety and environmental protection, strengthened coordination among departments, increased the frequency of one-to-one video conferences with the branches and subsidiaries, assigned responsible personnel and established a timeline and a roadmap for elimination of potential safety hazards and treatment of environmental issues in the departments, branches and subsidiaries.34
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)During the Reporting Period, Chalco carried out 46 safety rectification work plans in total in 
which 46 work plans have been successfully implemented with 100%completion rate; in the year of 2018, 136 environmental rectification work plans have been carried out in which 136 work plans have been accomplished with 100% completion rate. Significant progress on the performance of safety and environmental protection has been highlighted by the safe production maintained and the ecological advancement yielded.
182
Safety and  
Environmental  
Rectification 
Work PlansEliminated 
46 
Potential 
Safety 
Hazard sSolved 136 
Environmental  
Problem s
Comprehensive Building of Operational Risk System
Chalco’s internal risk control is conducted by the Board of Supervisors and the Internal Audit Department. Annual specific work plans for formally listed safety problems in departments,branches and subsidiaries are launched to assist the branches and subsidiaries in self-inspection and correction of problems. In the year of 2018, the Company has continued to promote comprehensive risk management and control, to improve the procedure of comprehensive risk recognition, to streamline the work, to find problems, and to supervise problem correction. The effectiveness of the risk management system has been maintained, thus improving the levels of internal control and risk prevention. The Company has implemented ”Double Level” risk identification and assessment processes, through which employees can participate in basic risk management work such as risk identification and assessment.35
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)“Double Level” Risk Identification and Assessment Process
Level One (Departments/branches and 
Subsidiaries) Level Two (Internal Audit Department)  
Identify the risks which the Group has been 
posed; assess significant risks, important risks, and general risks; analyse significant risks and raise responsive solutions and measures of management and controlSummarize the risk assessment results at 
branch and subsidiary levels and Internal Audit Department level; figure out significant risk sources, and make management strategy and measures of management and control
The Internal Audit Department summarizes 
and adjusts the risk assessment results of departments, branches and subsidiaries to formulate the result of level oneSupervise all departments, branches and 
subsidiaries to effectively prevent and control risks, and proactively rectify the issues
  
Case Studyj 2018 Key Risk Management
During the Reporting Period, Chalco identified and confirmed natural gas supply as one of the key risks. Relevant departments immediately analysed the main causes of the risks upon the identification and confirmation of the risk. Emergency measures have been identified and formulated in the meetings. Moreover, the future situation has been conjectured and policies have been formulated to manage the risk.
Part of the management measures:– To negotiate with natural gas suppliers in different areas independently, and to 
determine the amount and the price of natural gas supply
– To prepare and improve the prearranged plan for emergency to minimize the loss 
caused by natural gas restriction and stoppage
– Branches and subsidiaries that fail to obtain long-term stable natural gas supply should 
consider the feasibility of building a gas stove in compliance with environmental 
protection regulations to ensure stable production36
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)Conducting Internal Audits in a Serious Manner
Chalco recognizes that strengthening internal audit is crucial to enhancing corporate risk 
management and risk control, to achieving full coverage of audits, and to promoting green and high-quality development. Chalco is committed to maintaining the effectiveness of its production and operation, thus promoting the establishment of a sound internal control system and comprehensive risk management system. In the year of 2018, the Internal Audit Department of the Company has continued to promote and guide all departments, branches and subsidiaries to conduct self-inspection of systems. The Company has encouraged all departments, branches, and subsidiaries to learn from each other through the model of “Cross-review and Cross-inspection” and required all departments, branches, and subsidiaries to actively cooperate with the Internal Audit Department to implement the work plans of “Internal Control and Independent Monitoring”.
The “Three Lines of Defence” in the Internal Audit
The First Line
The Second Line
The Third LineSelf-Review 
and 
Examination  
of SystemsCross-review and Cross-inspectionInternal Control and
Independent 
MonitoringThe “Three Lines of Defence” in the Internal Audit
The scope of audit established by the Internal Audit Department covers key business 
procedures, including capital management and project management, special work including contract cleaning and non-operational real estate management cleaning, and the completion of related reform plans. Through internal control and cross-inspection, Chalco has expanded the coverage of supervision and inspection and facilitated the improvement of weak points in corporate management. At the same time,business communication has been enhanced, the internal audit team has been trained and improved, and the coordination of different departments has been promoted.
During the Reporting Period, Chalco’s Internal Audit Department conducted 8 unannounced 
inspections to Guizhou Branch, Lvliang Mining, Zunyi Alumina, Zunyi Aluminum, Chalco Shandong, Chalco Logistics, Ningxia Energy and Guizhou Huajin and found nearly 200 problems. Through inspections, the problems in contract approval management and authorization management were solved. This has helped the Legal Department of the Company to fundamentally avoid the risks of contract management and authorization management.37
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)In the year 2019, the Company will focus on clarifying the core work items and strengthening 
the supervision and management under the new situation of green and high-quality development of the Company. Highlighting the importance of improving the internal control system and comprehensive risk management system, the Company will promote high-quality development by closely monitoring the progress of rectification of key function units, weaknesses, and disadvantages of operations through supervision according to the model of “Three Lines of Defence”, and promoting the establishment of massive supervision system with the purpose of integration of supervision across the organisation.
Deepening Anti-corruption Work – Implementing Party Building 
Work
Since the 18th Party Congress, the sixth year of working on fine Party culture and clean 
organisation building,and anti-corruption, the Company has strived to carry out the “Two 
Responsibilities” for fine Party culture and clean organisation building through promoting the formulation and implementation of an effective accountability system. In the year of 2018, Chalco, while learning hard and carrying out the spirit of the 19
th Party Congress,has 
implemented the Party Central Committee’s “Eight-point Decision” and took relentless and nonstop effort in fine Party culture and clean organisation building, and anti-corruption to further promote the Company’s anti-corruption and integrity work. The Company has kept enhancing online and offline education on clean governance by establishing platforms for learning and sharing through the corporate newspaper, WeChat official account,working groups, and mini-lectures. In addition, through the quarterly conference on fine-Party-and-clean-organisation-themed education, the Company has regularly organised visits to anti-corruption-themed education stations, guides cadres and employees to stick to the baseline,stay away from red line issues, and pursue idealism.
The Company earnestly implemented the work plans of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism 
with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 19
th Party Congress. During 
the Reporting Period, the Company further promoted the “Ten One” series of activities and organised talks and seminars for the leaders at various levels with more than 3000 sessions. 112,000 employees have been trained, and more than 3,100 leaders and cadres (who are above or at the middle level) have been trained intensively. The Party members’ and cadres’ “Four Awareness”, “Four Confidences”, and “Two Maintenance” have been enhanced, solidified, and practiced respectively.38
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Responsibility and Governance – Continuously Creating Value (Continued)The Company has established the rules of public work relating to Party Committee 
formulation and duties, standardized the management measures of Party’s branches, and launched the management measures for funding of organising Party activities. During the Reporting Period, the Company optimised the assessment plan and criteria for Party building, promoted the “Two Hundreds” assessment
13 to the basic level, and achieved full coverage 
of the “Two Hundreds” assessment. In accordance with the requirements of “Full Coverage within Three Years”, the branches and subsidiaries have been supervised to convene a meeting for debriefing, assessing, and evaluating Party Committee Secretaries’ Party building work, promoted the transfer of responsibility of Party building across the levels, and implemented the work effectively. The Discipline Inspection and Supervision Department has requested Party Committee Secretaries, Deputy Secretaries and Secretary of the Commission for Discipline Inspection with a total of 120 to provide written reports for debriefing, and 16 comrades have been requested to debrief on-site.
Left: Chalco's Party Commit tee visited 
Hebei Langf ang Legal System Promotion 
and Education Center
Below: Chalco's Party Members and 
Cadres participated in Chinalco's 19th 
Conference on Warning and Education of  
Fine Party Culture and Clean Organisation 
Building
13 “Two Hundreds” assessment refers to the assessment of performances against specific objectives relating to 
business and Party building.39
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green ProductionA good ecological environment is required inherently for the realization of Chinese nation’s 
sustainable development. The report of the 19th Party Congress proposes triumphing over the battle 
for preventing and control pollution. Under the guidance of the spirit of the “Battles for Safety, Environmental Protection, and Quality”, Chalco adheres to low-carbon and green development, promotes energy saving, emission reduction and recycling, pursues harmony between corporate operations and environmental protection, and builds a beautiful China.
Adopting the principle of “treasuring resources and using resources wisely”, Chalco proactively 
introduces measures for management of pollution controls, ecological environment protection, mining site reclamation, sustainable use of resources, and biodiversity protection, thus minimizing the environmental impact caused by the production and demonstrating the exemplary role of Chalco in the industry. During the Reporting Period, Chalco reviewed and assessed the environmental issues on the list, confirmed the rectification plan for environmental issues, strengthened coordination among various departments, and thoroughly solved 101 environmental problems. The major achievements included strengthening management and control of wastewater discharge, air emission and solid waste generation; achieving compliance with wastewater standards and zero discharge; Chalco also increased input of resources to promote the establishment of safety and environmental protection construction project. Two aluminum electrolys is spent potlining detoxification process lines have been built (spent potlining is commonly known as “overhaul slag”), 7 furnaces have been treated in time and upgraded according to a higher standard, and 5 thermal power boilers have adopted the ultra-low emission reformation, 4 green mines have been built and land reclamation around the green mines has started. Experts have been coordinated to participate in the cross-inspection among the branches and subsidiaries, on-site environmental inspections have been enhanced, thus improving the exchange of experience among the branches and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of inspections.
5.1 REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Chalco observes the Chinalco’s Management Measures for Environmental Protection  on the 
basis of strictly abiding by relevant national laws and regulations, as well as local policies. The Company proactively promotes cleaner production, energy saving and emission reduction to minimise resource consumption and emissions. The Company has formulated the 
Chalco’s 
2018 Plan for Energy Saving and Emission Reduction , which clearly imposes the limits of total 
emission amount of major pollutants including sulfur dioxide (“SO2”), nitrogen oxides (“NOX”), 
chemical oxygen demand (“COD”), ammonia nitrogen etc. During the Reporting Period, the total emission amounts were below that stipulated limits in the 
Emission Reduction Plan .40
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Table: Chalco 2018 Annual Emission Reduction Targets and Performance
Indicators Unit 2018 Targets 2018 Performance    
SO2 Emission Metric Tons 45,310 44,420
NOX Emission Metric Tons 23,870 16.421
COD Emission Metric Tons 564 383
Ammonia Nitrogen Emission Metric Tons 103 22
The Ratio of Industrial Water Reuse % 97 96.44    
In the year of 2018, Chalco has continued to raise the standard of clean production, energy 
saving and emission reduction while conducting research and development for production in order to strike a balance between enhancing productivity and achieving energy saving and emission reduction at the level of energy-consuming and emission sources. The Group has also improved the emission standard and reduced the emission by continuously upgrading the environmental protection equipment. In addition, the Group has further improved the basic management of environmental protection from the perspectives of environmental monitoring, maintenance of pollution control facility, pollutant discharge permits system, and legal compliance review.
The Company has strictly observed the 
Chinalco’s Prearranged Plan for Environmental 
Emergency  to standardise environmental incident reporting and emergency response 
procedures, and to establish an emergency response mechanism with unified leadership, 
hierarchical responsibility, and quick response. The Group continues its zero-tolerance attitude towards environmental pollution accidents. During the Reporting Period, there were no significant environmental accidents caused by the Group.
The environmental impacts of the Group’s business mainly include air emission, waste 
generation, GHG emission and physical destruction to the surrounding environment, which are caused by the exploration and exploitation of natural resources, the production, and the thermal power generation. This section describes how the Group reduces and mitigates its impacts.41
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Air Emission Reduction
Major air emissions produced by Chalco include SO2, NOX, and soot, and the Company 
remains committed to reducing air emissions through improving and innovating production. 
In the year of 2018, the Company has targeted the suitable branches and subsidiaries according to the characteristics of emissions in different production processes to promote the integrated ultra-low emission management and achieved good results; Zhongzhou Aluminum has carried ultra-low soot emission reformation to 4 kilns (for processed materials) to tackle the issue of flue gas with high soot concentration generation during the production of refined alumina, in which reformation of 3 kilns has been completed; Chalco Mining has built a 
denitration system in the calcination zone to realize ultra-low NO
X emission.
Case Study: Upgrading Flue Gas Purification System of Liancheng Aluminum
Liancheng Aluminum has upgraded the carbon calcination flue gas purification system to 
lower the air emissions and achieve the environmental protection requirements for particulate matter (“PM”), asphalt fumes, SO
2, fluoride, NOX and other harmful substances in the flue 
gas. After the implementation of the system, it is expected to reduce SO2 emission by 145.68 
metric tons per year, to reduce asphalt fumes emission by 3.12 metric tons, to reduce PM emission by 2.96 metric tons, and to reduce fluoride emissions by 0.38 metric tons, making significant contribution to the improvement of the air quality in the surrounding environment.
Wastewater Treatment
Since 2007, the Company has continuously implemented circulating utilisation of water resources project in alumina enterprises and electrolytic aluminum enterprises, building water circulating technological processes, including rectified circulating water, casting circulating water, air compression station circulating water, carbon technology circulating water, green anode circulating water, and water for producing alumina. In this way, the Company has improved both gradient utilisation (step-wise utilisation) of water and the reuse rate, to ensure the reuse rate is more than 96%, and has achieved both economic benefits and environmental benefits. The water that cannot be reused would be discharged strictly according to national requirements for wastewater treatment.42
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Case Study: Chalco Gansu Realising Zero-discharge of Pollutants in Wastewater from 
Desulfurization
Chalco Gansu has implemented a spray-drying treatment system for zero-discharge of 
pollutants in wastewater from desulfurization in its own power plant. Once the system starts operating, zero-discharge of pollutants in wastewater from desulfurization will be realised. According to the annual operation time of 5000 hours and the treated wastewater capacity of 6 metric tons per hour, the COD concentration of the wastewater from desulfurization is 23 milligrams per litre, and the reduction of COD concentration is expected to be 0.138 kilograms per hour, and the COD emission will be reduced by 690 kilograms throughout the year. At the same time, through the zero discharge of wastewater, it can completely solve the pollution of the surrounding water environment due to the wastewater of the power plant, thereby reducing the impacts that heavy metals may cause to human health and surround environment, and providing significant environmental and social benefits.
Solid Waste Treatment
• General Solid Wastes
According to the related national laws and regulations, the Company has classified and regularly treated the general solid wastes. Currently, major solid wastes of the Company are red mud produced in alumina production, overhaul slag generated from the production of aluminum electrolysis, packing materials used in production and transportation, such as strapping tapes and packing bags, fly ash produced by power plants, and domestic waste. The Company turns trash into treasure by doing research on red mud and fly ash as well as recycling and reusing packing materials, not only improving the efficiency of resource utilisation, but also achieving safe treatment of the solid wastes.
During the Reporting Period, the total amount of industrial solid wastes generated by 
Chalco was 38,114,696 metric tons, and the amount of general industrial solid wastes produced per RMB10,000 of production value was 3.7 metric tons, in which the total amount of fly ash generated was 4,945,633 metric tons with 3,279,997 metric tons reused; the total amount of slag production was 1,411,571 metric tons with 1,011,814 metric tons reused; the total amount of red mud production was 23,449,705 metric tons with 1,930,890 metric tons reused. In the year of 2018, the comprehensive utilisation rate of Chalco’s industrial solid wastes was 26%.43
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Case Study: Technology Research for Red Mud Application
In order to improve the efficiency of the Company’s non-hazardous wastes, Chalco 
has continued to arrange scientific research projects to tackle the global problem of comprehensive utilisation of red mud. In the year of 2018, a certain level of progress has been made in the technology research project relating to the red mud storage field ecological reclamation. The experiments on the impact of red mud on soil reclamation and pot planting have been completed, in which the normal growth of six crops in the demonstration zone of 3,000 square meters has realized, achieving 95% above greenery coverage.
The reclaimed land on the left and 
the red mud storage field waiting 
for reclamation on the rightThe level of vegetation growth 
in the demonstration zone44
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)• Hazardous Wastes
In accordance with the principles of reduction, harmlessness and recycling, Chalco 
has proactively promoted the disposal of hazardous wastes and strictly implement the 
Chalco’s Management Measures for Hazardous Waste  to manage hazardous wastes in 
the processes of collection, packaging, storage, transfer and disposal. The Company’s major hazardous wastes area luminum ash, carbon residue and overhaul slag produced during the production of electrolytic aluminum. During the Reporting Period, the Company properly disposed 19,713 metric tons of aluminum ash, 46,512 metric tons of carbon residue, and 23,554 metric tons of overhaul slag.
The Company has classified hazardous wastes and stored hazardous wastes and 
ordinary industrial solid wastes in different places. In the places where the hazardous wastes are stored, the Company has taken measures, such as rain prevention and see page prevention, and posted waste storage signs. The disposal of hazardous wastes in the available landfills for hazardous wastes have been carried out in compliance with relevant laws and regulations; harmless treatment has been carried out in available process lines for harmless treatment; if neither of hazardous wastes landfills and harmless treatment process lines are available, the Company shall transfer the hazardous wastes to a qualified third party, and hand in the duplicate forms for the transfer of hazardous wastes to make sure the transfer record is properly registered and hazardous wastes are appropriately transferred and disposed of in accordance with the required procedures.
In order to reduce the amount of hazardous waste generation and reduce its impact 
on the ecological environment, the Company successfully developed and applied the overhaul slag harmless treatment technology. The Company established a demonstration process line for the treatment of overhaul slag harmless treatment in Baotou Aluminum, and completed the promotion and application of the overhaul slag harmless treatment technology in Chalco Gansu. According to the test results of the third party (Metallurgical Product Quality Inspection Institute of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region), the treated harmless slag and circulating solution have achieved both the national identification standards for hazardous wastes’ extraction toxicity and the national primary standard for the disposal of the Type I of industrial solid wastes. The application of this technology not only effectively reduces the cost of hazardous waste treatment, but also fully solves the environmental problems caused by the disposal of hazardous wastes and has both economic and environmental benefits.45
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)According to the Monitoring Report issued by Lanzhou Environmental Monitoring 
Station on March 3, 2017, the concentration of the asphalt fume from 500KA No.1 
calcining unit of Liancheng Branch’s (on September 17, 2018, Liancheng Branch was confirmed to be converted into a subsidiary Liancheng Aluminum in the 31
st meeting 
of the sixth session of the Board of Directors of the Company) exceeded the national emission standard. In response to this issue, the Company has completed the project of renovation of the purification system, and put it into operation in April 2017. At present, all pollutants continue to meet the national emission standard.
In the 2017 ESG Report, the Company disclosed that the Lanzhou Branch
14 had issue 
on illegal overhaul slag storage and was subject to administrative penalties by the 
Lanzhou Environmental Protection Bureau and was supervised and rectified by the Ministry of Ecology and Environment on its website. Lanzhou Branch has completed the rectification before March 31, 2018 according to the requirements of the Ministry of Ecology and Environment and has been reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Ecology and Environment and experts. Up to now, the Lanzhou branch has been delisted and supervised, and the newly-invested overhaul slag harmless treatment process line has been operating normally. The treated harmless slag has reached the national Type I solid waste level 1 standard.
In the year of 2018, the Company did not have any relatively serious and above level 
of environmental incidents, but 10 subsidiaries of the Company including Chalco Shandong and Zhongzhou Aluminum, were fined by the local environmental protection departments. The Company has adopted measures such as flue gas emission reform, dust control in raw materials storage yards, and “three simultaneous”
15 procedures for 
construction projects. The situation has improved significantly.
14 On September 17, 2018, the Board of Chalco issued an announcement about the capital increase to Chalco Gansu 
by transfer of Lanzhou Branch and converted the Lanzhou branch into a subsidiary by the means of complete capital 
increase to Chalco Gansu.
15 Three Simultaneous” procedures refer to the design, construction, and operation of pollution control facilities should 
be carried out simultaneously with the design, construction, and operation of the major project.46
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Carbon Reduction Initiative
Carrying out innovative activities, continuously optimising processes, and achieving energy 
saving and low carbon are the eternal theme for enterprises and important support for enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises and establishing a world-class corporate with global competitiveness. The Company has actively responded to the joint carbon reduction initiative developed by Chinalco. Action plans for carbon reduction covering the aspects of concept, production, management, technology and living are established to ensure that carbon dioxide emission will reach the industry-leading level and achieve effective control of total carbon emission by 2020 with the aim of achieving scientific management of carbon 
assets.
Regarding the problems relating to high coal consumption of thermal power boilers and rising 
costs of water production and electricity, during the Reporting Period, Shanxi New Materials has assigned technical staff to improve the existing return flow of condensate. The realised second comprehensive utilisation of condensate has reduced the amount of water produced by thermal power and the cost of water production, thus reducing coal consumption. It is estimated that annual coal consumption will be reduced by 10,300 metric tons and annual coal-saving benefit will be RMB2.88 million.
Ningxia Energy has covered five business sectors, namely thermal power, wind power, solar 
power, coal, and equipment manufacturing and formed 3 special industry chains covering from thermal power to coal, wind power to wind turbine manufacturing, and photovoltaic power to crystal line silicon production. During the Reporting Period, Chalco has continued to make full use of the platform of Ningxia Energy to actively develop new energy sources. As of the end of the Reporting Period, Ningxia Energy’s renewable energy capacity was 1,609.13 MW, in which installed wind power capacity was 1,405.8 MW and solar power installed capacity was 203.33 MW.47
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Green Factories Building
Chalco Shandong has continued to protect the ecological environment at its best through 
putting effort into the production process. Chalco Shandong has built a green, smart and environment-friendly mining site by proactively carrying out work relating to land reclamation, ecological restoration and management during the mining of bauxite to effectively prevents oil erosion and land degradation. Besides, Chalco Shandong has strengthened the environmental protection and control in mining, transportation and storage to avoid dust generation and pollution to the environment. Regarding the storage of bauxite, Chalco Shandong has adopted the closure approach in the storage yard and sprayed water to prevent dust from spreading 
around.
During the operation of production, Chalco Shandong has realized zero-discharge of 
wastewater by harmless treatment in the waste water treatment station. The PM concentration has been reduced and better than national emission standard as the flue gas generated in the calcining process is collected by dust collector; dust collection systems have been established in the zones for crushing, screening and transferring materials;the dust collection equipment is upgraded or improved in a timely manner. In order to make full use of red mud, Chalco Shandong has also actively engaged external resources to jointly build a process line for red mud treatment with a daily capacity of up to 2,600 metric tons, which can digest and utilise about 300,000 metric tons of red mud per year.
5.2 EFFECTIVE USAGE OF NATURAL RESOURCE
Resources and energy are the common wealth of mankind. With the purpose of contributing to the community of a shared future for mankind,Chalco pays attention to the rational allocation, efficient and recycling of resources and explores the practical practice of resource-saving production methods in its development. Chalco has incorporated the annual corporate energy-saving performance into performance management, implemented daily tracking, monthly analysis, quarterly video conference notification, and end-of-year evaluation and evaluation management system in order to fully implement the Company’s 2018 annual objectives of energy conservation. At the same time, the Company has enhanced its technical development efforts and pursued energy conservation goals through technology upgrade and equipment renovation.48
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)The Company has adhered to the concepts of low-carbon and recycling development and 
focused on work relating to sustainable mining, resource utilisation enhancement, and industrial waste recycling. In the year of 2018, the Company has improved its production process through technological innovation and maximised the utilisation of resources in the entire production process.
During the Reporting Period, comparing with the annual energy consumption plan, the Group 
saved a total of 115,483 metric tons of standard coal.
Table: Chalco’s 2018 Annual Energy Consumption Targets and Performance
Indicators Unit 2018 Targets 2018 Performance    
Energy Consumption per RMB10,000 of production 
valueMetric Tons of 
Standard Coal per RMB10,0002.76 2.01
Total Electricity Consumption for Aluminum Ingot kWh per Metric Ton 13,400 13,310
Total Energy Consumption for Alumina Kilogram of Standard Coal per Metric Ton404 400
Standard Coal Consumption for Electricity Supply Grams of Standard Coal per kWh337 336.55
Total Energy Consumption for Carbon Metric Tons of Standard Coal per Metric Ton1.15 1.16
    
Energy Management
Chalco has continued to promote and implement the work of reducing energy and enhancing efficiency. According to the requirements of the 
Notice on Strengthening the Management of 
Large-Scale Energy Cost Saving Projects  and the Notice on the Evaluation and Acceptance of 
Large-Scale Energy Cost Saving Projects , annual energy cost saving related targets were set 
in the aspects of reducing the costs of electricity and steam of alumina producing companies, improving energy management system, and reducing the cost of electricity generation. Moreover, the Company has confirmed the implementation of relevant projects, checked 49
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)and evaluated the projects in a timely manner. As of the end of the Reporting Period, 24 
large-scale energy projects have started operation. The total energy cost saving has reached RMB426.60 million in which the saved cost relating to management has reached RMB260.18 million, relating to the external income reaching RMB111.01 million and the direct project cost reducing by RMB59.41 million. The annual energy cost saving related targets were successfully completed.
Investment
In the year of 2018,the Company has approved 24 energy saving projects with a total investment amount of RMB176.899 million in order to reduce the consumption of water, electricity, compressed air, steam, gasoline, diesel, and the standard coal consumption for power supply. Among the projects, Shanxi New Materials has adopted energy performance contracting and invested RMB49.89 million to implement reformation of units.
Technology and Reformation
Regarding the production of alumina, Chalco has put more effort into technology development and accelerated equipment upgraded during Year. Shanxi New Materials, for instance, has applied the innovative technology to produce alumina in series with an alumina production capacity of 2.5 million metric tons. Besides, regarding the production of electrolytic aluminum, the Company has continued to promote the application of the new type of Flow Heat Energy Saving Technology (“FHEST”), which can significantly reduce the power consumption and carbon dioxide emission of electrolytic aluminum process. As of end of the Reporting Period, the Company has promoted the implementation of 846 electrolytic cells, with 650,000 million metric tons of production capacity expanded.50
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Organising a Competition for Reducing Energy Consumption 
Among Employees
In order to solve the problems of high energy consumption and high cost, Chalco has 
organised a competition among employees for reducing energy consumption. The competition has been applied a rule of monthly monitoring and the form of year-end appraisal, stimulating the enthusiasm and initiative of the cadres and staff, and helping to reduce unnecessary energy waste during operation. A competition for reducing natural gas consumption intensity of the calcination process among employees, for example, has been carried out in the carbon 
production plant, in which the competition was divided into 16 calcinating zones with a total 
of 962 participants. Through the implementation of the competition for reducing the natural gas consumption intensity of the calcination process, the Company’s natural gas consumption intensity has been decreased by 61.7 normal cubic metres per metric ton, 3.9 normal cubic metres per metric ton less than 2017, creating a total economic benefit of RMB14.45 million.
Energy Saving Training
In order to keep abreast of the national energy policy, to master the requirements of the energy management system, to adapt to the Company’s refined requirements for energy management, and to complete the 2018 tasks of large-scale energy saving and effectiveness increasing, Chalco held an energy management training course in August 2018. Relevant employees from the branches’ and subsidiaries’ Energy Management Department, power plants, Corporate Management Department, Financial Management Department, Investment Management Department, and Marketing and Procurement Department have been invited to participate in the training. Apart from explaining the current national energy policy and energy management system, site visits of new energy power plants and power stations and final examinations were arranged for the employees.
Water-use Efficiency
The Group has actively explored ways to improve the water-use efficiency, and there were no issues in sourcing water. 
During the Reporting Period, the Group’s total water consumption was 2.615 billion metric 
tons, in which the fresh water consumption was only 0.093 billion metric tons and circulating water consumption was 2.512 billion metric tons with a circulating rate of 96.44%.51
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Case Study: Rectification of Chalco Mining Integrated Water System
During the Reporting Period, Chalco Mining has issued the Notice on Carrying out the 
Rectification of the Integrated Water System of Chalco Mining and established a team to 
responsible for the rectification of the integrated water system management team. The team, 
upholding the principles of “merging and simplifying processes, making full use of waste heat, improving the cleanliness of circulating water, reducing the use of fresh water, reducing the cost of the system”, has deepened the work relating to the rectification of the integrated water system. Chalco Mining’s water system mainly includes domestic water, production water, circulating water, condensed water, red mud filtrate, industrial wastewater, domestic sewage and reclaimed water. Through the diagnosis and analysis of the problems existing in the water system of Chalco Mining, the Company has established 27 measures relating to six aspects, namely “reducing the consumption of fresh water“, “reducing the amount of circulating water”, “reducing the amount of industrial wastewater”, “stepwise utilisation of condensed water”,“integrated utilisation of waste heat”, and “informatization”, in which 22 projects have been successfully implemented.
Through the joint efforts of all parties, the work relating to rectification of the integrated 
water system of Chalco Mining has achieved remarkable results: perfecting the metering system for production water, domestic water and reclaimed water has laid a foundation for the management of the water system; effectively control of the consumption of new water has made the consumption of new water per unit of produced alumina gradually decreasing from 1.01 metric tons per metric ton in 2016 to 0.74 metric tons per metric ton in the year of 2018; reclaimed water has been fully utilised, and the utilisation of reclaimed water has gradually increased from 1.1 million metric tons in 2016 to 2 million metric tons in the year of 2018; the quality of circulating water has also been significantly improved.52
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Promoting Green Packaging
“De-packaging”for logistics is conducive to environmental protection, carbon reduction and 
cost saving. Based on the experience of packaging reusing for logistics in the past, Chalco Logistics has promoted “de-packaging” since 2018.
Regarding the transportation of alumina by vehicles, the transportation of alumina by vehicles 
with one-time packaging has been replaced with transporting alumina by special aluminum alloy vehicles and ordinary high-sided vehicles. It has not just reduced the use of packaging bags, but also reduced the leakage during packaging and stacking, thus improving the 
transportation efficiency and reducing the cost for the branches and subsidiaries. At the same 
time, the use of circulation bags for alumina, which can be reused many times, has further reduced the use of disposable bags. According to incomplete statistics, during the Reporting Period, the Group shipped nearly 500,000 metric tons of alumina through railway containers, vehicles with circulation bags and bulk transportation, saving more than 300,000 disposable packaging bags.
Reusing Mineral Resources
The Company has encouraged the introduction, innovation and use of advanced technologies in mining to strengthen the technical management of mine production and improve the mining recovery rate and ore dressing rate. Regarding smelting, green smelting technology has been researched and promoted, a recycling industry chain has been built, and resources have been utilised efficiently. Regarding mineral recovery, integrated ore recovery and utilisation projects have been embarked on to maximise the use of waste rock and waste residue through new technologies, such as magnetic separation.
5.3 PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE MINING
The importance of resources and mines to Chalco is self-evident. The Company’s mining is in compliance with the relevant national laws and regulations and internal systems and operated in a lawful and compliant manner, thus reducing business risks and maintaining sustainable and stable development.53
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Chalco adheres to the philosophy of “lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets” 
and pursues the balance between production development and ecological protection. In the year of 2018, in order to meet the requirements of the 
Three-Year Action Plan for Winning 
the Blue Sky Defence War , the Company has promoted the reform of mine management, 
promoted the improvement of mine management, and ensured the central tasks of mine quality improvement, cost reduction, green, safety and sustainable development are completed. Chalco with the aim of improving quality and efficiency has issued the 
Chalco’s 
Guiding Opinions on Further Strengthening the Work relating  to Resources and Mines to 
strengthen the management of resources and mines and propose tighter requirements for product quality, safety and environmental protection. In addition, Chalco issued the 
Chalco’s 
Special Action Plan to Strengthen Responsibility, Tighten Control, and Enhance the Quality 
of Mine Site Management  to comprehensively sort out and check the main problems of the 
Company’s mines and adopt the problem-oriented approach to conduct rectification to mine sites, promote the upgrading and reformation of the ecological environment of mine sites, and accelerate the construction of green and environmentally friendly ecological mines. Regarding the entrusted bauxite mining, Chalco issued the 
Chalco’s Measures for Entrusted 
Bauxite Mining Management  in May 2018 to strengthen the management and control of 
entrusted bauxite mining and ensure the safety, economic efficiency, and stability of mining, thus preventing risks of management and control in the aspects of production, operation and social responsibility of mines.
Chalco’s Management Measures for Entrusted Bauxite Mining Management  aims to:
• clarifying the management organisation and its responsibilities
• clarifying the basic regulations for entrusted mining• clarifying the details on technology, environmental protection, and contract 
management.
In the year of 2018, the Company has continued to strengthen the implementation of 
mine management related policies. In accordance with the principle of “efficient use of resources, scientific mining, environmentally friendly approach, and harmonious mining areas”, the Company has continued to promote the construction of green mine sites. On the basis of operating national green mines or piloting green mines, the Company has started the construction of green mine sites during the Year, in which 4 projects relating to the construction and reclamation of green mines. As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Company has one national green mine site in total.54
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Besides, the Company has focused to organise specific actions of management improvement 
on mine sites and achieved significant improvements in mine reclamation, re-greening, and on-site environment. Regarding the areas that may be affected during the mining process (including the mine sites in Guangxi, Shanxi, Henan, and Guizhou provinces), the relevant branches and subsidiaries of the Company have established a mechanism for managing ecological treatment and land reclamation around mine sites so as to shorten the impact of mining on the ecology of the surrounding areas. During the Reporting Period, the Company’s branches and subsidiaries have carried out mine site reclamation and regreening work in 7 regions, and reclaimed 9,067-mu of land. At the same time, the Company’s mining boundaries have been approved by local governments at all levels, and the national protected fauna and flora and endangered species cannot be found in the mining areas.
In addition, for the purpose of avoiding and reducing the sudden environmental risks caused 
by mining, such as secondary geological disasters in mines, soil erosion in mining areas, water and soil pollution, the Company strictly follows the approved plan of mine development and utilisation in the mining process to achieve the simultaneous implementation of stripping, mining, and reclamation. It not only shortens the land reclamation cycle but also achieves an efficient combination of engineering reclamation and bio-reclamation. In the event of a sudden environmental incident, the Company shall properly deal with the incident in accordance with the 
Chinalco’s Emergency Response Plan  and Chinalco’s Emergency Response Plan for 
Environmental Incidents  to minimise environmental impacts.
Picture 1: Planting Vegetables in the reclaimed land in the mine site of Guangxi Branch
55
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Picture 2: Reclamation and Regreening 
of the cavities in mine sites of Guangxi Branch
Picture 3: Land Reclamation and Regreening of Yangquanmine site of Chalco Shandong
Picture 4: Regreening by Workers from the Mian Chimine site of Chalco Mining on the reclaimed land
56
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)5.4 ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE
The environmental performance data of the Group from 2016 to 2018 are presented in the 
table below.
Table: Chalco’s emissions in 2016–2018
Performance Indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018     
Basic Information
Annual Production Value RMB10,000 6,409,575.6 9,206,729.2 10,162,954.9
EmissionsAir Emissions
16
The amount of SO2 emission t 40,524.00 42,723.00 44,420.00
The amount of NOx emission t 20,300.84 14,624.30 16,241.00
The amount of PM emission t 2,568.00 2,421.00 2,244.00
GHG EmissionsThe amount of carbon dioxide 
emission (in CO
2 equivalent) 10,000 t of CO2e – 6,862.30 7,848.66
The amount of carbon dioxide 
emission (in CO2 equivalent)  
per RMB10,000 of  production value t/RMB10,000 – 7.47 7.72
     
16 The increases in the Company’s emissions in the Year were mainly due to the increases in the outputs of alumina 
and electrolytic aluminum with increase rates of 3.71% and 23.76% respectively.57
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Performance Indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018     
Wastewater Discharge
The amount of industrial 
wastewater discharged in compliance with relevant standards t – 1,737,438.00 2,413,829.00
The amount of ammonia  
nitrogen discharged t – 44.00 22.00
The amount of wastewater 
circulated 100 million t 24.77 25.69 25.22
General Industrial Solid Wastes
17
The amount of general industrial 
solid wastes generated 10kt – 3,316.08 3,811.47
The amount of general industrial 
solid wastes generated  per RMB10,000 of  production value t/RMB10,000 – 3.6 3.7
The amount of red mud generated 10kt – 2,105.30 2,344.97
The amount of red mud utilised 10kt – 209.80 193.09
The amount of fly ash generated 10kt – 356.30 494.56
The amount of fly ash utilised 10kt – 245.20 328.00
The amount of slag generated 10kt – 87.20 141.16
The amount of slag utilised 10kt – 61.30 101.18
Hazardous WastesThe amount of disposal of waste 
oil (including machine oil and mineral oil) t – 1,113.00 938.00
The amount of disposal of waste 
oil per RMB10,000 of production value t/RMB10,000 – 0.00012 0.00009
     
17 The major reason of the increases in the generated and utilized amounts of fly ash and slag in the Year was the 
inclusion of Ningxia Energy in the scope, which was not included in the year of 2017. The amounts of fly ash and slag 
generated by Ningxia Energy were 1,137,500 metric tons and 391,700 metric tons respectively in the year of 2018.58
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Green Development – Achieving Green Production (Continued)Performance Indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018     
Use of Resources18
Comprehensive energy 
consumption1510 ktce 1,659.00 1,876.60 2,039.21
Comprehensive energy 
consumption per RMB10,000 of 
production value tce/RMB10,000 2.71 2.03 2.01
The amount of purchased 
electricity 100 million kWh 223.00 349.30 398.84
Total coal consumption 10,000t 1,550.00 1,292.20 1,495.95
Total water consumption 100 million t 25.71 26.68 26.15
In which: circulating water 
consumption 100 million t 24.77 25.69 25.22
Total fresh water consumption 100 million t 0.94 0.99 0.93
Water consumption per 
RMB10,000 of production value t/RMB10,000 401.13 290.38 257.38
The amount of packaging 
material used t – 10,820.00 12,271.00     
18 Due to the increase in production of alumina and aluminum during the Year, the related energy resource consumption 
increased compared with the year of 2017, but the corresponding density decreased.59
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production SafetyHuman resources have always been the best resources of the Company. Chalco adheres to the 
concept of “talents as the first resource”, establishes a harmonious labour relationship with its employees, which enables the Company to develop continuously and healthily, and enables the employees to grow together with the Company, thereby realising the enhancement of shareholders’ value, corporate effectiveness and employees’ income.
6.1 SAFEGUARDING THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
As a responsible corporate citizen, Chalco attaches great importance to safeguarding employees’ safety and occupational health, constantly improves the construction of the system and strengthens the supervision of responsibility Chalco always prioritises employees’ safety and health, with the goal of achieving zero accident and zero damage. Chalco supports the comprehensive establishment for a safety culture of “safety relating to effectiveness and employees relating to wealth”, where all personnel, in all areas and processes, must avoid hurting themselves and others, as well as avoid being hurt by others, in order to provide a safe platform for employees to progress with dignity. Chalco upholds the HSE management concept that “all risks can be controlled, and all accidents can be prevented”. In order to continuously improve the Company’s HSE performance, Chalco promises to comply with the national and local HSE laws, regulations, and related requirements; to regard health, safety, and environment as premises for corporate production and operation; to take all possible steps to ensure that all employees should observe the Company’s HSE scheme, with HSE being an important part of performance appraisal for enterprises and employees; to earnestly fulfill the CSR and establish sound community relationships; and to publicly disclose the details of HSE performance.
Chalco has complied with the relevant national safety production laws and regulations, 
formulated relevant safety and health management regulations, and further clarified the Company’s responsibilities relating to occupational health, safety and environmental protection based on the actual operation of Chalco. During the Reporting Period, a total of 16 enterprises of the Group obtained OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certification.60
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Deepening the Risk Management and Control
The Group adheres to the safety production approach of “safety first, prevention-oriented” 
and prevent safety accidents through the implementation of safety risk management and control projects. In the year of 2018, the Company has implemented hierarchical safety risk management and control in the branches and subsidiaries. The branches and subsidiaries have established reliable prevention measures for material and comparatively material safety risks based on hierarchical safety risk identification and evaluation, thus promoting the work of hierarchical safety risks.
During the Reporting Period, three companies including Chalco Mining, Guangxi Branch and 
Qinghai Branch were rated as the Group’s hierarchical safety risk management and control demonstration enterprises.
Case Study: Qinghai Branch promoting hierarchical safety risk management and controlQinghai Branch’s units promote all work in strict accordance with the Company’s 
requirements of the implementation of hierarchical risk management and control projects. At present, hierarchical risk management and control of hazard factors, risks, dangerous operations, and the lock-up and tagging list have been established.
Training relating to risk management and control for employees at all levels has been 
conducted in the Company’s electrolysis plants, focusing on the methods of identification of dangerous hazards in the post and analysing the possible risks, and formulating corresponding preventive measures. The approach of “bottom-up, top-down, and participation by all employees” has been adopted in the carbon plant, in which comprehensive and systematic identification of occupational health and safety risks in the factory has been conducted, evaluated and graded by an appropriate risk assessment methods, thereby improving the dangerous factor identification list, lock-up and tagging list, and task analysis list in the branches, the Production Management Department, and the teams. The quality and material management and control centre has conducted internal inspections of the operation of the system for each department and team relating to management, supervised and promoted the hierarchal risk management and control work to each post. In addition, the inspection of the electrolytic cell solidifying site has been enhanced to prevent the occurrence of ignition, 
short circuit and fire in the heating components during the heating process, and to ensure the 
quality of the electrolytic cell.61
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)In addition, regarding continuously strengthen the safety management of Chalco, the 
Company uses the dynamic cycle management mode (PDCA), combined with the Company’s own management characteristics, to achieve The unified concept, unified standards, and uniform accuracy have effectively improved the Company’s management level based on the requirements of the occupational health, safety and environmental protection precision management system (CAHSE) and enterprise safety production standardization.
During the period from November to December 2018, the Company’s Safety, Environmental 
Protection and Security Department organised the 2018 Chalco’s CAHSE audit. 141 CAHSE auditors have been assigned and divided into 10 audit teams. The audit, which took 1,385 man-days, covered26 business units of the branches and subsidiaries and identified the weaknesses of the Company’s safety and environmental management. At the same time, the Company has continued to enforce the list of “Two Responsibilities for One Position” for safety and implemented a responsibility-clarified system during the Year, which means throughout Chalco and all branches and subsidiaries, according to the level structure of enterprise, branch factory, workshop, and group, one level leads another, and upper levels check subordinate level. All levels create responsibility lists according to the “two safety Responsibilities for One Position” system and report to Chalco. The key is to clarify the safety responsibility of every employee, to practically manage and control safety risks, and to create an environment where everyone is responsible for safety management. During the Reporting Period, the Group did not have any relatively serious and above level of safety incident.
Enhancing the Supervision
During the Year, the Group has conducted safety and environmental protection on-site inspections, and experts have been coordinated by the headquarters to participate in the cross-inspection among the branches and subsidiaries, which improved the effectiveness of supervision. Check lists have been prepared for on-site inspections to standardize the procedures for supervision. Brief meetings regarding near misses have been conducted to issue warnings to and educate offenders timely. The 
Training Courseware for Cadres’ 
Subcontractor Guarantee and the Training Courseware for Team Safety  have been prepared 
to ensure that corporate subcontractor guarantee teams receive pre-training and improve their relevance to work relating to subcontractor guarantee. The visualization of operation procedures for posts has been promoted, in which employee portable cards have been produced to guide the work, thus improving the accuracy of the operation of the frontline staff. The evaluation standards for safety management have been introduced to promote the precision of safety production. By the end of October 2018, the Group has taken an exemplary role in eliminating safety hazards and managing violations,which 1,098 safety issues had been discovered and 117 violations of various types had been investigated.62
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Employees’ Health and Safety
Chalco regards employees as the most valuable assets, puts health first, safeguarding their 
health and safety during work and other activities. Furthermore, to guarantee employees’ physical health, the Company has established the system of occupational health management and gradually carried out occupational health and safety measures. Meanwhile, the Company provides regular physical examinations for employees, sets up employee health files, and provides employees with safe and comfortable working conditions and protective equipment. In the year of 2018, the Group has continued to promote occupational health management, requiring all branches and subsidiaries to perform satisfactorily in occupational hazard 
notification, daily monitoring, regular testing, personal protection and occupational health 
examinations, as well as managing work space risk factors in according to regulations, such as dust, chemical poisons, noise, radiation and other places.
During the Year, regarding the employees’ education in occupational health and safety, the 
Group has organised various training activities for employees to enhance their awareness of health and safety. During the Reporting Period, the number of employees participated in training reached 485,218 in total for the Group.63
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Training Contents 1. National and local government laws, regulations and standards 
related to occupational health and safety
2. The Company’s occupational health and safety rules and 
regulations
3. The foundation of occupational health and safety management 
and professional technical knowledge
4. The characteristics of production, major risk and hazard factors, 
and preventive control measures of the Company and production 
lines
5. Three major rules and procedures for occupational health and 
safety
6. The instruction of safety, hygiene, environmental protection, fire 
protection facilities, protective equipment, and labour protection products
7. The typical accident cases, accident prevention and emergency 
response measures etc.
Training Activities 1. Safety work permit training covering all staff2. Safety work permit qualification and review training for 
responsible personnel
3. Special work permit and review training for responsible personnel4. Registered Safety Engineer Training5. New employee three-level safety training6. Training for personnel transferred post and recovered from any 
kind of situation
7. Other related personnel training
Besides, regarding the “Battles for Safety, Environmental Protection, and Quality”, the Company has launched a series of youth “safety month” activities, created 1,244 safe production posts for demonstration,and set up 2,586 youth safety supervisors.
June 2018 is the 17
th national “Safety Production Month” in China. The Company has 
focused on and combined the theme of the “Safety Production Month” with the “Battles for 
Safety and Environmental Protection”. The employees have been seriously mobilised, and the Company has carried out a series of effective safety activities to ensure the deepened promotion of “Safe Production Month”, which promoted the further improvement of the Company’s safety management level.64
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)During the “Safety Production Month”, the Company’s branches and subsidiaries carried 
out 765 education activities relating to accident and disaster warning with 44,523 persons received education, distributing10,673 materials, filming 9 videos about warning and education, receiving 2,439 public enquiries, holding 2 cultural performances, and 998,339 persons participated in the online safety knowledge contests.
Case Study: In November 2018, Chalco organised employees to participate in fire safety 
drills.
Contractors’ Safety Production
The safe and environmental-friendly production of suppliers and project contractors is closely linked to the sustainable development of Chalco. The Company always emphasizes that completing projects should first guarantee safety and quality. Through the 
Chalco’s 
Management Measures for Safety Production and Operation , safe inspection, self-examination 
and correction of projects under construction, and safety regulations and requirements during flood season, the Company regulated and rectified the compliance procedure of projects, bid processes, construction safety, entity quality of projects and quality conducts of different sides involved in construction. The Company strictly implemented the 
Standard of Safety 
Baseline in Construction Field  in order to comprehensively guarantee safety in construction 
field and clear risks. At the same time, during the Reporting Period, the Company conducted safety awareness training for contractors in accordance with the 
Contractor Safety 
Management and Control Work Guide .65
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Case Study: An Establishment of Demonstration Enterprise for Contractor Safety 
Management and Control by Chalco Shandong’s Second Alumina Plant
With an aim of “contractors’ zero injury”, Chalco Shandong’s Second Alumina Plant has 
provided “one-stop” service for contractors from three aspects: education and training, business management, and close supervision, thus creating a demonstration enterprise for contractor safety control.
The Second Alumina Plant has organised multi-level education and training activities to 
enhance the safety awareness and risk identification capabilities of the contractors. Before the commencement of construction, the contractors shall prepare the documents, such as copies of ID cards, occupational health certificates, and special work permit, and submit to the Safety and Environmental Protection Department for filing. The local safety personnel shall carry out safety notification and examination for all the contractors. The contractors who do not reach 80 points need to re-take the training exam until passing the examination.
6.2 SAFEGUARDING LEGAL RIGHTS
Chalco respects employee’s rights and dignity. When developing policies, the Company pays full attention to the impact of these policies on employee rights and benefits. The Company strictly adheres to relevant laws and regulations on employment, establishes sound policies and mechanisms, protects employee legitimate rights and interests, and reflects its determination to safeguard human rights. Meanwhile, the Company understands and collects employee comments and suggestions on its policies,working environment, and development strategies through different channels. The Company is also committed to enriching the Company’s employee composition and establishing the team of personnel with diverse races, educational backgrounds, work experience, nationalities and expertise. As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Group had a total of 52,341 serving employees.66
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)During the recruitment and employment, the Group proactively checks the identity documents 
of applicants to prevent the employment of child labour, and absolutely prohibits forced labour by clearly stipulating employee working hours per day. If any violation of the relevant laws and regulations is found, the relevant departments will report to the management according to the internal policies of the Group. After investigation, the relevant departments rectify issues or circumstances in response to the investigation results. The Company has established policies to clarify the rights of female employees and disabled employees to ensure equal treatment of all employees. Besides, based on fair, equal and diversified recruitment principles, the Group has established and gradually improved the recruitment mechanism, using work experience, skills and professional ethics as key reference indicators. The signing and dismissal of employment contracts are strictly conducted in accordance with the relevant local laws and regulations to fully protect the rights and obligations of both employees and the Group.
The establishment of sound and positive policies not only protects the rights and interests 
of employees, but also builds a good labour relationship to enhance the cohesion among employees. Chalco encourages the communication between management and employees, proactively establishes communication channels with employees, regularly collects employee opinions and suggestions through regular employee representative meetings and forums, and continuously optimises the Company’s internal management based on employee feedback to create harmony, efficient and enjoyable working environment. The Group also formulates a comprehensive and effective welfare and indemnity system for employees, providing statutory holidays and additional holidays, such as annual leave, marriage leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, family leave, etc., and provides medical insurance in compliance with the requirements of local regulations to effectively protects employee’s quality of lives.67
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Table: Chalco’s Employment in the year of 2018
Number of total serving employees at the 
end of the Reporting Period 52,341
By gender Male 44,287
Female 8,054
By age group <25 2,592
25 -29 5,449
30 – 34 6,577
35 – 39 7,212
40 – 44 10,924
45 – 49 13,697
50 – 54 5,569
>54 384
By category Senior management 189
Department supervisor 957
Other office employee 6,390
General and technical worker 44,805
Number of total turnover employees during 
the Reporting Period 1,169
By gender Male 974
Female 195
By age group <25 216
25 to 29 134
30 – 34 184
35 – 39 149
40 – 44 304
45 – 49 182
>49 0
By category Senior management 0
Department supervisor 0
Other office employee 362
General and technical worker 807   68
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Enriching Employees’ Life
In order to enrich the lives of employees and reduce the work pressure, Chalco plans and 
conducts different cultural and sports-related activities in response to the needs of its employees. During the Reporting Period, Chalco has started the construction of “Workers’ Little Houses” and proactively participated in the Women’s Day activities, the “Energetic Chalco Walk” outdoor walking activities, and the 4
th “Energetic Chalco – Healthy Life” 
jumping rope competition, “Never Forget Why You Started, Keep Your Mission in Mind, Sing a New Era” singing competition, “Chalco Employees Classroom”, movie watching. The Company insists on basketball, football, badminton, table tennis, fitness, Tai Chi Training and 
other related activities and training courses for employees.
“Energetic Chalco – Healthy Life” Labour Outdoor Walking Organised by the Company69
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Respecting Female Employees
Chalco attaches great importance to the protection of women employees’ rights and interests, 
complies with national laws and regulations, and implements policies concerning the rights and interests of women workers. The Group has established relevant management systems through the formulation of relevant policies, formed the list of female employee protection at each level, checked and supervised the protection of female employees. In addition, Chalco has gradually improved the protection system for female employees’ special rights during pregnancy, childbirth, lactation, menstruation and menopause, ensured equal pay and equal opportunities for promotion among female employees and male employees, conducted 
regular medical examination for female employees, and fully paid maternity insurance.
Chalco has established a women’s workers’ committee. The 
Employee Collective Agreement 
signed by the branches and subsidiaries and their employees is accompanied by the Special 
Collective Contract for the Protection of Female Workers’ Special Rights and Interests . 
The trade unions organiser he signature of the Special Collective Contract by each female 
employee to confirm the rights of each female employee. During the Reporting Period, the 
signing rate of collective contracts by female employees has reached 100%.
Regarding the provision of the special medical examination for female employees, Chalco 
has provided a special medical examination to female employees over 35 years old on the basis of provision of annual medical examination, which further protects the health of female employees. In the year of 2018, special medical examinations have been continued for 35-year-old female workers, and 301 hospital directors have been invited to conduct health talks.
6.3 PAYING ATTENTION TO EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT
The Group is committed to building a community of shared future for the corporate and employees, providing employees with the opportunity for learning and training, smoothing the personal development channels for employees, and allowing employees to share the fruits of corporate development.70
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Attaching Importance to Education and Training
The Company is committed to the strategy of “reinvigorating itself through talents”, with a 
focus on career education and training. A training system that covers employees according to their ranks and professional background has been set up, along with innovative ideas of training and development and working mechanisms. Chalco is determined to be a lifelong learner, with efforts to build a learning team, to cultivate and create a well-structured, professional, and innovative talent pool, thus contributing to the Company’s continuous and healthy growth
It is the Company’s priority to provide all-round education and professional training, with 
a focus on how to address hard-to-solve problems and hot-spot issues in production both in theory and in practice. Key positions and core talents have been supervised with extra attention. The Company believes it is important to comprehensively improve the occupational competency and capacity of employees so as to help them achieve healthy growth.
To meet demands from growing businesses, Chalco has constantly added young employees 
with professional and higher education backgrounds to its workforce through internal training and external recruitment. As a result, Chalco now boasts a management team with global vision and the ability to run a modern corporate, a team of professionals and experts who are good at R&D, and well equipped with knowledge about core industrial know-how and cutting edge technologies, a team of talents with professional qualification who master both theoretical and practical expertise and skills.71
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)Table: 2018Chalco Employees’ Training Performance
Number of 
employees 
being trainedPercentage 
of trained 
employeesAverage 
trained hours
% hour    
Training by category
Senior management 189 100 120
Department supervisor 957 100 110
Other office employee 5,751 90 90
General and technical worker 36,366 81.17 60
Training by genderMale 36,052 81.41 67
Female 7,211 89.53 58
    
Smoothing the Career Development Channels
Chalco has ensured an unimpeded company promotion channel and met the demands of different position development while setting up corresponding employee career development and promotion mechanisms. For managers, technical professionals and production operators, different career paths have been set up. Meanwhile, through a variety of skills competition, opportunities for employees have been provided to show their expertise and personal abilities and to meet their professional interests, and various career development paths for employees in different ranks have completed. In this way, Chalco helps employees to choose their optimal paths fairly.
Chalco has organised labour and skill competitions, improved the labour competition 
management mode of “Platforms Built by Trade Unions, Professional Management, Performance by the Public”, focusing on Chalco’s eight indicators and seven aluminum processing indicators for labour competition. The three indicators of alumina, natural gas consumption for carbon calcination, and power consumption for electrolysis have once again set a new record. The Company has organised national and industry-level skill competitions such as Chalco Cup, Logistics Cup, Ningneng Cup, and Chalco Craftsman Competition. Thirteen people were selected and rated as the “Chalco Craftsman”.72
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Caring Employees – Ensuring Production Safety (Continued)The final of the 12th National Nonferrous Metals Industry Skill Competition of “Chalco Cup” 
was held in Zhengzhou Enterprise and Shanxi Huasheng from October 12th to 18th. The 
competition consists of three occupations (work types) of aluminum electrolysis workers, 
electricians and chemical inspectors. 55 teams and 290 players from the national non-ferrous metal industry participated in the competition, which is the highest in recorded history. A total of 168 players from 29 companies of Chalco participated in the finals. The contestants won the top three of in the aspects of aluminum electrolysis and electrician, and the third of the chemical inspectors, 7 were awarded the title of national technical expert, 9 were awarded the title of technical expert of the CSOEs, and 19 were awarded the title of technical expert of non-ferrous metal industry.
The electricians participated in the competition for 
related subjectsThe 12th National Nonferrous Metals Industry Skill 
Competition of “Chalco Cup”73
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair ProductionAs a leading enterprise of nonferrous metal industry in China, Chalco insists on setting itself as an 
example to take advanced science and technology as the driving force and to focus on high-quality products and services. By comprehensively strengthening the Company’s operation and control, the Company leads the development of all stakeholders in the industry chain and promotes the healthy and sustainable development of the industry.
7.1 UPHOLDING BUSINESS ETHICS
Chalco is committed to building a fair operating system. The Group strictly abides by the Anti-
Unfair Competition Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Anti-Monopoly Law of the 
People’s Republic of China , opposes unfair competition, maintains a fair, just and open market 
environment, and bears the responsibilities of products and services within an effective period. The Company strictly abides by business ethics and market rules, resolutely resists unfair competition and is committed to maintaining a fair and equitable business environment. Besides, the Company has zero tolerance to violations of laws and regulations,and its business ethics education and management of relevant personnel have been continuously strengthened, while 
Anti-Commercial Bribery Letter  shave been signed with suppliers.
The Company has established a collective decision-making mechanism and a responsible system for integrity, perfected the credit management system, allowed full play to the supervisory role of the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Department at all levels, while the clean organisation building,production and operation have been closely integrated through prevention and control of integrity risks to effectively prevent and investigate the cases relating to commercial bribery, which risk control is continued at all stages from system to operation. During the Reporting Period, Chinalco, including the Company, has held 4education and warming sessions for fine Party culture and clean organisation, notified 134 cases relating to accountability, and notified 434 persons with disciplinary issues.
7.2 PROMOTING INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
Innovation is the foundation for ensuring the sustainable development of Chalco and also the method that Chalco takes to fulfill its social responsibilities, give back to the community and promote the progress of the industry. With its sound technological innovation system as its guarantee, Chalco constantly enhances its research and development (“R&D”) capabilities and expands product promotion and application. While building the Company to become a world class global company with global competitiveness, Chalco ensures the national security and people’s livelihood. During the Reporting Period, the Company invested RMB310 million in R&D.74
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)Chalco has insisted to continuously consolidate and improve various science and technology 
management systems and provided a solid backing for the Company’s product and technology research and development. The Company has clearly defined how to strengthen the management of the Company’s science and technology projects, to accelerate the transformation of scientific and technological achievements, to enhance the relevant personnel awareness of credit of science and technology projects, and to regulate the management of independent research and development projects through the establishment of 
Chalco’s Management Measures for the Administration of Science and Technology Projects, 
Chalco’s Guidance on Strengthening the Promotion of Scientific,Technological Achievements 
(Trial),Chalco’s Management Measures for the Administration of Credit Points of Related 
Subjects of Scientific and Technological Projects , and Chalco’s Management Measures for 
Enterprise Independent R&D Project . During the Reporting Period, Chalco has carried out 135 
science and technology projects with 46 company-level science and technology projects and 89 branch and subsidiary level independent research and development projects.
Besides, the Company has managed the internal intellectual property rights, trademarks,and 
awards to comprehensively ensure the sustainable development of the R&D in the Company, according to 
Chinalco’s Management Measures for Intellectual Property Right , Chinalco’s 
Interim Measures for Technical Standards Management , and Chinalco’s Management 
Measures for Technology Award . During the Reporting Period, the Company has proactively 
carried out intellectual property rights protection work and successfully completed the rights protection work against the use of the “Chalco Industry Network” without authorisation by third-party enterprises, which the infringer changed the website name.
During the Reporting Period, the Company filed 122 patent applications, among which are 50 
invention patents, and 72 utility model patents. Meanwhile, Chalco was granted 58 patents, with 24 intention patents and 34 utility model patents. The Company registered a total of 25 trademarks.75
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)2018 The Company Scientific and Technological Achievements Showcases
Precision electronic components 
for high thermal conductivity filler 
alumina production technologyElectronic ceramic substrates 
for aluminum nitride production 
technologyManufacturing technology of 
aluminum alloy castings for aircraft 
photoelectric pod parts
7.3 IMPROVING THE PRODUCT AND SERVICE EXPERIENCE
Chalco always puts customers first, paying attention to providing customers with products 
and services of high quality, committing to building the quality branding of “requiring top-quality aluminum, requiring Chalco”. While the Company improve the quality of its products, the Company also deepen its communication with customers to learn more about the demands of the market and provide customized solution for customers, so as to create more value for them.
Enhancing Quality Management
Providing products with high quality is always the promise of Chalco towards its customers and end consumers. The Company guarantees the high quality of its reliable products through the quality management system that covers the whole industrial line, including the procurement of materials, production and manufacturing, sales and services. The Company conducts centralized and unified management of the marketing and operation of its main products such as aluminum and alumina. The Company strictly complies with the national product quality related regulations and its internal product standards to ensure the quality of its products. The China National Quality Supervision and Test Center for Light Metal is engaged each year to supervise and spot check the main products of the branches and subsidiaries to ensure stable and quality products for customers. In addition, the Company requires all branches and subsidiaries to label product in strict accordance with the Company’s regulations. In the year of 2018, Guangxi Branch issued the 
Analysis and Control 
System for Raw Fuel and Ex-factory Products  to ensure that the quality inspection, sampling, 
sample preparation, analysis, spot check, review and assessment of the Company’s original 76
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)fuel and manufactured products can be timely and accurately conducted. As of the end of the 
Reporting Period, 17 of the Group’s enterprises have obtained ISO 9001 quality management system certification, and 17 enterprises have obtained ISO 14001 environmental management system certification. During the Reporting Period, the products sold by the Group have not been recalled due to safety, health and quality problems.
As one of the Group’s Battles for Safety, Environmental Protection, and Quality, the Company 
has formulated three plans for the quality upgrade, quality research, and brand building in the year of 2018. The Company has researched and revised 
Chalco’s Management Measures for 
Quality  to further clarified the approach, objectives, control, rewards,and punishments relating 
to product quality. The 6 quality objectives of the Company’s management and control have been continuously achieved, and all 22 marked quality research projects have reached the annual target.
• Metallurgical grade alumina
In the year of 2018, Chalco has further strengthened the quality management of metallurgical grade alumina, revised 
Chalco’s Regulations on the Management of 
Excellent Quality and Excellent Price of Metallurgical Grade Alumina , clarified the 
punishment measures for unqualified products, and led the Company’s high-quality development through mechanism construction, thus improving product quality and market competitiveness. In the year of 2018, the Company’s metallurgical grade alumina particle size and other quality indicators are at the leading level in China.
In the year of 2018, the Company has promoted Chalco Shandong’s high-quality 
alumina to replace imported alumina for the production of high-precision aluminum and achieved a major breakthrough. At present, Baotou Aluminum, Shandong Huayu and Qinghai Branch purchase 16,000 metric tons of high-quality alumina monthly from Chalco Shandong for replacing imported alumina. According to the price difference of RMB700 per metric ton, it is expected to achieve an annual benefit of RMB130 million. In addition, regarding the Shanxi Huaxing’s stable alumina particle size project, the standard rate per batch of alumina-45 Ǆm particle size distribution (≤15%) increased 
from 89% in 2017 to 100% in the year of 2018.77
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)• Alloying of electrolytic aluminum
According to the Group’s overall planning for alloy products,Chalco has continued to 
accelerate the development of electrolytic aluminum alloys in the year of 2018, guided branches and subsidiaries to proactively develop high value-added alloy products, coordinated branches and subsidiaries to conduct R&D, production of new products, thus promoting the further optimisation of the alloy product structure. During the Reporting Period, the Company’s alloying rate was 38.4%, exceeding the Company’s target of annual alloying rate of 37%.
Improving Customer Service
Chalco has continuously optimised the customer service experience and established a sound customer service management system. The Company also focuses on the impact of products on customers’ health and safety and guarantees customers’ safety and legal rights to the greatest extent.
• Comprehensive Service Management System
The Company has set up a pre-sale, sale and after-sales service management system, which negotiates, settles and replies to customers’ complaints in accordance with related regulations of the Company. In addition, the Company provides consumers with well-established channels for complaints and feedbacks to improve service levels through daily regulation and management. The Company also investigates customer satisfaction in the form of questionnaires in line with the ISO 9001 management system. After deeply understanding the demands of customers, the Company provides customers with comprehensive solutions including lowering the cost of procurement and enhancing coordination capacity. As a result, the Company largely improves customers’ satisfaction. During the Reporting Period, the Group did not receive any complaints about services but received 27 times of complaints about products, which was a significant decrease from last year. In response to customers’ complaints received, the Company has carefully analysed the causes of the complaints and proactively communicated with customers to solve the problems.78
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)• Safeguarding Health and Safety
In the process of sales of aluminum liquid, regarding the characteristics of regular visits 
to the Company by the delivery agent, Chalco has conducted safety training delivery agents and the responsible personnel relating to delivery vehicle for aluminum liquid, clarified the hazard sources and precautions on the site, and improved their safety awareness. At the same time, the branches and subsidiaries strictly follow the national safety production and environmental protection requirements, enforce the national standards relating to the product element content, and provide qualification certificates, thus preventing the addition of harmful elements such as lead, mercury and arsenic and ensuring the health of the end consumers.
• Maintaining Customers’ Privacy
In the process of product marketing, Chalco also attaches great importance to protecting the privacy of both the Company and its customers. The Company’s marketing plan stipulates that marketing personnel at all levels should consciously abide by the Company’s confidentiality regulations, strengthen the awareness of the confidentiality of sales information and market information, and strictly prohibit the disclosure of the Company’s business secrets. Besides, the standard template of the Company’s electrolytic aluminum product sales contract also stipulates that: in the process of entering into, performing and terminating the contract, the parties shall be obliged to keep confidential the technical, commercial information and materials that the other party has not yet disclosed to the public,and be forbidden to leak or improperly use, except for the disclosure by one party in accordance with the provisions of laws, administrative regulations or relevant government departments; if any party violates the confidentiality clause of the contract and causes losses to the other party, it shall be liable for damages.79
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)7.4 IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OPERATION
Chalco has always insisted on giving cost control the highest priority. Chalco has 
continuously promoted the “standardisation+“ management, clarifying a series of content at the headquarters level, including the general thought, working goals, working methods, major tasks, promotion plans and requirements. In the year of 2018, while ensuring the steady growth of product quality, the Company has continued to focus on cost control. The absorption costs of alumina and electrolytic aluminum have both decreased, and the production costs of some branches and subsidiaries have reached the advanced level in the industry.
Promoting Cost Reduction and Effectiveness Enhancement
In order to further promote the transformation and upgrading of the Company and implement the work of reducing cost and enhancing efficiency in large-scale energy management, the Group has included the electricity use by electrolytic aluminum enterprises, the electricity use by alumina enterprises, steam, water, wind, gas, and oil for production in the energy management system in the year of 2018. The energy costs of the main products have been reduced through the precise management of energy work, the technical improvement of energy systems and energy-consuming equipment, and the utilisation of energy surplus and price advantage for generating energy, the Group has established a large-scale energy performance appraisal mechanism; every single enterprise reports the cost reduction project on a monthly basis, conducts a video conference every quarter to confirm the progress of the project, organises on-site inspection and supervision for the problems arising during the project promotion, takes measures to rectify by a deadline, and establishes a platform for energy business information.80
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)Chalco Mining’s Alumina Plant has renovated the existing domestic mine pipeline dissolving 
device with the minimum expenditure to meet the conditions of use of imported ore and converted foreign resources of bauxite into the Company’s output, thereby effectively reducing local ore mining and achieving maximum social and economic benefits. Since the introduction of the low-temperature dissolution system of imported ore in August 2018, it has produced 70,000 metric tons of alumina by the end of the year and created economic benefits of more than RMB14 million for Chalco Mining. In addition, the replacement of domestic mines by imported ore, which contains a smaller amount of mud, has reduced the mining of local ore, and it was estimated to reduce red mud generation by 21,000 metric tons. Through technological innovation, the Company has achieved cost reduction, efficiency improvement, energy conservation and emission reduction, and fulfilled its corporate social responsibility.
Enhancing Procurement Management
In the year of 2018, Chalco has continued to strengthen procurement management and implemented a number of initiatives to reduce procurement costs. The Group has strengthened market research and accurately made judgment through proactively organising and adopting the approach of unified negotiation and separated singing for coal procurement. While ensuring production and supply, the Company has gotten the timing right for procurement, thus avoiding peaks and promoting the reduction of procurement cost. Regarding the bulk procurement of raw materials, the Company has procured high-quality materials through the advantages of regional resources and reserved materials through scientific prediction and accurate analysis of the price trend of the fuels and raw materials market, thus achieving better cost reduction.
Chalco Mining has made a saving on its procurement funding through innovative limestone 
procurement model. Zhongzhou Aluminum has proactively promoted strategic anthracite procurement, maximising the quantity with a certain price, and maximised the profit of the Company. Chalco Shandong has incorporated the PM2.5 big data into the procurement model for market research and judgment, providing a new way to interpret relevant national policies from multiple angles; Chalco Trading has innovated the pricing mechanism and trade model for anode carbon product, optimised regional resource allocation, reduced internal production costs and operational risks by coordinating supply chain resources, thus providing an effective way to integrate the Company’s anode carbon product resources.81
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)Standardizing the Logistics Management
In the year of 2018, Chalco Logistics has improved the guarantee capability of its logistics 
service, promoted logistics integration, strengthened business development and functional construction through standardizing the management principles for logistics business and internal freight pricing mechanisms, thus improving the Company’s logistics industry’s ability to create efficiency. Firstly, the coordination capacity building has been strengthened in the warehousing, shipping, pathway optimisation, information sharing etc., improving the safeguarding ability. Secondly, logistics integration has been promoted. Thirdly, focusing on the three pillar industries of transportation, warehousing and supply chain, multi-point linkage 
has been created, logistics business has been continuously expanded, thus continuously 
improving the efficiency.
7.5 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Chalco cannot achieve its long-term and stable development without the common efforts by upstream and downstream suppliers and contractors of the supply chain. In order to promote the social responsibility of the enterprises in the supply chain and establish a sustainable supply chain for Chalco, the Company has continuously optimised the supply chain management system and improved the ESG performance of the Company and the enterprises in the supply chain. At the same time, the Company must maintain full communication with suppliers to establish long-term partnerships and achieve win-win cooperation.
In order to optimise the supply chain management system, the Company has managed 
the procurement, marketing and logistics of products as well as the selection, supervision and evaluation of suppliers through establishment of the 
Chalco’s Management Measures 
for Purchasing, Chalco’s Management Measures for Supplier, Chalco’s Regulations on 
the Management of Key Purchasing Operation Mode, 2018 Plans for Product Marketing 
and Logistics of Electrolytic Aluminum Enterprise and Alumina Enterprise . The Company’s 
Marketing Management Department is responsible for the unified management of the whole process of the Group’s supply chain, covering procurement management, logistics management, and finished product management. In addition, the Company has established an electronic procurement platform focusing on supply chain management, integrated the Company’s supplier access and management, contract management, quotation management, inventory management and other related functions, integrated upstream and downstream related enterprise resources, thus achieving online tendering and bulk procurement for raw materials and important materials.82
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)Managing Suppliers’ Environmental and Social Impacts
According to the Chalco’s Management Measures for Suppliers , the Company has checked 
the relevant environmental protection qualifications of the suppliers in the supply chain 
management and ensured that the suppliers are legal manufacturers that meet the national environmental protection requirements. In the aspects of raw material production, use, recycling and waste disposal, the suppliers have been required to make full use of energy and resources, and reduce environmental pollution; the suppliers have been confirmed to meet the requirements of Chalco’s CSR management system, and there is no record of clear violation relating to CSR related regulations in the society and the industry. Regarding the 
suppliers with poor CSR performance causing a certain level of adverse effects in the society, 
the Company lowers their rating in the system, while the coordination with the suppliers shall be terminated with the requirement of rectification by a deadline regarding the suppliers with poor CSR performance causing serious adverse effects in the society. Besides, the suppliers shall be suspended in the Company’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP).
Strict Supplier Access
For supplier access, Chalco clarifies that all suppliers need to possess basic certificates that are valid and legitimate, and they also need to abide by the 
Confidential Terms of the Chalco 
Electronic Procurement Platform . Meanwhile, the Company will inquire the operational 
information of suppliers; when necessary, the Company will conduct field investigation to make sure that the suppliers have the ability to perform contracts, have good operational performance, and good after-sales service, and that within three years, the suppliers shall not have any law-breaking record or major legal disputes, especially for major law-breaking records related to the environment and labour.
In addition to ordinary requirements, the Company has also formulated specific management 
requirements targeting special supply chain fields. For manufacturing enterprises, the Company has required a complete quality assurance system; for traders, the Company has required sales permission or authorization for agents granted by product manufacturers. For the transportation of dangerous goods, the Company has also set requirements for suppliers, in which suppliers of hazardous chemicals and special manufacturing industries need to possess corresponding certificates and qualifications. For example, enterprises involved in the manufacture of hazardous chemicals must possess documents and certification including a safety production license, a hazardous chemical business license, and a transportation license for hazardous chemicals.83
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Win-win Operation – Achieving Fair Production (Continued)Improving Supplier Evaluation
In terms of the evaluation of suppliers, Chalco keeps to comprehensive evaluation and 
management with the combined forms of annually and timely. The timely evaluation and evaluation indicators are the supplier’s execution of the contract and recorded in the suppliers’ archives through the real-time counting and inquiry on the electronic procurement platform. The annual assessment and evaluation indicators include the overall strength of the supplier, the amount of supply, the execution of supplier contract, and the reward and punishment of supplier, and the branches and subsidiaries have to report the supplier’s performance in terms of quality, price, delivery date, after-sales service and clean organisation building to the 
Company’s Marketing and Procurement Department on an annual basis. Through the amount 
of supply, the contribution rate of average procurement price, the execution rate of plan, the quality and after-sales service, the suppliers are evaluated comprehensively. In addition, the Company and the enterprise discipline inspection and supervision department monitor and regularly check the supplier’s management in accordance with the scope of duties. As of the end of the Reporting Period, the Group had a total of 2,260 qualified suppliers, all of which were suppliers in Mainland China, and there were no suppliers from Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan and overseas countries.
The Company has insisted on maintaining sufficient interaction with suppliers and formed a 
variety of communication channels. In addition to irregular field visits and industry conference meetings, the Company also regularly organises annual supplier meetings, summarizes the procurement work of the year, analyses the market trends of major raw materials, and commends outstanding suppliers. In the year of 2018, Chalco has selected a total of 23 outstanding suppliers and commended them.
In the year of 2018, the outstanding suppliers were commended by Chalco84
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the SocietyThe Company has always adhered to the CSR philosophy of “turning stone into gold and benefiting 
mankind”, thus repaying the society with high-quality development. Regarding the poverty alleviation and charity, the Company strives to achieve developing with local support and with return to the local and to treasure the resources, the land where the resources locate, and the people nearby the resources, thus fulfilling CSR while creating economic benefits.
The Company has managed the Group’s external donation activities in accordance with 
Chalco’s 
Management Measures for External Donation , optimised the external donation approval process, 
improved the planning of external donation management, and enhanced the rationality of external 
donation management. During the Reporting Period, Chalco has donated a total of RMB23.684 million for poverty alleviation and various types of donations, which is RMB13.366 million more than in 2017.
8.1 SUPPORTING POVERTY ALLEVIATION
The Company has proactively responded to the national call for poverty alleviation, combined its advantages, effectively carried out poverty alleviation work, rationally identified targets for poverty alleviation, scientifically set up and managed projects, fully mobilised the enthusiasm of various departments int he Company, and given full play to the initiative of employees to ensure effective poverty alleviation work.
Targeted Poverty Alleviation Work
Yangxin County, Hubei
Poverty alleviation by expanding consumptionRelevant units of Chalco has purchased more than RMB690,000 of various agricultural products in Yangxin County, with a 16-fold increase over the same period last year. In addition, the Company has proactively assisted agricultural products dealers in Yangxin County to broaden the marketability of their agricultural products, which achieved an increase in sales by more than RMB800,000.
Poverty alleviation by expanding industriesThe local poor households have been helped to sell agricultural products through the e-commerce platform for special agricultural product. It is expected to create more than RMB3 million per year for local benefits.85
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)Since 2018, Chalco has:
• Participated in the implementation of 17 supporting projects in 
industrial development;
• Driven 704 registered poor persons shake off poverty;• Supported in the introduction of an enterprise’s investment with a 
fund of more than RMB6 million; and
• Supported 15 agricultural leading enterprises and rural 
cooperatives in Yangxin County.
Encouraging traditional industriesThe Company is in line with the idea of “building a village with a product” to achieve industrial poverty alleviation:• Encouraging Xiamo Village to develop the shiitake industry 
through cooperative form. The first phase has completed the 30-mu construction, directly creating 69 jobs for the poor people;
• Supporting the development of the traditional industry of Fenzhe 
to help 53 poor persons shake off poverty;
• Supporting the Mugang’s 
Polygonatum odoratum  Farmers 
Cooperative to build a new chicken farm of 2,000 square meters and creating 27 new jobs, which help 15 people in poverty;
• Supporting the development of silkworm breeding bases in 
Tangpan Village, Mugang Town, providing working opportunities to 65 poor people, helping 21 registered poor house holds get rid of poverty;
• Supporting the development of integrated rural tourism;• Building a citrus industrial park, developing a thousand-mu old fruit 
base, and creating a “citrus park” to support the development of tourism, home stays, wedding photography bases and agricultural activities, and helping 469 registered poor persons; and
• Supporting the construction of migrant villages,encouraging 
the development of unique fruit industry in Gaosh an Village, Wangying Town, designing and building a 520-mu tourist sightseeing orchard, and creating pillar industries.86
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)Poverty alleviation 
by deepening employmentThe Company has supported local organisations to utilise the “Chalco Field School” as a platform and conduct the following industry- and market- oriented activities:• Organising skills training for paving, mason, welders, electricians, 
painting, etc. in Xingguo Town, Baisha Town, Huangsangkou Town, Futu Town, Paishi Town, etc.; and
• Conducting agricultural practical and technical training such as 
hybrid citrus cultivation, crayfish breeding, and Cyclocybeaegerita cultivation.
As of the end of the Reporting Period, more than 2,000 people have participated in the trainings, in which 931 people have been trained as professional and technical personnel, of which more than 300 people have mastered the employment skills such as paving bricks, sealing, rural tourism reception, more than 900 people have learned various agricultural planting techniques, thus promoting the benefit of the industrial chain and helping poor households to achieve 300-person employment. At the same time, the Company has held several “Yangxin County Training Courses for Improving the Ability of Grassroot-Level Cadres” in the Party School of Yangxin County Party Committee, Xingguo Town, Futu Town and other towns, and trained 338 cadres of the basic level.
Deepening the work relating to assisting Tibet and Qinghai
Assisting Tibet
The Company has conscientiously implemented a series of strategic arrangements by the central government on assisting Tibet and put massive effort into matching and supporting. It is constantly innovating its mode of assisting Tibet, increasing its efforts in assisting Tibet, and broadening the area of assisting Tibet. Full support and selfless assistance with projects, funds, talents, and technology, thereby promoting all-round, multi-level and wide-area development of assisting Tibet.87
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)Beginning in April 2018, the new funding plan with RMB1.2 million has included three major 
aspects. The first is to implement the skills training for farmers and herdsmen; the second is to establish “Chalco-
Potentilla fruticosa ” education fund. The fund assists students from 
poor families; the third is to customise and order aluminum alloy office furniture and improve the working conditions of the local community-level Party organisation’s the people activity center. In November 2018, after the investigation and negotiation, the “Project on New Funds for the 13
th Five-Year Plan” was completed; since 2018, the funding amount to Tibet has 
been increased to RMB10 million per year; the second is to actively develop new aluminum products suitable for alpine regions and high-altitude, vigorously promoting the application of new aluminum products in Tibet, and ordering 120 sets of all-aluminum office integrated cabinets to improve the conditions of rural offices; The cooperation with Changdu Tourism Commission has driven to complete the transformation of aluminum alloy walkway and observation deck in Ranwu Lake Scenic Spot in Basu County; in the year of 2018, the Group has held employment recruitment fairs in Lhasa and Changdu respectively, providing 169 jobs for college students and 77 jobs for farmers and herdsmen. The posts are located in mainland China in Shandong, Tianjin, Chongqing, Gansu, Ningxia, Fujian, Yunnan and other provinces and cities. 50 people were trained in the township cadres of Karuo District, Chaya County, members of the “two committees” of the village, registered poor farmers and herdsmen, and unemployed college graduates.
In the year of 2018, the “Chalco-Potentilla fruticosa” education fund has subsidised 238 
teachers and students in Chaya County, and distributed funds of RMB597,000.88
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)The performance of Chalco’s work relating to assisting Tibet is illustrated by the following 
achievements: the first is to improve the infrastructure and promote targeted poverty alleviation by vigorously carrying out the building of moderately prosperous demonstration villages, faculty homes, and tourist facilities, thus effectively promoting targeted poverty alleviation; the second is to support the education industry and solved a number of bottleneck problems that restrict the development of education. It has made positive contributions to the successful pass the assessment and acceptance of the balanced development of compulsory education in Chaya County and Karuo District in the year of 2018; the third is to develop characteristic industries and promote local economic restructuring; the fourth is to expand the channels for assisting Tibet and developing cadres and talents through conducting the teaching, assisting, supervising activities among Tibetans cadres, professional and technical personnel, offering the opportunities of serving temporary positions, and providing trainings, thus enhancing their work capacity; the fifth is to strengthen communication and enhance the friendship between the two sides. Through mutual visits, the two sides strengthened their bonding, promoted mutual understanding, enhanced friendship, increased the effort into assistance, and promoted ethnic unity.
2018 the Company’s Chalco New Village Project in Zuotong, 
Rongzhou Township, Chaya County, Changdu, Tibet89
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)Assisting Qinghai
• In the year of 2018, the “13th Five-Year Plan” supporting project has served as the 
backbone of assisting Qinghai, highlighting the two work priorities of “people’s 
livelihood” and “poverty alleviation”, and building three working platforms of “connection network, technical assistance, education”, thus promoting the economic and social development of aided counties and enterprises. In the year of 2018, Haiyan County’s working of poverty alleviation made achievement of reaching poverty alleviation standard.
• Starting from 2018, the annual assisting fund has been increased from RMB1.75 million 
to RMB2.25 million to help Haiyan County get rid of poverty.
• The construction of Tibetan Medicine Cultural Exchange Centre and Haiyan County 
Tibetan Youth Physical Fitness Testing Centre has been started. The two projects have been invested with a total of RMB10.5 million, in which Chalco assisted to build from 2017, and has invested a total of RMB3.5 million in 2017 and 2018. The construction of main body has been completed and it is expected to be put into use in August 2019.
Assisting Students in Pair
Chalco has continued to carry out “heart-to-heart, hand-in-hand” pairing to help students with difficulties in Haiyan County, Haibei Prefecture, Qinghai Province. In the year of 2018, the number of company-assisted students has increased to 150. Since August 2016, the cadres and employees were mobilised to actively contribute with dedication. They, as extracurricular counselors, has helped two batches with 231 poor people in Haiyan County, donating nearly RMB500,000 in cash.
2018 Chalco Issued the Second Batch of Funds to Pairing Assistance to Poor Students90
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)“Heart-to-heart,  
hand-in-hand”During the Reporting period, 35 employees of the Company have 
participated in the pairing assistance activities, providing cash support of RMB39,000. Among the assisting students, 100% of the primary school students have enrolled in junior high school, 90% of the junior high school students have entered the ordinary high school or secondary vocational school, and 100% of the high school students have entered the university, thus giving full play to the positive role in stopping intergenerational poverty.
8.2 SERVING THE NEIGHBOURHOODS
The Company adheres to the principle of “developing with local support and returning to the local”. The Company has proactively participated in community building and given back to the society by unleashing its advantages in technology, management and talents. In the year of 2018, the Company has guided the establishment of the Lei Feng volunteer service team, carried out environmental remediation volunteering activity, “youth security volunteer” activities, “3.12” voluntary tree planting and other charitable activities, and given maximum support to the social welfare programs in which employees participate, calling for giving back to the society with dedication and delivering truth through dedication.
Case 1:  Chalco Trading (headquarters) donated RMB1,000,000 to the China-Mongolia 
Friendship Children’s Clinic in Bayanzurkh District, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
Case 2:  Zhongzhou Aluminum donated RMB45,000 directly to the beneficiaries of the 
Tiejiang Village of Qixian Town, Xiuwu County, Jiaozuo City.91
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Supporting Community – Promoting Charity in the Society (Continued)Case 3:  Liancheng Aluminum donated RMB120,000 to the beneficiaries of Qinqi 
Township, Weiyuan County, Gansu Province.
Case 4
Guyang County, Baotou City is one of the two contiguous poverty areas in Inner Mongolia 
Autonomous Region. Baotou Aluminum has carried out targeted poverty alleviation in Xidoupu Town of the county for 10 years. On November 15
th, the Party committee of Huayun 
Electrolytic Aluminum Second Factory in Inner Mongolia has formed a Party Member Service Team and carried out targeted poverty alleviation in Hongnijing Village, Xidoupu Town, Guyang County, Baotou City, which is the poverty alleviation contact point of Baotou Aluminum Industry.,
The pictures below show that the Party Member Service Team of the Second Factory visited 
the cattle and sheep breeding base in the Hongnijing Village for under standing the situation of the “Break-Even and Benefit-Sharing through Entrusted Cattle and Sheep Breeding” project and purchasing local agricultural products, through these to conduct targeted poverty alleviation.
92
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Looking to the FutureIn the year of 2019, it is the 70th anniversary of the founding of China. It is the first year of the 
refreshing of reform and opening up. However, the current situations as slowdown in market 
growth and increasing of price volatility indicate2019 will be a more challenging year for Chalco. As a leading company in China’s aluminum industry, Chalco shall exercise strict self-governance in the Party and provide strong political protection, continue to make an effort and strengthen its “low cost” competitive advantage, accelerate transformation and upgrading, move towards a new stage of “high quality” development, deepen management reform, establish an operational system with “excellent mechanisms”, seize key minority groups, and demonstrate new opportunities in the new era with “good returns.“ In the coming year, Chalco will firmly reform its confidence and maintain its strategic strength. Through reforms, it will release its potential, stimulate its vitality, foster its momentum, achieve green and high-quality development, and forge ahead with a new era of passion.
He Zhihui
President
Aluminum Corporation of China Limited93
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Appendix 1 The Material Laws and Regulations Complied by 
the Group During the Reporting PeriodLaws and regulations corresponding to the 
aspects of the ESG Guide1,2Chalco’s policies and regulations to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations corresponding to aspects of ESG Guide
3  
A. Environment
Aspect A1: Emissions
Environmental Protection Law of the People’s 
Republic of ChinaChalco’s System of Responsibilities for Safety and 
Environmental Protectionin the Headquarters 
(Trial)
Chalco’s Temporary Management Measures for 
Overhaul Slag
Chalco’s Management Regulations on the Safety 
of Molten Aluminum Transportation (Trial)
Chinalco’s Prearranged Comprehensive Plan for 
Emergency#
Chinalco’s Prearranged Plan for Environmental 
Emergency#
Chinalco’s Management Measures for 
Environmental Protection#
Chinalco’s Temporary Regulations on 
Environmental Statistics#
Chalco’s Management Regulations on the Safety 
and Environmental Protection of Outsourcing 
Relating to Protection
Chalco’s Management Measures for Hazardous 
Wastes
Chalco’s Management Measures for Independent 
Decision-making for Technological Renovation 
Project
Management Measures for Mining Technologies
Guiding Opinions on the Standardisation of the 
Design of Mining SitesLand Administration Law of the People’s  
Republic of China
Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law of 
the People’s Republic of China
Soil Pollution Prevention and Control Law of the 
People’s Republic of China
Law of the People’s Republic of China on the 
Prevention and Control of Environmental  
Pollution by Solid Wastes
Environmental Protection Tax Law of the  
People’s Republic of China
Atmospheric Pollution Prevention and Control 
Law of the People’s Republic of China
Mineral Resources Law of the People’s Republic 
of China
Emergency Response Law of the People’s 
Republic of China*B1
Measures for the Administration of Duplicate 
Forms for Transfer of Hazardous Waste
Management Measures for the Combined Forms 
for Transfer of Hazardous Wastes
Atmospheric Pollution Comprehensive Control 
2018–2019 Action Plan in the Beijing-Tianjin-  
Hebei Region and Surrounding Areas
Atmospheric Pollution Prevention and Control 
2017 Work Plan in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei 
Region and Surrounding Areas
1 Particular laws cover several topics provisioned in the Aspects; these laws are marked with an asterisk and codes of 
Aspects being covered.
2 There is a limitation to disclose all laws and regulations that the Group complies with, and only laws and regulations 
that have a significant impact on the Group are disclosed.
3 Particular policies and regulations that the Company strictly observes are derived from Chinalco; these policies and 
regulations are marked with a hash.94
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Appendix 1 The Material Laws and Regulations Complied by the 
Group During the Reporting Period (Continued)Laws and regulations corresponding to the 
aspects of the ESG Guide1,2Chalco’s policies and regulations to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations corresponding to aspects of ESG Guide
3  
B. SocietyAspect B1: EmploymentLabour Law of the People’s Republic  
of China
*B2, B4Labour Protection Measures for Female 
Employees
Regulations on Compensation during Child-
bearing PeriodLabour Contract Law of the People’s Republic 
of China Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of China
Labour Dispute Mediation and Arbitration Law of 
the People’s Republic of China
Law of the People’s Republic of China on the 
Protection of Women’s Rights and Interests
Law of the People’s Republic of China on 
Protection of Disabled Persons
Aspect B2: Health and SafetyLaw of the People’s Republic of China on Work 
SafetyChinalco’s Management Measures for Safety 
Protection
Chalco’s System of Responsibilities for Safety and 
Environmental Protection in the Headquarters
Chalco’s Safe Production Responsibilities for both 
Party Committee and Other Departments
Chalco’s Management Regulations on the Safety 
Supervision of CoalMine
Chalco’s Standard of Safety Baseline in 
Construction Field (Trial)
Professional Standards of Evaluation of Safety 
Management in Metal and Non-metallic Mine Site and ProcessesLaw of the People’s Republic of China on 
Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases
Law of the People’s Republic of China on Safety 
in Mines
Regulations on Safety Supervision over Coal 
Mines
Implementation Measures for the Work Safety 
Licenses for Coal Mining Enterprises
Measures for the Administration of Occupational 
Health Examination
Measures for the Supervision and Administration 
of Employers’ Occupational Health Surveillance
Notice of the Work Safety Committee of the 
State Council on Launching National Safety Inspection95
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Appendix 1 The Material Laws and Regulations Complied by the 
Group During the Reporting Period (Continued)Laws and regulations corresponding to the 
aspects of the ESG Guide1,2Chalco’s policies and regulations to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations corresponding to aspects of ESG Guide
3  
Aspect B4: Labour StandardsLaw of the People’s Republic of China on the 
Protection of Minors
Provisions on the Prohibition of Using Child Labor
Aspect B6: Product Responsibility
Trademark Law of the People’s Republic of 
ChinaChinalco’s Management Measures for Intellectual 
Property
#
Chinalco’s Temporary Management Measures for 
Technical Standards#
Chalco’s General Regulations on Products’ 
Labelling, Packaging, Transporting, and StoringPatent Law of the People’s Republic of China
Tort Law of the People’s Republic of ChinaAnti-Unfair Competition Law of the People’s 
Republic of China
*B7
Aspect B7: Anti-corruptionAnti-Money Laundering Law of the People’s Republic of China96
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents IndexSubject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” Provisions Section 
A. Environment
Aspect A1:  
EmissionGeneral DisclosureInformation on: Reducing Environmental 
Impacts
Promoting Responsible 
Mining(a) the policies; and(b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a 
significant impact on the issuer relating to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
Note: Air emissions include NOx, SOx, and other pollutants regulated under 
national laws and regulations.
Greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride.Hazardous wastes are those defined by national regulations.
KPI A1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions 
data.Reducing Environmental 
Impacts
Environment 
Performance
KPI A1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) 
and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit 
of production volume, per facility).Environment 
Performance
KPI A1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, 
where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).Environment 
Performance
KPI A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) 
and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).Environment 
Performance
KPI A1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions 
and results achieved.Reducing Environmental 
Impacts
KPI A1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous 
wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and results achieved.Reducing Environmental 
Impacts97
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” Provisions Section 
A. Environment
Aspect A2: Use of 
ResourcesGeneral DisclosurePolicies on the efficient use of resources, including energy, 
water and other raw materials.Effective Usage of 
Natural Resources
Note: Resources may be used in production, in storage, transportation, in 
buildings, electronic equipment, etc
KPI A2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by 
type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kWh in 
’000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).Environment 
Performance
KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per 
unit of production volume, per facility).Environment 
Performance
KPI A2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives 
and results achieved.Effective Usage of 
Natural Resources
KPI A2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in 
sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water efficiency initiatives and results achieved.Effective Usage of 
Natural Resources
KPI A2.5 Total packaging material used for finished 
products (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with reference to per unit producedEnvironment 
Performance
Aspect A3: The 
Environment and Natural ResourcesGeneral DisclosurePolicies on minimising the issuer’s significant impact on the 
environment and natural resources.Reducing Environmental 
Impacts
Promoting Responsible 
Mining
KPI A3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities 
on the environment and natural resources and the actions taken to manage them.Promoting Responsible 
Mining98
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” 
Provisions Recommended DisclosuresSection
 
B. Social
Employment and Labour PracticesAspect B1:  
EmploymentGeneral Disclosure Safeguarding Legal Rights Information on:
(a) the policies; and
(b) compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to compensation and dismissal, recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination, and other benefits and welfare.KPI B1.1 Total workforce by gender, 
employment type, age group and geographical region.
KPI B1.2 Employee turnover rate by 
gender, age group and geographical region.
     99
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” 
Provisions Recommended DisclosuresSection
 
B. Social
Aspect B2:  
Health and SafetyGeneral Disclosure Safeguarding the Occupational Health Information on:
(a) the policies; and
(b) compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to providing a safe working environment and protecting employees from occupational hazards.KPI B2.3 Description of 
occupational health and safety measures adopted, how they are implemented and monitored.
Aspect B3: 
Development and TrainingGeneral Disclosure Paying Attention to Employee DevelopmentPolicies on improving 
employee knowledge and skills for discharging duties at work. Description of training activities.
Note: Training refers to vocational 
training. It may include  internal and external courses paid by the employer.KPI B3.1 The percentage of 
employees trained by 
gender and employee category (e.g. senior management, middle management).
KPI B3.2 The average training 
hours completed per employee by gender and employee category.
     100
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” 
Provisions Recommended DisclosuresSection
 
B. Social
Aspect B4:  
Labour StandardsGeneral Disclosure Safeguarding Legal Rights Information on:
(a) the policies; and
(b) compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to preventing child and forced labour.KPI B4.2 Description of steps 
taken to eliminate such practices when discovered.
Operating Practices
Aspect B5: 
Supply Chain 
ManagementGeneral Disclosure KPI B5.1 Number of suppliers by 
geographical region.Building Sustainable Supply Chain
Policies on managing 
environmental and social risks of the supply chain.KPI B5.2 Description of practices 
relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored.
     101
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” 
Provisions Recommended DisclosuresSection
 
B. Social
Aspect B6: 
Product ResponsibilityGeneral Disclosure Promoting Industry 
Development
Improving 
the Product and Service Experience
Information on:
(a) the policies; and
(b) compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer
 relating to health and 
safety, advertising, labelling and privacy matters relating to products and services provided and methods of redress.KPI B6.1 Percentage of total 
products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and health reasonsImproving 
the Product and Service Experience
KPI B6.2 Number of products 
and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with
KPI B6.3 Description of practices 
relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rightsPromoting Industry 
Development
KPI B6.4 Description of quality 
assurance process and recall procedures.Improving 
the Product and Service Experience
KPI B6.5 Description of consumer 
data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented and monitored.
     102
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITED
Appendix 2 HKEx ESG Guide Contents Index (Continued)Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs
“Comply or explain” 
Provisions Recommended DisclosuresSection
 
B. Social
Aspect B7: Anti-
corruptionGeneral Disclosure Enhancing Risk 
Management and Control Upholding 
Business EthicsInformation on:
(a) the policies; and
(b) compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer
relating to bribery, 
extortion, fraud and money laundering.KPI B7.1 Number of concluded legal 
cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases.
CommunityAspect B8: 
Community InvestmentGeneral Disclosure General Disclosure Supporting Poverty 
Alleviation
Policies on community 
engagement to understand the needs of the communities where the issuer operates and to ensure its activities take into consideration the communities’ interests.KPI B8.1 Focus areas of 
contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labour needs, health, culture, sport).Serving the 
Neighbourhoods
KPI B8.2 Resources contributed 
(e.g. money or time) to the focus area.
     103
2018 Environmental, Social and Governance ReportFeedback FormDear reader:
Hello! Thank you very much for taking time to read the Report. In order to continuously improve the 
preparation of the report and promote the Company’s work in ESG, we especially hope to listen to your opinions and suggestions, please let us know!
1. What is your identity regarding to Chalco (e.g. investor, employee, etc.)?
½Government ½Employee ½Business Partner ½Environmental Organization ½Media
½Community  ½Others (Please specify)
2. Your overall assessment to the Report is:
½Very Good ½Good ½Fair ½Poor ½Very Poor
3. How do you think of the structure of the Report?
½Very Reasonable ½Reasonable ½General ½Poor ½Very Poor
4. How do you think of the design of the Report?
½Very Good ½Good ½Fair ½Poor ½Very Poor
5. How do you think of the readability of the Report?
½Very Good ½Good ½Fair ½Poor ½Very Poor
6. How do you think of the quality of the ESG information in the Report?
½Very Good ½Good ½Fair ½Poor ½Very Poor
7. Which disclosed issues do you pay attention to in the Report? (please choose 3 issues at 
most)½Product Quality Control ½Safety Production ½Community Services ½Green Operation
½Charity ½Employee Development ½Cooperation and Development
½Others (Please specify)104
ALUMINUM CORPORATION OF CHINA LIMITEDFeedback Form (Continued)8. What are your opinions on or suggestions to the ESG Report and our performance?
You can mail the above feedback form to the following address:Address: No. 62, Xizhimen North Street, Haidian District, Beijing, People’s Republic of China
Tel: 8610–8229 8154Fax: 8610–8229 8158Email: ir@chalco.com.cnWebsite: www.chalco.com.cn
Thank you very much for your understanding on and support of our work!
Aluminum Corporation of China Limited2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
No. 62 North Xizhimen Street, Haidian District, Beijing, the People's Republic of China (100082)
Tel:  8610 - 8229 8332
Fax:  8610 - 8229 8158
Web : www.chalco.com.cn