A M E R I C A N  E L E C T R I C  P O W E R
2006 Corporate Responsibility Report
Working T ogether for a Brighter FutureTABLE OF CONTENTS
01 Leadership, Management & Strategy  
 A Message from Michael G. Morris,  
	 Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
 A Message from Dennis E. Welch,  
 Senior Vice President, Environment, Safety & Health
	 About This Report
08	 Public Policy Strategy
12 Climate Change
20 Environmental Performance
26 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
32 Work Force Issues
38 Stakeholder Engagement
43 Challenges, Goals, Progress for 2006
49 GRI Table of Contents
The AEP Board of Directors has reviewed, discussed and approved this report. We believe it provides a clear, bal -
anced and reasonable presentation of the company’s plans and performance and their environmental, social and 
economic impacts. The Report focuses on seven issues that are of strategic importance to the company. It sets forth 
specific actions that the company is taking towards the goal of sustainable development, which when implemented 
will advance shareholder value. 
 Although much has been accomplished, the Board recognizes that there is still much to be done. The Board 
has tasked management with executing the company’s strategic plan to meet shareholder expectations and the com -
mitments in this report, while being sensitive to the broader interests of the communities within which we work, 
thus attaining even higher levels of performance. 
Lester 	A.	Hudson, 	Jr.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 2007
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 1Leadership, Management & Strategy
Dear	Friend,
American Electric Power has op -
erated with a strong sense of pur -
pose and responsibility since its 
founding more than 100 years ago. 
Electricity has become a funda -
mental necessity of life. It drives 
our economy, heats our homes, en -
ables a vast and safe water and food 
supply, and empowers advances in 
medicine, science, technology, ed-  
ucation and the arts. In short, elec -
tricity provides the current that 
enables economic, intellectual and 
spiritual growth. 
 As one of the largest electric 
utilities in the United States, we 
have enormous economic, environ -
mental and social impacts. Most of 
them are positive, some of them are 
not. This report underscores our 
commitment to hold ourselves ac -
countable for improvement. Like  
many businesses, we are just begin -
ning to understand how stakehold -
ers want us to measure, manage and 
account for the full range of our im -
pacts on society.  The best way to ensure our 
financial success going forward is to expand the overlap between our 
business interests and the interests of 
society. Transparency and account -
ability, along with a close working 
relationship with our stakeholders, 
will grow our business, serve our 
shareholders’ interests and create 
a better world for our children and 
grandchildren. That is what sustain -
ability means to AEP . This report therefore reflects 
 
our growing commitment to work 
with labor, business partners, gov-  
ernment agencies and our environ-  
mental and community stakehold-  
ers. We are beginning to engage  
with a much broader range of con-  
stituencies than ever before. This  
report has been shaped by that en -
gagement and is an invitation to 
further it. We worked with Ceres to facil-
 
itate a formal review of this report 
by 17 investor, social and environ -
mental advocacy and labor organi -
zations. They were very candid with 
us as we were with them. We agreed 
on some points and disagreed on 
others. In the process, we learned 
what’s on the minds of many of our 
important constituents and about 
their perceptions of AEP . It’s clear 
we need to speak with them more 
often, and we look forward to con -
tinuing that dialogue. Climate change is a significant 
issue for society, and certainly for 
AEP, as we are one of the largest  
consumers of coal in the United 
States. We feel a growing impera-  
tive to reduce greenhouse gas emis-  
sions and to support a reasonable 
approach to carbon controls. It is  critical that such controls are con -
sistent with our obligation to pro -
vide reliable, reasonably priced 
electricity to support the economic 
well-being of our service territory 
and our country. Climate change 
is a global issue and we will con -
tinue to work with our international 
partners, including the Asia-Pacific 
Partnership, to encourage the par -
ticipation of developing countries 
such as China and India. The Unit -
ed States is in a position to lead 
change and bring other nations in-
to the process, and we will work 
with our representatives to do so.  Any legislation to reduce 
greenhouse gases should assure 
both private and public funding to 
deploy technology, recognize early 
actions taken to mitigate green -
house gas emissions and allow for 
greenhouse gas offsets. New tech -
nologies must be a large part of any 
solution to climate change. AEP 
has a proven track record of inno -
vation and a willingness to bring 
new technologies into large-scale 
commercial use, which is what is 
needed right now. We are making 
good progress: AEP was the first to 
announce plans to build commer -
cial-scale Integrated Gasification 
Combined Cycle (IGCC) plants 
and will be the first to employ  
ultra supercritical technology in 
the United States, assuming timely 
regulatory approval.  We recently announced our in
-
tention to bring carbon capture and  
storage technologies from the re-  
search and pilot stages into large-  
scale commercial application.   
Leadership, Management & Strategy2 Leadership, Management & Strategy The effort to apply these new  
technologies commercially and a  
willingness to take on the chal -
lenges and risks involved are ma -
jor parts of our commitment to 
sustainability. We have responsi -
bilities to our shareholders and to 
society and we are willing to lead 
and to take prudent risks in order to 
meet them. Our 100-year track re -
cord of successful innovation and 
leadership gives me confidence 
that we can find ways to address 
climate change that pay important 
dividends in the future for our cus -
tomers, shareholders and society.
 Even with all we are doing, 
our plan to build new power plants 
will increase our carbon emissions, 
despite our early reduction efforts. 
Our Board of Directors has re -
sponded by approving new strate -
gies to reduce, offset or avoid those 
emissions between 2010 and 2020. We are also leading the way 
with proposals to expand and con -
nect the nation’s transmission sys -
tems so we can further mitigate en-
vironmental impacts, bring more 
renewable energy to market and 
provide better access to new tech -
nology and cost-effective power. We must work cooperatively 
 
with policymakers and regulators 
if we are to advance technology, 
strengthen the electric grid, accel-  
erate the development of cost-  
effective energy efficiency pro-  
grams and manage consumers’ de-  
mand for electricity. We have to  
work with our stakeholders if we 
are to make significant progress. Another important challenge is the health, safety and well-being 
of our employees, which is AEP’s 
most important priority. Our efforts 
to reduce work force injuries and 
the severity of injuries overall be -
gan to make a difference in 2006, 
resulting in fewer recordable inju -
ries and lower severity rates, but 
that is still not good enough. We 
want to be “best in class” within 
our industry on safety and health 
by 2010 and we are working hard 
to reach this goal.  However, 2006 cannot be 
counted as a good year for us. One 
of our employees died on the job 
doing what should have been a 
routine task, and a contract worker 
died in a fire at a construction site. 
It is a terrible tragedy for the fami -
lies and our hearts and prayers go 
out to them. This is completely un -
acceptable to me, to our company 
and to our employees.  We continue to intensify our 
focus on safety and health, and 
we are resolute in our determina -
tion to improve. Our humanity is 
at the core of this determination: 
we are focused not on numbers, 
but on the human aspects of health and safety  — the spouse who is left 
a widow, the children who lose a 
parent or the employee who is re -
covering from an injury.  At its core, safety is a personal 
 
obligation, and we won’t stop trying 
to get that message across because 
the loss of a single life is completely 
unacceptable to us.  An aging work force represents 
a formidable challenge for AEP and 
for the entire electric industry. We have a work force planning strat -
egy to identify our needs and find 
and employ new talent as more of 
our employees approach retirement 
age. We are making inroads through 
partnerships with colleges and tech -
nical schools, enhancements to our 
benefits and compensation plans 
and efforts to groom our future 
leaders from within our own ranks. 
We have a long way to go before we 
can claim success. Our current and future success
-
es require a well-educated, skilled 
and diverse work force, especially 
as new technologies emerge. I am 
extremely proud of the men and 
women of AEP; their dedication to 
our customers, their creativity in de -
veloping innovative solutions, and  
their loyalty are unsurpassed and 
fundamental to our sustainability.  The future of this company is 
limited only by our vision of what 
we can accomplish. The challenges 
may be new, but our core values 
haven’t changed and will continue  
to guide us. Part of that vision in-  
cludes an evolving view of our -
selves and how we do business. 
Sustainability is a journey, not a 
destination, and ours has just begun.  
 
Michael 	G.	Morris
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 3Leadership, Management & Strategy
Dear	Stakeholder,
Sustainability requires commit -
ment, collaboration, action and re -
sults. It also involves a willingness 
to lead and to take prudent risks on 
behalf of shareholders and society. 
For more than 100 years, AEP has 
been willing to lead, to advance 
technology, to be a good employer 
and to be a responsible corporate 
citizen. We have taken risks and 
we have succeeded more often 
than not. With many new chal -
lenges before us, we are ready to 
face the next century and lead the 
way again. 
  We are working rapidly to 
accelerate carbon capture tech -
nologies from the lab to commer -
cial-scale deployment. We recently 
announced that we will significant -
ly accelerate the commercializa-  
tion of post-combustion carbon  
capture technology using chilled  
ammonia. We will install the tech-  
nology, which is being tested on  
a 5-megawatt (MW) facility, as a  
30-MW validation project at our  
large Mountaineer plant in New 
Haven, W.Va., where up to 100,000  metric tons of carbon dioxide  
(CO 2) will be captured annually 
and stored in deep saline aquifers. Following completion, we  plan 
 
to install the technology at one  
450-MW unit at Northeastern Sta-  
tion in Oologah, Okla., where it is 
expected to capture up to 1.5 mil -
lion metric tons of CO 2 a year to 
be used for enhanced oil recovery. 
Chilled ammonia technology has 
demonstrated the potential to cap -
ture up to 90 percent of emissions 
from new and existing coal-fired 
plants at a much lower cost. We also plan to commercial
-
ize the use of oxy-coal technology  
that uses pure oxygen to burn coal 
and leaves a carbon stream behind  
which can be more easily captured  
and stored. Our first-in-the-nation  
commercialization of IGCC and 
ultra supercritical clean-coal tech -
nologies provide added reason for 
cautious optimism. We have accelerated our strat
-
egy to reduce, avoid and offset our 
emissions beyond 2010, when our 
current commitment to the Chicago 
Climate Exchange ends. In addi -
tion to our bold plans for new tech -
nology, we plan to add 1,000 MW  
of new wind generation, other re -
newable sources, domestic offsets, 
power plant efficiency improve -
ments and customer-oriented en -
ergy conservation and demand side 
management programs.  We will work closely with 
federal regulators, state public util -
ity commissions, legislators and 
all other constituencies, as well as 
with our customers, shareholders and labor leaders, to advance this 
important agenda. To achieve our goals, we will 
build upon our strong track record 
of community outreach and col -
laboration and we will make it  
better. One of the things I have 
learned as we worked on this re -
port is that it taught us much about 
our company and how we can im -
prove. We will continue this pro -
cess and work with other compa -
nies and other countries. We will 
seek new alliances to ensure we 
achieve the best climate change 
solutions. We value our grow-  
ing relationship with the Ceres 
coalition and other environmental 
and social advocacy groups and 
our local environmental, commu -
nity and labor partners, and we are 
committed to continue working 
closely together in the future. I welcome your comments and 
your participation with us as we  
undertake this journey toward sus -
tainability.
Dennis 	E.	Welch
Senior Vice President,  
Environment, Safety & Health
4 Leadership, Management & StrategyOur corporate vision is to maintain our leadership as 
the largest generation and transmission company in the 
United States, as the largest electric distribution busi -
ness throughout the regions we serve and to maintain 
our leadership in technical innovation of power sys -
tems, environmental technology, transmission systems 
and customer service. 
OUR VISION FOR SUSTAINABILITY—  
THE REASON FOR THIS REPORT 
American Electric Power enters its second century 
committed to operating responsibly, 
efficiently and profitably for custom -
ers, shareholders, employees and com-  
munities. We will safely provide reli -
able, affordable electric power while 
actively working to protect people 
and the environment. We will engage 
stakeholders and continue our role in 
making people’s lives better today 
and for generations to come. 
MATERIALITY
This is American Electric Power’s 
first Corporate Responsibility Report, containing infor -
mation about the company’s economic, environmen -
tal and social policies and performance. It is a com-  
prehensive report that identifies the seven areas of  
material focus that we believe to be the most important 
to AEP’s sustainability. This report also offers frank 
discussions about these issues, backed by substantive 
information on the challenges, risks and opportunities 
the company faces. 
 To determine which issues are of material impor -
tance, management and our Board of Directors con -
sidered issues that might (1) have a significant impact 
on the finances or operation of the company; (2) have 
significant impact on the environment or society now 
and in the future; and (3) substantially influence the as -
sessments and decisions of stakeholders. We worked 
with internal and external stakeholders to identify and 
prioritize these issues.  The seven material issues we have identified are:
• Leadership, Management & Strategy:  Our sus -
tainability requires a strong and visionary leadership 
team willing to take prudent risks to maintain AEP’s 
role as an industry leader, meet the needs of our cus -
tomers and deliver value to our shareholders.
•  Public Policy Strategy:  We must actively engage  
policymakers, community leaders and other external 
stakeholders to ensure that laws and regulations al -
low us to continue to be financially stable in order to 
invest in our vision for sustainability while provid -
ing customers and shareholders with 
what they need.
• Climate Change:  We are one of  
the largest greenhouse gas emitters  
in the western hemisphere; our  
sustainability and financial stability 
and the economic well-being of the 
areas we serve are at risk if we are 
not able to prosper with the expect -
ed passage of a U.S. climate policy.
• Environmental Performance:
 Environmental laws and regulations  
 are complex and change frequently. 
Our investments to comply are significant. Our great -
est challenge is to achieve compliance at all times as a 
large consumer of coal, and to continually reduce risks 
to the environment and the health of our communities.
• Energy Security, Reliability & Growth:  A modern, 
reliable electric delivery system that can keep pace 
with customer demand and relies on a diverse fuel 
supply requires collaboration with regulators, legisla -
tors and other stakeholders to ensure timely regula -
tory cost recovery.  
• Work Force Issues:  Protecting our employees’ safety  
and health and ensuring that we have a skilled, diverse  
work force to build, operate and maintain new genera-  
tion, transmission and distribution technologies will  
challenge our ability to remain an industry leader.
• Stakeholder Engagement:  We need to listen to and 
as often as we can try to satisfy our numerous stake -
holders, such as investors, customers, employees, About This Report
Related 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr • www.AEP .com/investors • www.AEP .com • www.globalreporting.org Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 5regulators and policymakers. To be a good corporate 
citizen requires us to be transparent, willing to listen 
to all points of view and to hold ourselves account -
able for our impacts on society.
PEER & STAKEHOLDER REVIEW  
American Electric Power worked with Ceres  — a na-
tional network of investors, environmental organiza -
tions and other public interest groups that work with 
companies on sustainability issues  — to review our re -
port and provide comments. Representatives from 17 
environmental, social and investor organizations and 
organized labor participated in this process and met 
with our senior management, including the CEO and 
CFO, to provide feedback. We also held an employee 
focus group to review our report, and we sought peer 
review from a comparably sized electric utility in Eu -
rope (a member company of the e8). We believe the stakeholders of this report are:
• Shareholders and prospective investors
• Customers
• AEP employees and retirees
• Labor unions
• Local communities
• Policymakers (federal, state and local legislators  
and regulators)
• Prospective employees
• Suppliers and others doing business with the company
• Non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
• Professionals from industry, government, labor and 
academia
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES
This printed Corporate Responsibility Report, along  
with additional information available on American  
Electric Power’s web site, www.AEP .com/cr , is com -
piled and presented based on the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 	Reporting 	Guidelines	
V ersion 	3.0	(G3) and meets the content requirements of 
Application Level B. The GRI guidelines provide a voluntary reporting 
framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for sustainability reporting. The GRI is the 
generally accepted format and framework for “measur -
ing, disclosing, and being held accountable to internal 
and external stakeholders for organizational perfor -
mance toward the goal of sustainable development.” We are using the new G3 standards, as well as 
 
some indicators being developed as part of the GRI  
Electric Utility Sector Supplement. GRI has not re -
viewed this report but has checked the GRI elements 
contained within it and agrees with our Self Declared 
Application Level B. 
REPORTING PERIOD & DEVELOPMENT 
This report is based on performance and information 
for calendar year 2006, but also provides available 
data for 2004 and 2005 to establish a baseline against 
which current performance can be compared. AEP’s 
web site (www.AEP .com/cr ) contains additional infor -
mation from our generation, transmission and distribu -
tion business units. Financial performance is covered in 
AEP’s 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders, which can 
be found at www.AEP .com/investors .
 The company established a Steering Committee 
for Sustainable Development, co-chaired by the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Senior Vice President of  
Environment, Safety & Health, to develop this report 
and to guide the company’s sustainable development 
going forward. The Committee of Directors and Cor -
porate Governance of AEP’s Board of Directors re -
viewed the report and its content. 
CHANGES IN REPORTING
We have published environmental reports since the 
early 1990s; the last one on our 2001-2002 perform-  
ance followed the Ceres reporting framework. An  
independent committee of AEP’s Board of Directors  
issued a landmark report in 2004 called An	Assess- 	
ment 	of	AEP’ s 	Actions 	to	Mitigate 	the	Economic	 	
Impacts 	of	Emissions 	Policies,  the first of its kind in  
the United States. It evaluated the economic risks to  
the company posed by emissions policies. This report  
picks up where that one left off. We will report annu-  Leadership, Management & Strategy
200720072007
20072007200 7
200720072007
20072007200 7
200720072007
200720072007
200720072007B
GRI REPORT
GRI CHECKED6 Leadership, Management & Strategyally on the actions we are taking to manage our risks in 
today’s environment. 
COMPLETENESS,  
RELIABILITY & ACCURACY OF REPORTING 
American Electric Power does not yet have a formal  
information collection system for the GRI process. 
Each business unit collected and verified data for 
which it was responsible. Some of the data presented  
here are required to be filed with other entities (e.g.,  
Chicago Climate Exchange) and are verified accord -
ingly. We plan to develop a more complete informa -
tion management system as part of our sustainable  
development initiative. 
 
REPORTING PRINCIPLES & GUIDANCE 
We have reviewed GRI’s G3 Reporting Principles in 
an effort to provide a balanced and reasonable rep-  
resentation of AEP’s sustainability performance. 
These principles are materiality, stakeholder inclu -
siveness, sustainability context, completeness, com -
parability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity, reliability and 
boundary setting.
CONTACT FOR  
QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS REPORT 
For additional information about this report, the GRI 
information on AEP’s web site or the company’s sus -
tainability initiative, please contact Sandy Nessing at 
smnessing@aep.com .
Strategy & Management 
OUR STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY 
Our corporate Vision, 	Mission, 	Strategy 	&	Values  state-  
ment outlines the principles that guide our business  
(www.AEP .com/about/mission ). Our effort to integrate 
corporate responsibility with our business strategy and 
daily decision-making has prompted us to take a wider 
view of what a sustainable future looks like for AEP. 
 We strive to put people first  — the health and safe-ty of our employees and the communities where we 
operate are our top priorities. We elevated oversight 
of environment, safety and health to a senior execu -
tive level in 2005 and intensified our focus on prevent -
ing injuries. Consequently, we are making significant  
progress in reducing both recordable and severity in -
cident rates. But we failed to achieve our most fun -
damental goal when an AEP employee and a contract 
worker died on the job last year.  Our customers consider electricity to be a neces
-
sity, and they rely on us to meet their energy needs in 
ways that improve their quality of life and protect the 
environment today and for future generations. Our 
challenge is to keep electricity reasonably priced at a 
time when energy prices are increasing and expensive 
environmental controls and infrastructure enhance -
ments are creating additional costs. At the same time, 
we have a responsibility to our shareholders to obtain 
adequate and timely recovery of AEP’s costs, includ -
ing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on the 
investments we make. 
OUR CHALLENGES & OUR OPPORTUNITIES 
Our ability to address climate change will require new 
technology; support for economic energy efficiency 
programs and initiatives to help our customers man -
age their demand; expansion of the transmission grid 
to facilitate renewable energy growth; continued avail -
ability of greenhouse gas offsets; and additional plant 
efficiencies. These solutions come at a cost, and we 
will seek the support of policymakers and regulators 
to ensure we can recover our costs from these invest -
ments while meeting new mandates. 
MANAGING OUR RISK
AEP uses an enterprisewide approach for risk man -
agement. Risks are managed throughout the company, 
subject to the overarching Enterprise Risk Manage -
ment (ERM) Policy, whose overall objectives are to  
review the company’s total risk profile and to assure 
accountability for the identification, measurement, 
evaluation and mitigation of risk. The ERM Policy Related 	web	links:  www.AEP ./about/mission • www.AEP .com/investorsestablishes the following five key risk factors: Finan -
cial Performance; Utility Business; Power Produc -
tion; Work Force, Safety and Security; and Legal, 
Compliance and Other. The policy also establishes a 
Risk Executive Committee whose role is to approve 
and monitor these key risk factors of the company. The 
committee determines which risks require an indepen -
dent assessment and those factors that are best mea -
sured through functional unit reporting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE—  
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 
AEP believes that ethical conduct is doing the right 
thing, at the right time, all the time. We want a culture 
that supports ethically sound behavior and instills a 
sense of shared accountability among employees. All 
employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, are 
expected to abide by our Principles 	of	Business 	Conduct  
to ensure we consistently conduct our business and our -
selves in a legal and ethical manner. Our Principles 	of	
Business 	Conduct  are approved by the Board of Direc -
tors and employees are required to read and certify that they understand them. The Ethics & Compliance group 
also provides employees with a toll-free, anonymous 
Concerns Line that is available 24/7 to allow employees 
to report and receive help in addressing ethics issues.
 We actively ensure compliance with all laws and  
regulations. We regularly conduct internal audits to  
ensure that we are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley  
(SOX) requirements, internal financial policies and reg-  
ulatory code of conduct mandates. We also conduct fre-  
quent environmental audits and make constant adjust-  
ments to programs and activities to ensure that we stay  
in compliance with environmental laws and regulations.  AEP’s nuclear program has its own unique regula
-
tory requirements. We recognize the distinctive chal -
lenges and rules that accompany our nuclear activities, 
and our Cook Nuclear Plant has its own compliance 
program, complete with a separate 24-hour hotline. 
This provides our employees at Cook with a ready out -
let for addressing their concerns and takes into account 
the unique work in which they are involved. More information about AEP’s ethics and compli-
 
ance program and the Principles 	of	Business 	Conduct   
can be found at www.AEP .com/investors . 
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 7Leadership, Management & Strategy
Standard Disclosures
Report 	Application 	Level	 C	 C+	 B	 B+	 A	 A+	
	 	 Report 	on:	 Report 	on	all	criteria 	listed 		 Same 	as	requirement	
	
G3	Profile	 1.1	 for	Level 	C	plus:	 for	Level 	B
	Disclosures	 2.1 	–	2.10	 1.2	
	 	 3.1 	–3.8, 	3.10	–	3.12	 3.9,	3.13	
	 	 4.1 	–	4.4,	4.14	–	4.15	 4.5	–	4.13, 	4.16	–	4.17	 	 	
	
	 	 Not 	Required	 Management 	Approach	 Management 	Approach
	
G3	Management	 	 Disclosures 	for	each	 Disclosures 	for	each
	Approach 	Disclosures	 	 Indicator 	Category	 Indicator 	Category
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 Report 	on	a	minimum 	of	10	 Report 	on	a	minimum 	of	20	 Report 	on	each 	core 	G3	and	
	G3	Performance		 Performance 	Indicators,	 Performance 	Indicators, 	at	 Sector 	Supplement* 	Indicator		
	 Indicators 	&			 including 	at	least 	one	from 		 least 	one	from 	each 	of		 with 	due	regard 	to	the	 Sector 	Supplement		 each 	of:	Economic, 	Social 		 Economic, 	Environmental, 		 Materiality 	Principle 	by		 	
	Performance 	Indicators	 and 	Environmental.	 Human 	Rights, 	Labor, 	Society, 		 either: 	(a)	reporting 	on	the		
	 	 	 Product 	Responsibility.	 Indicator 	or	(b)	explaining 		 	
	 	 	 	 the	reason 	for	its	omission.	
*Sector 	supplement 	in	final 	version.
Report 	Externally 	Assured
Report 	Externally 	Assured
Report 	Externally 	AssuredOutput Output Output“We must be bold, looking for new, innovative  
and creative ways to tackle our nation’s and  
Commonwealth’s energy issues. And I know  
AEP, just as it has been for the last 100 years, will 
be right there in the middle of those discussions,  
helping us figure out ways to be even better  
going forward.” 
Gov. Tim Kaine, Virginia, May 8, 2006
8 Public Policy StrategyPublic Policy Strategy
AEP’s public policy strategy is simple  — we 
want to work as partners with regulators, legisla -
tors, community leaders and other stakeholders 
on issues of mutual interest in ways that create 
shared value. We seek to influence public policy, 
legislation and administrative proceedings to en -
sure that we can continue to provide our custom -
ers with safe, reliable, reasonably priced electric -
ity in ways that protect the environment, while 
ensuring AEP’s financial stability.
 Unlike most industries and corporations, 
electric companies such as AEP are not operating 
in a free market. The rates that we can charge our 
customers, and the rate of return that we can pro -
vide to our investors, are determined by federal 
and state regulators. If we spend money that the 
regulators will not allow us to recover in rates, 
our investors lose. We can be deeply motivated 
by sustainability and a desire to “do the right 
thing” and think it makes good business sense. 
But we simply cannot spend money toward those 
goals if regulators will not allow us to recover 
those expenditures.  We need laws and regulations that allow 
us to invest in more sustainable ways of doing 
business while providing our customers and in -
vestors with what they need. This will take the 
cooperative efforts and combined energy of our 
company, our industry and our stakeholders 
working together with legislators and regulators.  To foster stronger relationships with our 
local communities and their leaders, we reestab -
lished our operating company model in 2004 to 
bring business decision-making closer to our cus -
tomers and stakeholders. We wanted more local 
presence to create the opportunity to work collab -
oratively for the best solutions for our customers 
and the economic growth of the states we serve.  We have identified seven public policy ob
-
jectives that are critical to AEP’s sustainability:
• Produce electricity safely, reliably and at a rea -
sonable price;• Expand and reinforce the transmission infra -
structure to create a grid that can reduce con -
gestion, line losses and, thereby, energy costs;
• Meet the growing demand for electricity;
• Help our customers manage their consumption 
through energy efficiency programs as a means 
to balance the impact of rising costs of fuel, envi-  
ronmental compliance and infrastructure needs;
• Increase environmental protection through rea -
sonable and voluntary efforts;
• Ensure regulatory cost recovery for generation, 
transmission and distribution investments as 
well as environmental compliance; and
• Provide a reasonable rate of return for share -
holders, helping to ensure financial stability re-
quired to meet the above goals.
CHALLENGES  
The changing political landscape presents an 
enormous challenge for AEP and all electric 
companies. The 2006 elections brought many 
new federal and state legislators to Washington 
and the state capitals, and new regulators to our 
service territory. We have begun to reach out and 
work with them to address the following consid -
erations as they affect AEP and our customers: 
• We believe that coal must continue to be a key  
part of our baseload generation. Otherwise,  
our customers’ electricity will be more expen-  
sive, businesses in our service territory will 
lose their competitive advantage and future 
economic growth will be adversely impacted.
• We must upgrade and expand the transmission 
grid in a timely manner. Otherwise, the poten -
tial exists for rolling brownouts and blackouts 
during peak demand periods. National security 
and economic vitality would be affected.
• We will continue to deal with an aging distribu -
tion infrastructure and promote the investment 
in technologies that create a better-performing 
grid. Failure to succeed could result in recur -
ring outages.Public Policy Strategy
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 9
Desert Sky Wind Farm,  
Iraan, Texas10 Public Policy Strategy
Many AEP power plants are being retrofitted with emission control systems, such as these Cardinal units in Brilliant, Ohio.Public Policy Strategy
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 11• We need to secure cost recovery for our clean 
energy initiatives, which include the latest, 
most environmentally friendly technologies 
and protocols (e.g., IGCC, ultra supercritical, 
carbon capture and storage, wind, biomass, de -
mand side management and energy efficiency 
programs). Otherwise, we may have to forgo 
these advances and resort to current pulverized 
coal technologies. If we cannot recover our 
costs, we cannot make these investments in a 
cleaner environment. 
• AEP will play an active role in the policy de -
bate as the United States moves toward carbon 
controls for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We will make any necessary adjustments to our 
current strategy and the voluntary reduction 
targets we have already committed to with the 
Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX). 
ADVOCACY ACTIONS  
TO ACHIEVE AEP’S OBJECTIVES
AEP plans to achieve these public policy objec-  
tives by working with federal and state lawmakers  
and regulatory commissions and, where appropri-  
ate, utilizing stakeholder coalitions to enhance  
these efforts. We believe this strategy will best  
yield progressive public policies that serve the 
public interest and meet our corporate goals. 
Average Retail Price  
Per kWh for all Sectors &  
Percent   of Coal Generation
• <6.0¢ 
• 6.0¢-7 .0¢ 
• 7 .0¢-8.5¢ 
• >8.5¢ 
• Hydro 
 ¢ = Average retail price per  
   kilowatt hour for CY/2005.
 % = percent of total generation  
   from coal for CY/2005.
Source: 	Energy 	Information 	Administration,	 	
March 	200612 Climate Change“Our company has been advancing technology 
for the electric utility industry for more than 100 
years. Our plan to advance the commercial appli -
cation of carbon capture and storage technology 
reflects that heritage. Technology development 
needs are often cited as an excuse for inaction.  
We see these needs as an opportunity for action.” 
AEP Chairman, President and CEO Michael G. Morris Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 13Climate Change
As one of the nation’s largest consumers of 
coal — a source of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse 
gas (GHG)  — AEP has carefully considered vari -
ous solutions for reducing GHG emissions, both 
voluntary and mandated, and the potential im -
pact of each on our company and our stakehold -
ers. We support a reasonable approach to carbon 
controls in the United States. We have already acted to curtail our own 
GHG emissions, and we have a comprehensive 
strategy in place to reduce, avoid or offset our 
future GHG emissions. The cornerstone of our 
plan draws upon our experience as a technology 
leader; we plan to install carbon capture on two existing coal-fired power plants  — the first com
-
mercial use of this technology. Our plan also 
includes wind generation and other renewables; 
domestic GHG offsets through agriculture, for -
estry and other projects; power plant efficiency 
improvements; and energy efficiency programs 
with our customers.  Throughout our 100-year history, we have 
led our industry in advancing technology. We 
believe the time is right, with climate legislation 
on the horizon, to advance carbon capture tech -
nology to a commercial scale. In March 2007  
we signed memorandums of understanding with 
world-renowned technology providers for carbon 
capture and storage. The “commercial valida -
tion” project will be conducted at our Mountain -
eer Plant in West Virginia. The first-of-its-kind 
commercial carbon capture project will begin 
operating at Northeastern Station in Oklahoma. These projects will employ a chilled ammo
-
nia carbon capture technology. Laboratory testing 
has shown that this process has the potential to 
capture more than 90 percent of CO 2 at a lower 
cost than other technologies that could be retro -
fitted at pulverized coal power plants. A vendor-
sponsored project to demonstrate the technology 
will be completed on a 5-megawatt (MW) (ther -
mal) slipstream from a Wisconsin plant in 2007.   We will then install the technology on AEP’s 
1,300-MW Mountaineer Plant as a 30-MW prod -
uct validation in mid-2008. It is designed to cap -
ture up to 100,000 metric tons of CO 2 per year, 
which will be stored underground in deep saline 
aquifers. Battelle Memorial Institute will serve 
as our consultant on geological storage. Once it is proven to be successful at Moun
-
taineer, we will install the technology on one of 
the 450-MW coal-fired units at Northeastern Sta -
tion in Oklahoma in late 2011. When in service, it 
is expected to capture about 1.5 million metric tons 
of CO 2 per year, which will be used for enhanced 
oil recovery. This post-combustion carbon capture 
system is suitable for both existing plants and new 
plants and uses less energy to capture CO 2 than 
other technologies currently being tested. A second carbon capture technology we 
plan to bring to commercial operation involves 
oxy-coal combustion. This technology uses pure 
oxygen for the combustion of coal. Current gen -
eration technologies use air, which contains ni -
trogen that is not used in the combustion process 
and is emitted with the flue gas. By eliminating 
the nitrogen, this process leaves a flue gas that 
is a relatively pure stream of CO 2 that is ready 
for storage. At commercial scale, the CO 2 likely 
would be stored in deep geologic formations.  Our vendor will complete a pilot demon
-
stration this summer followed by a retrofit feasi -
bility study. Once satisfied that the technology is 
viable, we will select an existing power plant for 
commercial-scale oxy-fire installation. We ex -
pect this technology to be in service on an AEP 
plant between 2012 and 2015. Learn more about 
these projects at www.AEP .com .
 The viability of storing carbon dioxide un -
derground has been the focus of a $4.2 million 
carbon storage research project, led by Battelle 
Memorial Institute, at our Mountaineer Plant. 
The study site will be transformed into storage 
when CO 2 is captured from the chilled ammo -Climate ChangeRelated 	web	links:  www.AEP .com14 Climate Changenia capture process on Mountaineer once it is in 
service. The 18-month study of the potential of 
geologic storage of CO 2 has been taking place 
in the heart of the largest concentration of fos -
sil fuel-fired power plants in the United States. 
Results of this study have already enhanced the 
understanding of geology along the Ohio-West 
Virginia corridor and surrounding areas of the 
Midwest, where deep, thick saline sandstone for -
mations will provide secure underground storage 
for captured CO 2.
 The investments we make to bring these 
technologies to commercial scale for use on 
existing coal-fired power plants will ensure the 
long-term viability of our existing generation and 
will augment already announced investments in 
clean-coal technologies, as well as other strate -
gies to reduce GHG emissions.
 We will seek funding support from the U.S. 
Department of Energy to advance these technolo -
gies for commercial use. We will also work with 
our utility commissions, environmental regula -
tors and other key constituencies in states that 
have jurisdiction over the plants selected for these 
technology retrofits to determine appropriate cost 
recovery and the impact to our customers. Whereas AEP has championed voluntary 
efforts to curb GHG emissions, we also believe 
that we need a committed, consistent national 
policy. Such a program must not create trade im -
balances that would damage the U.S. economy 
or impede our ability to provide reliable, reason -
ably priced electricity to our customers. We be -
lieve domestic GHG programs should be based 
upon the following criteria:
• Comprehensiveness:  All GHGs and all sources 
of emissions and sectors of the economy must 
be included. 
• Cost-effectiveness:  Reductions should occur  
in a reasonable, achievable time frame. A long-
term price signal for carbon that allows contin -
ued economic competitiveness for U.S. industry and stimulates investments in zero- or low-  
carbon technologies or processes should be  
evident. The program should also provide reg -
ulatory preapproval for recovery of cost-effec-  
tive energy efficiency and demand side man -
agement programs.
• Realistic emission control objectives:  Recog -
nizing that climate change reversal will require 
consistent efforts during this century, we need 
realistic goals and schedules that address the 
problem while minimizing economic costs and 
avoiding premature retirement of existing pow -
er plants. A national policy also should ensure 
compliance time lines that are consistent with 
the expected development and deployment of 
needed technologies.
• Monitoring, verification and adjustment 
mechanisms: Rigorous and credible monitor -
ing and verification of GHG emissions and 
reductions will be necessary to build a founda -
tion for market-based instruments. 
• Technology development and deployment: 
The only way to stabilize atmospheric GHG con-  
centration without limiting economic growth  
is to develop and deploy low-carbon technolo -
gies for the global production and consumption 
of energy. We need reliable and long-term pub -
lic and private funding to support technological 
breakthroughs, including carbon capture and 
storage for new and existing plants and other 
clean-coal technologies.
• Adjustment provision:  A legislative provision 
should be made for adjusting the U.S. commit -
ment if the largest emitters in the developing 
world, who are manufacturing competitors 
with the United States, do not take comparable 
action to cap or reduce their emissions.
 We took steps that resulted in GHG emis -
sions offsets long before climate change was 
considered a problem. AEP began planting trees 
in the 1940s to restore farm acreage that was no 
longer viable for agriculture. That program was Related 	web	links:  www.eei.org • www.chicagoclimatex.com • www.epa.gov
New technology is central to AEP’s 
climate policy. Our employees have 
the knowledge to make it happen. Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 15expanded to reclaim former coal fields, many of 
which were opened for public use, and AEP has 
since planted an estimated 62 million trees. In 
1995 alone we initiated a five-year commitment 
to plant 15 million trees as part of the U.S. De -
partment of Energy’s Climate Challenge Project. 
We have invested in a number of major inter -
national and domestic forestry projects that are 
expected to store millions of tons of CO 2 emis -
sions. To learn more about what the electric util -
ity industry is doing to protect the environment, 
visit www.eei.org .
 In 2003 AEP became a founding member of 
the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), the first 
voluntary GHG credit trading system in the Unit -
ed States. We committed to reduce or offset GHG 
emissions by 1 percent in 2003, 2 percent in 2004, 
3 percent in 2005 and 4 percent in 2006 below 
baseline emission levels (an average of 1998-2001 
annual emissions). These reductions are cumula -
tive and are adjusted to account for divestitures, 
acquisitions or retirements of older power plants. 
In 2005, we announced we would extend our 
CCX commitment to achieve further reductions 
or offsets in emissions during 2007-2010, reaching 
an annual target of 6 percent by 2010. CCX allows 
for flexible, cost-effective compliance with these 
targets by facilitating emissions trading (buying 
and selling of emission allowances) and banking 
of emission reductions (i.e., saving excess reduc -
tions in one year to use in a later year). More in -
formation about the Chicago Climate Exchange is 
available at www.chicagoclimatex.com .
 Today, AEP’s adjusted carbon emissions 
baseline is 155 million metric tons. The total  
cumulative CO 2 equivalent reduction require -
ment to meet the CCX commitment is approxi -
mately 46 million metric tons by 2010. Through 
2006 we have achieved approximately 31 million 
metric tons in reductions, so we are well on our 
way to reaching our target. 
 We monitor our CO 2 emissions through  Continuous Emission Monitors (CEMs) and re -
port them to the U.S. Environmental Protection  
Agency. Under our participation in CCX, very 
detailed measurement protocols have been  
developed that ensure the veracity of the reduc -
tions and offsets. These emission reports are  
audited by the NASD, which is the auditor of  
CCX. Our emissions also are registered and  
monitored through our participation in the EPA’s  
Climate Leaders program. We anticipate using  
similar protocols to monitor and verify offsets in 
the future.  To meet our CCX obligation, we have taken 
a variety of actions. These include:
• Improving the efficiency of existing power 
plants to reduce CO 2 emissions per net kilo-  
watt hour;
• Adding wind generation to our system, focused 
on our western states, to displace the use of  
fossil fuel generation; 
• Improving the availability and increasing gen-  
eration from our Donald C. Cook nuclear power 
plant, which achieved record generation levels 
during 2004 and 2005; 
• Retiring older and less efficient gas steam units 
in AEP’s western region and two coal units in 
our eastern region;
• Substantially reducing the leakage rate of sul -
fur hexafluoride (SF6), a potent GHG, from  
transformers by approximately 90 percent; and
• Conserving trees and reforesting lands in the 
United States and internationally.
 Despite these commitments through 2010,  
if no further actions are taken we project that  
our emissions will begin to increase by about  
10 million to 15 million tons annually between  
2011 and 2020 as we build four new power plants.  
In response to our new plant construction, and 
our vehicle and aircraft emissions, we will re -
duce approximately 5 million metric tons more 
of CO 2 per year through these offsets, including:
• Purchasing 1,000 MW of new wind power,  Climate Change
AEP was a founder of CCX in 
2003. CCX’s CEO is Richard L.  
Sandor, who has been a 
member of AEP’s Board of  
Directors since 2000. Because 
of the relationship between 
AEP and CCX, Mr. Sandor is 
not considered an indepen -
dent director under New York 
Stock Exchange rules.
16 Climate Changeincluding the company’s first wind energy in its 
eastern states, to offset 2 million metric tons of 
CO2;
• Investments in domestic offsets, such as meth -
ane capture and destruction from livestock ma -
nure or landfills, or other domestic projects, to 
offset 2 million metric tons of CO 2;
• Tripling our investment in forestry projects to 
offset 500,000 tons; and
• Offsetting all of our emissions from our corpo -
rate automotive fleet and aircraft to achieve a 
200,000-ton reduction.
Additional actions, including our carbon capture  
and storage program, will help offset the anti-  
cipated growth in AEP’s carbon footprint.
 We are also investing in other new clean-
coal technologies, including Integrated Gasifica -
tion Combined Cycle (IGCC) and ultra super -
critical (USC). AEP filed plans with regulatory 
commissions in West Virginia and Ohio to build 
commercial-scale IGCC plants that will be capa -
ble of capturing and storing CO 2. IGCC technol -
ogy may enable AEP and the United States to use 
its vast supply of coal while limiting GHGs. Un -
like a traditional pulverized coal plant that grinds 
coal to a fine powder and then burns it, IGCC 
converts coal to synthetic gas before it is burned. 
Emissions such as nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide 
and mercury are removed from the gas stream 
more efficiently and completely. The remaining 
gas is then burned to create electricity. IGCC can 
produce a two-fold climate benefit: more energy 
per pound of coal consumed than current pulver -
ized coal technologies and a more efficient cap -
ture process for traditional emissions.  Once captured, CO
2 can be stored by in -
jecting it into the ground or can be used in other 
ways, such as for enhanced oil recovery, replac -
ing more energy intensive methods and further 
reducing GHGs.  AEP also filed plans to build two USC plants 
in our western service territory: the 600-MW  John W. Turk plant in Hempstead County, Ark., 
and the 950-MW Red Rock Generating Facility 
near Red Rock, Okla. These will be the first USC 
plants in the United States. USC generation operates at higher tem
-
peratures than supercritical generation, yielding 
higher efficiencies and lower emissions than 
supercritical plants. The efficiency is similar 
to IGCC, but the carbon capture technology 
for USC has not been fully developed yet. We 
believe our investment in the chilled ammonia 
capture process will help to advance this. AEP 
selected USC technology in the Southwest, and 
not IGCC, because western coal requires a new 
type of IGCC gasifier technology that has not 
been demonstrated. To protect our customers and 
shareholders, we could not make this investment 
without performance guarantees from the manu -
facturer, which we could not obtain.  Our USC plants will be paired with state-
of-the-art emission control technologies, such 
as selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems 
for lower NOx emissions; dry flue gas desulfur -
ization (FGD) systems for SO 2 reductions; and 
state-of-the-art baghouse technology for mer -
cury and particulate emission reductions.  In addition to these plans, we continue to 
support the U.S. Department of Energy’s Future -
Gen project, in which AEP is a partner. FutureGen 
is a 275-MW project designed to demonstrate a 
near-zero-emissions coal power plant with an in -
tegrated gasifier using capture and storage. With 
IGCC technology, the FutureGen project expects 
to achieve 90 percent carbon emission reduction. 
More information about FutureGen is available at 
www.futuregenalliance.org .
Other Actions W e’re Taking 
Improved power plant efficiency enables AEP to 
generate the same amount of power with less fuel Related 	web	links:  www.futuregenalliance.org • www.e8.org • www.businessroundtable.org • www.co2captureproject.org
AEP’s Cook Coal Terminal,  
Metropolis, Illinois Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 17and correspondingly fewer emissions, including 
fewer GHGs. Although plant improvements are 
usually capital intensive and require significant 
lead time, they are attractive if they can displace 
building or acquiring generation. Our long-term 
goal is to achieve a reduction of one million met -
ric tons of GHGs by improving power plant ef -
ficiency. Between 1990 (the baseline year) and 
2005, AEP cumulatively reduced CO 2 emissions 
more than 15 million metric tons through power 
plant efficiency improvements.  The potential for wind and biomass are avail -
able throughout AEP’s service area and can help 
slow the growth of our GHG emissions. We are 
seeking long-term power purchase agreements 
that will add 1,000 MW of wind by 2011. These 
agreements will enable us, for the first time, to 
serve customers of Indiana Michigan Power 
and Appalachian Power with wind energy. AEP 
currently owns two wind farms in Texas with 
a total capacity of 310 MW and has long-term 
agreements to purchase 467 MW of output from Climate Change
Syngas
SlagGas Cleanup/Slag ProcessingPower GenerationGasification
Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle technology converts coal into a gas before it is burned. Many of the pollutants, such as sulfur dioxide, 
nitrogen and mercury, are more efficiently and completely removed before combustion. 
©	2005	American	Electric	Power18 Climate Changewind farms in Oklahoma and Texas. We support 
federal and state policies that reduce electricity 
production costs from these technologies, such 
as production tax credits and assurances from 
state regulators for recovery of investments. 
New hydroelectric and solar energy resources 
are generally not available in AEP states in suf -
ficient quantity and quality.
 Some residential customers would like elec -
tricity generated only from renewable energy re -
sources. AEP and state regulatory commissions 
need to collaboratively design offerings to be at -
tractive to consumers in all of our jurisdictions. 
Through these partnerships with commissions, 
increased operating costs for greener energy op -
tions should be preapproved for recovery to pro -
vide regulatory certainty for the company and 
increased value for AEP’s shareholders.
DEMAND SIDE  
MANAGEMENT & ENERGY EFFICIENCY
We seek to promote the wise and efficient use of  
our product. By doing so, we help to ensure that 
investments in plants are maximized and that  
future investments are based on true need. Using 
existing resources wisely and conserving energy 
are alternatives to building capacity. Demand side 
management (DSM) and energy efficiency pro -
grams also help us to reduce, offset or avoid GHG 
emissions and reach other environmental goals.   AEP customers historically have enjoyed 
some of the lowest electric rates in the nation, 
making DSM and energy efficiency program 
costs difficult for customers and regulators to ac -
cept. But as all energy costs increase, DSM and 
energy efficiency initiatives are expected to play 
an increasing role in reducing demand.  We review our DSM and energy efficiency 
policy constantly, and we are considering op -
tions to advance programs in our service ter -
ritories. We believe strongly that results-driven 
and cost-effective efforts in this area are integral to AEP’s sustainability. We will need our regu -
lators’ support if we are to take a significantly 
more aggressive approach to making DSM and 
energy efficiency programs viable in terms of 
cost recovery. Learn more about our programs in 
Texas and Kentucky at www.AEP .com/cr/DSM .
TRANSMISSION
If we are able to build new, interconnected trans-  
mission in the United States as currently planned,  
we will lower market congestion costs to con -
sumers, open new markets for renewable energy 
and allow for better use of rights-of-way where 
transmission is built. We also will enable new 
generating technology to replace older, less ef -
ficient plants. Learn more about our efforts in the Energy 	Security, 	Reliability 	&	Growth
 section of 
this report. Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is one of the most 
potent greenhouse gases used by electric utili -
ties. Used as an insulator in electric transmission 
and distribution equipment, one pound of SF6 
has the same global warming impact as 11 tons 
of CO 2. As a charter member of the U.S. EPA’s 
SF6 Emission Reduction Partnership since 1999, 
AEP has significantly reduced emissions, which 
occur primarily through leakages in circuit break -
ers. Our SF6 emissions rate has dropped from  
10 percent in 1999 to less than 1 percent in 2005, 
and we continue to work to improve. 
DISTRIBUTION  
TRANSFORMER EFFICIENCIES
Distribution transformers reduce the voltage of 
electricity before it is delivered to customers. 
AEP supports higher efficiency standards recent -
ly proposed by the U.S. Department of Energy 
because they help us to improve efficiency and 
reduce line losses, making more power available 
for customers and reducing CO 2 emissions. We 
have already begun to implement these new stan -
dards (also known as TSL2) and we support a Related 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr/DSM • www.AEP .com/cr/forestry • www.driveneutral.org • www.epa.gov/methane • www.asiapacificpartnership.org 
Household  
Energy Costs (%)
Total household energy expendi -
tures for residential and transpor-  
tation costs as a percent of after-  
tax family income.
Source: 	ABEC 	Household 	Energy 	Survey, 	2006.	
(based 	on	DOE/EIA 	data)Climate Change
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 19move to even higher standards, starting in 2013. 
The relative scarcity and expense of materials 
needed to cost effectively build, operate and 
maintain transformers to these higher efficiency 
standards may be a challenge. 
Greenhouse Gas Offsets 
FORESTRY PROJECTS
AEP has planted or is protecting trees in North 
America and South America. Among our major 
projects are the Noel Kempff Mercado Climate 
Action Project, Bolivia; Guaraquecaba Climate 
Action Project, Brazil; UtiliTree and PowerTree 
Carbon Companies and the Catahoula National 
Wildlife Refuge Project, United States. The AEP 
Foundation made a $2 million contribution in 
2006 to reforest areas of Guatemala that were 
devastated by hurricanes. Whereas AEP will not 
earn carbon credits for this particular project, it 
represents a significant additional investment in 
forestry. Our intent for the future is to place a 
greater emphasis on new forestry projects in the 
United States and to triple our annual investment 
in forestry. Learn more about these projects at 
www.AEP .com/cr/forestry .
VEHICLES & PLANES
The 11,000 on- and off-road vehicles in the AEP fleet used almost 5.5 million gallons of gasoline 
and 4.7 million gallons of diesel in 2005, the lat -
est year for which numbers are available. We 
plan to reduce fuel consumption in 2007 and 
expand the number of hybrid and alternative 
fuel vehicles so that by 2008, 10 percent of our 
light-duty vehicle acquisitions will be hybrids or 
alternative fuel vehicles. We also will offset our 
vehicle fleet and corporate aircraft emissions by 
200,000 metric tons annually.
 At the same time, we are partnering with 
DriveNeutral, a grassroots, nonprofit organiza -
tion that sells emission offsets, to encourage our 
employees to purchase credits to offset the emis -
sions of their personal vehicles. DriveNeutral 
is a member of the Chicago Climate Exchange. 
More information about DriveNeutral is avail -
able at www.driveneutral.org .
METHANE CAPTURE
Methane is the second largest contributor to 
GHG emissions after carbon dioxide. Methane 
comes from landfills, coal mines, oil and gas 
operations, and from livestock, in the form of 
manure. Although lower in volume, methane 
is more than 20 times more potent than CO 2 in 
trapping heat in the atmosphere. Livestock waste 
contributes about 8 percent of the human-related 
methane created in the United States, according 
to the U.S. EPA. AEP is planning to develop off-
system projects such as the capture and destruc -
tion of methane from livestock or landfills. More 
information about methane is available at www.
epa.gov/methane .
OTHER PROGRAMS & PARTNERSHIPS  
AEP participates in many programs and partner -
ships that address GHGs. Among them are the 
e8, the Asia-Pacific Partnership, Climate Lead -
ers, Climate Resolve and the Carbon Capture 
Project. Learn more about these programs and 
partnerships at www.AEP .com/cr/partnerships . Climate Change
Engineers participating in the 
Asia-Pacific Partnership exchange 
program visit AEP’s Muskingum 
River Plant in 2006.The reforestation area is part  
of an 18,115-acre site just north  
of Catahoula Lake and the  
Catahoula National Wildlife 
Refuge about 35 miles northeast 
of Alexandria, La.Catahoula  
Reforestation Project
CatahoulaLakeC at a h o u l a
P ro j e c t  S i t e20 Environmental Performance“The world is going to be using a lot of coal for a 
long, long time, so we better figure out a way to use 
that coal with less of an environmental burden.” 
U.S. Department of Energy Undersecretary David K. Garman, during a 2006 visit to AEP Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 21Environmental Performance
Protecting our natural resources is a constant  
and serious responsibility. Generating, transmit-  
ting and distributing electricity have environ-  
mental impacts. Our goal is to do our business  
with as few adverse environmental impacts as  
possible and in compliance with all local, state  
and federal laws and regulations. We also hope 
to enhance the environment when we can. 
OVERALL PERFORMANCE 
Whereas we had excellent overall environmen -
tal performance last year, we had mixed results 
meeting specific environmental targets estab -
lished for internal performance tracking. We did 
well with our water discharge permit require -
ments, oil and chemical spills and opacity. 
 However, we can do better. We received 
nine notices of violation for non-compliance in  
our generation and distribution businesses. The  
fines were approximately $25,000 and correc-  
tive actions were taken. Our goal is zero notices 
of violation. The results of our internal environmental 
audits are encouraging. In 2006, environment-  
al programs at 16 facilities  — power plants and  
operating company facilities  — were audited and  
found to be in substantial compliance with reg-  
ulations and company policies. Compared with  
2005, the audit results indicate a reduction in the  
number of findings of issues to be addressed.  
Most findings were related to deficiencies in  
record keeping and training. Audit results are  
routinely reported to the Board of Directors. Our  
auditors are certified by the Board of Environ-  
mental Auditor Certifications and most have 
completed ISO 14001 Lead Auditor Training.
MESH-ING FOR ENVIRONMENT,  
SAFETY & HEALTH EXCELLENCE 
We made a serious commitment to improve our 
environmental performance when we launched MESH  — Managing Environment, Safety and Health. MESH is designed to conform to the in -
ternational standards ISO 14001 for environmen -
tal management systems, and OHSAS 18001 for 
safety and health management systems.  Conformance to these standards will estab
-
lish a powerful, cost-effective way to improve 
our performance and go beyond what’s necessary 
for compliance. The ISO 14001 system identifies 
significant environmental aspects associated with 
our operations and requires actions to eliminate 
or minimize their impacts. The system creates a 
continuous improvement cycle whereby we rou -
tinely assess our performance and take correc -
tive and preventive actions to further reduce our 
environmental impacts. Because our power plants create our larg
-
est environmental impacts, we began MESH in 
four power plants in 2006, but the environmental 
management system is being designed for com -
panywide implementation. Eight more power 
plants will begin implementation in 2007.
COMMITTED TO CLEAN AIR 
Air emissions are our biggest environmental 
challenge. Coal contains almost every chemical 
element and burning it creates emissions, includ -
ing sulfur dioxide (SO 2), which contributes to 
acid rain; nitrogen oxide (NOx), which contrib -
utes to smog; particulates, which contribute to 
haze; mercury (Hg); and carbon dioxide (CO 2), 
a greenhouse gas.  We will invest $3.6 billion by 2010 to meet 
the requirements of the Clean Air Act’s acid rain 
program and the U.S. EPA’s NOx State Imple -
mentation Plan rule, as well as the initial require -
ments of the Clean Air Interstate Rule and Clean 
Air Mercury Rule. Our investments include the 
design, construction and operation of emissions 
controls on existing power plants. Flue gas de-
sulfurization (FGD) systems are in seven plants 
and under construction at six others. Selective 
catalytic reduction (SCR) systems are in eight Climate ChangeEnvironmental PerformanceRelated 	web	links:  www.epa.gov
Opacity  is a measure of the 
appearance of the gas exiting 
the power plant stack and is 
a rough indicator of particu -
late emissions.ISO	14001:   
International Organization for 
Standardization; an environ -
mental management system. 
OHSAS 	18001:   
Occupational Health & Safety 
Assessment Specification; a 
health & safety management 
system.
Hybrids, such as this line truck,  
will help AEP reduce emissions 
from our 1 1,000-vehicle fleet.22 Environmental Performanceplants and in progress at two others.
 Conversion to low-sulfur coal at one unit of  
our Tanners Creek Plant in Indiana was completed 
last year. More than 45 percent of our coal-fired 
power plant capacity will be equipped with SCRs 
and more than 48 percent will have FGDs. These 
actions are projected to reduce NOx emissions by 
79 percent and SO 2 emissions by 65 percent from 
1994 levels by 2010, while generating 17 percent 
more electricity annually. Mercury emissions will 
decline an additional 55 percent from current  
levels by 2010. The improvement in SO
2 and NOx environ-  
mental performance at our coal plants was a  
trade-off. Pollution control systems consume  
additional energy and reduce plant efficiency per 
unit of electrical output. In addition, SO 2 scrub -
bers will increase CO 2 emissions as the limestone 
chemistry captures SO 2 but releases CO 2.
 Installing leading-edge technology can 
sometimes create unexpected consequences. This 
occurred at AEP’s Gavin Plant, near Cheshire, 
Ohio, after SCR equipment was installed to re -
duce NOx emissions in 2002. The SCR equip -
ment reduced the NOx emissions but also cre -
ated bluish plumes (sulfur trioxide) that touched 
down in Cheshire and caused considerable com -
munity upset.  We took immediate steps to mitigate the 
 
blue plume and fixed the problem within months.  
We developed a process that we intend to use  
to control emissions at other power plants 
equipped with both FGDs and SCRs. The Gavin 
Plant experience was a painful and costly lesson, 
but resulted in a solution to prevent the same 
consequences at other plants. Learn more about 
this experience online at www.AEP .com/cr . 
Managing Waste 
AEP has a comprehensive waste management  
system. However, we do not track the total weight  of the general refuse that is generated and dis -
posed from our facilities; but we do track many  
special waste streams, including hazardous wastes  
and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) wastes. It is  
difficult to track or quantify when some waste  
streams were generated; thus it is not always  
possible to provide context around some of the  
waste management statistics we will report this  
year. Our Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) report is 
available on our web site. For a full waste man -
agement summary, visit www.AEP .com/cr/GRI .
PCB WASTES
PCBs are mixtures of chlorinated hydrocarbons 
that have been used in industry since the 1930s. 
They were used in oil-filled electrical equipment 
until the manufacturing of PCBs was banned  
in 1979 as a known carcinogen. PCBs can be 
found in the insulating fluid of electrical equip -
ment and in various other applications (e.g.,  
hydraulic systems, heat transfer systems, paints, 
varnishes, plastics, adhesives and lubricants). 
The U.S. EPA considers all PCB mixtures to 
be toxic. The EPA stringently regulates the use, 
storage and disposal of PCBs. Even though continued, non-leaking appli-
cations of PCBs are allowed, our internal policy 
goes beyond environmental compliance. We are 
making determined efforts to eliminate PCBs 
from our system through planned phase-outs and 
normal equipment retirement. We have voluntari -
ly removed, disposed of and replaced more than 
12,000 PCB and PCB-contaminated transformers 
and more than 4,500 PCB capacitors since 2000 
and we plan to eliminate all PCB equipment in 
the power plants in the coming years.  We had 1,487 documented spills from electri
-
cal equipment in 2006. Only a fragment of these 
involved PCBs, and most were small spills due 
to downed equipment, largely caused by weather 
or vehicles. We made the proper notifications and 
cleaned all spills in a timely fashion. Related 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr • www.AEP .com/cr/GRI • www.AEP .com/cr/CCP  • www.AEP .com
Total Project Environmental 
Investment ($ in millions)
• FGD 
• SCR 
• Other 
To comply with the increasing 
number of environmental regula -
tions, AEP has continued our 
investment in coal fleet environ -
mental improvements in 2006.  
By 2010 we will have invested  
$3.6 billion in projects to reduce 
emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitro -
gen oxide and mercury.Environmental Performance
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 23 PCB-contaminated equipment was either 
decontaminated, separated into its components 
and recycled or drained of oil and properly dis -
posed of in a licensed landfill. The collected oil 
was either detoxified and resold or incinerated.
COAL ASH 
AEP consumes approximately 75 million tons 
of coal per year, which also generates byprod -
ucts that have to be recycled or disposed of. In 
2005 our power plants produced approximately 
8.2 million tons of coal combustion products 
(CCP)  — the solid byproducts of burning coal. 
We were able to reuse nearly 44 percent of CCPs 
in 2005 by selling them for use as concrete addi -
tives, structural fill, road beds, grit for ice con -
trol, abrasives and acid mine drainage neutraliza -
tion and in wallboard production. CCPs from our 
power plants were used in projects ranging from 
the Dallas-Fort Worth airport’s terminal expan -
sion to highway construction projects in West 
Virginia and Indiana. Reuse of CCPs in 2005 
resulted in approximately $20 million in avoided 
costs that would otherwise have been incurred to 
operate and maintain permitted landfills for these 
byproducts. This cost savings varies annually. The CCPs that cannot be reused are disposed 
of in licensed and permitted landfills or regulated 
wastewater pond systems. Pollution control is de -
signed into these systems to keep them in compli -
ance. We strongly support the Coal Combustion 
Products Partnership (C 2P2), a federally sponsored 
program that promotes the beneficial use of CCPs. 
(2006 data were not available for this report but 
will be posted to www.AEP .com  when they are.)
TOTAL NUMBER &  
VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS 
In a normal year, AEP experiences one or two 
equipment failures that result in the release of 
most of their oil. Because we have prepared oil 
spill countermeasure and containment plans for all large station transformers, the bulk of these 
spills are contained on site. Additionally, AEP uses relays to protect trans-
 
formers in a manner consistent with industry  
standards and manufacturers’ recommendations to  
avoid tank ruptures. Unfortunately, some failures  
can still occur and may result in both an oil spill  
and a fire. These require a coordinated response,  
involving many groups within AEP, local fire  
departments and safety and health professionals. In addition, we have about 1,300 mineral oil 
spills per year from electrical equipment dam -
aged by weather or vehicle collisions and peri -
odic chemical spills that are cleaned up imme -
diately. If the amount of a spill meets or exceeds 
the associated reporting threshold, it is reported 
to the appropriate regulatory agencies. AEP does not need or hold a Resource Con
-
servation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Hazardous  
Waste permit as a Treater/Storer/Disposer of 
RCRA Hazardous Wastes. Certain wastes are 
treated or burned at our facilities as allowed un -
der existing hazardous waste limits within the 
regulations. Typically our facilities are either 
Conditionally Exempt Small Quantity Gen -
erators of RCRA Hazardous Waste or a Small 
Quantity Generator.  Occasionally a facility will become a Large 
Quantity Generator of RCRA Hazardous Waste as 
a result of an episode, such as chemically clean -
ing the insides of the boiler tubes. In 2006 AEP 
generated and disposed of or recycled 251,352 
pounds of RCRA Hazardous Waste, of which 
51,000 pounds were consumed as fuel or evapo -
rated. About 190,000 pounds were landfilled, and 
22,076 pounds were recycled. For more detailed 
information, please visit www.AEP .com/cr/GRI .
RECYCLING EFFORTS 
Office waste recycling has long been common 
practice in corporate America. We have a recy -
cling program but know we can do significantly Environmental Performance
We disposed of the following 
PCB-contaminated waste in 
2006:  
• 36,009 pieces of oil-filled  
 electrical equipment
• 1,852 empty drums
• 1,961 drums of spill  
 cleanup debris
• 20,270 gallons of non-  
 bulk oil 
(This list does not include 
large station/generation-size 
equipment decommissions.)24 Environmental Performancemore to reduce our office waste stream. Last year 
we formed a team to review our practices and 
develop a plan to increase recycling and reduce 
the amount of office waste going to landfills. For 
detailed information about our 2006 recycling 
efforts, visit www.AEP .com/cr/GRI .
NUCLEAR WASTE 
AEP’s Indiana Michigan Power Co. (I&M) oper -
ates the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, a two-
unit facility in southwest Michigan. It generates 
on average 225,000 pounds per year of low-level 
radioactive waste (LLRW), which is packaged at 
the plant and sent to contract waste processors in 
Tennessee. They minimize the volume and quan -
tity of waste before shipping it to two licensed 
disposal facilities, the Barnwell Radwaste Dis -
posal Facility in Barnwell, S.C., and the Enviro -
care Waste Disposal Facility in Clive, Utah.
 South Carolina state law requires the Barn -
well facility to close in 2008. The Cook Plant 
site includes a LLRW storage facility that has the  
capacity to hold approximately 10 years worth 
of LLRW. The Cook Plant also generates high-level 
radioactive waste, primarily in the form of spent 
nuclear fuel. I&M signed a contract with the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE) in 1983 for the  
disposal of spent fuel. Under the contract, I&M 
customers have been paying into the Nuclear 
Waste Fund for power purchased since 1983. To 
date, I&M has paid $246 million to the fund. In 
addition, customers have funded a separate exter -
nal trust for this same purpose. As of December 
31, 2006, the trust’s balance was $273 million. In return, the DOE committed to begin ac
-
cepting spent fuel for disposal in 1998. The DOE 
has not met its obligation under the contract, re -
sulting in litigation within the nuclear industry. 
The DOE’s proposed facility at Yucca Mountain 
in Nevada  has met considerable opposition and 
is behind schedule. In the interim, the spent fuel is stored in wet storage at Cook, where there is 
room in the spent fuel pool through 2013.   AEP is developing plans for on-site dry 
cask storage, with storage to begin in 2011. A de -
cision is expected in 2007. More than half of the 
nuclear sites in the country also rely on on-site 
dry cask facilities until the permanent storage is -
sue is resolved.
WATER USE 
Water is critical to most power generating facili -
ties for steam production and plant cooling. Power 
plants use, but do not consume, large amounts of 
water. The use of water for cooling can adversely 
affect aquatic organisms in the intake water as well 
as those in the receiving stream that are exposed 
to the thermal discharge (the water that is returned 
warmer after being used by the plant). The Clean 
Water Act regulates these discharges. The average annual rate of cooling water 
withdrawal, for all AEP power plants, was ap -
proximately 10.5 billion gallons of water per day, 
most of which is “once-through” cooling water. 
In this case, the water is withdrawn for use at our 
plants, passed through the cooling system and al -
most immediately returned to the source in com -
pliance with our wastewater discharge permits. 
These permits limit either the temperature of our 
discharges or the total amount of heat that can 
be released to the water. See the table in the full 
report at www.AEP .com/cr/water .
 Water in closed-cycle cooling systems is 
routed through cooling towers, reducing the heat 
in the water, and then recycled into the plant. 
The EPA has estimated that closed-cycle cool -
ing systems require only 5 percent of the water 
that once-through cooling systems need (U.S. 
EPA, 1982). About fifty-eight percent of AEP’s  
generating capacity comes from plants equipped 
with “closed” cooling water systems.  Water is also recycled at many of our west
-
ern power plants that have dedicated cooling Related 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr/GRI • www.AEP .com/cr/water  • www.AEP .com/cr/ecological • www.AEP .com/cr/wilds • www.wildlifehc.org
Nearly 10,000 acres of reclaimed 
surface-mined land in Ohio is 
home to The Wilds, a wildlife 
conservation center.
Donald C. Cook  Nuclear Power 
Plant, MichiganEnvironmental Performance
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 25water reservoirs (4,561 MW). These reservoirs 
were built specifically to be both the source and 
receiving water body for the plant cooling water. 
Because these are typically large, open bodies of 
water, many provide public access for fishing and 
recreational boating.
 We also use water to remove coal ash from 
the power plants, which is purified to make steam 
or used to cool motors and other equipment. It is 
returned to its source after treatment to meet ef -
fluent limits specified in National Pollutant Dis -
charge Elimination System (NPDES) permits. 
Our NPDES permits include self-monitoring 
requirements to ensure compliance with indus -
trywide limitations as well as compliance with 
state water quality standards. Monitoring results 
are submitted to regulators monthly. More information about AEP’s water use, 
including hydroelectric generating plants, with -
drawals, wetland mitigation, aquatic habitats, 
biodiversity, treatment and discharges, is avail -
able at www.AEP .com/cr/GRI .
AVIAN PROTECTION 
We are developing a bird protection plan based  
on work by the Edison Electric Institute’s Avian Power Line Interaction Committee (APLIC)/
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). The 
plan is in a draft form and is scheduled to be 
phased in later in 2007.
LAND MANAGEMENT, REMEDIATION & 
“UPSTREAM” IMPACTS OF COAL MINING 
Following a period of very heavy rain in 2006, 
runoff carrying soil and fly ash from AEP’s Amos 
power plant, and soil from our Mountaineer 
plant, both in West Virginia, flowed into nearby 
waterways and onto neighboring properties. The 
runoff was caused by a combination of weather, 
design flaws and construction issues associated 
with the development of landfills and pollution 
control systems. We worked closely with regula -
tors and residents to clean up the damage and put 
measures in place to guard against a recurrence. 
Both incidents resulted in enforcement actions 
by the West Virginia Department of Environ -
mental Protection.  During the preparation of this report, some 
stakeholders expressed serious concerns about 
the “upstream” impacts of coal, including the ef -
fects of mining on the environment, people and 
communities. They urged us to use our influence 
as one of the largest purchasers and users of coal 
to enhance the practices of coal suppliers and to 
encourage them to reduce these impacts. We rec -
ognize this concern and will review opportuni -
ties and actions we may take to ensure that our 
suppliers are using responsible practices. We will 
report about our progress in future reports. 
ECOLOGICAL STEWARDSHIP
AEP works with government agencies and ad -
vocacy groups in voluntary activities that yield 
benefits to the flora and fauna and their habitats 
in AEP states and elsewhere. Some of these ac -
tivities received recognition by our partners, 
such as the Wildlife Habitat Council. Learn more 
at www.AEP .com/cr/ecological .Environmental Performance
SO2 & NOx
Emissions
Pounds 	Per	Million 	BTU
• SO2 
• NOx 
Sulfur dioxide and 
nitrogen oxide 
emissions have 
decreased dramati -
cally since 1970. 
The U.S. EPA proj -
ects that emissions 
from new coal 
plants will decline 
even further.
Source: Energy 	Informa -
tion	Administration26 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth“A reliable supply of electricity is essential to our 
nation’s economy and our way of life.” 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Joseph Kelliher at the Wyoming-Jacksons 
Ferry 765 kV transmission line dedication, May 8, 2006, Wytheville, Va.Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 27Electricity has become a basic human need vital  
to our national security, our society and our 
economy. We cannot imagine life without it. But  
if we are to keep pace with our needs, we must 
modernize and improve the reliability of the 
electricity delivery system with better technol -
ogy and infrastructure, while increasing fuel di -
versity and managing demand.
DISTRIBUTION—DELIVERING  
POWER TO OUR CUSTOMERS 
Electricity travels at the rate of 186,300 miles 
per second  — the equivalent of eight trips around  
the earth in the time it takes to turn on a light. 
When electricity stops because of an outage,  
everyone notices.  AEP works hard to keep the frequency and 
length of service interruptions to a minimum.  
Our customers understand that not all outages 
can be prevented, but we are aware that any 
service interruption, whether momentary or sus -
tained, can be a nuisance or worse.  Customers have grown more sensitive to ser
-
vice interruptions for two reasons: (1) A dramatic 
increase in household consumption of electricity. 
The more customers rely on electricity, the more 
sensitive they become to service interruptions. 
(2) The pervasive presence of digital technology. 
Because digital technology depends on a constant 
stream of electricity, even momentary service in -
terruptions can be problematic. Customer satisfaction with AEP’s reliability 
continues to be above national industry averages. 
Our 2006 customer survey data for our operating 
companies show that 79.7 to 89.7 percent of our 
customers are satisfied with our reliability per -
formance. However, our aging distribution infra -
structure presents us with a reliability challenge. 
Whereas we have reduced outages caused by 
vegetation, we are seeing these gains erode due to 
increased equipment failures. Equipment-related 
outages have increased by more than 4 percent per year during the past four years. Tree contact on distribution lines also is a 
leading cause of service interruptions on AEP’s 
system and vegetation management is a critical 
factor in improving reliability. The company em -
ploys a variety of practices to control vegetation, 
such as aerial sawing, mechanized trimming, 
manual trimming (roping, hand climbing) and 
environmentally approved herbicide applica -
tions. These practices are conducted in accor -
dance with standards established by the Ameri -
can National Standards Institute (ANSI), the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) and the National Electrical Safety Code 
(NESC), as they relate to pruning and removal 
of trees, safety and worker protection, work 
clearances and training requirements, and safety 
clearance guidelines. To identify the programs and actions nec
-
essary to maintain and/or improve our custom -
ers’ electric service experience, we continue to  
develop long-term reliability strategies to ad -
dress those factors with the greatest negative  
service reliability impact today, as well as into 
the future. Each reliability strategy is intended  
to be adjustable as circumstances warrant. If new  
problems arise, new technologies are developed  
or new distribution standards are established.  
Each operating unit will evaluate what changes  
should be made to reflect such developments.
 
DISTRIBUTION  
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCES 
Technology improvements have enabled us to 
increase engineering efficiencies, improve out -
age management efforts, dispatch crews to re -
store service more effectively and improve com -
munication with our customers.  We continue to make strides in areas that 
hold great promise. AEP has initiated the use of 
Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) devices and 
Spectrum Analyzers, for example. These devices Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthEnergy Security, Reliability & Growth
Vegetation management is a  
critical part of service reliability.
Employees of Public Service  
Company of Oklahoma help  
communities plant trees in the 
right places to avoid outages.28 Energy Security, Reliability & Growthhelp us to identify and repair broken insulators 
and blown lightning arresters that cannot be seen 
with the naked eye during basic assessments be -
fore they can create an outage. 
 In 2006, Appalachian Power commissioned 
the first megawatt-class sodium sulfur (NAS) 
battery to be used in North America. This ad -
vanced energy storage technology can supply 7.2 
megawatt-hours of energy, which helps ensure 
reliability for customers in and around Charles -
ton, W.V a. This technology allows Appalachian 
Power to defer a larger, more expensive upgrade.TRANSMISSION ENABLES  
NEW GENERATION & RENEWABLES
The nation’s transmission system is at a criti -
cal crossroads. The United States continues to 
experience transmission bottlenecks that force  
excessive use of older, less efficient power 
plants. Better transmission is required to ensure 
a fair, open market that gives us the flexibility 
to bring economic and environmentally friendly 
energy to consumers.  We believe the nation’s transmission system 
must be developed as an interstate system, much Related 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/about/i765project • www.AEP .com
AEP operates more 765kV high-voltage transmission than all other utilities in North America combined.
The NAS battery helps ensure 
reliability for customers of  
Appalachian Power.Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 29like the nation’s highways, to connect regions, 
states and communities. Our highly efficient and 
reliable 765 kilovolt (kV) network provides a 
strong foundation for this system because it is 
the most efficient, proven transmission technol -
ogy available. And we have the experience and 
expertise to build this type of transmission as an 
interstate network. 
 Public health concerns have been raised re -
lated to transmission lines. Scientific studies dur -
ing the past several decades have explored the 
possibility of health effects from electromagnetic 
fields (EMF). While a number of studies have 
indicated some statistical associations between 
EMF and certain health effects, the majority of 
research has found no such association. Signifi -
cantly, laboratory research has not shown any 
causal relationship between EMF exposure and 
cancer, or any other adverse health effects. Because this issue involves questions of 
public and employee health, we remain commit -
ted to participating in the analysis of EMF on a 
national and worldwide level and to serving as a 
resource to customers and employees regarding 
the EMF issue.I-765 Project & PJM
AEP announced the first leg of this 765kV inter -
state system, dubbed I-765, in January 2006. This 
proposed 550-mile line from West Virginia to 
New Jersey will enable us to increase the transfer 
of energy from the Midwest to the Mid-Atlantic 
states by 5,000 MW; reduce peak system losses 
by 280 MW; and reduce congestion within PJM 
Interconnection. PJM Interconnection is a re -
gional transmission organization (RTO) that co -
ordinates the movement of wholesale electricity 
in all or parts of 13 states, including the District 
of Columbia. When losses and congestion are re -
duced, less fuel is burned to generate electricity, 
resulting in fewer emissions.  Whereas the energy that would be transmit
-
ted likely would be generated mostly by coal, we 
believe that high-voltage transmission is one of 
the best solutions to the Mid-Atlantic region’s 
energy needs.  The Atlantic coastal area (from metropolitan 
New York City southward through northern Vir -
ginia) was identified by the U.S. Department of 
Energy as a Critical Congestion area; consumers 
paid more than $2 billion in 2005 in higher en -
ergy costs because of transmission bottlenecks. 
We are asking the federal government to assign a 
high priority to our project as a National Interest 
Electric Transmission Corridor under the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005. See www.AEP .com/about/
i765project  for more detailed information about 
this project. 
WHY 765kV TRANSMISSION?  
BETTER USE OF LAND, MORE EFFICIENT
Transmission systems designed for 765kV op -
eration are inherently more reliable than those  
operating at lower voltages. They also require less 
land than separate systems moving a comparable 
amount of power (see diagram). On August 14, 
2003, a large segment of the interconnected grid 
in eastern Canada and the northeastern United  Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthEnergy Security, Reliability & Growth
765kV Line Footprint
For long distance transmission 
(longer than 100 miles), one 
765kV line on a 200-foot-wide 
right-of-way can carry the same 
amount of energy as 500kV  
lines on three 200-foot-wide 
rights-of-way, having a com -
bined width of 600 feet.
Approximate 	relationship 	based 	on		
Surge 	Impedance 	Loading 	(i.e.		
reactive 	power 	balance 	point)	 	
500kV 	single 	circuit 	tower	 	
lines 	with 	three 	conductors	 	
per	phase 	compared 	to		
765kV 	single 	circuit	 	
lines 	with 	six		
conductors 	per		
phase.30 Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthStates collapsed in a cascade that affected service 
to approximately 50 million people. The cascade  
was effectively stopped at the “doorstep” of 
AEP’s 765kV transmission system. 
TRANSMISSION KEY  
TO RENEWABLE ENERGY
When it comes to wind power, Texas rules. 
Nearly a third of all wind generation installed in 
2006 was in Texas, making the Lone Star State 
the largest wind energy producer in the United 
States. Wind energy growth is projected to in -
crease an additional 27 percent in 2007. As con -
sumers look for “greener” energy options, trans -
mission becomes the critical link between a vast 
resource of renewable energy and the ability to 
deliver it to market.
 AEP , which operates two wind farms in West 
Texas, has a plan that uses the most efficient tech -
nology; is cost-effective; is mindful of society’s 
desire for a smaller transmission infrastructure 
footprint; and provides for future electric energy needs. With our partner  — MidAmerican Energy 
Holdings Company  — we propose to build ap
-
proximately 1,000 miles of transmission lines  
in Texas to support the state’s development of its  
Competitive Renewable Energy Zones (CREZ). In 2007, we filed a proposal with the Public Utili -
ties Commission of Texas to develop this high-
voltage, high-capacity transmission backbone that 
will allow the state to capture the long-term value 
of wind energy resources located in remote areas 
of the state and interconnect those renewable re -
sources with customers in the south, central and 
north-central parts of the state. For more infor -
mation about this project, visit www.AEP .com .
 
IMPROVING EXISTING PLANTS 
Like most electric companies, AEP has many 
old power plants, some of which are more than 
40 years old. We must upgrade our generation, 
which requires maintenance and capital invest -
ments in both old and new plants.   We have initiatives under way to address 
these issues as well as to provide our employees 
with the knowledge and skills to operate more 
modern technology. We are improving our outage 
planning and implementation, the efficiency and 
reliability of each unit and the skills and knowl -
edge of those who run and maintain the plants, all 
of which improve the quality of operations. We have ongoing construction of emission 
controls at several plants to meet environmental 
compliance for NOx, SO 2 and mercury, and we 
are also improving thermal performance through 
operating efficiencies. Whereas most of the  
efficiency improvements had been focused on 
our 1,300-megawatt (MW) units, we are begin -
ning to work on our mid-sized (800- and 600-
MW) units.  Nuclear generation will remain an impor
-
tant part of AEP’s and the nation’s fuel mix. We 
have no current plan to build nuclear plants, but 
we strongly support those companies who are 
pursuing this option. (See the Environmental	
Performance 	section of this report for more in -
formation about AEP’s Donald C. Cook nuclear 
power plant.) The Smith Mountain 600-MW pumped  stor-
 AEP’s Current  
& Proposed  
Transmission System
• AEP	Service 	Territory 
• 765kV 	Transmission 	Lines
• 345kV 	Transmission 	Lines
• Interconnection 	(Ameren 	Line)
• New 	765kV 	Developmentage hydro generating project in Virginia is pre -
paring for federal re-licensing in 2010. Water 
quality, the status of the endangered Roanoke 
logperch, drought management and the socio -
economic impacts of Smith Mountain Lake on 
the area are of greatest interest to regulators,  
legislators and local communities. We expect 
these issues to generate some lively discussions 
during the proceedings. We are also working on 
the federal relicensing of Appalachian Power’s 
75-MW Claytor Lake hydroelectric plant in 
nearby Pulaski County, Va. We hope to have a 
new license for Claytor Lake in 2011. 
NEW GENERATION
Our forecasts indicate that the electric needs of 
customers in our seven eastern states will exceed 
the capacity of our existing power plants by 2011 
after taking into consideration planned retirements 
of older, less efficient plants. We plan to construct 
and acquire plants to meet this demand.  
 Actual and announced acquisitions of natu -
ral gas-fired power plants in West Virginia, Ohio 
and Indiana will help us to increase fuel diversity 
and meet the expected 2 percent annual growth 
in peak demand in our eastern service area and 
will help us to maintain the 15 percent reserve 
margin required by PJM Interconnection to en -
sure reliability. We will still need to build base load power 
plants to meet demand. We are proposing the 
construction of IGCC plants in West Virginia and 
Ohio and ultra supercritical (USC) pulverized 
coal plants in Oklahoma and Arkansas. IGCC is 
better suited to eastern coal, whereas USC is cur -
rently AEP’s best technology option in the west. USC will first be used at the John W. Turk 
Power Plant to be built in Arkansas, within 
AEP’s Southwestern Electric Power Co. service 
territory. Site preparation for the plant will begin 
in 2007. The second USC plant will be a joint 
venture between AEP’s Public Service Company of Oklahoma, Oklahoma Gas & Electric and the 
Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority. We have 
begun seeking approvals for these two projects. 
“What SWEPCO and AEP are doing 
and the coal-fired industry is doing 
is trying to get the technology where 
it needs to be, where coal is not a net 
negative on the environment, but it’s 
a net positive for the U.S. economy.”
Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Ark., at the Aug. 9, 
2006, announcement of the site selec -
tion for a new ultra supercritical pulver -
ized coal plant in southwest Arkansas.
 AEP generates 310 MW of wind power in 
West Texas and purchases an additional 373 MW 
in other parts of Texas and Oklahoma. In 2007, 
we will purchase an additional 94.5 MW of wind 
for our customers in Oklahoma from the newly 
constructed Sleeping Bear wind farm. For the first 
time, we will buy wind power to serve the eastern 
portion of our service area. In addition, we have 
begun to lease several sites in eastern Indiana to 
test the economic and technological feasibility of 
wind generation there. New transmission will be 
required to bring some of this new wind power to 
market. Our intent is to add 1,000 MW of wind 
generation to our system between 2008 and 2011.
U.S. Electricity Demand Growth
 • Commercial • Residential    • Industrial
Annual 	electricity 	sales 	by	sector, 	1980-2030 	(billion 	kilowatthours).
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 31Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthEnergy Security, Reliability & Growth
Trent Wind Farm, Trent, Texas
Smith Mountain hydro facility, 
Virginia32 Work Force Issues“There is no greater investment than that which we 
make in our employees.” 
AEP Chairman, President and CEO Michael G. MorrisAt AEP working safely means doing your own 
job safely and taking responsibility to see that 
others do their jobs safely as well. Safety is our 
primary consideration for employees, customers 
and the general public. We recently strengthened 
our philosophy and policy to reflect a greater em -
phasis on safety, health and the environment:
Our goals are simple  — zero worker fatalities, 
fewer injuries and less severe injuries when they 
do occur. We also want to ensure that when an in -
cident happens, we learn how to prevent it from 
happening again and take action to ensure that 
it doesn’t. 
 When an employee was seriously burned 
last year after a piece of equipment failed, spray -
ing him with hot oil, we took action through -
out the company to prevent it from happening 
again, anywhere. We created a team to identify  
potentially defective equipment and remove it 
from service, and we implemented an operating 
procedure to increase the distance between em -
ployees and this type of equipment to reduce the 
chance of injury in the event of another failure. 
“We must move safety and health 
from our minds to our hearts. Many 
incidents are caused by behaviors, 
not conditions. If a job changes, you 
should stop and re-evaluate the new 
job from a safety standpoint. Safety 
and health have to be personal.” 
Ken Frazier, vice president,  
Safety & HealthWe measure safety in many ways. Severity rate 
(see table) measures days away from work or re -
stricted duty resulting from on-the-job injuries. 
Lowering this rate is important because when 
employees can’t work, quality of life for the af -
fected employees is lost or declines, productivity 
is lost, morale is affected when workloads shift, 
and workers’ compensation costs increase. Slips, 
trips and falls (from poles, platforms, etc.) con -
tinue to cause the most serious injuries. We had 
2,229 fewer severity days in 2006 than in 2005 
as we achieved our best safety performance in re -
cent history. Our safety and health performance 
for 2004-2006 is documented in the Challenges,	
Goals, 	Progress 	for	2006  section of this report. 
 Our efforts to reduce the number of work -
place injuries improved significantly last year. 
Because we know that slips, trips and falls ac -
count for most severe injuries, we continue to 
focus on identifying and removing the hazards 
that cause them. We also emphasize the proper 
and consistent use of fall protection. Quality Job 
Hazard Analyses and Job Safety Assessments 
now include worksite conditions that may pose a 
hazard, such as wet and uneven surfaces, to raise 
worker awareness of potential hazards. Our goal 
is to lower the recordable and severity rates by 
one-third by 2010, and to be a top-quartile per -
former in our industry.  The only way to reach this ambitious goal 
is focus and action. We have expanded our anal -
ysis of near misses, and we do a better job of 
communicating within the company about what 
happened and how to prevent it from happening 
again. We prefer taking preventive action rather 
than corrective action. We work hard to prevent 
accidents through quality job site observations 
and job hazard analyses, along with frequent, 
meaningful safety discussions. Our philosophy 
is that we don’t begin a job without first holding 
a safety and health briefing specific to that job. AEP’s generation business unit took im
-
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 33Work Force Issues
No aspect of operations is more important 
than the health and safety of people. Our 
customers’ needs are met in harmony with 
environmental protection.Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthWork Force Issues
53.00
43.1
31.77
2004 2005 2006
Severity Rate
2.35
2.19 
1.66
2004 2005 2006
Recordable Rat eHow We Performed
Injury	Severity	Rate
Recordable	Injury	Ratemediate and thorough corrective action last year 
to find and fix the causes of an external boiler 
tube rupture that injured an AEP employee and 
two contract employees at the Kammer Plant in 
West Virginia. 
 We removed approximately 3,000 MW of 
generation from service  — affecting 18 units  — to 
undertake a comprehensive series of inspections 
to find out what went wrong and how to fix it. 
The investigation found corrosion fatigue was a 
primary factor. We checked an average of 670 
pipe joints and an average of 837 tubes per unit 
for additional corrosion fatigue and the neces -
sary repairs were made.  For the first time last year, our Audit Ser
-
vices group began to develop a formal safety 
and health audit program, including hiring the 
qualified staff needed to execute the program. 
We conducted five safety and health audits in our 
generation and distribution business units. The 
initial findings indicated deficiencies such as lack 
of understanding of policies, overdue inspections 
and maintenance of some equipment, and inade -
quate record keeping practices. Corrective action 
has been taken. In 2007, audits of selected safety 
and health programs are scheduled for 12 power 
plants and selected transmission and distribution 
service centers. We failed as individuals and as a company 
in 2006 when an AEP employee and a contrac -
tor lost their lives. A contract worker died in a 
construction fire at the Mitchell Plant in West  
Virginia. Although the investigating team could 
not determine the cause with certainty, it identi -
fied a number of fuel sources present or possi -
bly present at the time of the fire, potential fire 
ignition sources and a number of lessons to be 
learned. An OSHA investigation found no viola -
tions by AEP, but the contracting company was 
cited and fined more than $100,000.  In December 2006, an AEP maintenance 
mechanic working for our Regional Service Or -ganization in West Virginia died on the job when 
he was crushed by a portable crane. We immedi -
ately banned the type of portable crane involved 
from all jobs across AEP and required all busi -
ness units to check overhead cranes for proper 
markings, such as rated load limits. OSHA is -
sued two citations to AEP related to this incident, 
resulting in fines of $2,125.
OSHA Citations (Resulting in Fines)
	 Number 	of	Citations	 Fine  
2006  3 $5,500
2005  1 $85,000
2004  6 $83,100 
HEALTH IMPACTS CAN BE LONG TERM 
Our operations pose many potential hazards 
and health risks, from hearing loss and falling 
(from poles, platforms, etc.) to chemical and 
coal dust exposure. We expanded our Indus -
trial Hygiene (IH) team in 2006, adding six 
professional employees to focus on our west -
ern plants, and started a comprehensive IH 
database that will be easily accessible and cen -
tralized. Our IH department has been made a 
part of the design team for our IGCC plants to 
anticipate and present issues related to chemi -
cals and chemical processes involved with that 
technology. In 2007, we are conducting a com -
prehensive welding study to identify potential 
occupational health issues associated with these 
critical maintenance activities.
INCREASING EMPHASIS ON WELLNESS  
Preventing illness is the best way to ensure 
healthier employees and we are investing in 
tools to help our employees make healthy life -
style choices. We are developing a plan for a 
universal wellness program for all of AEP. This 
is in the early development stages, but we ex-  
pect it will grow into an important approach to 
34 Work Force IssuesRelated 	web	links:  www.osha.gov
Posters and fliers promote safety 
and health throughout AEP . Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 35managing healthcare costs, for the company and 
our employees.
COPPER THEFT A TOP  
PUBLIC SAFETY CONCERN 
As prices for certain metals increased, actual  
and attempted thefts of copper wires and com -
ponents from AEP facilities resulted in non-em -
ployee fatalities in Kentucky, Texas, Virginia and 
West Virginia in 2006. We are working with state 
legislatures for tougher laws regulating the sale 
of scrap metal and for harsher penalties to deter 
theft and help save lives. We also have created 
public safety awareness messages on this issue 
and we have made physical modifications to nu -
merous facilities as a preventive measure. There 
were a total of seven public fatalities on AEP’s 
system last year related to copper theft and live 
wire contacts. 
Our Work Force 
Development Partnerships
School	  
Zane State College
Ashland Community College
West Virginia State 
& Community Tech College
University of Rio Grande
Jefferson Community College
Belmont Technical College
Scioto County Joint V ocational School
ITT Technical Institute (2 Locations)  
Ivy Tech 
Community College (2 Locations)  
Mideast Career Center
Columbus State Community College
Delaware Career Center
Eastland Career Center
Pickaway/Ross V ocational School
New River Career Center    MESH-ING FOR SAFETY & HEALTH
We have embarked on an ambitious effort to con -
form to international standards for environmen -
tal, safety and health management systems  — ISO 
14001 and OHSAS 18001, respectively. We have 
named this initiative MESH  — an acronym for 
“Managing Environment, Safety and Health.” 
MESH will enhance our capacity to protect 
people and the environment. We are using a tool 
to identify hazards, rank them according to risk  
and implement operational controls to eliminate 
or minimize the risk. MESH incorporates a con -
tinuous improvement cycle that will result in 
safer facilities and greater employee awareness 
of environmental, safety and health issues. We are implementing MESH at our existing 
and new generating stations first and will share 
management system tools with other business 
units as they are developed.
Preparing for Tomorrow’s  
Work Force Today
“We will do the necessary planning 
and take the necessary action to make 
sure that we have the right people, 
with the right skills, where we need 
them  — when we need them.”
Gen Tuchow, vice president, 
Human Resources 
 Nearly 18 percent of AEP’s employees are 
expected to retire during the next five years. With  
a steady decline in engineering graduates from 
American colleges during the last 15 years and 
the long lead time required to be trained as a  
line mechanic or power plant operator, the elec-
tric utility industry is facing an aging work force  
and a shortfall of critical skills. We have devel -
oped a plan with two objectives: hire the best  Work Force Issues
The first graduates of a new 
power plant technology program 
at West Virginia State Community 
and Technical College that helps 
develop a pool of qualified  
entry-level employees for AEP 
and other utility companies.new employees and keep our existing work force  
enthusiastic and engaged. In 2006, we hired 
more than 2,000 employees; at the same time,  
1,246 employees left AEP , giving us a net gain of  
about 700 employees. These new employees also  
are helping to lower the average age of our work 
force, from 48 in 2005 to 46 today.
OUR PLAN
Our rolling five-year staffing plan is designed 
to transfer knowledge and develop skills for the 
next generation of employees. The plan incorpo -
rates our anticipated retirement rates and forces 
us to look at better ways of working that might 
affect the skills and number of employees we 
will need. We are pursuing or considering: 
• How to fill “hot spots” — areas of operation that 
are most at risk of skill set shortages;
• Stepped-up recruitment from the military; 
• Systematic knowledge transfer programs;
• Encouraging retirement-eligible employees to 
continue to work for AEP on a part-time basis, 
rather than retire completely, to allow a smooth 
transfer of knowledge. We offer participants  
benefits at the full-time employee rate vs. the higher rate paid by other part-time employees; 
• Increased partnerships with colleges, univer -
sities and technical schools, as well as new  
approaches to training employees;
• Leadership succession and development for 
future AEP leaders, including succession plan -
ning to prepare candidates for key leadership 
roles and early identification and preparation 
of emerging leaders. The chairman reviews 
senior level succession planning annually with  
the Human Resources Committee of the Board 
of Directors.
THE POWER OF DIVERSITY
We are making progress in creating and support -
ing a more diverse work force. See the employ -
ment data that were included in the 2005 and 
2006 EEO-1 Reports submitted to the Joint Re -
porting Commission. 
 We reported slight increases in female and 
minority employment, which we attribute to our 
commitment to develop and advance women 
and minorities; to expanded outreach initiatives; 
to partnerships with organizations, schools, col -
leges and universities with high minority enroll -
36 Work Force Issues2006 Employment Data—EEO-1
	 Employees	 Females 	(%)	 Minorities 	(%)	 	
Total 	Employment  20,541  3,892  (18.9%)  2,868  (14.0%)
Officials 	&	Managers  3,239  307  (9.5%)  255  (7.9%)
Professionals  5,144 1,308  (25.4%)  647  (12.6%)  
2005 Employment Data—EEO-1
	 Employees	 Females 	(%)	 Minorities 	(%)	 	
Total 	Employment  19,998  3,807  (19%)  2,715  (13.6%)
Officials 	&	Managers  3,290  303  (9.2%)  251  (7.6%)
Professionals  4,917 1,237  (25.2%)  581  (11.8%)
For	more 	detailed 	EEO-1 	information, 	please 	visit	www.AEP .com/cr/GRI 	 	Related 	web	links:  www.ibew.org
A diverse, skilled work force is 
essential to our future success. Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 37Work Force Issues
“ AEP shall consider, and utilize as appro-
priate, a diversified range of providers in 
accordance with AEP corporate diversity 
expectations. All effort should be given to 
include opportunities for diversity sup-  
pliers. All employees who facilitate sourc-  
ing or procurement activities, including 
request for proposals (RFP) or request for 
quotations (RFQ), shall be familiar with 
AEP’s diversity suppliers and their qualifi-
cations to perform requested services.”ment; and to our policies, programs and culture 
that support an inclusive environment. 
 We strive for diversity in our suppliers as 
well as our work force. The Supply Chain Pro -
curement Policy about diverse suppliers is:
 In 2006, AEP spent $853 million doing  
business with small business suppliers. These  
included minority- and women-owned busi -
nesses, veteran-owned businesses, small dis -
advantaged businesses, HUBzone and Service-
disabled businesses. 
LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
We value our relationship with our unionized em-
ployees and seek a labor-management relation -
ship that is based on mutual trust, openness and  
collaboration. Nearly 6,000 employees, or 30 
percent of our total work force, are represented 
by unions. 
 We partner with labor on many important 
business and community outreach initiatives. For example, unionized employees are an in -
tegral part of Safety & Health Action Coun -
cils and Committees within our business units. 
We also partner with the IBEW every year for 
AEP’s United Way campaign. And when we 
were rethinking our climate strategy this year, 
we worked closely with labor leaders to include 
them in the process.
Organized Labor at AEP
Labor 	Union	 Number 	of	Employees  
International 	Brotherhood	
of	Electrical 	Workers  3,600
Utility 	Workers 	Union 	of	America  1,300
United 	Mine 	Workers 	of	America 	 500
United 	Steelworkers 	of	America	 400 
American Rights at Work recognized AEP in its 
2006 Labor Day List of Partnerships That Work. 
American Rights at Work is a leading labor pol -
icy and advocacy organization that recognizes 
successful partnerships between employers and 
employee labor unions. AEP was recognized for 
accomplishments in:
• Protecting worker safety and health;
• Collaborating as equal partners with workers 
and their unions to craft innovative strategies on 
compensation, performance and productivity to 
meet business goals and address challenges;
• Fostering diversity and inclusion in the work 
force; and
• Offering training and professional development 
opportunities.38 Stakeholder Engagement“We are a citizen of each community we serve 
and take an active part in its affairs. Like any other 
citizen, we want our neighbors to think well of us. 
Besides, it makes good business sense. We prosper 
only as the community prospers; so we help it  
thrive in every way we can.” 
AEP President George Tidd, 1934Stakeholder Engagement
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 39Stakeholder EngagementRelated 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr/stakeholders • www.ceres.org
We work with stakeholders of all kinds and with 
many interests to improve our performance, 
build trust and develop strong relationships. To 
AEP, stakeholder engagement is more than peri -
odically touching base with our elected officials, 
neighbors or community leaders. Rather, we 
systematically establish common ground with 
others. We want to build on our solid record of 
community outreach and philanthropy and will 
invest the time and effort to develop better and 
deeper relationships. In the end this will create 
value for our shareholders.
OUTREACH—AN ONGOING  
PROCESS & LEARNING EXPERIENCE
Stakeholder engagement can sometimes break 
down when competing interests have difficulty 
finding common ground; it’s happened to us and 
we’ve learned from those experiences. When we 
first announced what became the Wyoming-Jack -
sons Ferry 765kV project in 1990  — a 90-mile 
transmission line traversing Virginia and West 
Virginia  — we worked for 13 years to obtain the 
needed permits. Competing interests between 
government, regulatory agencies, environmental 
groups and communities presented challenges 
that took a long time to resolve.  By listening to and working with each con
-
stituency, we were able to identify their concerns 
and reach agreeable solutions. We engaged a 
team of professors from Virginia Polytechnic 
Institute and State University and West Virginia 
University (with expertise in biology, cultural 
and natural resources and landscape architecture) 
to independently develop the project route with 
the least impact. Ultimately, only five homes 
were within the final 200-foot-wide right-of-
way, only six eminent domain proceedings were 
held out of 164 landowners and only 11 miles of 
federal lands were impacted. When the line was 
dedicated last year, some of those who originally 
opposed the project came together in support. In planning one of the biggest construction 
programs in our history to retrofit several coal-
fired power plants with emission controls, we 
reached out to our neighbors to learn about and 
discuss their concerns. We met with township of -
ficials to develop initial construction truck routes, 
hosted site tours, held public meetings and met 
as needed with local officials and neighbors to 
resolve concerns about truck traffic to the site. 
These actions typify the efforts we are making at 
all of our plants. As we prepared to announce construction 
of coal-fired generation in the West last year, we 
reached out to Ceres to help us arrange a con -
ference call with financial, environmental and 
social advocates to explain our decision and 
give them an opportunity to ask questions. Most 
of our senior management team, including our 
chairman, participated in the call. Twenty social, 
environmental and financial advocates were in -
vited and most participated. We were asked why 
we did not choose IGCC technology in the West. 
We explained why that was not an option in this 
case (see Climate 	Change  section). We also used 
the opportunity to explain the advantages of ul -
tra supercritical clean-coal technology. The dis -
cussion was straightforward, and we pledged to 
keep the group informed as we move forward. 
“We must be committed to continu -
ing discussions with all of our vari -
ous stakeholders, listening to their 
concerns and addressing them openly 
and honestly. If we can’t, we have to 
be honest about it. This is the right 
thing to do  — for our company, for 
our stakeholders and for the commu -
nities we serve.”
Dennis Welch, senior vice president,   
Environment, Safety & HealthStakeholder Engagement
First responders receive a tour 
and training from the staff of AEP’s 
Pirkey Plant in Hallsville, Texas.
40 Stakeholder EngagementTRANSMISSION GROWTH &  
OUTREACH GO HAND IN HAND  
When we announced our proposed 550-mile  
I-765 transmission project, we immediately be -
gan to meet with those who might be affected, 
most of whom were outside of our existing service 
territory. We knew that the project would raise 
concerns about the effects on tourism, historic 
sites, federal forests, local neighborhoods and,  
of course, electric rates. We went to Pennsylva -
nia to listen to the concerns of John Hanger of  
PennFuture, the leader of one of that state’s lead -
ing environmental advocacy groups, who strong-  
ly opposed the project. We met with utility com -
missioners, consumers’ counsel, political leaders  
at the federal, state and local levels and envi-  
ronmental protection agencies in five states. We 
made a special trip to York County, Pa., where 
we met with the York County Citizens’ Group 
around the kitchen table in the home of the 
group’s main organizer.
 We still don’t know the exact route of the 
project, or whether it will be approved, but we do 
know that it will be a better proposal as a result 
of these discussions.  
CONNECTING WITH EMPLOYEES
Keeping our employees informed and listening 
to their ideas and concerns are important to us 
and we have a comprehensive communication 
strategy to help ensure this happens. Our biggest 
challenge is that nearly a third of our work force 
does not have easy access to e-mail or the com -
pany’s Intranet site. To reach employees who are 
not connected to the Internet or who don’t have 
easy access at work, a monthly employee news -
letter is mailed to the homes of all employees and 
retirees. In addition, non-management employ -
ees are invited to join a select panel that meets 
regularly and privately with the CEO, called 
“Open Mike”; this group rotates annually to ex -
pand access to top management.  To hear what employees thought of this re -
port, we conducted a small focus group that rep -
resented a cross-section of our company, from 
frontline field workers to customer service and 
billing to managers. During the discussion em -
ployees were skeptical about the intent and the 
audience for this report. Some called it a “rein -
vented attempt to go green.” However, they also 
acknowledged having a better understanding of 
the company and applauded us for being open 
and honest about our challenges, failures and 
strategies. They were especially complimentary 
of the improved communications within the 
company and credited CEO Mike Morris for set -
ting this expectation.  The employee group told us they would like 
to see more focus on customers in the report, 
which echoed the sentiment we heard from the 
Ceres stakeholder group. They also believe the 
report will be a good educational tool to help oth -
ers understand the challenges and complexities 
of our company and our industry. Here is what some of our employees said 
about this report:
“Did the report hold your interest?”
• “Yes, because I am interested in 
making our company one of the 
best in the business for years  
to come.” 
“What were the strengths and weak -
nesses of this report?”
• “It seemed genuine; provides good 
vision and direction.”
• “Too detailed; should be con -
densed.”
• “Needs more information about 
stakeholders.”CEO Mike Morris meets regularly 
with employees across AEP .
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 41• “It is a reflection of what we as a 
company have accomplished and 
where we are headed.”
• “The metrics section is a strong 
feature.”
• “Why hasn’t AEP provided this 
type of report before?”
AEP IN THE COMMUNITY  
AEP’s employees are our best community am -
bassadors. Just ask the leadership team at the 
Muskingum River Plant in Beverly, Ohio. Simi -
lar to how our community leadership evolves 
and thrives at many other locations around the 
AEP system, the Muskingum River Plant wanted 
to get better connected with the local communi -
ty and started with a visit to a morning Rotary 
meeting. That visit led to helping revive a strug -
gling Chamber of Commerce, with plant em -
ployees taking leadership roles in business and 
civic groups. 
“What starts out as job duty to get to 
know community leaders turns into 
a personal commitment for doing the 
right thing.” 
Dan Kohler, Director of Outage and  
Maintenance Planning and former 
Muskingum River Plant general manager, 
Beverly, Ohio
When the local community recognizes AEP as 
a good neighbor, and AEP employees know that 
their community activities will be supported by 
their managers and supervisors, the payback mul-  
tiplies, according to Dan Kohler, former  Musk -
ingum River Plant manager. Community in -
volvement becomes more than just part of the 
plant’s business plan. The struggling chamber that Kohler eventually joined not only survived, 
but also donated $16,000 to charities last year, 
including Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts. 
 Kohler sees it as a “win-win for all of us. 
The community sees us as having a good plant 
environment. At the same time, these activities 
bring those influencers here and let us interact. 
Plant employees also get involved. There’s really 
no downside.”
COMMUNITY  
INVESTMENT & CORPORATE GIVING
We invested more than $10.5 million through 
contributions and operational programs in 2006 
to support our communities and teach electrical 
safety, improve education and enhance quality 
of life. Our corporate contributions policy em -
phasizes improving lives through education from 
early childhood through college. It also focuses 
on protecting the environment, providing basic 
human services in the areas of hunger, housing, 
health and safety, and enriching the quality of 
life through art, music and cultural heritage. In 
addition, our employees contributed more than 
$2 million to United Way and similar commu -
nity funds. AEP matched their generosity with 
another $1 million. 
AMERICAN ELECTRIC  
POWER FOUNDATION  
The American Electric Power Foundation was 
created in December 2005. It provides a per -
manent, ongoing resource to address charitable 
initiatives involving higher dollar values and 
multi-year commitments in the communities we 
serve and initiatives outside of our 11-state ser -
vice area. In 2006, the Foundation contributed 
$3.18 million to 28 local, regional, national or 
international organizations. These donations are 
separate from other corporate giving programs. For more information about the energy and 
environmental programs supported by AEP’s Stakeholder Engagement
AEP employees volunteered 
alongside Louisiana Gov.  
Kathleen Blanco in building 
Habitat for Humanity homes  
in New Orleans following  
Hurricane Katrina.
AEP employees at the Welsh 
Plant in Pittsburg, Texas, worked 
with the Texas Parks and Wildlife 
Department to recycle Christmas 
trees for a fish habitat at the 
plant’s lake.42 Stakeholder EngagementRelated 	web	links:  www.AEP .com/cr/philanthropy • www.fec.gov • www.AEP .com/cr/political
corporate giving and the AEP Foundation, please 
visit www.AEP .com/cr/philanthropy . 
POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT  
As an energy company operating in many states, 
we are affected every day by the decisions of 
federal, state and local officials. Our Board of 
Directors has adopted a policy that encourages 
our company to be an active participant in the 
political process so that our perspectives are 
heard and so that we develop strong working 
relationships with government decision makers.  
We also encourage our employees to become  
informed about issues and participate in the  
political process. Our policy has a procedure 
for approving any corporate political contribu -
tions, and it requires that we publish and make 
available to shareholders and other stakeholders 
a report about our corporate political contribu -
tions. The Committee of Directors and Corporate 
Governance of our Board of Directors reviews 
the report annually.
 We sponsor one federal political action com -
mittee (PAC), the American Electric Power Com -mittee for Responsible Government, and state 
PACs in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and Virginia to 
which our eligible employees can make voluntary 
contributions. The PACs are employee-controlled 
and are not affiliated with any political party or 
with any specific candidate for public office. An 
operating committee drawn from participating 
employees exercises full control over each PAC, 
with the assistance of one full-time administra -
tor who is an employee of AEP . Neither corporate 
officers nor members of our government affairs 
staffs may serve on the PACs’ operating commit -
tees. Details of our PACs’ contributions may be 
found at www.fec.gov . 
 AEP belongs to many trade associations, 
such as the Edison Electric Institute, the Center 
for Energy and Economic Development (CEED), 
The Business Roundtable and Americans for Bal -
anced Energy Choices (ABEC), which engage in 
lobbying and make political contributions. We 
do not agree with every position or action they 
take. For income tax purposes, trade associations 
are required to report any portion of our dues 
that is used for political purposes. We have not 
tracked these amounts in the past, except for tax 
purposes, but will begin tracking and reporting 
amounts in 2007.  Starting with our 2007 Corporate Respon
-
sibility Report, we will ask trade associations 
to which our dues or payments are significant 
to provide us with a breakdown of what portion 
of our dues or payments were used for expendi -
tures or contributions that, if made directly by us, 
would not be deductible under section 162(e)(1) 
and other applicable subsections of the Internal 
Revenue Code (which deny tax deductibility of 
lobbying expenses and a variety of categories of 
political contributions).  Learn more about our corporate political 
contributions policy and a list of 2006 corpo -
rate political contributions at www.AEP .com/cr/ 	
political .
AEP CEO Mike Morris and Virginia 
Gov. Tim Kaine at the dedication of 
the new Wyoming-Jacksons Ferry 
765kV transmission line.Challenges, Goals, Progress for 2006
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 43Work 	with	governors, 	state 	legislators,	
stakeholders 	and	regulators 	to	adopt	
investment 	recovery 	provisions 	in	clean	
energy 	bill	initiatives 	and	cost-effective	
DSM/EE 	programs.
Constructively 	work 	to	better 	define 	what	
a	reasonable 	approach 	to	climate 	change	
legislation 	is.	The	challenge 	is	defining	
“reasonable” 	in	such 	a	way	that	is	accept -
able	to	all	affected 	constituencies.
Work 	with	governors 	and	state 	legislators	
to	pass 	laws 	regulating 	the	sale	of	metals,	
such 	as	copper, 	and	enact 	harsher 	penal -
ties	to	deter 	theft 	and	reduce 	fatalities.	
We	are	committed 	to	reduce 	or	offset	
approximately 	46	million 	metric 	tons	of	car-
bon	dioxide 	equivalent 	emissions 	between	
2003 	and	2010. 	This	is	a	6%	reduction	
below 	our	baseline 	(average 	1998-2001	
levels). 	Although 	legally 	binding, 	these 	are	
voluntary 	reductions 	and	it	is	uncertain	
how 	they	will	be	treated 	under 	anticipated	
climate 	legislation.
If	no	further 	actions 	are	taken, 	AEP	
projects 	emissions 	will	increase 	by	ap-
proximately 	10	million 	to	15	million 	metric	
tons	between 	2010 	and	2020, 	as	four	new	
generating 	plants 	are	built. 	With 	climate	
legislation 	on	the	horizon, 	we	must 	be	
ready 	to	address 	this	emissions 	growth.Continuing 	outreach 	in	states 	and	
organizations 	such 	as	National 	Governors	
Association, 	National 	Conference 	of	State	
Legislatures 	and	National 	Association 	of	
Regulatory 	Utility 	Commissioners.
Legislation 	enacted 	in	one	or	more 	states	
that	includes 	clean 	energy 	bill	initiatives.
Work 	with	Congress, 	EEI,	EPRI, 	labor 	and	
environmental 	advocates 	and	other 	stake -
holders 	to	help	define 	reasonable 	climate	
change 	policy.
Legislation 	enacted 	in	one	or	more 	of	our	
jurisdictions.	
We	will	continue 	to	take	actions 	to	meet	
our	CCX	commitment 	through 	2010 	through	
a	broad 	portfolio 	of	actions:
•	Power 	plant 	efficiency 	improvements.
•	Renewable 	generation 	such 	as	wind 	and		
biomass 	co-firing.
•	Off-system 	GHG 	reduction 	projects.
•	Reforestation 	projects.
•	Direct 	purchase 	of	emission 	credits	
through 	our	involvement 	with	CCX.
We	will	be	actively 	engaged 	in	the	climate	
change 	policy 	debate.
We	will	be	positioned 	to	adapt 	to	climate	
policy 	because 	of	our	investments 	in	
technology 	and	in	other 	actions 	to	reduce,	
avoid 	or	offset 	GHGs. 	These 	include:
•	Bringing 	new	carbon 	capture 	and	storage	
technologies 	to	commercial 	operation.
•	Investing 	in	other 	clean-coal 	technolo -
gies, 	including 	IGCC 	and	USC.
•	Increasing 	renewable 	forms 	of	energy, 		
including 	wind 	and	biomass.
•	Investing 	in	offsets 	such 	as	tree	planting, 		
methane 	capture 	and	destruction, 	fleet	
and	aviation 	offsets 	and	market-based	
credit 	purchases.
•	Working 	with	regulators 	and	policy- 	102-page 	research 	report 	on	state 	financial	
incentive 	precedents 	completed.
Provided 	clean 	energy 	bill	initiatives 	for	
state 	legislative 	action.
Our	position 	on	climate 	change 	evolved 	to	
support 	carbon 	controls.	
Bills	introduced 	in	several 	states 	with	 	
AEP	support.	
Through 	2006, 	we	reduced 	or	offset 	CO2	
emissions 	of	approximately 	31	million	
metric 	tons	through:
•	Improving 	efficiency 	of	existing 	power	
plants.
•	Adding 	wind 	generation.
•	Improving 	availability 	and	capacity 	of	the	
Cook 	Nuclear 	Plant.
•	Retiring 	older 	and	less	efficient 	gas	
steam 	and	coal	units.
•	Reducing 	leakage 	rate	of	SF6	gas	from	 	
transformers.
•	Planting 	trees 	and	reforesting 	land.
AEP	developed 	a	strategy 	to	reduce 	ap-
proximately 	5	million 	metric 	tons	of	carbon	
dioxide 	equivalent 	emissions 	per	year, 	as	
follows:
•	2	million 	from 	wind 	power 	purchase	
agreements.
•	2	million 	from 	domestic 	offsets.
•	500,000 	from 	increases 	in	forestry 	and	
other 	offsets.
•	200,000 	from 	fleet 	and	aviation 	offsets.
	 An 	additional 	1.5	million 	metric 	tons	
will	be	reduced 	when 	carbon 	capture 	and	
storage 	is	in	service 	at	our	Northeastern	
Station.Challenges, Goals, Progress for 2006
Challenge Goal Progress
Public Policy Strategy
Climate Change   makers 	to	implement 	cost-effective 	DSM	
and	EE	programs.
•	Making 	continued 	efficiency 	improve -
ments 	to	existing 	plants 	and	retirements	
of	less	efficient, 	older 	plants.
Continue 	participation 	in	construction 	of	
FutureGen.
Ongoing 	commitment 	to	Leadership	
Group 	of	National 	Action 	Plan 	for	Energy	
Efficiency.
Develop 	and	publish 	DSM/EE 	public 	policy	
statement 	in	2007.
Continue 	evaluation 	of	DSM/EE 	offerings	
through 	Integrated 	Resource 	Planning	
(IRP) 	process.
Engage 	in	state-level 	dialogue 	with	regula -
tors/legislators/other 	stakeholders 	on	
application 	of	DSM/EE 	to	meet 	needs 	of	
our	customers.
Involve 	our	stakeholders 	to	help	us	
advance 	DSM/EE 	programs 	in	our	service	
territory.Secure 	approval 	of	DSM/EE 	programs 	in	
one	or	more 	jurisdictions.
Lead 	in	development 	of	reasonable 	legisla
-
tion,	such 	as	a	market-based 	cap-and-
trade 	program 	that	includes 	all	sectors 	and	
sources, 	rewards 	early 	action, 	allows 	GHG	
offsets, 	supports 	public 	and	private 	funding	
for	technology 	development 	and	does 	not	
adversely 	affect 	the	U.S.	economy.
Continue 	leadership 	within 	national 	and	in-
ternational 	organizations 	(such 	as	e8,	APP ,	
G8+5, 	etc.) 	to	encourage 	a	global 	solution	
to	climate 	change.
Host 	and	participate 	in	e8	technology 	and		
knowledge-sharing 	conference 	(similar 	to	
APP) 	in	May 	2007.
Zero 	Notices 	of	Violations 	(NOVs).	Challenge Goal Progress
44 Challeges, Goals & Progress for 2006Because 	AEP	and	most 	state 	regulatory	
emphasis 	has	been 	on	keeping 	customer	
rates 	low	(our	customers 	have 	enjoyed	
some 	of	the	lowest 	electricity 	rates 	in	the	
nation), 	there 	has	been 	little	emphasis 	on	
implementing 	DSM/EE 	programs, 	particu -
larly	during 	times 	of	plentiful 	generation	
availability. 	But,	with	energy 	cost	increases	
across 	the	board, 	the	need 	for	new	genera -
tion	evident 	and	the	rise	of	CO2	concerns, 	it	
becomes 	increasingly 	important 	to	develop	
DSM/EE 	programs 	and	green 	power 	op-
tions, 	if	they	are	embraced 	by	regulators 	in	
our	jurisdictions.
Climate 	legislation 	in	the	United 	States 	is	
likely 	to	be	enacted 	within 	the	next 	few	
years 	with 	direct 	impacts 	on	all	fossil 	fuel	
use,	but	especially 	on	coal, 	which 	fuels	
67%	of	our	generating 	fleet 	and	half	the	
nation’s 	electricity.	
	 Carbon 	controls 	must 	be	achievable,	
affordable, 	include 	all	GHG 	sources 	from	
all	sectors 	of	the	economy 	and	encour -
age	participation 	of	developing 	countries.	
Otherwise, 	carbon 	controls 	could 	impede	
our	ability 	to	provide 	reasonably 	priced	
electricity 	to	our	customers, 	create 	trade	
imbalances 	that	could 	harm 	the	U.S.	
economy 	and	put	our	shareholders 	at	risk.
Environmental 	regulations 	are	complex	
and	frequently 	changing. 	The	challenge	
is	to	achieve 	environmental 	compliance,	
improve 	accident 	response, 	and	foster	Participated 	in	pre-construction 	activities	
of	FutureGen 	project.
We	manage 	DSM/EE 	programs 	in	four	
states 	within 	our	service 	territory:
Texas –	59,782 	MWh 	saved 	(2005 	data; 	2006	
data 	not	yet	available).
Kentucky –	1,360 	MWh 	saved 	–	2006.
Ohio & West Virginia –	
	 Multi-year 	commitments 	funding 	low-
income 	weatherization 	programs.
	 Significant 	avoided-capital 	tariff 	offer -
ings, 	such 	as	Demand 	Response, 	Inter -
ruptibles, 	Time-of-Day, 	etc.
Engaged 	with	policymakers 	and		
industry 	peers.	
Hosted 	Asia-Pacific 	Partnership 	counter -
parts 	for	technology 	and	information-shar -
ing	conference; 	attended 	by	the	U.S.	State	
Department 	and	White 	House 	Council 	on	
Environmental 	Quality.
Ongoing 	participation 	in	Asia-Pacific,	 	
e8	and	other 	international 	efforts.
AEP	received 	9	NOVs 	in	2006;
collective 	fines 	were 	approximately	
$25,000. 	Corrective 	actions 	were 	taken 	and	
lessons 	learned 	were 	shared.	Environmental Performance Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 45positive 	regulatory 	relationships 	to	en-
hance 	environmental 	performance.
Reducing 	and	offsetting 	emissions 	from	
our	11,000-vehicle 	fleet.	
	
Increasing 	the	number 	of	hybrid 	vehicles	
in	our	fleet 	depends 	upon 	the	availability 	of	
quality 	suppliers 	to	service 	hybrid 	vehicles	
within 	the	AEP	service 	territory.
AEP	does 	not	measure 	energy 	use	at	most	
of	its	facilities. 	Improving 	energy 	efficiency	
at	AEP	non-power 	plant 	facilities 	requires	
metering 	our	facilities 	and	tracking 	use	at	
more 	than 	400	facilities 	in	11	states 	to	get	
a	benchmark 	of	usage, 	so	that	we	can	set	
measurable 	goals.
Reducing 	office 	waste 	stream 	and	encour -
aging 	suppliers 	to	take	steps 	to	improve	
their 	environmental 	performance.
AEP	has	a	regulatory 	obligation 	to	be	in	
compliance 	with	air,	water 	and	waste	
management 	permits. 	We	challenge	
ourselves 	to	go	beyond 	compliance 	with	Conform 	to	ISO	14001 	environmental	
management 	systems 	standard 	to	provide	
mechanisms 	to	prevent 	non-compli -
ance 	and	improve 	performance. 	Rollout	
continues 	in	2007 	at	four	power 	plants; 	up	
to	8	more 	plants 	to	begin 	implementation	
in	2007.
Continue 	proactive 	outreach 	with	regula -
tory	agencies.
Reduce 	AEP’s 	mobile 	fleet 	consumption 	of	
petroleum-based 	products.
	
Offset 	or	reduce 	greenhouse 	gas	emis -
sions 	from 	mobile 	fleet, 	including 	corpo -
rate	jet,	beginning 	in	2007. 	Expect 	to	offset	
0.2	million 	metric 	tons	per	year.
2008 	–	10%	of	new 	light-duty 	vehicle	 	
acquisitions 	are	hybrids 	or	alternative	 	
fuel	vehicles.
2007 	–	Baseline 	year 	to	collect 	energy	
consumption 	data.	
Develop 	work 	plan	to	improve 	energy 	ef-
ficiency 	of	AEP	facilities.
All	new 	buildings 	to	be	built	using 	best	
practices 	relative 	to	energy 	efficiency 	and	
sustainability.2008 	–	Implement 	plan.
Implement 	recycling 	program 	over	
	
one	year 	(eventually 	reaching 	more 	than	 	
400	facilities).
Partner 	with	U.S.	EPA’s 	Green 	Suppliers	
Network 	for	pilot	program, 	targeting 	five	
AEP	suppliers 	to	improve 	their 	environ -
mental 	performance.
2007 	Goal 	(changes 	annually) 	=	12	
incidents.1.	Opacity 	–	the	measure 	of	visual	
	NOV past performance:
2005 	–	5
2004 	–	12
Developed 	implementation 	plan	and	began	
rollout 	for	ISO	14001.
Proactive 	outreach 	to	regulatory 	agencies.	
2005 	–	5.5	million 	gallons 	of	gasoline 	and	
4.7	million 	gallons 	of	diesel 	used 	to	operate	
mobile 	fleet. 	(last	year 	data 	were 	available)
2006 	–	264,000 	gallons 	biodiesel 	used.
Two	hybrid 	line	trucks 	deployed 	(diesel/
electric 	motor); 	improved 	fuel	economy 	up	
to	50%; 	reduced 	emissions 	up	to	90%.
Began 	study 	at	non-generating 	facilities	
to	measure 	energy 	use	at	AEP	facilities	
(extensive 	work 	already 	done 	on	power	
plant 	efficiency).
Major 	lighting 	efficiency 	upgrades 	com -
pleted 	in	AEP	buildings 	between 	1995 	and	
2005 	under 	the	EPA’s 	GreenLights 	Program	
continue 	to	provide 	benefits. 	During 	this	
time, 	these 	upgrades 	have 	resulted 	in	
233,000 	short 	tons	of	avoided 	CO2	emis -
sions.
Established 	cross-functional 	team 	to	
develop 	comprehensive 	office 	recycling	
program 	and	supply 	chain 	review 	to	
reduce 	waste.
Environmental 	Performance 	Index 	set	a	
target 	of	15	incidents. 	9	incidents	 	
occurred:
Opacity 	exceedances 	–	0Challenges, Goals, Progress for 2006
Challenge Goal Progress46 Challeges, Goals & Progress for 2006environmental 	performance 	by	tracking	
measures 	of	air	quality, 	water 	quality 	and	
waste 	management 	through 	an	internal	
Environmental 	Performance 	Index 	(EPI)	
that	sets	more 	stringent 	targets. 	Although	
the	Index 	goes 	beyond 	compliance,	
performance 	is	tied	to	compensation. 	The	
EPI	sets	an	annual 	target 	of	total 	number	
of	incidents 	for	the	Index.
We	need 	timely 	regulatory 	approval 	to	
site	and	build 	new 	utility 	infrastructure,	
including 	the	I-765 	interstate 	transmission	
project 	in	order 	to	meet 	growing 	demand	
for	electricity, 	improve 	reliability 	and	bring	
more 	renewable 	energy 	to	market.
We	are	seeking 	designation 	of	our	I-765	
Interstate 	project 	as	a	National 	Interest	
Electric 	Transmission 	Corridor 	(NIETC)	
under 	the	Energy 	Policy 	Act	of	2005, 	which	
recognizes 	the	importance 	of	modernizing	
the	electric 	grid	in	the	United 	States.	
The	age	of	our	infrastructure 	threatens 	the	
reliability 	of	service 	to	customers.
We	must 	achieve 	timely 	cost	recovery 	for	
investments 	in	research 	and	develop -
ment 	for	technologies 	that	might 	improve	
service 	and	reliability 	and	reduce 	carbon	
without 	creating 	burdensome 	rate	in-
creases 	for	our	customers.	
Achieving 	top-quartile 	performance 	within	
electric 	industry 	by	2010, 	as	measured 	by	
recordable 	and	severity 	incident 	rates,	
requires 	a	major 	shift	at	AEP	in	behaviors	
and	attitudes 	about 	safety 	and	health.	 	
Benchmarking 	of	performance 	against	
comparably 	sized 	EEI	companies.appearance 	of	gas	exiting 	power 	plant	
stack 	and	is	a	rough 	indicator 	of	particu -
late	emissions.
2.	NPDES 	(National 	Pollutant 	Discharge	
Elimination 	System) 	permit 	requirements	
(wastewater 	exceptions) 	–	a	measure 	of	
water 	quality 	permit 	compliance.
3.	Oil	&	chemical 	spills 	–	a	measure 	of	how	
we	respond 	to	and	manage 	spills.
Due	to	delays 	in	approval 	by	the	PJM	
stakeholder 	process, 	the	projected 	in-	
service 	date 	is	now 	2015. 	This	assumes	
eight 	years 	for	siting 	and	construction.
We	will	work 	with	and	listen 	to	all	affected	
constituencies.
Timely 	response 	to	regulatory 	requests.
Review 	and	update 	long-range 	plan	for	
asset 	replacement/repair 	program 	and	
capital 	budget 	constraints 	and	seek 	timely	
regulatory 	recovery.
Maintain 	or	increase 	investments 	in	R&D	
where 	possible.
Serve 	in	leadership 	roles 	to	identify 	or	
advance 	R&D 	projects.
Recordable Rate – Goal:
2007 	–	1.99
2008 	–	1.79
2009 	–	1.61
2010 	–	1.44
Focus 	on	hazard 	recognition, 	proactive	
behaviors 	to	prevent 	injuries, 	accountabil -
ity	when 	we	fail	and	reward/recognition	
for	successes. 	Build 	into	goals 	for	each	
business 	unit.NPDES 	–	9
Oil	&	chemical 	spills 	–	0
Regulatory 	filings 	initiated.
Regulatory actions:FERC 	granted 	conditional 	approval 	of	
request 	for	incentive 	rate	treatment.
	 PJM 	agreed 	to	evaluate 	eight 	backbone	
projects 	(including 	I-765) 	to	determine 	most	
effective 	combination 	to	meet 	needs 	of	
PJM 	region.	
Stakeholder 	engagement 	initiated 	in	states.	
(See 	
Stakeholder Engagement 	section 	and	
metrics 	for	more 	details.)
Filed 	request 	with	U.S.	Department 	of	
Energy.	
Recovery 	of	infrastructure 	reliability 	and	
environmental 	compliance 	costs 	in	Virginia	
and	Oklahoma.	
$12.5 	million 	invested 	in	R&D.
Recordable Rate:
2006 	–	1.66
2005 	–	2.35
2004 	–	2.19
Slips, 	trips 	and	falls	were 	the	primary	
cause 	of	injuries.	
	 Although 	performance 	exceeded 	set	
goals 	for	achieving 	top-quartile 	performance,	
we	will	not	change 	the	overall 	goals 	for	
future 	years. 	Housekeeping, 	hazard 	recog-
nition, 	awareness 	and	job	safety 	assess -
ments 	contributed 	to	the	lower 	rate	in	2006.Challenge Goal Progress
Work Force IssuesEnergy Security, Reliability & GrowthIt	is	imperative 	that	we	eliminate 	worker	
fatalities. 	AEP	has	experienced 	at	least	
one	worker 	fatality 	every 	year 	in	the	last	35	
years, 	except 	for	one	year.
	
Reducing 	injuries 	to	employees 	and	
contractors 	is	necessary 	if	we	are	to	
prevent 	OSHA 	and	state 	regulatory 	agency	
citations 	to	AEP .
Preventing 	public 	injuries 	or	fatalities	
caused 	by	contact 	with	electrical 	facilities.	
We	need 	to	implement 	a	systematic 	com -
pany-wide 	stakeholder 	outreach 	program	
to	build 	our	relationships 	in	the	communi -
ties	and	states 	where 	we	operate. 	We	
need 	to	be	more 	than 	a	good 	neighbor; 	we	Severity Rate – Goal:
2007 	–	35.38
2008 	–	30.07
2009 	–	25.56
2010 	–	21.73
OHSAS 18001:Long-term 	conformance 	with	these	
standards 	will	be	reflected 	in	recordable	
and	severity 	rates. 	Rollout 	is	under 	way	in	
Generation, 	and	implementation 	is	being	
reviewed 	for	other 	business 	units.
Zero 	fatalities.	
Through 	greater 	emphasis 	on	hazard	
recognition, 	proactive 	injury 	prevention 	ac
-
tivities, 	sharing 	best	practices 	and	lessons	
learned 	from 	near-misses, 	we	expect 	and	
will	accept 	no	more 	than 	zero	fatalities.
	Continually 	learn 	from 	incidents 	by	sharing	
lessons 	learned.
Improve 	outreach 	to	OSHA 	to	improve	
	
communications 	and	understanding.
	Proactive 	focus 	on	hazard 	recognition.	
Build 	into	goals 	for	each 	business 	unit.
Improve 	compliance 	management 	as	
	
OHSAS 	18001 	is	implemented 	in	power	
plants; 	apply 	principles 	across 	AEP	system.
	
Zero 	fatalities.
2007 	–	Develop 	and	implement 	formal	
tracking 	of	public 	safety 	education 	actions.
New 	safety 	ad	addressing 	copper 	theft	
to	debut 	(see	Public 	Policy 	metrics 	for	
legislative 	action).
Identify 	and	engage 	with	stakeholders 	to	
create 	shared 	value 	in	support 	of	sustain -
able	development 	objectives.	
	
Develop 	outreach 	program, 	in	partnership	Severity Rate:2006 	–	31.77
2005 	–	43.91
2004 	–	53.00
In	2006, 	the	injuries 	that	occurred 	were	
less	severe 	than 	in	the	past. 	Performance	
exceeded 	set	goals 	for	achieving 	top-quar
-
tile	performance, 	but	we	will	not	change	
the	overall 	goal	path 	for	future 	years.
OHSAS 18001:Implementation 	plan	developed 	in	2006;	
began 	implementation 	in	four	power 	plants.
2006 	–	1	employee/1 	contractor
2005 	–	1
2004 	–	3
AEP	received 	3	citations; 	estimated 	fines	
are	$5,500 	with	one	case 	still	pending.	
	
Issues 	related 	to	confined 	space, 	lockout/
tagout 	controls 	and	training. 	Corrective	
actions 	taken.
Past Performance:2005 	–	1	citation; 	$85,000 	fine.
2004 	–	6	citations; 	fines 	of	$83,100.
	
7	public 	fatalities 	due	to	copper 	theft 	and	
live	wire 	contacts.
Actions Taken:Bill	inserts; 	advertising; 	web 	sites;	
awareness 	training 	for	first	responders,	
contractors 	and	civic 	and	government	
organizations; 	on-hold 	phone 	messages;	
teacher 	workshops.
2006 	–	Began 	data 	collection 	and	develop
-
ment 	of	outreach 	strategy 	and	program.
	Worked 	with	Ceres 	on	conference 	call	
with	NGOs 	following 	announcement 	of	Challenge Goal Progress
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 47Stakeholder EngagementChallenges, Goals, Progress for 2006need 	to	be	actively 	involved 	with	all	of	our	
stakeholders.
	
Without 	continued 	employee 	involvement	
in	the	community, 	AEP’s 	message 	may	not	
be	heard 	and	relationships 	would 	not	be	
as	strong.	
Continue 	philanthropy 	and	corporate 	giv-
ing,	even 	in	economic 	downturns 	when 	the	
support 	is	needed 	most.
	
Continue 	to	grow 	support 	for	United	
Way 	and	other 	forms 	of	giving, 	even 	in	
economic 	downturns 	when 	support 	is	
most 	needed.
Increase 	energy 	and	environmental	 	
knowledge 	of	public, 	teachers 	and	
children 	in	AEP	states 	through 	educational	
programs 	targeted 	at	students. 	Achieve 	the	
same 	goal	through 	customer 	communica -
tions.
Obtaining 	timely 	cost 	recovery.with	business 	units, 	that	can	be	integrated	
with	existing 	community 	outreach 	activi -
ties	and	communication 	plans.	
	 Hold 	quarterly 	stakeholder 	briefings 	with	
environmental, 	social 	and	community-
based 	NGOs, 	similar 	to	financial 	analyst	
calls, 	starting 	in	2007.
Integrate 	stakeholder 	review 	as	part	of	
annual 	process 	to	develop 	Corporate	
Responsibility 	Report. 	Extend 	reach 	to	
include 	diverse 	stakeholder 	groups.
Local 	stakeholder 	review 	is	part	of	2007	
reporting 	process.
Continue 	$150 	grant 	award 	opportunities	
for	community 	involvement.
	
Annual 	United 	Way 	fund-raising 	campaign	
achieves 	goal.
	
Continue 	partnership 	with	IBEW 	for	United	
Way 	campaign 	and	other 	community	
service 	initiatives.
Seek 	timely 	cost	recovery 	of	our	invest -
ments 	in	all	jurisdictions.new 	generation 	in	west; 	senior 	leadership,	
including 	CEO, 	participated.
Through 	Ceres, 	17	financial, 	social 	and	
environmental 	advocates 	participated 	in	
a	review 	of	this	Corporate 	Responsibility	
Report.
Outreach 	with	community 	leaders, 	civic/
service 	groups; 	communications 	with	com-
munities 	on	issues 	related 	to	road 	impacts,	
construction 	activity, 	etc.	
	 Ongoing 	community 	interaction 	related	
to	Smith 	Mountain 	shoreline 	management	
plan	as	part	of	re-licensing 	process.
$141,140 	in	grants 	awarded 	to	organiza -
tions 	on	behalf 	of	941	active 	and	retired	
employees 	and	family 	members 	who	
collectively 	performed 	124,803 	hours 	of	
volunteer 	service, 	in	2006.
I-765 Project Outreach:
•	More 	than 	300	contacts 	with	stakehold -
ers,	including 	FERC, 	PennFuture, 	Ameri -
can	Wind 	Energy 	Association, 	legislators	
and	regulators.
•	Meetings 	with	PA	Utility 	Commission,	
Consumer 	Advocate, 	Small 	Business	
Advocate 	and	DEP	Office 	of	Energy; 	also,	
consumer 	activists 	in	York	County, 	Pa.
AEP	employees 	pledged 	$2	million 	through	
its	annual 	United 	Way 	campaign; 	AEP	
matched 	it	with	a	$1	million 	grant.
Corporate 	giving 	totaled 	$9.1	million.
AEP	Foundation 	paid	$3.18 	million 	to	28	
organizations 	in	2006.
Sponsored 	COSI 	On	Wheels 	Investigating	
Energy 	presentations 	to	17	elementary	
schools 	in	2006-2007 	school 	year.
Chaired 	National 	Energy 	and	Education	
Development 	project 	to	expand 	to	more	
than 	52,000 	classrooms 	nationwide.
Foundation 	for	Environmental 	Education	
installed 	solar 	systems 	at	over 	250	schools,	
generating 	over 	5	million 	kilowatt 	hours.
New 	rate	plans 	approved 	in	Kentucky,	
West 	Virginia 	and	Ohio. 	Filed 	rate	cases 	in	
Texas 	and	Oklahoma.Challenge Goal Progress
48 Challeges, Goals & Progress for 2006GRI Report Content (key indicators)
 Corporate Responsibility Report 2007  41 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 49Strategy 	&	Profile
1.1	 Statement 	by	the	CEO	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-2
1.2	 Description 	of	key	impacts, 	risks, 	and	opportunities 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6-7
Organizational 	Profile
2.1	 Name 	of	the	organization 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cover
2.2	 Primary 	brands, 	products, 	and/or 	services 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	Back 	Cover . . . . CW
2.3	 Operational 	structure 	of	the	organization 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
2.4	 Location 	of	organization’s 	headquarters 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	Inside 	Back 	Cover . . . . CW
2.5	 Countries 	in	which 	the	company 	has	operations 		.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.		Inside 	Back 	Cover . . . . CW
2.6	 Nature 	of	ownership 	and	legal 	form 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
2.7	 Markets 	served 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	Inside 	Back 	Cover . .CW/U
2.8	 Scale 	of	the	reporting 	organization 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	Inside 	Back 	Cover . .CW/U
2.9	 Signi ficant 	changes 	in	size, 	structure, 	or	ownership 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
2.10	 Awards 	received 	in	the	reporting 	period 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
Report 	Parameters
3.1	 Reporting 	period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.2	 Date 	of	most 	recent 	previous 	report 	(if	any) 		.	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.3	 Reporting 	cycle 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.4	 Contact 	point 	for	questions 	regarding 	the	report 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
3.5	 Process 	for	defining 	report 	content 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4-5
3.6	 Boundary 	of	the	report 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4-5
3.7	 Speci fic	limitations 	on	the	scope 	or	boundary 	of	the	report 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4-5
3.8	 Basis 	for	reporting 	on	joint 	ventures, 	subsidiaries, 	leased 	facilities, 	outsourced 	operations, 	and	other 	entities . . . . . . . . . CW
3.9	 Data 	measurement 	techniques 	and	the	basis 	of	calculations 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
3.10	 Explanation 	of	the	nature 	and	effect 	of	any	re-statement 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.11	 Signi ficant 	scope, 	boundary, 	or	measurement 	changes 	from 	previous 	reporting 	period 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5	
GRI	Content 	Index
3.12	 Table 	identifying 	the	location 	of	the	Standard 	Disclosures 	in	the	report 			. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	49-50
3.13	 Accuracy 	and	completeness 	of	report 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
Governance
4.1	 Governance 	structure 	of	the	organization 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.2	 Indicate 	whether 	the	Chair 	of	the	Board 	is	also	an	executive 	officer 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.3	 Independence 	of	the	Executive 	Board 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.4	 Mechanisms 	to	provide 	recommendations 	to	the	Executive 	Board 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.5	 Linkage 	between 	organization’s 	performance 	and	executive 	compensation 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.6	 Avoiding 	conflicts	of	interest 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	7. . . . CW
4.7	 Quali fications 	and	expertise 	of	the	members 	of	the	Executive 	Board 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.8	 Corporate 	mission 	and	values 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6. . . . CW
4.9	 Board-level 	processes 	for	identifying 	and	managing 	risks 	and	opportunities 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4	/	6-7. . . . CW
4.10	 Processes 	for	evaluating 	the	Board’s 	own 	performance 		.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	. . . . CW
4.11	 How 	the	precautionary 	approach 	is	addressed 		.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.		6-7
4.12	 Externally 	developed 	economic, 	environmental, 	and	social 	charters 		.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	15	/	18. . . . CW
4.13	 Memberships 	in	associations 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	19	/	42. . . . CW
4.14	 Stakeholder 	groups 	engaged 	by	the	organization 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5	/	39-42 . . . . CW
4.15	 Identification 	and	selection 	of	stakeholders 		.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	5	/	39-42
4.16	 Approaches 	to	stakeholder 	engagement 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	39-42
4.17	 Use 	of	stakeholder 	engagement 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	39-42 	/	47-48
Management Approach & Performance Indicators
Economic
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-2	/	6-7	/	9-11 . . . . CW
EC1	 Direct 	economic 	value 	generated 	and	distributed 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EC2	 Financial 	implications 	and	other 	risks 	and	opportunities 	due	to	climate 	change 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-11	/	13-19
EC3	 Coverage 	of	defined	bene fit	plan 	obligations 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CWGRI Table of Contents (Key Indicators)  CR	2006	 CW 	
Key:	CR	2006 	=	Report 	Page 	Number 							CW	=	Corporate 	Web 	Site								 U	=	Utility 	Sector 	SupplementGRI Table of Contents50 GRI Table of ContentsEC4	 Signi ficant 	financial 	assistance 	received 	from 	government. 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EC6	 Policy, 	practices, 	and	proportion 	of	spending 	on	locally 	based 	suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	37. . . . CW
Environmental
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-2	/	13-19 	/	21-25 . . . . CW
EN1	 Materials 	used 	by	weight 	or	volume 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	23-25
EN3	 Direct 	energy 	consumption 	by	primary 	energy 	source 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	23. . . . CW
EN6	 Initiatives 	to	provide 	energy-efficient 	or	renewable 	products 	and	services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18	/	44
EU37	 Demand 	side	management 	programs 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	44. . . . . . U
EU38	 MWh 	saved 	through 	demand 	side	management 	programs 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	44. . . . . . U
EN8	 Total 	water 	withdrawal 	by	source. 	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.		24-25 .CW	/	U
EN9	 Water 	sources 	signi ficantly 	affected 	by	withdrawal 	of	water. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	25. . . . CW
EN10	 Percentage 	and	total 	volume 	of	water 	recycled 	and	reused. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	24-25
EN11	 Location 	and	size	of	land 	owned, 	leased, 	managed 	in,	or	adjacent 	to,	protected 	areas 	and	areas 	of	high	 	
	 biodiversity 	value 	outside 	protected 	areas. 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	25. . . . CW
EN12	 Impacts 	on	biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	25. . . . CW
EN13	 Habitats 	protected 	or	restored. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	19.CW	/	U
EN14	 Strategies 	for	managing 	impacts 	on	biodiversity. 	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.		25.CW	/	U
EN15	 IUCN 	Red	List	species 	and	national 	conservation 	list	species 	with 	habitats 	in	areas 	affected 	by	operations 	. . . . . . . . . . . CW
EN16	 Total 	direct 	and	indirect 	greenhouse 	gas	emissions 	by	weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	15. . . . CW
EN18	 Initiatives 	to	reduce 	greenhouse 	gas	emissions 	and	reductions 	achieved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	13-19 	/	21-22 	/	43
EN19	 Greenhouse 	gas	emissions 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	15. . . . CW
EN20	 NOx, 	SOx	and	other 	signi ficant 	air	emissions 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	21-22 . . . . CW
EN21	 Total 	water 	discharge 	by	quality 	and	destination 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	24-25 . . . . CW
EN22	 Waste 	volume 	by	type 	and	disposal 	method. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	22-24 . . . . CW
EU21	 Long-term 	strategy 	for	PCBs 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	22-23 . . . . . . U
EN23	 Total 	number 	and	volume 	of	signi ficant 	spills . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	23. . . . CW
EN24	 Weight 	of	transported, 	imported, 	exported, 	or	treated 	waste 	deemed 	hazardous 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	22-24 . . . . CW
EN25	 Water 	bodies 	and	related 	habitats 	significantly 	affected 	by	discharges 	of	water 	and	runoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EN26	 Initiatives 	to	mitigate 	environmental 	impacts 	of	products 	and	services 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	13-19 	/	21-25 	/	43-46 . . . . CW
EN28	 Fines 	for	non-compliance 	with 	environmental 	regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	21	/	44-45
EN30	 Total 	environmental 	protection 	expenditures 	and	investments 	by	type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	21-22 	/	30. . . . CW
Labor 	Practices 	and	Decent 	Work
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	33-37 . . . . CW
LA1	 Total 	work 	force 	by	employment 	type, 	employment 	contract, 	and	region 	.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
LA2	 Total 	number 	and	rate	of	employee 	turnover 	by	age	group, 	gender, 	and	region 	.	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
LA3	 Benefits 	provided 	to	full-time 	employees 	versus 	temporary 	or	part-time 	employees 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EU24	 Processes 	to	ensure 	retention 	and	renewal 	of	skilled 	work 	force 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	35-37 . . . . . . U
LA4	 Percentage 	of	employees 	covered 	by	collective 	bargaining 	agreements 	.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	37
LA7	 Rates 	of	injury, 	occupational 	diseases, 	lost	days, 	absenteeism, 	and	number 	of	fatalities 	by	region. 	. . . . . . . . . . . . 	33
LA8	 Programs 	to	assist 	work 	force 	members, 	their 	families, 	or	community 	members 	regarding 	serious 	diseases. 	. . .	34
LA11	 Programs 	for	skills 	management 	and	lifelong 	learning 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
LA12	 Percentage 	of	employees 	receiving 	regular 	performance 	reviews 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
LA13	 Composition 	of	governance 	bodies 	and	breakdown 	of	employees 	per	category 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	36
Human 	Rights
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	33-37 . . . . CW
HR4	 Total 	number 	of	incidents 	of	discrimination 	and	actions 	taken. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
HR9	 Total 	number 	of	incidents 	of	violations 	involving 	rights 	of	indigenous 	people 	and	actions 	taken. 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
Society
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	9-11	/	39	/	42. . . . CW
SO5	 Public 	policy 	positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8-11	/	43
SO6	 Total 	value 	of	contributions 	to	political 	parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	42
SO7	 Legal 	actions 	for	anti-competitive 	behavior, 	anti-trust, 	and	monopoly 	practices 	and	their 	outcomes 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
SO8	 Value 	of	signi ficant 	fines	and	total 	number 	of	non-monetary 	sanctions 	for	non-compliance 		 . . . . . . . . . . . 	21	/	34	/	44
Product 	Responsibility
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	33-37 . . . . CW
PR8	 Total 	number 	of	substantiated 	complaints 	regarding 	breaches 	of	customer 	privacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
PR9	 Fines 	for	non-compliance 	concerning 	the	use	of	products 	and	services 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	21	/	44
EU3	 Long-term 	reliability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	27-31 . . . . . . U
EU4	 Existing 	and	future 	demand 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	31. . . . . . UMarket Price—Common Stock
	 2005	 2006	
	 	 	
Service Territory
 AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian 
Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power 
(in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public 
Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric 
Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio.
e	Printed on 20 percent post consumer recycled paper, with soy-based inks.    
 © 2007 American Electric Power Co., Inc.American Electric Power is one of the natio n’s larg -
est electric utilities, serving 5.1 million customers 
in 11 states from Virginia to Texas. In 200 6, AEP  
celebrated its 100th anniversary. 	
	 	 2006
Revenues (in billions)  $	12.6 
*Net Income (in millions)  $	1,002 
*Earnings Per Share     $	2.54 
Service Territory  197,500	square 	miles
Transmission  39,000 	miles
Distribution  208,000 	miles
Generating Capacity     38,300 	MW  
Generating Stations  More 	than	80
Railcars  More 	than	8,000
Barges (owned & leased)  2,600
Towboats  51
Employment  20,400
*GAAPCOMPANY OVERVIEW
AEP Generation PortfolioAmerican	Electric	Power
1	Riverside	Plaza
Columbus,	OH	43215
614-716-1000
www.AEP .com