	
	 	
	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
		 	
		 	 	
		 	9 	
	
$70million 	
invested 	in		
energy 	efficiency 	in	20 10	 American 	El ectric 	Po wer	11	Corporate 	Accountability 	Re port
	 Transforming 	Ou r	Bu siness 	fo r	Su stainable 	Gr owth20 
Disclaimer:
later changes to such material.
Stateme nt
 
GRI her eby states tha t Ameri can Electri cal Power has p resented its report “2011 Corpo rate Ac count-
 
G3 Guidelines. 
31 Mar ch 2011, Am sterdam
Nelma ra Arbe x
 
            
Audit Review of This Report      
AEP Audit Services performed a review of the in-
formation included in this 2011 AEP Corporate  
Accountability Report. Financial information was reconciled with AEP’s audited financial statements,  
if applicable, or to such other sources as deemed appropriate. Processes used in accumulating the significant nonfinancial data were reviewed and the data were reconciled to the source(s). The appropriateness of the context in which data are presented was also reviewed. Finally, the forward-looking information presented was verified as con -
sistent with other public information disclosed by AEP. Based upon our review, we believe the in -
formation contained in the report is appropriately stated, and that the processes followed in accu -
mulating both the financial and nonfinancial infor -
mation are reasonable.
Contact Information
For information about this report, the content of  
our website or AEP’s sustainability initiatives, or to  
provide feedback, please contact Sandy Nessing at 
smnessing@AEP.com  or Jerra Thomas at 
jmthomas2@AEP. com .AEP Economic Impact 2010   
Employees (year-en d) 18,712  
Wages   $1.8 billion  
Construction Expenditures  $2.3 billion  1 
Local Taxe s $489 million
State Taxes  $361 million
Federal Taxe s $326 million
Goods & Service s (does not include fue l) $3.6 billion  
Goods & Service s from Diverse Suppliers  $340 million  
Remaining Value of All Contracts  $1.04 billion  2
Coal Purchased (tons) 64.6 million
Coal Average Purchase Price (per to n) $44.82
Corporate Givin g $23.7 million  3
Economic Development Contribution s $2.7 million  4
1 C onstruction expenditures include those expenses listed in the Cash
 F low Statement.
2 S upply chain purchased contracts and inventory system.
3 I ncludes $11.8 million of AEP Foundation grants.
4 I ncludes all grants and contributions by utility units to support economic 
 d evelopment.
2010 Energy Sales
	 n	Residential	 30	%
	 n	Industrial	 28	%
	 n	Commercial 	 25	% 	
	 n	Wholesale*	 17	%
 * W holesale includes sales to municipal 
  a nd cooperative power systems,  
  o ther wholesale and miscellaneous  
  r etail sales.Total System  – A nnual SO 2 Emissions ( i n thousand U.S. tons  )
	 2005 	 900
	 2006	 853	 	
2007	 749	 		 	
2008	 638
	 2009	 457
	2010	 416
Total System  – A nnual NOx Emissions ( i n thousand U.S. tons  )
	 2005 	 275
	 2006	 270
	2007	 266	 		 	
2008	 249
	 2009	 121
	2010	 125
Total System  – A nnual CO 2 Emissions ( i n million metric tons  )
	 2005	 145.1
	 2006	 143.9
	2007	 147.7
	 2008 		 148.2
	 2009	 129.7
	2010	 134.0
2010 Ongoing Earnings Contribution
	 n	Ohio 	P ower	 24	%
	 n	CSP	 17	%
	 n	APCO	 16	%	
	 n	SWEPCO	 11	%
	 n	I&M	 10	%
	 n	AEP	T exas	 8	%	
	 n	PSO	 6	%
	 n	Others	 5	%	
	 n	Kentucky 	P ower	 3	% CSP (Columbus Southern Power)
APCO (Appalachian Power Co.)
I&M (Indiana Michigan Power)
PSO (Public Service Company of Oklahoma)
SWEPCO (Southwestern Electric Power Co.)Market Price  – C ommon Stock
	 	 High	 $	36.51 		 	 	 	 	 	
	 2009 	Low	 $	2 4.00 	
	 	 Year-End 	 $	3 4.79 		 	
	 	 High	 $	37.94 		 	 	 	 	 	
	2010	Low	 $	2 8.17 	
	 	 Year-End 	 $	3 5.98 		 	Company Overview 2010
American  Electric Power has been providing electric service for more 
than 100 years and is one of the nation’s largest electric utilities, serving 
5.3 million customers in portions of 11 states.    
Revenues (in billion s) $14.4 
Net Income (in million s)  $1,211 1 
Earnings Per Share  $2.53 1 
Cash Dividends Per Share  $1.71
Service Territory  200,000 square miles
Transmission  39,000 miles
Distribution  220,000 miles
Generating Capacity  39,000 MW  2
Generating Stations  69
Renewable Portfolio (hydr o) 364 MW  3
Pumped Storage  586 MW  4
Renewable Portfolio (wind, sola r) 1,504 MW  5
Total Kilowatt-hour Sales (in million s) 206,000
Total Assets (in billion s) $50.5
U.S. Customers (year-end, in millions)  5.3 
1  G enerally Accepted Accounting Principles.
2  R epresents nominal capacity; includes 270 MW of mothballed  / de-
 c ommissioned generation, AEP’s interest in Ohio Valley Electric Corp.,  
 p urchased power agreements and renewables.
3 Excludes pumped storage; includes owned capacity and purchased 
 p ower. Nameplate capacity.
4 Nominal capacity.
5 Regulated wind and solar capacity online or under contract. Name-
 p late capacity.
AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), 
Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of  
Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Co. (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio.AEP Service TerritoryAbout 	T his 	R eport 	
This is AEP’s second integrated report combining the An -
nual Report to Shareholders with the Corporate Sustainabil -
ity Report. This is our fifth year of reporting our sustainability 
performance. This printed report is supported by a web -
site – www.AEPsustainability.com  – t hat includes significant 
additional data and information about AEP’s performance. This report is based largely on calendar year 2010 with ex -
ceptions for early 2011 data as noted. For more information about AEP, visit 
www.AEP.com .
Global Reporting Initiative 
We follow the GRI guidelines for reporting our performance. A complete index of performance indicators begins on page 48. All of the data supporting these indicators can be found on 
our website  – www.AEPsustainability.com . We also report 
on electric utility industry-specific indicators.
This report was printed by Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification, on 55 
percent recycled paper, including 30 percent post-consumer waste, with vegetable-formulated inks. 
© 2011 American Electric Power Co., Inc.www.AEPsustainability.com
Index of Topics
	2 A Message from the Chairman & CEO  
  M ichael G. Morris
	6 Leadership, Management & Strategy
	12 Business Performance: Financial
	16 Business Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
	22 Environmental Performance: Environment
	28 Environmental Performance: Climate Change
	32 Social Performance: Work Force
	38 Social Performance: Public Policy 
	42 Social Performance: Stakeholder Engagement
	47 Corporate & Shareholder Information
	48 GRI Table of Contents  / K ey Indicators
  F orward-Looking Information
Statement 	o f 	t he 	A EP	B oard 	o f	D irectors
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the responsibility for 
monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustainability initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. Last year, the Committee supported the integration of sustainability reporting with financial reporting and provided management with  
guidance for the proposed approach to the corporate accountabil -
ity report. Stakeholders expressed approval and appreciation for 
AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate report -
ing and we continue it this year. 
 T he Committee and AEP management thoroughly reviewed  
the company’s sustainability objectives, challenges, targets and  
progress and reported the results of the reviews to the full Board.  
The Committee reviewed and discussed the final text of this report  
before recommending its approval by the full Board of Directors.
 T he AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports both 
from management and from the Committee on Directors and Cor -
porate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives and from management and Board committees about the compa -
ny’s financial reporting and economic performance. Topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at the Board and Committee meetings. All members of the Board reviewed the re -
port in detail and at the conclusion of this review process the Board 
of Directors adopted a formal resolution approving the report.
 T he Board believes this document is a reasonable and trans -
parent presentation of the company’s plans and of its environmen -
tal, social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized to 
management that it will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and 
the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to 
changing circumstances while respecting the commitments made in this report. 
Lester A. Hudson, Jr.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 5, 2011
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   1Dear 	F riends:
To grow, prosper and remain sustainable, 
we must embrace change and transforma- tion. Change requires leadership, courage  
and an open culture. Transformation de- mands candor, trust and collaboration as we  
engage with many different stakeholders to find the best solutions. Above all, sustaina-bility requires shared commitment, clear in-tent and a solid plan of action. The changes under way at AEP will transform our opera -
tions, reduce our environmental impacts and ensure our long-term financial health.
 O ur sustainability journey has already 
carried us far. Our accomplishments in-clude significant reductions in air emissions; improved employee safety and health;  
improved system reliability; investments in technologies that will shape the future of energy production, transmission, distribution 
and use; the growth of our modern transmission business; reduc -
tions in our own energy use; increases in our fuel diversity, includ -
ing the use of renewable resources; sustainable dividends for our 
shareholders; a stronger balance sheet; new partnerships with many stakeholders; and improved service to our customers. We are proud of these achievements.
 B ut the future looks much different than before. The road 
ahead is paved with significant challenges for our company and our customers that were not on the radar even three years ago. A combination of factors is forcing us to look at our business in a new light. Key drivers include eroding tolerance by customers for rate increases; denial by state regulators to recover our investments in 
carbon capture and renewable energy; slow economic recovery 
in most of our states; more complex and stringent environmental regulations that will push customer rates still higher; the rising cost to operate older, less efficient coal units; the cost-competitiveness of natural gas compared with other fuels; a dramatically different political landscape; and new concerns about the future of nuclear power in the wake of the Japanese nuclear crisis. 
 W e are developing a transition plan that addresses grid reli -
ability, customer bill impacts, sustainable job creation and the need for a more diverse fuel portfolio in the future. It will also transform the way in which we interact with our cus -
tomers. All options are being analyzed and when our plan is complete, we will share it. 
 W e expect natural gas will play a larger 
role as shale reserves are developed. We expect gas suppliers to responsibly ad-dress environmental and safety issues. Other energy sources also will play a bigger  
role, including renewable resources where 
they are accepted, nuclear power, hydro 
power, demand response programs and energy efficiency. Transmission will be a more critical resource, too. Consequently, our capital investments will shift as we build natural gas plants, continue to invest in transmission and update aging equip -
ment. This strategy will benefit our custom -
ers, our investors, the environment and our 
other stakeholders. But it will come at a cost.  
Energy Policy Lacking
We are in desperate need of a comprehensive federal energy policy that addresses environmental concerns and energy security and establishes a long-term energy strategy for the nation. Only a coor -
dinated national plan can ensure our energy security and reliability. Without it, energy-related decisions will, out of necessity, be more 
tactical than strategic. 
 I f the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed 
rule to control mercury and other emissions is a harbinger of the 
agency’s plans for several other regulations, our transformation may be accelerated, but with serious financial consequences. It most certainly will increase our costs to comply as well as what our customers pay for electricity. 
 L et me be clear: We support the Clean Air Act. But the EPA’s 
process and timelines are not realistic, and that is what we take issue with. We support rational environmental regulation that pro -
vides significant public health and environmental benefits. But compliance requirements must be affordable and at an achiev -
able pace. Already, we know that compliance with the proposed 
new hazardous air pollutants rule on the prescribed timeline will be 
extremely difficult and will prompt premature retirements of some coal units across the country. A Message from the Chairman & CEO
2 A  Message from the Chairman & CEOAEP	D ividend 	H istory 	
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 4.0%  ( $ / share  )
	 2004	 	$ 1 .40 	
	 2005  $ 1 .42
	 2006  $ 1 .50	
	2007  $ 1 .58 	
	 2008  $ 1 .64 	
	 2009  $ 1 .64		
	2010  $ 1 .71	
	2011	 Projected 		 $ 1 .84 	
	 	n Subject to Board of Directors approvalwww.AEPsustainability.com
 T he price tag could be staggering; we won’t know the final cost 
until all of the regulations are finalized, but we estimate the cost of 
compliance under the EPA’s timeline could be more than double what we have spent so far for environmental controls. Our concern is the failure to consider all of the regulations in total, rather than one-by-one. This impedes our ability to determine which coal units 
have to be closed and which will remain in service. This uncertainty 
complicates our resource planning. We also are deeply concerned that the EPA’s process does not consider the loss of jobs and com -
munity tax revenues and the impact of higher electric rates, espe -
cially on low-income customers and electric-intensive industries. 
 W e hope the EPA will listen to our feedback. A few changes to 
the combined rules would bring tremendous value, allowing us to achieve compliance without harming local and national economies.
 G lobal warming continues to be a concern and one that must 
be addressed internationally. Our position on this issue has not changed. No single country or company can solve it. It is our funda-mental belief that the best way to address this issue is through inter -
national collaboration. That’s why in 2011 we signed agreements with two of China’s largest energy companies to support knowl -
edge and technology exchanges related to carbon capture and grid developments. We also believe that, here in the United States, the best way to address climate change is through legislation. 
 T he lack of a strategic energy policy also hampers the devel -
opment and deployment of new and expensive technologies that we need to address climate change. Without a legislative mandate, regulators are telling us loud and clear that they are not willing to pay for them. AEP took the global lead and the financial risk to 
advance carbon capture and storage (CCS) because this tech -
nology is critical if we are serious about reducing carbon dioxide 
emissions. But regulators in Virginia rejected our request to recover costs associated with the project. We are still evaluating a regula -
tory decision on the project from West Virginia. We learned a lot from our 20-megawatt (MW) CCS validation project at the Moun -
taineer Plant in West Virginia, enhancing our knowledge of the pro -
cess and technology. But substantial financial challenges remain.
 T hrough a joint funding effort with the U.S. Department of 
Energy’s Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 3, we have begun geo -
logic, engineering and design work for a commercial-scale 235-MW project that could be operational by 2015. We also recently received $4 million from the Global Carbon Capture & Storage Insti -
tute in Australia to support engineering work. It is essential that this technology be brought to maturity and demonstrated on a com -
mercial scale if we want to maintain coal as an option in a carbon-constrained world. When there is a federal requirement and/or 
adequate funding to support CCS, AEP is up to the challenge. But 
without these assurances, the future of our project is very unclear.
 W e need other options for coal, too. That’s why the John W. 
Turk, Jr., ultra-supercritical coal plant under construction in south -
west Arkansas is important. Once complete, this will be one of the most efficient coal plants in the United States. It is also the first application of this technology in this country. 
Balancing All Stakeholder Needs
We are engaged in candid, ongoing discussions with regulators, legislators and many other stakeholders about our concerns. These  
are difficult and complicated issues, and there are no easy solu -
tions. If we work together, we think the outcome can be positive for stakeholders, customers, the environment and society. We 
believe sensible regulation and policy can be crafted that balances 
the costs and benefits. If done right, it would create jobs and eco -
nomic opportunity, achieve the long-term environmental goals, and spread the costs over time to avoid unnecessary financial hardship for customers. We will continue to connect with our stakeholders and seek their input as we move forward. 
 W e are preparing to undergo a transformation that will signifi -
cantly change our business. Our responsibility is to manage and reduce our environmental impacts as we deliver reliable electricity  We are in desperate need of a comprehensive federal energy policy that 
addresses environmental concerns and energy security and establishes a 
long-term energy strategy for the nation.
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   3steady, solid, competitive return in today’s marketplace. 
 I  am delighted that, twice last year, our board of directors 
voted to increase the quarterly dividend to shareholders. The total 
quarterly dividend increase of 12 percent helped to keep our total shareholder return competitive and allowed us to reward our share -
holders until our earnings growth can accelerate from increased capital investment and sales growth. It was a thrill to ring the clos -
ing bell at the New York Stock Exchange in June 2010 in celebra -
tion of AEP’s 400th consecutive quarterly dividend payment, a rare occurrence indeed. On March 10, 2011, we paid our 403rd con -
secutive quarterly dividend to our shareholders. 
Operational Performance
Operating more efficiently and adapting to the changing economic and regulatory environment requires our work force to change, too. We reduced our work force by more than 2,400 employees in 2010 in a realignment of our cost structure with a slow but steady eco -
nomic recovery. Most of those who left did so voluntarily.
 I  am pleased to report that, despite this restructuring and 
associated distractions, our overall safety performance was excel -
lent. AEP employees share a deep commitment to safety and health and strive to live up to that commitment every day. I am pro -
foundly grateful to our employees and our leadership for their dedi -
cation to safety and health. No employee lost his or her life while 
working for AEP in 2010, fewer employees were harmed on the job 
and the severity of injuries was at a near-record low. Our board of directors passed a resolution commending employees for perform -
ing at a level that was among the best in our company’s history.
 W e have made significant progress, but we can and will do 
better to improve our safety and health record. Three employees lost their lives on the job during the past five years. We will not tol -
erate any compromise of safety standards, and we will continue to work hard to achieve and maintain zero harm.
 O ur environmental performance is excellent: We are a top per -
former in our industry by almost every measure. We are proud that this performance is outstanding for a utility of our size and scope. However, we fell short of our goal of zero environmental violations. In 2010, we had three violations and paid minimal fines of less than 
$10,000. As we learn from these events and take steps to prevent 
recurrences, our goal continues to be zero violations. 
 O ur distribution system reliability improved in 2010. The aver -
age length of time that customers were without power and the fre-to customers. We will increase our earnings potential as we invest  
in our existing distribution and generation infrastructure and expand 
the transmission grid inside and outside of our service territory. We 
will do it by developing our work force to build, operate and main -
tain new technologies essential to our success. We also are com -
mitted to engaging our stakeholders in honest and open dialogue about our plans while doing a better job of informing our customers about the cost and value of electricity. 
 O ur business transformation touches every one of our oper -
ating companies, customers, shareholders, employees, communi -
ties, legislators and regulators. To be successful, we must continue to deliver strong earnings this decade and beyond; we cannot meet our commitments unless we have the resources to do so. 
2010 Financial Performance
We achieved strong financial results last year, in part due to aggres -
sive cost cutting and favorable weather. We also rewarded our shareholders with higher dividends. Our continued financial health and ability to create long-term value for shareholders depends upon our ability to transform our earnings as we transform our company. 
 A s we shift our focus from coal generation to resource diver -
sity and the efficient delivery of energy through transmission and grid investments, we also will transform the earnings stream of the company. That is our integrated plan for growth. 
 T he actions we took during the past two years put us on the  
road to slow and steady growth this year. Revenue increased to  
$14.4 billion from $13.5 billion in 2009, largely due to successful  
rate cases, which allowed for recovery of capital already invested and for incremental costs such as fuel. Weather and a 5 percent 
rebound in industrial sales also helped revenues. 
 O perations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures for the en-
tire system, on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles basis, 
increased $449 million in 2010. The increase primarily related to $293 million (pretax) of severance costs due to our cost reduc -
tion initiatives and $114 million (pretax) of expenses associated with dollar-for-dollar rate recovery. Our capital investments of $2.2 billion 
were down from almost $2.5 billion in 2009 as we responded to 
regulator and customer concerns about rate increases. 
 O ur 2010 earnings of $3.03 per share on an ongoing basis 
were at the upper end of our projected range and exceeded 2009 ongoing earnings per share of $2.97. Our total shareholder return was nearly 9 percent for 2010, providing investors in AEP with a Our 2010 earnings of $  3 .03 per share on an  
ongoing basis were at the upper end of our  
projected range and exceeded 2009 ongoing 
earnings per share of $  2 .97 .  Our total share -
holder return was nearly 9 percent for 2010  .
AEP Chairman & 
CEO Mike Morris 
addresses the  
U.S.-China Strategic Forum on Clean 
Energy Cooperation 
in Washington, D.C.,  
in January 2011.
4 A  Message from the Chairman & CEOwww.AEPsustainability.com
quency of interruptions improved significantly, helping us to achieve 
our best performance in five years. Our gridSMART  ® initiative, un-
der way in four states, will transform our relationship with our cus -
tomers from one in which the customer uses power and gets a bill 
to one in which we work together to save electricity, lower energy 
demand and consumption, and reduce customer costs.  
 O ur transmission strategy to expand inside and outside of our 
service territory also moved forward. Among our successes were the establishment of transmission companies in Ohio, Michigan and Oklahoma. Applications are pending in West Virginia, Kentucky and Indiana. 
Preparing for the Future
We all have a role in ensuring the quality of our energy future. We believe that our customers want to use energy more efficiently, and in most of our service territories, programs and technology are helping them to accomplish this goal. Moving forward, we want to operate our system more efficiently; diversify our fuel generation; 
develop a more robust grid to enable the utilization of cleaner, more 
efficient and economic energy; and prepare for the electrification of the transportation sector. 
 W e have many initiatives under way that position us to achieve 
these goals. We will also work to prepare our regulators, employ -
ees, customers and communities for the full impact of coal unit closings, new environmental mandates and the true cost of clean energy. We are ready to listen to ideas they may have for solu -
tions to these complex problems. We will continue to communicate 
these issues with our stakeholders and collaborate with them to 
find common ground and pursue common sense solutions. 
 W e are saddened by the terrible loss of life and destruction 
associated with the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March. We are also concerned about the events at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Station in northeastern Japan. Although all the les -
sons to be learned are not yet known, AEP remains committed to learn from these events and to operate our Cook Nuclear Plant to 
one standard –  “ Excellence.” We also believe that it would be unfor -
tunate and inappropriate to discount nuclear energy as a viable and 
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   5AEP	T otal 	S hareholder 	R eturn
	 2005 1 2.3 %	
	 2006 		 19.6 %	
	 2007 1 3.1 %	
	 2008 – 25.4  %	
	 2009 1 0.4 %		 	
	 2010 8 .7 %	
AEP Chairman & CEO Mike Morris and other AEP leaders ring the NYSE’s closing 
bell on June 3, 2010, in celebration of the company’s 400th consecutive dividend.
critical global energy resource for the future. 
 F inally, a few personal notes. I have tried to prepare for the 
future since my first day here in 2004. We created an extensive succession planning initiative to broaden the knowledge and skills of our executives and to ensure that the most qualified candidate takes the helm when I step down as CEO. I am very proud that this process resulted in the board having external candidates and four 
strong internal candidates from which to choose. The board named 
Nick Akins as president of AEP, and he will work closely with me this year as I continue in the roles of chairman and CEO. If the succes -
sion plan continues according to schedule, Nick will also become CEO later this year.  
 T wo long-time board members will retire this year, bringing yet 
more change to our leadership team. We are most grateful for the dedicated service of Donald M. Carlton and E.R. “Dick” Brooks, both of whom have served since 2000. Prior to the 2000 merger of AEP and Central and South West Corp. (CSW), Dick was CEO of CSW for nearly 10 years. Both board members have been passion -
ate advocates for employee safety, our nuclear program and our company’s tradition of excellence in governance.
 W e are in a time of great transformation. Our vision for cleaner, 
more affordable and more reliable electricity is central to America’s economic recovery and growth. As a nation, we must embrace energy as a powerful engine for our country’s economic future; as a company, we must strive continually to balance the needs of our customers and shareholders with measurable benefits to the envi -
ronment and society. The men and women of AEP are making bold changes that will lead us toward a more secure energy future; I invite you to join us in leading this exciting transformation.
Sincerely, 
 
Michael  G. Morris 
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
April 2011
Leadership, Management & Strategy
trend to continue in 2011, we are taking steps through the regula -
tory process to address this while entering the competitive mar -
ket ourselves. Our new AEP Retail Energy business has initiated 
retail marketing efforts in our service territory as well as other service territories in Ohio. Read more about this in Public Policy .
 E mployee and other human-resource issues remain vitally 
important. We are focused on a strategy that ensures we can attract and retain the talent we will need to build, operate and main -
tain new technologies and interactive energy supply-and-demand 
systems, such as our gridSMART  ® initiative. 
 O ur extensive stakeholder engagement process has helped to 
inform our business strategy, and it has begun to produce syner -
gies and business opportunities for us. We are discovering that many of the lines we had drawn separating financial from nonfinan -
cial strategies, activities and reporting are no longer relevant and, in some cases, are counterproductive.
 I n response, we have worked to embed and integrate environ-  
mental and societal issues and performance into our strategy, our  
operations and our measurement and reporting systems. For ex-ample, in our Engineering, Projects & Field Services organization,  
the annual business plan is based on our sustainability strategy, and  
we’ve designed goal-setting and performance systems that em-phasize the connection between each employee’s job and our com-pany’s overall environmental, social and financial performance. 
Strategic Transformation
The ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus said, “The only constant is change.” He could have been describing the electric utility indus -
try and AEP in particular. We are in the midst of a fundamental transformation, including:
Our operations are increasingly integrated: Our operating com -
pany presidents are responsible for business performance across generation, transmission and distribution. Consequently, these business units are working more closely and sharing goals and accountability for overall performance at the operating company 
level. The company presidents are actively involved with resource 
planning, cash flow, balance sheets, income statements and stake -
holder relationships. This business model allows the company presidents to align investment decisions with financial, regulatory and operational priorities and to manage our social and environ -
mental performance in an integrated fashion.
Our fuel mix is changing:  We are a coal-centric electric utility, but An Integrated, Stakeholder-Informed Strategy
The connections between our environmental, financial and social performance are central to our strategy and to our thinking about who we are and what we do. The more we align and integrate our activities in these three areas, the more successful we will be. 
 F or more than 100 years, AEP has provided affordable, reliable 
electricity for our customers; steady, competitive returns for our shareholders; and safe, rewarding jobs for our employees. While doing so, we have worked to protect the environment and to sup -
port the communities in which we operate. 
 T he link between our environmental and financial performance 
has become much stronger and clearer to us during the past sev -
eral years. Environmental issues became a larger part of our risk portfolio, and our performance as a company began to be seen, at least in part, in terms of our ability to address global climate change. We have made major investments in environmental con -
trols at many of our coal-fired plants, which have resulted in reduc -
tions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions by about 80 percent since 1980. While there is a clear environmental benefit, these investments have also led to major rate increases for our cus-  
tomers. At the same time, we have led the way in testing and de-ploying new technologies that will make us more efficient, give cus -
tomers more control over energy use, enable modernization of the grid and further reduce our environmental impacts. 
 A EP was presented with a new challenge in 2010. In Ohio, 
customers have had a choice for generation service since 2001, but 2010 was the first year in which we have seen active retail mar -
keting that targets our commercial customers. While we expect this  
6
 L eadership, Management & Strategy
Construction continues on the John W. Turk, Jr., coal plant, which is scheduled   
to begin operations in 2012.employee tool for providing that assurance. We also communicate 
with employees regularly about ethics and compliance via e-mails, videos, the company’s intranet and a dedicated ethics and compli -
ance blog for employees. Read more about the culture of ethics and compliance in Work Force .
 W e have a deep commitment to succession planning and dur -
ing the past five years, several senior executives were given differ -
ent assignments to expose them to all aspects of the company’s operations. This process resulted in four internal executives being considered by the board of directors as potential candidates to 
succeed Mike Morris as president and CEO of AEP. 
 I n late December, after reviewing internal and external can -
didates, the board appointed Nick Akins, who previously led our 
Generation business, as president of AEP. If the succession plan continues on schedule, the board will name Nick CEO later this year. Until then, he will work closely with Mike and with Vice Chair -
man Carl English. 
 T he board’s Committee on Directors & Corporate Governance 
has oversight over this report and provides input and guidance to management on selected issues. The board holds manage -
ment accountable for sustainability and financial performance, as described in a board statement that is published every year in this report. The board receives semiannual updates on our progress, 
although discussion occurs throughout the year.
 O ur efforts to make AEP a leader in corporate governance 
were recognized in 2010 when AEP was named one of the 20 
“Most Responsible Corporations” in the United States by Gov -
ernanceMetrics International. The ranking was based on board accountability, internal controls, shareholder rights, remuneration, 
and other corporate governance 
codes and principles. AEP was specifically cited for its extensive reporting on environmental and social performance.
Risk Management 
AEP faces a variety of risks related to environmental and other public  
policy issues, safety in the work-place, grid security, financial and operational performance, and  
www.AEPsustainability.com
that is changing. We plan to invest in cost-effective environmental retrofits of larger, newer coal-burning units and retire older, smaller units. We eventually will build more natural gas generation, similar to the 508-megawatt (MW) J. Lamar Stall combined-cycle gas unit  
in Louisiana, which began operating in 2010, and the 580-MW 
Dresden combined-cycle gas plant under construction in Ohio. 
We are completing the ultra-supercritical John W. Turk, Jr., Plant  
in Arkansas.
Technology is changing:  We continue to explore different and new 
technologies that could play a pivotal role in how electricity is pro -
duced, distributed and used. Our gridSMART  ® projects in Ohio, 
Texas, Oklahoma and Indiana are giving us practical experience in smart grid technologies, from energy storage and distributed gen -
eration to smart meters and voltage control. While we are learning a lot about these technologies, customers have yet to fully under -
stand how to take advantage of them. We will pursue the deploy -
ment of smart grid technologies where regulators are supportive. 
Our culture is changing:  We strive for openness, candor and trust 
in all areas, especially as they relate to safety and health. For ex-ample, when job conditions change, employees know they must stop and re-evaluate the risk. We have not yet achieved the level of openness we strive for, but the change in our culture has been 
significant. Read more about this in Stakeholder Engagement .
Our values continue to guide us:  Our values of safety, fairness, 
trustworthiness, responsibility, citizenship, respect and caring con -
tinue to commit us to high standards of ethics and quality. Even 
as our strategies and operations evolve in order to help us remain successful, our core business mission and objectives are the same 
as they have always been.
Changes in Leadership, Governance & Management 
Our leadership and management structure also is in transition. 
Leadership takes many forms. One of them is the ability to deal effectively with change by having vision, setting a clear direction, aligning human and financial resources, and motivating people to move forward. We believe that AEP is fortunate to have a leader -
ship team that is prepared to deal with today’s enormous changes. 
 O ur conduct is guided by our Principles of Business Conduct, 
which require us to operate with integrity, fairness, respect and care. We seek to foster an environment in which employees know their concerns are addressed respectfully, confidentially and in a timely manner. Our “24/7” confidential ethics hotline is an important 
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   7The	a ncient 	G reek 	p hilosopher 	H eraclitus 	s aid,	“The only constant is change.” 
He could have been describing the electric utility industry and AEP in  
particular. We are in the midst of a fundamental transformation.
AEP President Nick Akins  other matters that could affect the company’s competitiveness or 
reputation. Effective risk management enables us to respond and adapt quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing environment described in this report. 
 W e continuously examine our levels of acceptable risk based 
on changes in the internal and external operating environment and on specific circumstances. We weigh the potential impact of  
various risks on our financial health and reputation and on our abil -
ity to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Our manage -
ment team and board of directors discuss these issues and weigh 
our risk management options on an ongoing basis. 
 O ur Enterprise Risk Oversight group develops and applies 
enterprisewide risk management tools. It gathers and analyzes 
risk-related information from business units and reports to the Risk Executive Committee and the Audit Committee of the board of directors. This enables management and the board to understand, evaluate and respond to the significant risks facing the company. 
 O ur Risk Executive Committee meets regularly to monitor the 
material and emerging risks facing the company. It reviews and evaluates the response to these risks and will request risk mitiga -
tion from business unit leaders, if necessary. 
 R isk management occurs at all levels of AEP. Individual busi -
ness units are responsible for identifying, analyzing and assess -
ing their risks and for implementing appropriate risk management controls. For example, we manage fuel inventory and purchases to balance supply needs with the ability to secure regulatory recov -
ery of fuel costs at each power plant. This localized approach to risk management reduces the likelihood that a power plant will run short of fuel and reduces risk to our shareholders and customers. 
 I n 2010, we began to track our sustainability commitments in 
relation to the company’s material risks. When reporting progress, business units are asked to identify actions that may create risks for the company. This ensures alignment of goals and actions and helps to identify emerging issues and trends. It also helps to inform goal setting and decision making.
 B usiness readiness for high impact/low probability events has 
always been important, but it came under increased scrutiny in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, the Upper Big Branch mining disaster in West Virginia and the nuclear crisis in Japan. 
 A EP has business continuity and disaster recovery plans in 
place. Every business unit has a business continuity plan specific to its needs that addresses people, processes, property and other factors. For example, we have plans to respond if a pandemic were to cause widespread employee absences and supply disruptions, which would affect our ability to serve our customers. 
 I n our Fossil/Hydro unit, we use predictive maintenance tech -
nologies such as vibration analysis and infrared thermography to  
help identify the potential for equipment failure in our power plants.  
In addition, we monitor industry experience to develop proac -
tive approaches to minimizing our risks. For instance, following the Kleen Energy Plant natural gas explosion in Connecticut, we reviewed the startup procedure for the new J. Lamar Stall natural gas plant to ensure that safety zones were properly established. We developed a template for this review that we will use to conduct similar inspections at all of our gas plants. 
 W e benchmark our business continuity plans against those 
of our peers, recently using the Edison Electric Institute Busi -
ness Continuity Benchmark survey. This year, we plan to focus on improving our business leaders’ understanding of their roles in business continuity activities, refreshing existing plans, improving communication capabilities and setting a five-year road map for 
continuous improvement.
 W e are also taking a closer look at our disaster recovery 
systems, which emphasize recovery of technology systems if we 
were to experience a catastrophic failure. AEP maintains a 24/7 IT Disaster Recovery Center that makes it possible for us to con -
tinue operations in the event of a disaster. Although our disaster recovery infrastructure is continuously monitored and is in a state 
of readiness, we will analyze the recovery prioritization of business 
processes to ensure those priorities reflect today’s business envi -
ronment and needs.
Stakeholder Engagement & Material Issues
A sustainable business strategy is one that is informed, engaged and forward looking. The dialogues that inform our decision making and long-term strategic view often result in collaborative efforts that 
are good for people, the environment, the economy and sharehold -
ers. We conducted or participated in nine stakeholder meetings 
during 2010 that provided us with insights about a wide range of issues that are important to us, our customers and our industry. These meetings helped shape this report. For a description of our material issues, visit 
www.AEPsustainability.com . 
Scope 	o f 	T his 	R eport
This is our second integrated report, combining information about our financial performance with data on our environmental, social and governance performance. It also is the fifth year we are reporting on our sustainability performance. We are committed to an integrated reporting approach because it gives a complete picture of how we 
operate, the decisions we make, the positions we take, our engage -
ment with stakeholders and the consequences of our actions. 
 I nformation contained herein is largely based on calendar year 
2010, with exceptions for some early 2011 data as noted. Support -
ing information can be found on our dedicated sustainability web -
site at www.AEPsustainability.com  or on our corporate website at 
www.AEP.com . 
8 L eadership, Management & Strategywww.AEPsustainability.com
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   9AEP	B oard 	o f 	D irectors
Michael G. Morris
Age 64; Elected 2004
Chairman & Chief Executive Of fic er 
E, P
E.R. Brooks
Granbury, Texas 
Age 73; Elected 2000Retired Chairman &  
Chief Executive Of fic er,  
Central and South West Corp.
A, F, P 
Dr. Donald M. Carlton
Austin, Texas
Age 73; Elected 2000
Retired President &  
Chief Executive Of fic er,  
Radian International, LLC  
H, N, P 
James F. Cordes
The Woodlands, Texas
Age 70; Elected 2009
Retired Executive Vice President,  
The Coastal Corp. 
D, H, P 
 Ralph D. Crosby, Jr.
McLean, Va.
Age 63; Elected 2006
Chairman & retired  
Chief Executive Of fic er,  
EADS North America, Inc. 
H, N, P 
Linda A. Goodspeed
Franklin, Tenn.
Age 49; Elected 2005
Vice President, Information Systems,
Nissan North America
A, N, P
Thomas E. Hoaglin
Columbus, Ohio
Age 61; Elected 2007Retired Chairman &  
Chief Executive Of fic er, 
Huntington Bancshares, Inc.D, E, H, P
Dr. Lester A. Hudson, Jr.  
Charlotte, N.C.Age 71; Elected 1987
Professor, McColl School  
of Business, Queens  
University of Charlotte
D, E, H, PLionel L. Nowell III 
Cos Cob, Conn.
Age 56; Elected 2004
Retired Senior Vice President  
& Treasurer,
PepsiCo, Inc.
A, D, E, F, P 
Dr. Richard L. Sandor
Chicago, Ill.
Age 69; Elected 2000
Former Chairman, Chicago  
Climate Exchange, Inc.
E, F, P 
Dr. Kathryn D. Sullivan
Columbus, Ohio
Age 59; Elected 1997
Director, Battelle Center for  
Mathematics & Science  
Education Policy, John Glenn  
School of Public Affairs,  
The Ohio State UniversityF, N, P Sara Martinez Tucker
San Francisco, Calif.
Age 56; Elected 2009
Former Undersecretary,
U.S. Department of Education,  
and former President &  
Chief Executive Of fic er,
Hispanic Scholarship FundA, D, P
 
John F. Turner
Moose, Wyo.
Age 69; Elected 2008
Managing Partner,
Triangle X Ranch, and  
former Assistant Secretary,  
U.S. State DepartmentA, N, P
Committees of The Board:  
The chairman is listed in (  ). 
A – A udit (Nowell) 
D – D irectors and Corporate   
 G overnance (Hoaglin)  
E – E xecutive (Morris)  
F – F inance (Sandor)
H – H uman Resources (Hudson)  
N – N uclear Oversight (Sullivan) 
P – P olicy (Carlton)
Left to right: Lionel L. Nowell III, Dr. Richard L. Sandor, James F. Cordes, Sara Martinez Tucker, E.R. Brooks, Dr. Donald M. Carlton, Linda A. Goodspeed, Thomas 
E. Hoaglin, Michael G. Morris, Ralph D. Crosby, Jr., Dr. Kathryn D. Sullivan, Dr. Lester A. Hudson, Jr., and John F. Turner.The	B usiness 	o f 	S ustainability 		
A View from Two Members of AEP’s Board of Directors
A company’s governance and its environmental and social per -
formance are increasingly linked to the bottom line. In fact, in 
many instances the distinction between financial and nonfinan -
cial information is disappearing. A wide variety of stakeholders, including shareholders, financial analysts and rating agencies, 
are working to understand the potential impacts of environmental 
and social issues on core business functions. Many consider the distinction between financial and nonfinancial information to be artificial and counterproductive in this effort.  
 A EP is very familiar with this evolution. Electricity is vital to 
quality of life and is the nexus of societal needs and consider -
ations that include public policy, environmental performance, financial health, operational reliability and economic prosperity. We take these responsibilities very seriously and know that they are interdependent. 
 T he convergence of financial and nonfinancial perfor -
mance has created a dynamic and more complex portfolio of risks and opportunities that is getting closer scrutiny throughout the company, including in the board room. We asked two AEP board members to share their views on these issues. Read the 
full interview online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com/ourissues/
strategymgmntgov.aspx .
Tom Hoaglin  is chairman of the board’s Committee on Directors 
and Corporate Governance, which has oversight of AEP’s Cor -
porate Accountability Report. He is the retired chief executive of 
Huntington Bancshares in Columbus, Ohio, and has served on AEP’s board since 2007.
Lionel Nowell  is chairman of the board’s Audit Committee. He is 
the retired senior vice president and treasurer of PepsiCo Inc., of Purchase, New York. He has served on AEP’s board since 2004.
How is sustainability discussed and considered at the 
board level?
Tom Hoaglin:   It is important that our board – any board – under -stands what it takes for a company to have sustainable success. 
In our case that includes financial performance because that’s 
what our investors demand. At the board level, it starts by select -
ing the right CEO, making sure the organization has a good suc -
cession plan, ensuring the organization has a strategy that can 
yield, over time, success that is sustainable, and overseeing the company’s risk management processes. Increasingly, however, factors such as adherence to environmental needs and regula -
tions, safety issues and the reliability of operations contribute to the financial success of the organization. Without focus on those 
issues that are so important to sustainable results, you only have 
half a loaf. And I think that’s why our board is so fundamentally aware of and committed to the importance of sustainability. These topics are discussed regularly in full board meetings and in most committee meetings.  
Lionel Nowell:  Without question, the board is committed to AEP 
being a responsible corporate citizen and embraces sustainabil -
ity as a core value and operating principle. We believe that having a self-regulating mechanism helps the company ensure that its business practices reflect responsibility for, and are in compli -
ance with, environmental, social and economic standards, which is the right thing to do and a prerequisite for success. Through discussions held at the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance and subsequent full board meetings, we address actions being taken by the company relative to our sustainabil -
ity commitments, and review appropriate data to ensure those actions have a positive impact on our shareholders, our custom -
ers, our employees, the environment and other stakeholders.   
  R ecent studies suggest equity analysts are starting to issue 
more favorable ratings to companies that exhibit exemplary cor -
porate social responsibility practices in the same manner as financial performance. Furthermore, the board promotes the in-clusion of public interest into our decision-making process by voluntarily eliminating business practices that are not consistent 
with our sustainability objectives. As a result, concern about sus -
tainability influences our thinking and helps to shape our actions.  
10
 L eadership, Management & Strategy
Thomas E. Hoaglinwww.AEPsustainability.com
AEP invests significant time and energy engaging with 
shareholders and many other stakeholders. What’s the board’s perspective on this process?
Tom Hoaglin:
 Within our industry there is an instinctive aversion 
by some company executives to working with stakeholders such 
as environmental groups. Yet, I have been so impressed with AEP’s approach, as I think the whole board has, that we rec -
ognize the importance of this engagement. We encourage and 
support management’s efforts to reach out to these constituen -
cies, make themselves accessible, keep lines of communication 
open and listen to their viewpoints and consider them in deci -
sion making. We may not always agree, but their point of view is important to us. I think we are all aware that our generation fleet will migrate, over time, to being less coal-centric, but we have to do it at a pace that is digestible for regulators and our customers. The way to get the optimal pace and plan includes making sure 
we hear the points of view from all of our stakeholders.  
Lionel Nowell:  I agree with Tom. The common thread is having 
constructive, open and honest communication. We want to col -
laborate and have a dialogue because that helps us to come up 
with solutions that can be mutually beneficial to all concerned parties. And I believe the effectiveness of our approach is sug -
gested by our success in the regulatory arena and the fact that we received no shareholder resolutions this year. Ultimately, our ongoing challenge is to help all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders, understand that we have to work together and respect each other’s goals and objectives if we are going to be effective in delivering safe, reliable and affordable electricity to customers and fair returns to our shareholders while meeting our social responsibilities.
Risk assessment and risk mitigation have become in-
creasingly high priorities for many companies, including AEP. What is the board’s role in risk management? 
Lionel Nowell:  Risk oversight is one of the top priorities for both 
the board and AEP management. While we have always focused on risk, we’ve taken additional steps to improve the process by developing a framework for constructively examining our risk assumptions so we can better understand how unexpected 
events could affect AEP. We also evaluate whether potential 
unanticipated events are real threats, potential opportunities, or both. Our overall objective is to avoid blind spots by being more proactive. So we have put in place a dynamic risk review pro -
cess, stewarded by the Audit Committee but owned by the full board, which allows us to create a portfolio of strategic options that prepares the company to be both resilient and responsive to threats and open and agile enough to seize upon opportunities.
 T he board is fully and fundamentally aware of AEP’s respon -
sibility to comply with laws and regulations and to deliver energy to our customers in the most efficient manner. We are always looking to develop a competitive advantage in managing and operating the company. Although this is a company with growth 
potential, our ongoing risk will be our ability to achieve everything 
we have to do in a way that will meet the desires of our stake -
holders while creating value for our shareholders. 
Tom Hoaglin:  AEP has a very organized, disciplined approach 
within its executive ranks to manage risk, which has served us very well. The board itself is not directly involved in manag -
ing the company’s risks; our role is to oversee the processes management uses to manage risks. The management team is 
responsible for identifying short- and long-term risks facing the 
organization and for assigning responsibility and accountability for managing and mitigating those risks. Each of the board’s committees is assigned the appropriate risks to oversee in con -
cert with management. We receive regular updates to ensure that the risks we all agreed upon are getting the right attention and are being mitigated. And that’s what our investors would expect and require, and I think all stakeholders would expect 
that. After all, a company that manages risk successfully is likely 
to have fewer blips along the way and deliver a much higher level of performance.   
Read more about the board’s view of ethics, compliance and 
board independence online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   11
Lionel L. Nowell IIIable cost. This allows us to continue to invest low-cost debt capital 
into our critical electric infrastructure to better serve our customers. We must prioritize our spending to secure solid investment-grade ratings by striking the right balance between the cost of operations and these financial objectives. 
 O ur board of directors approved two shareholder dividend in-  
creases in 2010, which resulted in a total quarterly dividend increase of 12 percent. This provided shareholders additional cash return on their invested capital during a period when the company was expe -
riencing lower sales and earnings growth than in pre-recession 
periods. This improvement in the dividend increased our payout 
ratio to nearly 60 percent, which is at the upper end of our targeted payout ratio of 50 percent to 60 percent. 
 A EP reached a milestone in June 2010 when it paid its 400th  
consecutive quarterly dividend. We are proud to have paid a divi-  
dend every quarter since mid-1910, which, according to our re-search, is an achievement only a few U.S. companies can claim. Our record shows that management and the board of directors are 
committed to providing shareholders an important part of their total 
return proposition through a cash dividend. 
 T otal shareholder return is an important performance metric. 
For 2010, our total return was approximately 8.7 percent, exceeding the S&P 500 Utilities Index by more than 3 percentage points and making an investment in AEP a stable and competitive return prop -
osition accompanied by a low risk profile and steady performance.
2010 Consolidated Results
AEP’s ongoing earnings for 2010 amounted to $1.45 billion, an increase of nearly $90 million over our 2009 results. On a per-share A financially strong and responsible company is one that deliv -
ers profits to its shareholders, meets its commitments to its lenders and provides benefits to society. The actions we have taken during the past two years put AEP in a posi -
tion to do all three. Being financially strong allows us to deliver on 
our social and environmental commitments. Improving our environ -
mental and social performance helps us to increase our financial 
strength. We believe that our strategy and approach provide value for shareholders, stakeholders and society. 
 T he sluggish economy was a factor in both business and poli-  
tics. Decreased demand for electricity from the highs of 2007 and 2008, regulatory delays and environmental challenges com -
pelled us to rethink how we manage our operations and where we make our investments. Regulators also demonstrated that they are 
unwilling to approve rate increases for some renewable and envi -
ronmental initiatives without a legal mandate to do so. Virginia and 
Kentucky regulators did not allow us to include renewable energy contracts in our rates, for example, citing cost as the main factor.
 O ur actions to bolster our financial health during the past two 
years helped to pave the way for long-term sustainable growth. Our goal is always to efficiently convert the capital investments we make to better serve our customers and to deliver earnings for our inves -
tors. Throughout AEP, we reduced our cost structure and brought more discipline to operations and maintenance (O&M) and capital 
spending. Through this discipline, we were able to improve our bal -
ance sheet and maintain adequate liquidity through the renewal 
and extension of a $1.5 billion bank facility. 
 O ur credit ratings are at the investment grade level (BBB/Baa2/  
BBB), which provides adequate access to debt capital at a reason -
12 B usiness Performance: FinancialBusiness 	P erformance: 	
FinancialTotal 	D ebt 	/	C apitalization  ( G AAP  )
	 2005 5 7.2 %	
	 2006 		 59.1 %	
	2007 6 0.7% 	
	 2008 6 2.5 %	
	 2009 5 7.2 %		 	
	2010 5 7.0 %	Earnings 	P er 	S hare  ( G AAP  )
	 2008	 $ 3 .43
	 2009	 $ 2 .96
	2010	 $ 2.53
12%total 	q uarterly 		
dividend 	i ncrease 		
in	2 010www.AEPsustainability.com
lion. This was due in part to the winding down of our initial program 
of mandated environmental retrofits at our power plants related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and the Clean Air Interstate Rule. Environmental expenditures were still substantial, at $303 million in 2010. The biggest area of capital spending was in our Dis -
tribution business unit, where $808 million was invested in projects related to customer service and reliability.
 T he ongoing recession made AEP’s contribution to local econ -
omies more important than ever in 2010. We are among the largest employers in the communities where we operate, and the taxes we generate are a major source of revenue to those communities. AEP paid almost $1.2 billion in federal, state and local taxes in 2010 
and employed nearly 19,000 people. Our annual payroll is more 
than $1.8 billion and positively impacts families, communities and economies in our service area.basis, 2010 ongoing earnings were $3.03, up $0.06 from 2009 results of $2.97.
1 At the end of 2010, AEP had 481 million common 
shares outstanding, an increase of 3 million shares from 2009.
 O ur balance sheet showed continued strength in 2010, as 
our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio decreased to 57 percent, the lowest debt-to-total-capitalization ratio that we have recorded for several years. During the year, we accessed the capital markets for nearly $1.6 billion in debt, both short- and long-term, and in June 2010, we renewed one of our $1.5 billion credit facilities for a 
three-year term that is supported by a strong, diverse bank group. 
Our liquidity position remains strong and our credit metrics showed improvement during the year as well. AEP and its subsidiaries have stable outlooks from the rating agencies, with the exception of actions taken with respect to the merger of Ohio Power and Colum -
bus Southern Power.  
 I n 2010, we voluntarily contributed $500 million to our qualified 
pension plan, increasing the funding level to about 80 percent. This contribution reduced our underfunded pension liability by approxi -
mately 10 percent. We plan to voluntarily contribute an additional $158 million to the plan in 2011 and continue to examine ways to reduce risks through asset allocation and risk management.  
 I nvesting capital at levels that exceed our annual rate of depre -
ciation increases our earnings potential. Our capital investments in 2010 totaled $2.2 billion, down from nearly $2.5 billion in 2009. This exceeded our annual depreciation of $1.29 billion but was lower than our capital improvements in 2009 by nearly $250 mil -
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   13Liquidity Summary  ( i n millions  )   
  A mount*  M aturity  
Revolving Credit Facility  $ 1 ,454  A pril 2012
Revolving Credit Facility  $ 1 ,500  J une 2013
Revolving Credit Facility  $ 4 78  A pril 2011  
Total Credit Facilities   $ 3,432  
Plus 
Cash and Cash Equivalents  $ 294 
Less     
Commercial Paper Outstanding  ( $ 650 )
Letters of Credit Issued  ( $ 6 01  )   
Net Available Liquidity  $ 2,475 
* A ctual Dec.  31, 2010   Ongoing 	E arnings 	P er	S hare 	H istory
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 4.1%  ( $ / share  )	 	 	 	 	
	
 $ 2 .33  $ 2 .73  $ 2 .77 $ 3 .00 $ 3 .24 $ 2 .97 $ 3 .03 $ 3 .10
	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007	 2008	 2009	 2010	 2011		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Forecast
1 2010 GAAP Net Income of $1.21 billion ($2.53 per share) compared with 2009 
GAAP Net Income of $1.36 billion ($2.96 per share). We expect our earnings to grow at a rate of 4 percent to 6 percent over the 2012 to  
2014 time frame, underpinned by capital investments in our utilities leading to rate 
base growth, continued increases in sales and the ability to earn competitive returns on equity in our operating companies.403
number 	o f 	c onsecutive 	
quarterly 	di vidends 	p aid 	
through 	
March 	2 011covery of $114 million (pretax) were primarily offset by last year’s 
work force reductions and other cost-cutting efforts as well as lower storm restoration expenses. This flat O&M clearly demonstrated our  
commitment to financial discipline and efficient spending. 
AEP River Operations
The AEP River Operations segment of our business ships coal and dry bulk commodities mainly on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Missis -
sippi rivers and is one of the largest full-service dry-bulk carriers in the nation. We own or lease 2,581 barges, 45 towboats and 26 harbor boats to support this business. This does not include the 
672 barges and 17 towboats dedicated exclusively to transporting 
coal to our power plants. In 2010, we delivered nearly 72 million tons of cargo, including more than 33 million tons of coal for our own power plants. 
 C ompetition within the barge industry for major commodity 
contracts is strong; there are a number of other companies oper-  
ating on the same waterways. Ongoing net income decreased to  
$40 million in 2010 from $47 million in 2009 primarily due to the continued weakness in the import market, which lowered freight demand and rates.
Generation & Marketing 
Our Generation and Marketing segment includes a competitive power supply and energy trading and marketing business and no regulated assets. This business unit operates primarily in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas region and, to a lesser extent, 
in the PJM and MISO transmission regions  2. Ongoing net income 
declined to $25 million in 2010 from $41 million in 2009, primar -
ily due to reduced power prices and trading margins. In 2010, we began operating a retail energy business in Ohio to sell competitive power in the deregulated areas. Read about this in Public Policy .Utility Operations
Utility Operations represents the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for U.S. retail and wholesale sales and ac-  
counted for 98.5 percent of AEP’s ongoing earnings in 2010. The subsidiaries within utility operations earned a respectable 10.76 per-  
cent return on equity (ROE) in 2010. 
 T he Utility Operations’ ongoing earnings increased $110 mil -
lion, from $1.32 billion in 2009 to $1.43 billion in 2010. Favorable rate changes and hotter and colder weather throughout our service territory, as well as cost reduction efforts, were largely responsible for the increase. 
 R ate changes contributed favorably to 2010 ongoing earnings 
by $222 million (pretax), net of offsets. These rate changes came from multiple jurisdictions in our service territory and primarily rep -
resent rate increases from capital investments made in generation, transmission and distribution across our 11 states.  
 W eather, which can have a positive or negative impact on re-  
sults in any given year, helped us in 2010. Throughout our service  
territory, we benefited from a colder winter and a hotter summer than in 2009. Favorable weather contributed about $229 million (pretax) from the prior year to our ongoing earnings. 
 L ast year was a period of steady economic recovery for our 
service territory, primarily in the industrial sector. Industrial cus -
tomers were hit the hardest in late 2008 and 2009 but provided the biggest sales volume boost in 2010, recovering 5 percent. The rebound occurred across all of our top 10 industrial sectors, with primary metal manufacturing leading the way. This suggests that 
the effects of the recession are starting to loosen, and we are opti -
mistic that recovery will continue in 2011. Residential and commer -
cial sales volumes for 2010 were essentially unchanged from the 
prior year on a weather-normalized basis. We hope that as we see continued improvement in the industrial sectors, including the cre -
ation of new jobs, we also will see increased growth in residential and commercial demand.  
 O ngoing O&M expenses for the Utility Operations segment in 
2010 were essentially flat with 2009, up just $17 million to $3.43 billion. Increased expenses associated with dollar-for-dollar rate re-
14 B usiness Performance: FinancialUtility 	R evenues 	b y 	C lass ( i n millions  )
	 2008 $ 4,267 	
	 2009 		 $ 4,405 	
	2010 $ 5,125 	
 R esidential
2008 $ 3,116 	
	 2009 $ 3,171 		 		 	 	 	 	
	2010 $ 3,406 	
 C ommercial	 2008 $ 2,954
	 2009 		 $ 2,630
	2010 $ 2,840
 Industrial
2008 $ 2,748 	
	 2009 $ 1,849
	2010 $ 1,993 	
 W holesale
2 PJM Interconnection is the regional transmission operator that coordinates the 
movement of wholesale power in all or parts of 13 states and the District of 
Columbia. The Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) serves 13 states 
in the Midwest and the Canadian province of Manitoba.69%
shares 	owned 	by		
institutional 	investors 	
with 	at	least 	a	two-year 	
investment 	horizonwww.AEPsustainability.com
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   15For the complete audited, consolidated financial 
statements, see Appendix A to the Proxy Statement 
at www.AEP .com/investors .$1.2
federal, 	s tate 	a nd 	lo cal 		
taxes 	p aid 	i n 	2 010
billionexpenses about $34 million less than in 2010. 
We expect employment to remain near 19,000.
 W e increased our 2011 capital budget to 
$2.6 billion, about $370 million more than our capital spending in 2010, reflecting our confi -
dence in the continued economic recovery and the need to invest in our utility platform. Trans -
mission expansion is a key component of our 
growth strategy: We plan to invest almost twice 
as much capital in transmission growth and enhancements as we did in 2010, an estimated $707 million (including equity contributions to our joint ventures) compared with $378 million in 2010. We expect that 2011 is the year we start “putting steel in the ground” through our regu -
lated transmission companies in some of the 
states we serve. 
 I n addition to transmission growth, inves -
tors want certainty around our operations in 
Ohio, which recently contributed approximately  40 percent of AEP’s earnings.  In January 2011, we filed a 29-month Electric Security Plan for 
our Ohio companies along with a plan to merge 
Ohio Power and Columbus Southern Power.  We are confident in our plan for Ohio, which is centered on jobs, economic benefits and invest -
ments in the state. We believe the end result of this critical proceeding will be positive for the state, our customers and our company. Read more about the issues in Ohio in Public Policy .
 I n the face of significant changes in our 
operating environment, we are prepared to con -
duct business differently and continue our trans -
formation. Our plan is to seek the regulatory,  
legislative, customer and investor support that such a transformation requires. Our goal is to 
maintain O&M cost discipline to keep customer 
costs low. For the capital we invest for improved customer service, including mandated environ -
mental investments, we seek to efficiently con -
vert these investments into earnings, which will provide competitive returns to our investors. We also plan to allocate additional capital to trans -
mission, which allows for higher growth oppor -
tunities and cash flow. We are committed to a plan that allows for steady growth alongside a solid, reliable dividend.Other Business Operations 
All other business operations recorded a loss of $43 million on an ongoing basis for 2010 com -
pared with a $47 million loss for 2009. Favorable tax adjustments helped to offset a contribution to the AEP Foundation and a fleet lease buyout. 
2011 Outlook & Beyond 
The nation’s economic recovery has been more sluggish than expected, but we see signs of improvement in the slow but steady increase in electricity demand. We forecast a 1.7 percent retail sales increase in 2011, led by continued 
recovery in the residential and industrial seg -
ments, even as commercial sales continue to 
struggle. Our ongoing earnings guidance for 2011 has been set at $3.00 to $3.20 per share. The midpoint of this range is an increase of roughly 2 percent from 2010 results. We have also set a midpoint estimate of 2012 earnings at $3.25 per share, an increase of 4.8 percent from 
the midpoint of our 2011 guidance. 
 W e expect our earnings to grow at a rate 
of 4 percent to 6 percent over the 2012 to 2014 
time frame, underpinned by capital investments in our utilities leading to rate base growth, con -
tinued increases in sales and the ability to earn competitive returns on equity in our operat -
ing companies. After 2014, we expect slightly increased growth prospects due to our plan to grow our transmission business through the addition of wholly owned transmission compa -
nies within our service territory and joint venture opportunities outside of our territory.
 W e will continue to be disciplined about 
O&M spending despite increases in labor and employee-related benefit costs, projecting 2011 n AEP Transco  
n JV Equity Contributions (net)  
n AEP River Ops & Other Non-Utility  
n Environmental  
n New Generation
n Corporate / Other  
n Nuclear Generation  
n Distribution  
n Transmission  
n Fossil & Hydro Generation
n UnallocatedCapital 	E xpenditures  ( i n millions  )
 $ 2 ,487  
$ 2 ,243 $ 2 ,615 $ 2 ,900
	 2009	 2010	 2011	 2012
Investment levels greater than 
depreciation of $1.3 billion per year cause 
rate base growth in 2011 and 2012
	Actual
	Actual
	Estimated
	Estimatedability measures that we track continuously. Our performance in 
2010 was very good in two of three metrics we track. 
 T he first metric is the System Average Interruption Duration 
Index (SAIDI), which measures the average length of time a cus -
tomer is without power during an outage. The three-year average (2008-2010) improved 1.7 percent over the previous three-year roll -
ing average (2007-2009). In 2010, our three-year SAIDI average was 194.7 minutes – our best performance in five years. The improve -
ment can be traced to better maintenance in circuit sections of the system with high customer density/counts, also known as feeder breaker zones, and more effective use of approved tree trimming procedures. Approximately 30 percent of SAIDI is caused by tree limbs falling on or getting tangled in power lines.
 T he second key reliability metric is the System Average Inter -
ruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), which represents the average number of interruptions experienced by a customer. At the end of 2010, the three-year rolling average of SAIFI was 1.397 compared with 1.471 in 2009, an improvement of 5 percent. This also was our 
best performance in five years. 
 T he third metric is the Customer Average Interruption Duration 
Index (CAIDI), which represents the average length of time to restore 
service once an outage occurs. Our performance on this measure did not meet our expectations, as CAIDI increased nearly 3.5 per -
cent in 2010 compared with the 2009 three-year rolling average. CAIDI was negatively impacted by the work force restructuring. We 
will monitor our performance and staffing levels very closely.
Complying with Reliability Standards
New security and reliability standards arose from the 2003 blackout Reliability, security and the ability to meet increased demand 
for energy are critical issues for us, our industry, our stake -
holders and society. Our ability to meet growing demand and to deliver energy reliably from secure sources depends 
on a mix of economic, environmental and social factors.
 W e are dealing with aging infrastructure, enhanced grid secu -
rity concerns, the need to develop and pay for new technology, new environmental regulations that threaten the viability of older gen -
eration assets, and community concerns about siting new facilities – all of which require a strategy that takes financial, environmental 
and social concerns into account. We are committed to finding the 
right balance to meet the needs of our stakeholders and to remain a sustainable organization.
Measuring Our Performance
Our system was tested by weather extremes in 2010, but we were able to respond accordingly. An unusually cold winter and hot sum -
mer across our service territory pushed demand up and required all available units to be operational. 
 O ur peak demands are highest during the cooling season. 
In 2010, cooling degree days were up 17 percent throughout the AEP system from 2009. By contrast, heating degree days were up only 9 percent. Cooling degree days are the number of degrees that a day’s average temperature is above 65 degrees Fahrenheit, prompting greater use of air conditioning. The one exception is 
Texas, where the measure is 70 degrees. Each degree above this 
temperature results in an additional cooling degree day. The same is true in reverse for heating degree days.
 T he duration and frequency of power outages are basic reli -
16 B usiness Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthBusiness 	P erformance: 	
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth284 miles
of	t ransmission 	l ines 	a lready 	a pproved 	f or	T exas 	C REZ	p roject
approximate 	n umber 	o f	A EP	c ustomers 5.3 million4,181 megawatts
of	nominal 	natural 	gas	capacity 	
added 	to	the	AEP	system 	since 	2005www.AEPsustainability.com
 20 11 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   17	 	
    www.AEPsustainability.com
recession, we were forced to alter or delay replacement and some 
maintenance. These aging assets could pose a reliability risk across our system and potentially affect customer satisfaction, regulatory oversight and our reputation. 
 Often we don’t know a failure has occurred until a customer 
reports it. Our inability to be more proactive results in additional customer outages and increased repair costs. We are discussing a preventive maintenance approach with our regulators. We are con -
sidering seeking incremental rate increases, dedicated to modern -
izing the grid, in all rate cases going forward. This will help us to that affected much of the Northeast. The North American Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC) requires utilities to be audited on compli -
ance with these standards. Later in 2011, AEP will undergo its first audit of the standards, known as Critical Infrastructure Protection.
 In late 2006, we created a reliability compliance program 
governed by an executive-level Reliability Compliance Committee (RCC) to assure coordination throughout every business unit. We are investing significant financial and human resources to ensure compliance. The RCC had developed a companywide approach, working internally and collaborating externally, to identify and implement leading practices.  
 We are not hesitant to bring potential issues forward to NERC, 
the agency responsible for compliance. We want to foster a culture of compliance that motivates employees to report incidents of non -
compliance, such as shortcomings in record keeping, without fear of retribution.  
Reliability Issues
Much of our equipment that produces and delivers electricity is old and in need of modernization. As revenues declined during the As the economy improves, demand for electricity will naturally increase 
and could create unbearable pressure on the existing infrastructure.  
We urgently need to modernize the grid.
Smith Mountain Lake, near 
Roanoke, Va., is one of the 
nation’s largest pumped storage facilities. It recently received a 30-year license extension. The nearby Claytor Lake facility is up for relicensing in 2011.
Southwestern Electric Power 
Co. uses a mobile substation that it can quickly position in the event of a substation failure. In October 2010, this unit helped restore power to more than 4,500 customers within 24 hours. 110thousand
smart 	meters 	installed 	in	Ohi o
Three-Year Rolling Average Systemwide Reliability Performance
  20 06 20 07 20 08 20 09 20 10 
SAIFI*  1. 526 1. 548 1. 526 1. 471 1. 397
SAIDI**  20 3.0 19 9.0 20 1.0 19 8.1 19 4.7 
* System Average Interruption Frequency Index is the average number of  
interruptions a customer experiences annually.
** System Average Interruption Duration Index represents the total minutes of 
interruption the average customer experiences annually.18 B usiness Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & Growthfrom approximately 8 percent of our fuel portfolio today to 15 per -
cent during the next decade.
 I n 2010, we completed construction of the 508-MW J. Lamar 
Stall unit in Shreveport, La., to serve Southwestern Electric Power 
Co. (SWEPCO) customers. This combined-cycle gas plant is co-located with SWEPCO’s Arsenal Hill Plant to take advantage of existing natural gas pipelines and electric transmission lines. During the peak construction period, the Stall unit provided 700 jobs and 
now employs 10 permanent workers.
 W e plan to complete the 580-MW Dresden combined-cycle 
gas plant in Ohio and bring it on line in the first quarter of 2012, 
creating approximately 25 permanent jobs. 
 O ne of the factors driving our transition to natural gas is the  
growing supply of shale gas. The Marcellus, Utica, Haynesville,  
Fayetteville, Eagle Ford and Woodford shale formations are located  
within or close to AEP’s service territory. The U.S. Energy Infor -
mation Administration (EIA) Annual Energy Outlook 2011  estimates 
that the United States has 827 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas  
shale resources. If the predictions are accurate, that is 480 Tcf  
more than was estimated in the EIA’s Annual Energy Outlook 2010 
and represents a long-term source of supply that should lead to stable prices.
 A s the shale gas market develops, we are talking to pipeline 
companies and gas producers about building infrastructure capa -
ble of delivering the gas to our power plants. As these new markets evolve, we will learn more about choosing the optimal sites to build new gas plants to serve our customers. 
Nuclear & Hydro Power
Nuclear and hydroelectric power represent a diverse and secure energy future. Our Cook Nuclear Plant provides 5 percent of our generating capacity and supplied more than 15,600 gigawatt-hours of carbon-free electricity to customers of Indiana Michigan Power Co. (I&M) in 2010. The two units are licensed until 2034 and 2037. 
We have conducted feasibility and cost studies to increase output 
by up to 400 MW during the next decade. We will determine the cost effectiveness and demand for additional power before mak-better prioritize needs and make improvements in the system. 
 K entucky Power Co. has proposed a 138-kilovolt (kV) trans -
mission line between Knott and Perry counties that would enhance reliability and security. If regulators approve, construction of the 24-mile line could begin in 2012.
 A n extreme cold weather snap tested the electricity system in  
the Lower Rio Grande Valley in Texas in February 2011. A loss  
of supply and high demand led to rolling blackouts across the state  
that affected many AEP Texas customers. The event, which remains under investigation by federal and state regulators, could poten-
tially lead to even stricter reliability rules for the industry. It also 
strengthens the argument for additional transmission in the area.
Secure Fuel Sources
Coal is an abundant, indigenous resource used to produce rough-  
ly half of the nation’s electricity supply. It has been our most cost-effective fuel for more than a century, enabling us to provide a source of reliable, affordable electricity to our customers. Coal will play an important role in our energy future, but natural gas looks 
increasingly attractive given the promise of continued relatively low 
prices due to the development of shale gas and the high cost of environmental controls associated with coal. 
 I n 2010, AEP consumed 67 million tons of coal, which ac-  
counted for 80 percent of the energy we produced. As we retire some of our coal units and adjust the operation of other units dur -
ing the next decade, we expect that our generation from coal will gradually decline. We will continue to be a major consumer of coal, 
but we are aware of the increasing difficulty of negotiating long-
term fuel contracts with the current heightened regulatory and mar -
ket uncertainty.
 N atural gas generation creates about half the carbon emis -
sions of coal generation per kilowatt-hour of energy produced. Largely because of this advantage, natural gas is widely viewed as the “bridge” fuel to a future when new technologies and renewable energy become widely available and cost-competitive. We have 
increased our natural gas generating capacity during the past five 
years and will continue to do so as long as it remains a cost-effec -
tive fuel option. We have added 4,181 megawatts (MW) of nominal natural gas capacity to our system since 2005. 
 O ur natural gas generating units consumed nearly 134 billion 
cubic feet of natural gas in 2010, a 40 percent increase over 2009. We expect our natural gas-fueled generation will further increase 
Workers assemble some of the massive pipes that will be part of the 580-MW 
Dresden combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant in Dresden, Ohio.2011 Operating Company* Projected Construction   
Expenditures ( i n thousands  ) 
Appalachian Power  $ 450,100
Columbus Southern Power  $ 186,900
Indiana Michigan Power  $ 304,900
Ohio Power  $ 264,100
Public Service Company of Oklahoma  $ 169,200
Southwestern Electric Power  $ 441,500
* SEC registrantswww.AEPsustainability.com
transmission lines that will serve the plant. We have appealed that 
decision, and a ruling is expected in the summer of 2011. Currently, more than 1,600 workers are employed in construction at the plant, which is scheduled to be placed in service in late 2012. The plant will also create 110 permanent jobs.
 T he Turk Plant is needed to serve growing demand in that 
region, providing long-term energy security for customers. If we are unable to complete construction and place the plant in service or if we cannot recover all of our investment in and expenses related to the plant, it would materially reduce future net income and cash flows and impact our financial condition, as well as reliability.
Secure Delivery Systems
A robust and reliable transmission grid is another element of a secure energy future. Regulatory delays and negotiations with stakeholders over siting, planning and cost allocation have caused significant delays in transmission project approvals across the country. These delays are placing the nation’s grid in an evermore 
precarious position from a reliability and security standpoint. As the 
economy improves, demand for electricity will naturally increase and could create unbearable pressure on the existing infrastruc -
ture. We urgently need to modernize the grid. 
 W e plan to enhance the reliability of our existing transmission 
system while investing in new infrastructure in our service terri -
tory and other parts of the country. Our transmission business will help us grow our earnings potential as it helps to modernize and secure the nation’s electric grid. In the process, we are supporting the clean energy policies being considered in Congress, improv-  
ing the operational efficiencies of the grid and reducing conges- tion costs. Learn more at 
www.AEP.com/about/transmission .
Using Energy More Efficiently
Our energy efficiency and demand response programs are impor -
tant ways to further bolster energy security. Read more about energy efficiency in Climate Change . 
gridSMART  ®
A secure energy future requires that we use energy more efficiently and responsibly and improve the performance of the energy deliv -
ery system. We launched gridSMART  ® in 2007 to give customers 
greater control over their energy usage, increase the efficiency of the electric grid, improve service to our customers and lead us to a new era of energy delivery. 
 F rom a technology standpoint, gridSMART  ® incorporates a 
two-way communications system between AEP and our custom -
ers that facilitates the more efficient use of electricity. For example, 
gridSMART  ® may allow us to send price signals to customers so 
they can decide when to run home appliances. It can also allow us to adjust customer thermostats automatically, with their pre-approval, when demand is high and we need to lessen the stress on the electric grid. ing a decision to proceed. Given the challenges created by the Japanese nuclear crisis following the earthquake and tsunami, a rigorous evaluation is being done by the U.S. nuclear industry to ensure the ability to safely shut down reactors in the face of similar circumstances. We will learn from this.
 W e also own and operate 16 hydroelectric facilities and a 
pumped storage facility that contribute to cleaner energy resources on our system. These facilities generate approximately 1,549 giga -
watt-hours of power each year, serving customers in five states.
Turk Plant Will Provide Energy Security
Construction continues on SWEPCO’s 600-MW John W. Turk, Jr., Plant in Hempstead County, Ark. During 2010, the Turk project encountered many legal challenges, including a decision by the Arkansas Supreme Court reversing the certificate issued by the Arkansas Public Service Commission, an appeal of its air permit, 
and federal court actions challenging the permit issued by the U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers for stream crossings and wetland impacts. SWEPCO is proceeding with construction under an exemption to the Arkansas utility certificate law, and it received a decision from the Arkansas Circuit Court affirming the air permit. Opponents have appealed the decision to an Arkansas Court of Appeals.
 I n addition, a federal district court has issued a preliminary 
injunction affecting the completion of the water intake and two 
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   19A Public Service Company of Oklahoma employee switches meters as part of the 
gridSMART® program in the Tulsa, Okla., area.Consolidated 	I ncome 	B efore 	D iscontinued 	O perations 	&	
Extraordinary 	L oss  ( i n millions  )
	 2008	 $ 1 ,376  
	 2009	 $ 1 ,370
	2010	 $ 1,218
line at full capacity this year.
 O ver time, demand for electricity naturally increases. The EIA 
projects residential electricity use will increase 24 percent between 
2008 and 2035. As electronics proliferate and more people move  
to warmer climates where cooling needs are higher, this trend is likely to continue.
 T he hotter-than-normal summer of 2010 demonstrated how 
weather affects electricity use. PJM Interconnection, the grid oper -
ator for our eastern states, recorded a 12 percent increase in elec -
tricity consumption compared with the summer of 2009, led partly by greater use of air conditioning.  
Measuring Growth
Customer counts are one measure of our company’s financial strength. At the end of 2010, we had about 5.3 million customers on our system. Residential and commercial customers increased slightly, but the gains were offset by modest decreases in the industrial sector. This was true across all of our service territory.  
 Sales growth varied by sector: Residential (weather-normalized) 
sales were relatively flat in 2010, increasing 0.6 percent. We are forecasting a 1.9 percent increase this year. Commercial sales also remained relatively flat, down by 0.4 percent. We’re forecasting a modest recovery of 0.7 percent in 2011. 
 W e experienced significant sales growth of 5 percent in the 
industrial sector, the hardest hit in 2009. The five sectors that com -
prise 60 percent of our industrial sales increased their consumption in 2010. Led by primary metals, these sectors include chemical  A EP Ohio is pursuing a comprehensive gridSMART  ® project 
involving 110,000 smart meters and distributed grid management technologies on 70 circuits. The $150 million project was funded with a $75 million grant from the Department of Energy (DOE), in-kind contributions from vendors and regulatory recovery from Ohio 
regulators. The project features smart meters, time-of-use tariffs, 
home energy use display devices, smart grid-enabled appliances, plug-in electric vehicles, distribution automation equipment, com -
munity energy storage devices and a cyber security center. 
 O ur most extensive smart meter deployment project is in 
Texas, where we are installing nearly 1 million smart meters. In ad-  
dition, I&M and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) are deploying smart grid technology pilots in their states.
 O ur initial goal was to install 5 million smart meters by 2015 
throughout the AEP system. Through our early deployments, we hope to determine if the expense of the meters is offset by the benefits. We will continue to pursue the deployment of these smart grid technologies where regulators are supportive and there is a proven business case. We believe modernizing the grid is critical to 
reducing demand and energy consumption, contributing to energy 
reliability and security, and preparing for the future needs of cus -
tomers. Get a state-by-state breakdown of gridSMART  ® initiatives 
online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Energy Demand & Financial Growth
The recovery and growth of the U.S. economy depends on reliable and cost-effective electricity. This is particularly important as local economies and companies struggle to regain their pre-recession  
footing. AEP strives to serve as a partner in these efforts. For exam -
ple, AEP Ohio worked with regulators, state officials and Ormet 
Corp., our largest customer, to structure an economic development 
contract that helped the company to continue operating through the economic downturn. The competitive rates offered by AEP Ohio enabled Ormet to return to full production this year. That is good news for the people and economy of eastern Ohio, where Ormet’s increased business is putting people back to work. It is good for AEP because it means our largest customer is expected back on 
20 B usiness Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthAEP Operating Company* Profiles (dollars in thousands)   
     T otal kWh
  C ustomers  R evenues  N et Income    Sales**  
Appalachian Power  9 57,000  $ 3 ,275,103  $ 136,668  3 8,556
Columbus Southern Power  749,000  $ 2 ,149,041  $ 2 30,223  2 4,185  
Indiana Michigan Power  582,000  $ 2 ,195,727  $ 126,091  2 6,560  
Ohio Power  706,000  $ 3 ,223,707  $ 3 11,393  3 1,716  
Public Service Co. of Okla.  532,000  $ 1 ,273,662  $ 72,787  1 9,107  
Southwestern Electric Power  5 20,000  $ 1,523,534  $ 146,684  2 5,146  
 * S EC registrants
** M illions of kilowatt-hours40%approximate 	a mount 	o f	A EP’s	e arnings 		
that	c ome 	f rom 	A EP 	O hio	 	 	 	 		
	     
	 	   
	 	  
	 	  
 20 11 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   21
Transmission Joint Venture Initiatives  (estimated cost in thousands)    
Project  Lo cation  Co mpletion Date  Ow ners (  Ow nership  % ) Es timated Cost  
ETT Te xas 20 17 ME HC Texas Transco, LLC (  50 % ) / AE P ( 50 % ) $3 ,100,000  
PATH  We st Virginia  / Virginia  / Maryland  To be determined  Al legheny (  50 % ) / AE P ( 50 % ) *  $2 ,100,000  
Prairie Wind  Ka nsas  20 14 We star Energy (  50 % ) / ET A ( 50 % ) ** $2 25,000
Pioneer  In diana  20 16 Du ke Energy (  50%  ) / AEP (  50%  ) $1 ,000,000  
 * Allegheny Energy merged with FirstEnergy effective Feb. 25, 2011.
**  Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) is a 50/50 joint venture with MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. (MEHC) America Transco, LLC and AEP Transmission 
Holding Co., LLC. ETA will be utilized as a vehicle to invest in selected transmission projects located in North America, outside of ERCOT. AEP Transmission  
Holding Co., LLC owns 25 percent of Prairie Wind through its ownership interest in ETA.www.AEPsustainability.com
has already approved 284 miles of the 451-mile 
project. Reviews are expected to be completed this  
year. Once these are under way, an additional  
$1.6 billion in projects are in the pipeline, represent- ing 822 miles of lines and 28 substations with in-  
service dates through 2017. These projects support the state’s commitment to renewable energy.
 The second leg is our AEP Transmission Co. 
(Transco). In 2009, AEP Transco formed seven wholly owned transmission companies. AEP Transco is operating in Ohio, Michigan and Okla -
homa. Applications to initiate operations have been filed with the respective state public utility commis -
sions in Kentucky, Indiana and West Virginia. 
 The transcos have their own capital structure, which relieves 
some of the financial burden from our operating companies. The transco rates are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Com -
mission. We invested approximately $50 million in these states in 2010 and expect to increase that to $160 million in 2011 and approximately $350 million in 2012. 
 The third leg of our strategy is our joint ventures with other 
companies to build transmission capacity. These projects lever -
age our transmission expertise and feature partnerships with other companies to finance them. 
 Our transmission strategy is a key component of our future 
earnings growth. We are reprioritizing some of our transmission projects to accommodate those that are likely to move forward more quickly. Cost allocation and siting continue to be the biggest challenges. We are committed to working with state and federal regulators and with local communities to get these needed projects built in a timely fashion. We believe they will help to create and sup -
ply energy that will spur economic growth and prosperity.
 In February 2011, the Southwest Power Pool gave its approval 
to Prairie Wind for an extra-high voltage 345-kV double-circuit transmission line running from a new 345-kV substation near Wich -
ita, Kan., to a new 345-kV substation northeast of Medicine Lodge, Kan., and then south to the Kansas/Oklahoma border. A siting application is pending before the Kansas Corporation Commission. Prairie Wind Transmission is a joint venture between Electric Trans -
mission America and Westar Energy. Learn more about our overall transmission strategy at 
www.AEP.com/about/transmission/ .manufacturing, petroleum and coal products manufacturing, min -
ing (except oil and gas) and paper manufacturing. The primary met -
als sector grew by 6.5 percent, but the recovery was widespread.
 Overall, sales for all classes of customers grew by 1.1 percent 
in 2010, and we are forecasting 1.7 percent growth in 2011. Sales in the western part of our service territory are growing faster than in our eastern service territory, and we expect that to continue.  
Transmission as a Growth Engine
An interconnected and robust transmission grid that can easily move power between different regions of the country is central to our vision of a modern electric system. We believe this “transmis -
sion backbone” is the key to a secure energy future, economic prosperity and AEP’s continued financial growth. Effective and effi -
cient transmission is critical to ensuring our ability to access the new base load generation that will replace older coal plants that will be retired during the next decade. 
 Our three-pronged transmission strategy will create signifi-
cant growth opportunities within and outside of AEP’s traditional service territory. 
 The first part is Electric Transmission Texas (ETT), a joint ven -
ture between subsidiaries of AEP and MidAmerican Energy Hold -
ings Co. that operates within the Electric Reliability Council of  
Texas. ETT has been assigned about $1.1 billion in Competitive Renewable Energy Zone projects in Texas. These involve seven double-circuit 345-kV transmission lines, eight transmission sta -
tions and other equipment. The Public Utilities Commission of Texas  AEP Texas senior 
engineer Sam Hunt, left, observes while employees from Comisión Federal de Electricidad and an AEP contractor conduct final testing of a 4-MW NaS battery at Presidio, Texas. The installation enhances grid reliability along the Texas-Mexico border.22 Environmental Performance: EnvironmentEnvironmental 		Performance 	In dex ( number of incidents per year  )
	2008	Target 	 12	 	 	  
	 10 
 2009 Target  10	 	 	 	
		 9
	2010 Target  10 
  Actual  15
	2011 Target  10
This internal index sets targets for environmental performance that are tied to compen -
sation. It sets goals for opacity, NPDES, and oil and chemical spills at our power plants.Environmental 	Performance: 	
Environmentapproaches. We believe the implementation process must be 
thoughtful and take into account the impacts to the economy, reli -
ability of the electric grid and costs to customers, as well as the environmental and public health benefits. We support the Clean Air Act and we are not seeking to halt implementation of the rules. But that is the perception of some of our stakeholders. We simply need more time to comply, and it is up to us to do a better job communi -
cating our true intent. 
 We believe additional time to comply is justified because sig -
nificant bodies of scientific work, including previous calculations by the EPA, indicate that power plant particulate emissions are not a significant risk to public health. We contend that particulates gener -
ated by the transportation sector are a greater risk to public health. 
 We recognize that environmental regulation is connected di-For more than 100 years, our customers have relied on us to deliver dependable, affordable electricity , and our sharehold -
ers have relied on us to deliver a return on their investment. We also must comply with all applicable environmental laws 
and regulations, manage our impacts beyond compliance when appropriate, and work with our suppliers and stakeholders on a wide variety of other issues. We welcome and embrace these chal -
lenges because, in working to meet them, we become a stronger and more resilient company.
 In recent years, our environmental efforts have become much 
more closely linked to our business performance and our relation -
ships with a wide range of stakeholders. We have spent billions of dollars to comply with environmental regulations and face significant  
business risks related to our impacts on the environment if we fail. 
 Our company and our industry are on the cusp of a major 
transformation. It is being driven, in part, by new market funda -
mentals that will prompt a shift in resources, an aging infrastructure that is not cost-effective to operate and changes in how customers use electricity. Another major factor driving this transformation is proposed changes to environmental regulations. 
 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has an-
nounced new or revised regulations governing coal ash disposal, air emissions, cooling systems and power plant wastewater effluent. 
 We are developing a transition plan that addresses all factors 
driving our transformation, and all options are under consideration. It will take time, but we are confident AEP will emerge from this transformation successfully. As we put our plan together, we are very concerned about the EPA’s proposed timing and lack of coor -
dination for implementation and the consequences of disjointed 
AEP’s coal plants, including the Rockport Plant, Rockport, Ind., accounted for  
80 percent of the energy we generated in 2010 and will continue to be an 
important part of our fuel mix for years to come.
.5billion
cubic 	meters 	of	water 	lo ss	du e	to	ev aporation 		
from 	cooling 	towers 	pe r	ye ar80%reduction
in	S O 2	&	N Ox 	e missions 	f rom	A EP	p lants 	s ince 	1 980
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   23www.AEPsustainability.com
Environmental Compliance & Performance Management
We believe our environmental compliance is excellent overall. But 
we always will maintain the attitude that there is room for improve -
ment. Our challenge is to maintain compliance and improve per -
formance while our industry is in transformation. We face uncer -
tain fuel markets, aging infrastructure, and pressure to keep costs 
down for customers during tough times, as well as a regulatory 
environment that is more stringent and complex.
 C ompliance is the foundation of our environmental efforts and 
our goal is to have no significant enforcement actions.1 State and 
federal regulators conducted more than 190 inspections across our system in 2010, scrutinizing everything from physical structures and procedures to record-keeping practices. We received notice of three significant enforcement actions from regulatory agencies 
related to operations at our Amos Plant in West Virginia in 2010 
and thus failed to meet our goal of zero enforcement actions. For details, go to 
www.AEPsustainability.com . 
Our Position on Pending Regulatory Changes
Both the industry and the EPA need to consider the full range of regulatory proposals in context to ensure the most efficient and effective approach to the timing and implementation of multiple and overlapping requirements. We support the Clean Air Act and under -
stand the EPA’s role as rule maker and enforcer. As we develop our 
transition plan for the future, our commitment is to compliance.  rectly to our social and economic issues. Well-designed regula -
tions with realistic compliance requirements and reasonable time -
lines for implementation can protect the delicate economic recov -
ery of communities, preserve and create jobs, ensure grid reliability 
and keep electric rates reasonable for consumers and businesses, while achieving significant environmental benefits. These are the 
issues we are trying to address with the EPA.  
 W e have already made significant progress toward reducing 
emissions by installing state-of-the-art pollution controls during the past decade. We have built nine scrubbers on 7,900 megawatts (MW) of our coal-fired generating capacity between 2003 and 2011 and selective catalytic reduction systems (SCRs) on more than 11,000 MW since 2001. As a result, sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and nitro -
gen oxide (NOx) emissions have been reduced by about 80 percent from 1980 levels. In preparation for the addition of more controls on our plants, we have begun preliminary engineering and design work to build new scrubbers and other controls. In our experience it 
takes four to five years to engineer, fabricate and install a scrubber. 
Even this early preparation won’t get us to the EPA’s compliance deadlines on time, but we are confident that we can do it by 2020.
 O ur coal ash management practices also have evolved. We 
beneficially reuse or recycle approximately 40 percent of the coal combustion residuals (CCRs) we generate. We enhanced our groundwater monitoring program by installing 84 additional moni -
toring wells since 2008 and expanded the inspection program at our coal ash disposal facilities to include audits of our inspection 
process in 2010 – an added layer of checks and balances. We sup -
port a comprehensive review of all the regulations in concert to 
ensure coordination and feasibility of the regulations and timing.  
1 We define a significant enforcement action as one that arises from events that 
are within our control, has more than a minor environmental impact and results 
in a fine greater than $1,000. 
The industry and the EPA need to consider the full range of regulatory proposals in  
context to ensure regulations are well-designed with realistic compliance requirements. 
If done right, we can protect local economies and jobs and keep rates reasonable  
for customers.
Historical 	&	P rojected 	E nvironmental 	I nvestments  ( i n thousands  )
	 2008 		 $ 886,800
 2009  $ 457,200 
 2010  $ 303,800 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
	2011	Estimated 	 $ 223,100
	2012 Estimated  $ 340,300 
 2013 Estimated  $ 678,5003.2million
tons 	of	coal	ash	reused 	or	recycled24 E nvironmental Performance: Environment
AEP completed 
this scrubber at the 
Amos Plant in  
St. Albans, W.Va., in 2010, one of nine 
scrubbers built since 
2003.7,900 megawatts
generating 	c apacity 		
retrofitted 	w ith 	s crubbers 		
between 	2 003 	&	2 011a balanced consideration of public health, customer impacts and 
financial constraints. We feel that, on occasion, the EPA views com -
panies’ access to capital as infinite. It is not.
 W e will continue to work closely with the EPA and our stake -
holders to achieve the favored outcomes. But if the implementa -
tion schedules are too aggressive, the technology to comply is not available or the costs are too high, or if compliance with one regula -
tion creates noncompliance with another, then we will not be able 
to support those proposals.  
 F ollowing is a summary of where we stand on each of the rules 
and regulations the EPA is proposing. More detailed information 
about each rule is online at www.AEPsustainability.com/ourissues .
Clean Air Transport Rule
In July 2010, the EPA proposed the Clean Air Transport Rule (CATR) to replace the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR). CATR would impose new and more stringent requirements to control SO
2 and NOx 
emissions from fossil-fueled electric generating units in 31 states and the District of Columbia, starting in 2012. Each state covered by the Transport Rule is assigned an allowance budget for SO
2 and 
NOx and limited trading may be allowed. Facilities in Texas, Arkan -
sas and Oklahoma would be subject only to the seasonal NOx pro -
gram, with new limits that are proposed to take effect in 2012. The remainder of our states would be subject to seasonal and annual 
NOx programs, also starting in 2012, and an annual SO
2 emis -
sions reduction program that takes effect in two phases. The first 
phase, in 2012, requires approximately 1 million tons in additional SO
2 emission reductions across the region than would have been 
required under CAIR. The second phase takes effect in 2014 and reduces emissions by an additional 800,000 tons per year. 
 W ith the final rule due later this year, there will be little time  
to make the infrastructure additions to comply with the reduction 
required by 2012.  
 W e believe the emissions reductions that have already oc-
curred or that will occur by complying with CAIR and other regula -
tory programs will achieve the air quality goals the EPA has identi -
fied. The Transport Rule should be delayed at least until the end of  W hen we analyze the rules together, we see one outcome; 
when the EPA analyzes the rules one-by-one, they see something entirely different. We are trying to persuade the EPA that, in our experience, we cannot achieve compliance on the prescribed time -
tables and we must consider the rules in concert. We know we can comply if we have more time.  
 W e are asking that the timeline for the proposed changes reflect  2009 U.S. Coal Combustion Residuals Utilization Summary  
( i n tons  ) 
Concrete/Concrete Products/Grout  1 0,610,410
Blended Cement/Raw Feed for Clinker  3,577,726
Flowable Fill  414,410
Structural Fills/Embankments  8 ,856,396
Road Base/Sub-base  9 68,291
Soil Modification/Stabilization  9 57,116
Mineral Filler in Asphalt  0
Snow & Ice Control  3 02,827
Blasting Grit/Roofing Granules  1 ,743,621
Mining Applications  1 4,897,415
Gypsum Panel Products  7 ,288,755
Waste Stabilization/Solidification  3 ,738,799
Agriculture  3 88,990
Aggregate  57 4,083
Miscellaneous/Other  1 ,323,172
Beneficial Use as Percent of Production  4 1.3%
CCR Production   U tilization Totals  5 5,642,011
Source: American Coal Ash Association, Coal Combustion 
Product Production & Use Survey
 2010 AEP Coal Combustion Residuals Utilization Summary  
CCR Donated (tons)  1 86,015
CCR Used Internally (tons)  1 ,448,885
CCR Sold (tons)  1 ,565,247
Total CCR Produced (tons)  8 ,706,332
Total CCR Avoided Cost  $ 18,309,834
Total CCR Revenues  $ 10,793,087
Total Worth  $ 29,102,921
% Total Utilization Based on Total Production  3 6.76%
CCR Utilized (tons)  3 ,200,146 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   25ating, but not to expand, and would require additional groundwater 
monitoring and other controls.
 W e estimate the potential cost to comply with the least restric -
tive proposed solid waste alternative could be as high as $3.9 bil -
lion for units across the AEP system. If the EPA decides to regulate 
coal ash as a hazardous waste, those costs would significantly increase. The EPA received more than 420,000 public comments 
on this proposed rule.
Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act  —   
Cooling Water Intake Structures
To protect aquatic species, the EPA is evaluating revisions to 
regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act that gov -
ern the design and placement of cooling water intake structures and systems at power plants. One option the EPA has proposed is to require the construction of cooling towers on power plants 
that withdraw cooling water from rivers, lakes and estuaries. The 
premise is that plants with cooling towers require less water to be withdrawn and have less impact on aquatic life. The U.S. Supreme Court has confirmed that the EPA may take costs and benefits into consideration in developing these standards.
 W e agree that appropriate and cost-effective measures can 
be taken to reduce impacts to aquatic life from cooling water intake structures but believe that, for many plants, the impacts are small. As a case in point, we have more than 30 years of data on the Ohio River that show relatively minor impacts and that the existing cool -
ing systems are compatible with the health of the ecosystem. 
 W e strongly believe the EPA needs to weigh carefully the costs 
and benefits of any proposal. The agency has proposed a rule that  
lays out a process for a site-specific review of technology choices. 
Greenhouse Gas Regulation
AEP’s position on climate change has not wavered: We believe that scientific evidence points to human activity as a contributor to global warming. However, given the magnitude of the transition to a reduced carbon electric sector, AEP believes this issue should be addressed legislatively. Despite this, the EPA has forged ahead with 
SO2	&	N Ox 	E mission 	T rends 	a t	A EP-Owned 	P lants  ( m easured in U.S. tons  )	 	
	
 1 ,828,000  1 ,548,000  1 ,535,000  1 ,018,000  1 ,020,000  9 00, 000  4 16,000
 6 18,000  6 00,000  6 13,000  5 20,000  4 48,000  2 75,000  1 25,000
	 1980	 1985	 1990	 1995	 2000	 2005	 2010 	
l SO2 l NOxwww.AEPsustainability.com
2015, when other regulatory programs will be in full effect. Then, if necessary, the rule should be reconsidered in the context of any remaining air quality improvements that can be achieved with fur -
ther reductions from the electric power sector. 
Hazardous Air Pollutants from Electric Generation Units
On March 16, 2011, the EPA proposed a rule that would regulate emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) from electric utility boilers (coal and oil). A final rule is due in Novem -
ber 2011. In general, affected facilities must comply within three years after a final rule is published, with the possibility of a one-year 
extension. The proposed rule addresses emissions of mercury, acid 
gases, nonmercury metals and organics and also includes work practice standards and monitoring and reporting requirements. 
 W e are still in the process of reviewing the documents and 
assessing the impact on AEP. Our initial assessment suggests that we will have to install additional controls on a number of our coal plants and the compliance deadline of three years, with a possible one-year extension, simply is not feasible. Our evaluation will be part of the transition plan we are preparing, which won’t be final 
until we have a clearer picture of all of the rules and their collective 
implications for our operations.
Coal Combustion Residuals
In June 2010, the EPA proposed a rule to regulate the disposal and beneficial reuse of CCRs, including fly ash and bottom ash gener -
ated at coal-fired electric generating units. The rule contains three alternatives. One would impose federal hazardous waste disposal and management standards on these materials. One would regulate 
CCRs as solid wastes under state programs, implementing new fed -
eral requirements. Both proposals would impose stringent require -
ments for the construction of new coal ash facilities and would 
require existing, unlined landfills and surface impoundments to upgrade to new standards or stop receiving coal ash, which would initiate closure of the impoundments under a schedule that would be directed by the new rule, once final. A third option would allow existing facilities that pose no risk to groundwater to continue oper -
9 number 	o f 	s crubbers 	
built 	o n 	c oal 	u nits 		
between 	2 003 	&	2 011TRI	S ystem 	R eleases 	i n	2 009	t o	W ater ( 1 47,284 pounds  )
	 n Barium 	 	 	41 % n Ammonia 	 	 	3 %
	 n Copper 	 	 	24 % n Chlorine 	 	 	2 %
	 n Arsenic 	 	 	9 % n Chromium	 1 %
	 n Manganese 	 	 	6 % n Other 	 	 	1 %		 	 	
	 n Zinc	 	 	 5 %
	 n Nickel 	 	 	 4 %
 n Selenium 	 	 	4 %
26 E nvironmental Performance: Environmentto customers and the economy. Until the rules are final, it is ex-
tremely difficult to estimate the total cost of compliance or the exact amount of coal-fired generation that will be retired. However, we know it will be significant. During the past decade, we invested more than $5 billion in pollution controls at many of our coal units, 
and we believe the cost to comply with the EPA’s proposed rules, 
if approved as is, could be more than double our costs to date during the next decade. This is consistent with the Edison Electric Institute’s analysis that concluded the rules would force the shut -
down of 20 percent to 30 percent of coal-fired capacity nationwide and require about $200 billion in additional capital expense for the utility industry. This is about three times what the industry spent on environmental controls during the previous 20 years. 
 W hat concerns us most is the impact this would have on our 
customers and local economies. We could see rates increase sig -
nificantly at a time when the economy is still fragile, particularly in the areas we serve where income is below the national median and customers already struggle to pay their electric bills. Such rate increases would have very detrimental impacts on jobs and the 
economy in general. Read more about this issue in Public Policy .
 B etween 2003 and 2011, we built nine scrubbers. Since 1980,  
our investments in environmental controls have reduced SO  2 and two greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations that affect AEP’s facilities. 
 T he first requires us to formally report GHG emissions for each 
power plant for the first time. This is not a significant issue for us 
because we have been tracking CO 2 emissions from our power 
plants since 1993 through the EPA’s Acid Rain program and have been reporting emissions to EPA’s Climate Leaders program and the Chicago Climate Exchange since 2003. There are other smaller sources of GHGs at our facilities that have not been routinely 
inventoried (less than 1 percent of our emissions), and we have 
established an electronic reporting system to collect this new infor -
mation. EPA’s electronic reporting system is not yet available and reporting has been delayed. Read about the Tailoring Rule online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
 
Stakeholder Reactions
We continue to have candid discussions with stakeholders, reg -
ulators, customers, legislators and other policymakers about the  
transition we are in and the impacts it will have on reliability, cus-  
tomer bills, jobs and the economy, as well as the environmental  
benefits. The perspective of our stakeholders is diverse. Some  
have challenged why we didn’t start preparing state regulators  
and regional transmission operators sooner, knowing these sys -
tem changes were coming. However, until we knew with certainty what the proposals would be, we could not determine the impact on our system. We are having those conversations now. We also  
are trying to figure out how to pay the cost of this transformation.  
 W e encourage our stakeholders to come to us with their con -
cerns, as they have been doing; this helps us to be better informed about these issues and to clarify any misperceptions about the positions we are taking and the reasons for them. It also helps us to understand their perspective and consider alternatives. We may 
disagree on some issues, but it is important that we continue to 
communicate. We hope our approach is mutually beneficial to our stakeholders and that they better understand our challenges.
The Cost of Compliance
The time frame for compliance is one concern; the other is the cost  
Water intake screens like these at the Cardinal Plant in Brilliant, Ohio, are the 
target of the U.S. EPA’s proposed rule regarding cooling water intake structures  
at power plants.
44number 	o f 	a sh 	p onds 		
on	t he 	A EP 	s ystem13.8  billion
cubic 	m eters 	o f 	t otal 	a nnual 	p lant	w ater 	d ischarges 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   27www.AEPsustainability.com
Reducing Waste
The production of electricity creates solid and hazardous waste 
that we work to manage responsibly. Our largest waste stream is from coal ash; we operate 14 landfills, 44 ash ponds and 10 other impoundments at 22 power plants. About 40 percent of our coal ash is recycled or reused each year. These beneficial uses reduce 
the need for more landfill space and also provide revenue. In 2010, 
we received $10.8 million from the sale of coal combustion resid-uals and avoided another $18.3 million in disposal costs. 
 W e continue to reduce the amount of PCB-containing equip -
ment in the AEP system. PCBs have not been used in new equip -
ment for more than 30 years but are still present in some of our older equipment. In 2010, we removed and recycled approximately 32,800 pieces of electrical equipment. Of that, 1,790 (approxi -
mately 5.5 percent), and less than 0.5 percent of the transformers, were found to contain greater than 500 parts per million (ppm) of PCBs. Only about 3 percent of 1,576 transmission and distribution electrical equipment spills involved oil that contained 50 ppm or greater PCBs, and all were cleaned up properly. 
Biodiversity
“Ecosystem services” is a term that refers to the concept that peo -
ple receive “services” from healthy, functioning ecosystems. For example, products such as clean drinking water and processes such as flood control through wetlands and the decomposition of wastes are beneficial “services” that are provided by the environ -
ment that benefit people. The pollination of trees and crops, seques-tration of GHGs and recreational opportunities are other examples.  
 The electric power industry may also benefit from these ecosys -
tem services, but we do not fully understand what services we rely on, what services our operations may impact or the economic conse -
quences if those services were no longer provided by nature. 
 R ead more about emission reductions, water availability and  
usage, avian protection and coal supplier performance online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com/ourissues/envperformance/ . NOx emissions by about 80 percent. During that time the rate im-pacts to customers were somewhat offset by fuel cost reductions, reductions in the normal capital budget and very little construc-  
tion of new power plants. That will not be the case going forward. 
 W e don’t dispute that there would be short-term job creation 
during the construction phase. But those jobs would disappear when the construction is complete. Our analysis indicates that for every job gained at a combined-cycle natural gas plant, which is what we would eventually build, four or five jobs would be lost by a coal plant shutdown. That’s because gas plants require fewer 
people to operate. At the same time, manufacturers that rely heav -
ily on electricity for their production processes could be forced to 
close or go abroad, eliminating jobs and tax revenues. We know this because we are hearing it from customers now.  
Other 	E nvironmental 	I ssues
Protecting the Water
The production of electricity can affect the quality of surface water and groundwater through precipitation runoff, infiltration and collection of wastewater for treatment. States protect surface waters through a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. State regulation of surface impound -
ments and landfills promotes protection of surface and groundwa -
ter resources. The federal Clean Water Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act also protect groundwater and surface water by setting standards on discharges. 
 W e have invested heavily in water treatment systems to en-
sure we comply with our NPDES permits, and we have an extensive  
groundwater monitoring program to help us detect adverse im-pacts to water quality. Our design and construction practices for new landfills typically include composite liners, leachate collection systems and groundwater monitoring wells. We are proactively 
adding an additional synthetic liner to the landfill that will eventually 
serve the John W. Turk, Jr., ultra-supercritical coal plant in south -
west Arkansas. This will bring the design up to the level included in the EPA’s proposed coal combustion residuals rule.  
The Cardinal Plant, in 
Brilliant, Ohio, is one 
of AEP’s plants most 
likely to be affected 
by the U.S. EPA’s 
proposals to modify 
cooling water intake 
systems to reduce 
the impact on aquatic life. The Cook Plant, 
in Bridgman, Mich., 
is also among those 
that could be most 
affected.28 E nvironmental Performance: Climate ChangeEnvironmental 	P erformance: 	
Climate Changeto address the issue of climate change in the United States. Such 
an approach would provide the certainty needed to plan long-term capital-intensive investments. That is why we have supported a host of bills in Congress to advance this issue on the legislative front.  
We don’t agree with all provisions of all bills. Many stakeholders, 
including environmental groups and policymakers in our states, 
have taken issue with our approach. But we believe the path toward a workable solution includes incentives for technology develop -
ment and deployment, credit for early actions and an approach that is economywide. This can best be achieved through legislation and not regulation under the constraints of the Clean Air Act.
 W ithout that certainty, it is impossible to justify expenditures 
in the billions of dollars that might otherwise put the company and its shareholders at risk. Unfortunately, such legislation appears unlikely in this Congress.
When Technology & Policy Collide, Technology Often Loses
Our carbon capture and storage (CCS) validation facility, which re-moves CO
2 from a 20-megawatt (MW) stream of the Mountaineer 
Plant’s flue gas and stores it underground, demonstrates that CCS technology works on a small scale. It has captured more than 27,000 metric tons of CO
2 and stored more than 17,000 tons under -
ground. This project has become the basis for a larger study at the same facility, funded in part by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 3 program. These are critical steps toward commercializing this technology.
 T he legal and political landscape has changed significantly 
since the validation facility began operating in October 2009, and the changes affect our ability to commercialize CCS. The state of For many years, climate change has been one of the most sig -
nificant sustainability issues facing AEP. One major reason is our reliance on coal. Because of the company’s proximity to the nation’s coal fields, its legacy in coal-fired generation, the 
expertise we developed over more than a century and the huge 
investments we have made, coal will remain a part of AEP’s fuel 
portfolio for many years to come. We are one of the largest con -
sumers of coal in the Western Hemisphere and coal still accounts for about 80 percent of the energy that we generate. 
    A s our nation and the world began to focus on global warming, 
we took steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, from planting millions of trees to building the world’s first carbon capture and storage validation facility at our Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. We did this voluntarily.  
 O ur position on global warming has not changed: We do not 
dispute the science that indicates that human activity contributes to climate change. However, we support a legislative approach to deal with this issue rather than through regulation. And while  
voluntary activities have diminished in the United States, climate  
change remains an important issue for AEP that we will continue to 
address. Our challenge is that without a legislative requirement to 
reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs), the state regulators who set our rates have been sending us clear signals that they will not approve rate increases to recover our climate-related project expenses. With-  
out a market for carbon allowances, we cannot obtain early-action credit toward future emission mandates. We remain open to consid -
ering all options, but  – e specially in light of the continuing economic 
challenges we face  – w e are not likely to commit to new projects.  
 W e remain convinced that federal legislation is the best way 
2010 	A EP 	G enerating 	C apacity 	b y	F uel
	 n Coal/Lignite	 65 %
	 n Natural 	G as	 23 %
	 n Hydro, 	W ind, 		7 %
	 	 Solar 	& 		
	 	 Pumped 	S torage 	 			
	 n Nuclear 	 	 	 5 %2010 	A EP 	E nergy 	G enerated 	b y	F uel
	 n Coal/Lignite	 80 %
	 n Nuclear	 9 %
	 n Natural 	G as 		 8 %	 			 	 	 	
	 n 	Hydro, 	W ind, 		3 %
	 	 Solar 	& 		
	 	 Pumped 	S torage
	 	Includes purchased 
  w ind generation; does  
  n ot include wholesale  
  w ind generation. 		95
million 	m etric 	
tons 	o f 	C 0 2	
reduced 	o r 	
offset 	t hrough 	
CCX	b etween 	
2003 	&	2 010 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   29www.AEPsustainability.com
count fully or only partially, and the interim targets we would have 
to achieve. In the wake of the Japanese nuclear crisis, the role that nuclear power may play in meeting such a standard is uncertain. Its exclusion would be unfortunate. 
 W e are concerned about the inequities that could occur in 
pursuit of the president’s clean energy plan. For example, some states in the Pacific Northwest are already producing more than 90 percent of their electricity from clean sources, thanks to signifi -
cant hydro resources in that region. The plan could lead to huge surpluses of clean energy credits for states and utilities with large 
hydro or nuclear capacity today, and huge deficits for states such 
as Ohio, Kentucky, West Virginia and Indiana, which rely heavily on coal. Some method to deal with these inequities would be required. 
Slowdown in Other Voluntary Efforts
As noted, it is extremely difficult for regulated utilities to take on Virginia disallowed recovery of a portion of the Mountaineer carbon capture validation facility expenses, signaling a greater reluc -
tance by regulators to pay for developing technology. We took a pretax write-off of approximately $54 million as a result. We are evaluating West Virginia’s regulatory decision on the project.
 W ithout regulatory support or incentives, 
neither AEP nor our customers can afford the enormous expense associated with develop -
ing CCS technologies. Until regulatory policy changes or financial incentives become avail -
able, CCS technology likely will elude commercialization.
Federal Clean Energy Standard
A more likely alternative is a federal clean energy standard. The existing environmental regulatory scheme directed toward clean energy is a hodgepodge and is conducted in siloed processes that do not adequately consider the impact of previous or upcoming regulations, the economic costs and benefits to communities, or 
the time required for compliance. A comprehensive federal leg -
islative approach could achieve significant energy savings, foster 
domestic energy supplies and provide more rational environmental regulation. Even so, this legislation will be difficult to achieve. 
 D uring his 2011 State of the Union speech, President Obama 
proposed a federal standard that sets an 80 percent clean energy goal by 2035. Our ability to achieve this goal will hinge on details such as whether natural gas, nuclear, hydro, and coal with CCS 
2020 	P rojected 	A EP 	G enerating 	C apacity 	b y	F uel
	 n Coal/Lignite	 52 %
	 n Natural 	G as	 29 % 
	 n Hydro, 	W ind, 		13 %
	 	 Solar 	&	P umped 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
	 	 Storage
	 n Nuclear 	 	 	 6 %	 	
AEP Chairman & CEO 
Mike Morris, left, and 
Zhenya Liu, CEO of 
State Grid Corporation 
of China, right, sign 
a technology transfer 
agreement in January 
2011 as U.S. Energy 
Secretary Steven Chu, center, looks on. 
The appetite for voluntary action has diminished. Without a clear legislative  
mandate to reduce greenhouse gases, state utility regulators are sending clear 
signals that they will not approve rate increases for climate-related projects.Trillion kilowatt-hours per year5
4
3
2
1U.S.	E lectricity 	G eneration 	b y	F uel	1 990	–	2 035    	 	
     
1 %      1 %
     
20 %      17 %
     10 %      14 %
     23 %       25 %
     4 5 %      43 %
	 	 	 	 			2 009 	 	
	 	 	 	 	 		 1990	 1995	 2000	 2005	 2010	 2015	 2020	 2025	 2030	 2035	
	 Actual	 Actual	 Actual 	 Actual	 Projected	 Projected	 Projected	 Projected	 Projected	 Projected
n Coal  n Natural Gas  n Renewables  n Nuclear  n Other
Source: Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2011 Early Release Overview30 E nvironmental Performance: Climate Changeincrease reliability and enhance America’s energy independence. 
 F urthermore, since natural gas also emits less carbon dioxide 
per unit of electricity produced than oil and coal, moving to natural 
gas will give the nation more time to develop other sources of clean energy while combating climate change. Natural gas generation facilities generally can be sited and built much more quickly, less expensively and with much less risk than coal or nuclear plants. 
 A EP has been steadily increasing its gas generation capac -
ity. Since 2005, we have added 4,181 MW of nominal natural gas capacity to our system, and we expect natural gas to account for about 29 percent of our generating capacity by 2020 versus 23 per-  
cent today. Read more about this issue in Energy Security, Reli -
ability & Growth .
The Role of Renewable Energy
Even as natural gas becomes a larger part of the nation’s and AEP’s fuel supply, we also continue to develop renewables such as wind and solar where they are supported. We must develop all cost-effective sources of energy in order to be sustainable. 
 I n 2009, we doubled our goal of adding 1,000 MW of renew -
able energy (from 2007 levels) to serve our customers by the end of 2011. We made steady progress, completing 209.5 MW of previ -
ously announced wind and solar projects and 99 MW of new wind voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the absence of federal climate legislation. Our voluntary tree planting and agricultural methane capture efforts are difficult to justify when we aren’t getting any return on them for our shareholders or assur -
ances of credit toward future compliance obligations.  
 S tructured voluntary efforts, such as the EPA’s Climate Lead -
ers program and the Chicago Climate Exchange’s emissions trad -
ing program, also were affected by the lack of momentum on Capitol Hill. In the case of Climate Leaders, which AEP joined in 2003, the EPA ended the program as it implemented GHG regula -
tions. The Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), which AEP joined as a founding member in 2003, announced in November that it would suspend its emissions credit trading program. 
 A EP expects to reduce GHG emissions by an additional 10 
percent by 2020 from 2010 levels.  In 2010, AEP emitted 134 million metric tons of GHGs from its plants. This will result in a total reduc -
tion of approximately 25 percent from 2003 levels, the first year of our CCX commitment.
 W e will, however, achieve additional GHG reductions as we 
retire older, less efficient coal units and replace them with new nat -
ural gas and/or renewable generation, where supported. Under the EPA’s proposed Transport, Coal Combustion Residuals and Haz -
ardous Air Pollutant rules, AEP may be forced to retire a significant amount of older coal-fired generation in the next several years. The 
industry as a whole may retire between 50 gigawatts and 100 giga -
watts. Some of that generation most likely will be replaced with 
natural gas plants, which emit about half the carbon dioxide of coal combustion plants. See Environmental Performance  for more infor -
mation about these rules and our positions on them.
The Transition to Natural Gas
Recent developments in the technology to economically recover natural gas from shale rock formations have taken some of the urgency away from clean coal and nuclear power. This represents an exciting opportunity for AEP and much of the energy industry. If domestic shale gas can be safely, environmentally and economi -
cally tapped, stored and delivered, it will stabilize energy costs, 
The Wyandot Solar Project, which began commercial operation in 2010 near Upper
Sandusky, Ohio, provides 10 MW of renewable energy to AEP Ohio customers.  
134million
metric 	t ons 	o f 	G HGs 	e mitted 	i n	2 010
$70million  
invested 	in 		
energy 	e fficiency 	in	2 010AEP’s 	R enewable 	E nergy 	F ootprint
n AEP states with renewable  / alternative energy standards 
n AEP states with voluntary renewable energy
 s tandards  / goals 
n Other AEP states 
l Wind resources  
 ( A EP Energy Partners  ) 
l Wind resources
l Hydroelectric 
 p rojects
	Solar 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   31system by the end of 2012 through demand response and energy 
efficiency programs. Between 2008 and 2010, we achieved approx -
imately 400 MW and 1,116,000 MWh of demand and energy con -
sumption reductions, respectively. Subject to regulatory approvals 
and continued customer interest in our programs, we expect to surpass our energy reduction goal. 
 T hese efforts are reflected in the growth of our investments in 
energy efficiency during the past several years. In 2008, we invested nearly $13 million in energy efficiency and demand response pro -
grams. In 2010, we invested approximately $70 million in these pro -
grams that are now being operated throughout most of our service territory, and we expect they will continue to grow. 
The Role of Carbon Capture & Storage
We expect to complete our assessment of the Mountaineer CCS validation project, which is based on a chilled ammonia technology patented by Alstom of France, this year. Through 2010, AEP cap -
tured more than 27,000 metric tons of CO
2 and stored more than 
17,000 metric tons underground. While this is a very small quantity (less than 1 percent) compared with the power plant’s total CO
2 
emissions, it is the first demonstration in the world of its kind. 
 O n the basis of the validation project, we initiated a commer -
cial-scale project to capture and store CO 2 from a 235-MW stream 
of flue gas from the 1,300-MW Mountaineer Plant’s emissions, using Alstom’s chilled ammonia technology. The project team will complete the initial engineering and design phase in the third quar -
ter of 2011. The DOE agreed to pay 50 percent of the project cost 
up to $334 million. We also will receive funding from the Global 
Carbon Capture & Storage Institute, based in Canberra, Australia. The Institute will provide $4 million to support the initial engineering work. This project is scheduled to be completed in 2015.
 H owever, the balance of the funding is uncertain. Given regula -
tor reluctance to pay for nonmandated technology, we continue to evaluate options. projects. In addition, we announced plans for an additional 99 MW from the Timber Road Wind Farm, which is slated for completion in mid-2011. This project is subject to regulatory approval in Ohio. 
 T he new projects put us at 1,111 MW toward our 2,000-MW 
goal. That does not include a 49.9-MW solar project announced in Ohio but not yet commission approved. 
 I n addition to our wind and solar efforts, initial testing of bio -
fuels at some coal units started in 2010. Biomass pellets were  
co-fired with coal at two AEP Ohio coal plants. Biodiesel used for unit startup and flame stabilization was also tested at one of the coal plants. Following the testing period, AEP received 
approval from the Ohio EPA for the operational use of biodiesel at  
three coal units. In addition to traditional biofuels products, we  
continue to evaluate emerging fuel products and technologies.
 A lthough our renewable goal remains 2,000 MW, the reces -
sion and regulatory resistance have slowed our progress and we 
are not likely to meet it by the end of 2011. Just as with some of our clean coal projects, regulators are less inclined to approve renew -
able energy projects without a legislative mandate if they result in 
higher costs for customers, which is almost always the case. Read 
more online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
The Role of Energy Efficiency
Energy efficiency is often viewed as one of the most important fuel sources of the future. Increasing the efficient use of energy would contribute to achieving climate change reduction targets, help delay the need to build new generation and reduce environmental impacts. AEP has increased its commitment to energy efficiency in 
the last three years, partially as a result of input from stakeholders 
and support from regulators and customers. 
 W e set an internal goal to reduce 1,000 MW of demand and 
2,250,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy consumption on our Total Coal Delivered to AEP Plants
  2 008 2 009 2 010 
Thousands of tons  7 7,054  7 5,909  6 4,614  
Average price per ton  $ 4 7.14 $ 4 9.54 $ 4 4.82 
The Timber Road 
Wind Farm, under 
construction in 
Paulding County, Ohio, 
will provide 99 MW
of carbon-free 
electricity when it 
goes into service in 
mid-2011. www.AEPsustainability.com32 S ocial Performance: Work Forceence and knowledge. Most left the company through a voluntary 
severance program, though there were some involuntary sever -
ances, too. We had done everything we could since the global eco -
nomic collapse in late 2008, including a hiring and salary freeze, to avert this reduction. It was a difficult but necessary step to keep 
AEP strong and sustainable for our shareholders, customers and 
employees in the longer term. 
 O ne of our greatest challenges during these difficult economic 
times has been keeping employees focused on working safely despite the distractions. We learned how valuable it is to have good management systems to capture knowledge and expertise for the future, as well as human performance tools that help prevent errors that lead to injury. We increased our communication about safety 
and health to all employees. We also provided leadership training 
for the 300 first-time leaders who emerged from the restructuring. 
 T he changing demographics that were heralded a decade ago 
are here today. Our work force is more diverse, there are multiple generations working side by side and our employees have new and different expectations about their careers. In response, we’ve made our culture much more open and inclusive, employees are encouraged to interact with each other and with management and 
we celebrate diversity. We believe this environment fosters high 
involvement and shared commitment among our employees, and our safety and health performance is one measure of the depth and effectiveness of that cultural shift.  
Our Performance
When it comes to safety lapses, our goal will always be zero – zero Providing a safe, stimulating and rewarding workplace is the most important thing AEP can do for its employees. Envi -
ronmental stewardship, safety and health are core values that employees take to heart. As a result, 2010 was one of 
the best years for employee safety performance in our history. Our 
board of directors proudly recognized this achievement in a special 
resolution that was unanimously adopted (read the board’s resolu -
tion online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com ).
 W e are deeply grateful that no AEP employees lost their lives 
while on the job. But we know we can still do better at prevent -
ing harm because injuries are preventable. We give employees the tools and training to work safely and strive to foster an environment that allows anyone to stop a job if safety is at risk. We are also put -
ting more emphasis than ever on contractor and public safety.
 C hange is the norm in today’s business climate. Successful 
companies are able to effectively manage risk, solve problems, quickly adapt to new situations and identify new opportunities and capitalize on them. As a result, they gain a competitive advantage. The diversity, talent, knowledge, insight, experience and imagina -
tion of our work force provide the means to achieve sustainable 
growth. We have to understand and respond to the shifting values 
of today’s work force if we want to fully use our employees’ talents and continue to attract, motivate and retain the best and brightest. 
 A s our business operations are in transition, so is our work 
force. In response to a continued sluggish economy and lower demand for electricity, we reduced our work force in 2010. We ended the year with 18,712 employees, compared with 21,673 at the end of 2009. We lost the equivalent of 81,000 years of experi -
Social 	P erformance: 	
Work Force
AEP’s work force had one of its best safety performances  
ever in 2010, with both the number and severity of  
injuries declining.
number 	o f 	A EP 		
employees 	a t 	e nd 	o f	2 01018,712 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   33www.AEPsustainability.com
errors, zero incidents, zero harm. It is a very difficult goal to achieve 
but one that we are absolutely committed to. In three of the last five years, we have had no employee fatalities. Although 2010 was one of our best years for employee safety performance in terms of the number and severity of injuries, people were still harmed 
and that is not acceptable. Slips, trips and falls again accounted 
for the most incidents. Fortunately, there was a major reduction in injuries caused by electrical flashes, which are among the most life-threatening of injuries.
 W e completed our first five-year Path to Excellence in 2010, 
setting a course for achieving top-quartile performance among peer companies in terms of recordable injuries and the sever -
ity of injuries that result in lost work days. While our performance improved significantly during this period, unfortunately there were two employee fatalities in 2009 and one in 2006. 
 W e will now set a new five-year goal to achieve top-decile per -
formance. To reach this level, we must achieve a recordable injury rate of 0.97 and a severity rate of 19.94 for 2011. This compares with actual 2010 performance of 1.05 and 22.62 (excluding River Operations), respectively. Activities focused on proactive preven -
tion will be reflected in how we measure success going forward. 
 S ome of our business units outperformed our corporate goals 
in 2010. Among them was our Fuel, Emissions and Logistics (FEL) organization, where both employee fatalities occurred in 2009. Investigations of those fatalities revealed areas in need of improve -
ment that were subsequently addressed. In response, unit manag -
ers, led by senior management, made a personal commitment to 
achieve zero harm. They set specific expectations for management 2009  EMPLOYMENT DATA  — EEO-1  (as of Aug. 31, 200 9) 
 E mployees  F emales (%)  M inorities (%)
Total Employment  2 1,737  4, 013 ( 18.5%)  3 ,174 ( 14.6%)
Officials & Managers  3 ,629 3 82 ( 10.5%)  3 05 ( 8.4%)
Professionals  5 ,544 1 ,450 (26.2%)  8 36 (15.1%)
2010 EMPLOYMENT DATA  — EEO-1  (as of Aug. 31, 2010)  
 E mployees  F emales (%)  M inorities (%)
Total Employment  1 8,650  3 ,417 ( 18.3%)  2 ,732 ( 14.6%)
Officials & Managers  3 ,200  3 67 ( 11.5%)  2 61 ( 8.2%)
Professionals  4, 427 1 ,240 (28.0%)  6 84 (15.5%)
to lead by example and held a safety summit with all safety profes -
sionals. The message was that management wanted to hear from 
the field about how to improve safety and health performance and establish a zero-harm culture. These expectations led to the forma -
tion of new safety committees and hourly worker participation in 
management meetings that focus on safety-related issues. 
 D olet Hills Lignite Co. in Louisiana, where one of the 2009 
fatalities occurred, faced significant challenges stemming from 
Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) inspections in 2010. The agency issued 47 citations during a month-long, full-facility inspection. In response, a team of safety and process experts from across the FEL organization made several recommendations 
for changes following a two-week review. This high level of col -
laboration, enabled by the culture shift occurring throughout FEL, 
has made Dolet Hills a safer, more efficient operation. In our River Operations group, “Let’s Talk” sessions reached more than 1,000 crew members with a day-long safety refresher; in 2010, all fleet workers in the Gulf and all new hires also received in-water training. When people fall overboard, it is often life threatening. There were three overboard falls last year; thankfully, none resulted in a fatal -
ity. Teaching employees how to recover if they fall overboard and instituting portable fall protection for our barge washers were some of the changes instituted. 
 T he FEL team made safety 25 percent of its incentive com -
pensation plan for 2010 and will increase it to 30 percent in 2011. In addition, the FEL senior management team participates in safety audits and attends safety meetings with employees. 
 T he renewed focus on safety is paying off. Dolet Hills reduced 
the number of citations from 47 to only 15 in its latest MSHA inspec -
tion cycle. The lignite mining operation also achieved a recordable 
We encourage open, candid dialogue among our employees. It has been 
a slow, deliberate path, but we believe we are well on our way to building 
the kind of open culture we need and want for sustainable success.81,000 
years of experience
&	k nowledge 	l ost 	a s 		
a	r esult 	o f 	w ork 	f orce 		
restructuring34 S ocial Performance: Work Force( i njury severity rates  )		 	 Severity Days  
	 2008	Target 		 30.07 	 	 	
	 Actual   26.94  5 ,577
 2009 Target   25.56 	 	 	
	 	 Actual 		 29.13  5 ,924
 2010 Target   21.73 	 	 	
	 	 Actual 		 22.62  4 ,229
	2011 Target	  19.94  
Average injury severity rate = lost work days + restricted  
activity days x 200,000 ÷ hours worked
Excludes AEP River Operations
Excludes hearing loss
Severity days represent lost productivity due to lost work days or restricted dutyEmployee 	S afety 	&	H ealth 	Path 	t o 	E xcellence  
( r ecordable injury rates  )	
	 2008	Target 	 1.45 		
	 Actual  1.00 
 2009 Target  1.27		
	 	 Actual 	 1.13
 2010 Target  1.00 		
	 	 Actual 	 1.05
	2011 Target  0.97 
Recordable injury rate = total deaths + lost work injuries + lost work illnesses  
x 200,000 ÷ hours workedExcludes AEP River Operations
2008  – 2 010 performance includes hearing loss
Starting in 2011, goals will exclude hearing losswork performed by contractors; and training and mitigation proce -
dures for asbestos projects completed by AEP employees.
Embracing a Zero-Harm Culture
With the right standards and processes, leadership commitment, 
and a sense of responsibility and accountability among employ -
ees, we believe a zero-harm culture can be created and maintained throughout AEP. Leaders at all levels are expected to embody these values and cultivate an environment that encourages employees to 
make safety a priority and to look out for each other. This includes 
stopping a job when conditions change and safety and health are at risk. While we are making progress toward this goal, we still have work to do, including focusing more on behaviors and less on sta -
tistics. Too often we tell employees what we want them to achieve but not what we want them to do. They need to know both.
 W e want an environment where employees are encouraged 
to report all events. We recognize that, as people become more comfortable with reporting safety and health events, an increase in recordable events is likely. To get there, our employees need assur -
ances of consistency, transparency and fairness in how they are treated when an event happens – in other words, a “just culture.”
 T here are still too many near-misses. These are events that 
may appear minor but could have had much more serious con -
sequences. Several incidents in 2010 easily could have resulted in serious injuries or fatalities. We are analyzing such events to understand why they happened and how they can be prevented. We can’t rely on luck to prevent injuries. Creating and following 
well-designed policies and procedures, using error reduction tools 
such as Human Performance and looking out for each other are the steps that will get us to zero harm. 
 H uman Performance is an error reduction initiative that puts 
barriers in place to prevent mistakes that lead to injuries. Every business unit is using some component of Human Performance to rate of 0.74 in 2010, compared with 0.90 in 2009 and an indus -
try average for surface mines of 1.90. River Operations achieved a  
recordable rate of 0.99, while AEP achieved a 1.05 recordable rate overall. As a point of comparison, River Operations’ previous best was 1.52 in 2009. 
 I n our Engineering, Projects and Field Services (EP&FS) orga -
nization, which relies heavily on a contract work force, the man -
tra is “target zero.” This group believes that working in a power plant does not mean that injuries are inevitable, whether you are an employee or a contractor. And in 2010, EP&FS achieved a 0.66 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable 
injury rate on the projects it managed. This is 69 percent better than the top-quartile performers within the nation for similar projects. 
 A n important improvement tool is our ongoing implementa-  
tion at our fossil and hydro plants of the Occupational Health &  
Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 safety and health man-  
agement system. This is being done in conjunction with the Inter-  
national Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 environmental man-  
agement system. These systems provide document-based routines  
for managing health hazards and risks, policies and procedures,  
and requirements and priorities using a collaborative tool and  
document control system. This ensures that our employees’ know-  
ledge and expertise is captured for the future where everyone  
can access it, rather than in a notebook or in someone’s head.  
We plan to implement these management systems at all of our fos -
sil and hydro plants by the end of 2012.
 W e also perform regular internal audits of our safety and health 
compliance processes. Ten significant safety and health audits were completed across the company in 2010, identifying and raising business unit awareness of compliance and process gaps. Identi -
fied opportunities for improvement included aspects of inspection and preventive maintenance programs for lifting devices, such as 
cranes and hoisting equipment; oversight of asbestos abatement and affected business units whenever a significant incident occurs. 
Read about how AEP’s safety culture is influencing contractors at 
www.AEPsustainability.com/ourissues/workforce/ .
Taking the Electric Safety Message to the Public
Protecting the public from contact with our electrical facilities is a chief goal for AEP but one of the most difficult to achieve. We have little control over the decisions people make when they are in prox -
imity to our lines and equipment.
 T he main public safety risks are experienced by “weekend 
warriors” performing household and yard duties; contractors who are not working for AEP, such as highway construction personnel; and people working on billboards.
 A s copper prices have risen and the economy has stagnated, 
copper theft has increased in certain areas. In 2010, three of the nine public fatalities and four other electrical contacts stemmed from copper theft. Read more about AEP’s public safety efforts at 
www.AEPsustainability.com/ourissues/workforce/ .
 
Preparing Our Company and Our People for the Future
While reining in spending and protecting the company’s financial  
health has been essential, it has also been painful at times. On the  
one hand, the work force reductions have led to heavier workloads  
for many employees. This jeopardizes the work/life balance we  
strive to achieve. Some work groups were reduced by half. Em-  
ployees and their leaders are working together to identify process improvements and efficiencies to get the work done. 
 A t the same time, the restructuring has given employees op-
portunities to be creative and take on new assignments, progress within their current jobs or move into leadership roles. There are approximately 300 first-time leaders across the company, many of whom were front-line workers until recently. We’ve launched a lead -
ership training program to help this group develop leadership skills 
as quickly as possible.
 G roups throughout the company are exploring how to adapt to 
a smaller work force and become more efficient – by working differ -
ently, eliminating work or making greater use of technology. Quickly 
“recasting” work is especially challenging where high numbers of time-sensitive transactions involving customers or employees are mitigate the risk of employee injury. Some organizations are farther along than others, making it challenging to determine its overall impact on performance.
Welding Survey Leads to New Requirements
Our employees and contractors who perform various types of welding will have new requirements later this year to better con -
trol exposure to potential health hazards associated with welding fumes. Our Industrial Hygiene team conducted the largest known study of welding fume exposures in the electrical industry. We col -
lected and analyzed more than 550 air samples representing expo -
sure to employees performing all types of welding tasks. The study, combined with research into the recent science of potential health effects of exposures to welding fumes, led to a major revision of our welding policy.
 T he heating processes from welding or cutting create metal 
fumes that are easily inhaled into the lungs, where there is poten -
tial to cause harm. Metals commonly found in welding or cutting include aluminum, beryllium, cadmium, copper, iron, zinc and oth -
ers. OSHA doesn’t regulate the metal fumes from welding as a single standard but regulates them individually. Our new policy will 
take effect in October 2011 to give work groups and contractors 
time to prepare. The policy takes additional precautions to minimize exposure and sets new limits for exposure to some types of metals. 
Contractor Safety a Priority
More and more, how a company manages its contractors affects its safety performance, risk management and corporate reputation. This became abundantly clear in 2010 in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico. If contractors aren’t following proper procedures, our own employees can be at risk – and we 
don’t want anyone who is working for AEP to be harmed.
 T ragically, three contractors were fatally injured while working 
for AEP in 2010. Two were killed while setting up their work zone 
on a busy highway in Kentucky, and one was trimming trees in a transmission right of way in Oklahoma. 
 W e want our contractors to be as committed to safety as we 
are. We are working more closely with them to make sure they know what we expect.
 T he recordable injury rate target for contractors was set at 
1.80 for 2010, and those business units that tracked contractor performance achieved a rate of 1.66, better than the target. We have established a contractor Path to Excellence beginning in 2011, when the performance of all our major contractors will be tracked regardless of the business unit contracting the work. The record -
able rate target for 2011 is 1.70.
 O ur approach to contractor safety calls for one-on-one meet -
ings with contractors to review their work practices and provide them with information about ours. The contractors are expected to develop an action plan about how they will keep events from recur -
ring, and a “significant event call” is scheduled with AEP executives 
 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   35Targeted 	C ontractor 	R ecordable 	R ate	Path 	t o 	E xcellence
	2011 	 	 1.70 	
	2012  1 .60 
 2013  1.50 		
	2014	 	 1.40
 2015	 	 1.29
Contractors covered by this target are defined as large O&M contractors such 
as construction, tree trimmers, etc.www.AEPsustainability.compower plants and maintain existing ones in collaboration with the 
Fossil & Hydro organization. Today, because we are building fewer 
plants, fewer employees are required to perform this work. But there are still engineering and design needs, some of which are handled in-house and some of which are outsourced.
The Value Proposition of Wellness
Today’s economic realities force companies to look for every opportunity to reduce their operating costs. Health care costs, one of the largest items on any company’s ledger, are an obvious target. It is no different at AEP. But we believe that cutting costs without improving the health of our work force is short-sighted and will be more expensive in the longer term. 
 T he challenges in this area are enormous. The cost of high-
quality health care continues to rise annually. AEP, which self-insures, covers approximately 80 percent of employee medical plan costs. The company’s annual net cost of providing this ben -
efit in 2009 was approximately $250 million. Between 2010 and  
2015, we expect health care costs to increase 42 percent, or more 
than $21 million per year. This is unacceptable and we are devel-  
oping programs to address this issue. 
 O ur strategy to stem this tide is to shift cultural norms by 
teaching our employees and their families how to stay well and how 
to use their benefits optimally; building skills needed to change behaviors that threaten their health; and showing them how to maintain positive, healthy behaviors. If we succeed, our employees and their families will be healthier and costs will decline for the com -
pany and for employees. 
 T he tools we use to manage costs are a comprehensive well -
ness program and consumer-driven health plans that help employ -
ees make better decisions about managing their health care.
 O ur “AEP Wellness … Energy for Life” program has completed 
its third year with overall positive results while helping employees achieve the work/life balance we seek. Approximately 36 percent of eligible employees and 32 percent of their covered spouses or domestic partners completed all three steps of the program – a health screening, health assessment questionnaire and health im-required, as in our Customer Solutions Centers and the Human Resources Service Center. While the reorganization has led to some short-term negative effects, we have taken actions to remedy 
these problems. 
 T he work force reductions in 2010 lowered the median em-
ployee age from 49 to 47 and the percentage of Baby Boomers 
declined from 48 percent in 2009 to 40 percent in 2010. Nonethe -
less, like many other utilities, AEP continues to face an aging work force. We take this into account as part of our ongoing work force planning efforts. However, projecting ahead more than a few years 
involves certain assumptions that may or may not materialize. 
Everyday Innovation
We are a different company today than we were just a few years ago, and the future is also looking much different than what we envisioned. The evolution is just beginning. A big challenge as we prepare for the future is that we aren’t certain which skills will be most needed. But we know that one critically important charac -
teristic will be a willingness to innovate. Even now, employees are finding new ways to get work done with fewer people.
 T he stronger operating-company business model, which en-  
trusts greater decision making and accountability to operating com-  
pany management, serves as a catalyst for some of these changes. For example, Cook Plant and our Indiana Michigan Power subsid -
iary are finding that working together is helping each understand 
and address the other’s needs. Each now has a seat at the other’s 
management team table. This did not happen routinely before.
 T here are other examples. The EP&FS business unit tradition -
ally was the organization to engineer, design and construct new 
36 S ocial Performance: Work ForceDemographics at AEP in 2010    
 A pril 2010  J uly 2010  C hange  
Average age  4 6.7 years  4 5.0 years  – 1 .7 years
Median age  4 9.0 years  4 7.0 years  –  2 .0 years
Average years of service  1 7.3 years  1 5.5 years  – 1 .8 years
Average annual wage  $ 6 8,235  $ 67 ,452 –  $ 7 83
Number of employees  2 1,127  1 8,265  –  2,862 employees  
2010 	A EP 	Wo rk 	F orce 	D emographics
	 n Generation 	X 	 50.3  %  (1961 	–	1 981)
	 n Baby 	B oomers 		40.3  %  (1943 	–	1 960)
	 n Millennials 		 9.3 %  (1982 	&	a fter)
	 n Traditionalists	 0.1 %  (1942 	&	b efore)$250
million
paid 	f or 	e mployee 		
health 	b enefits 	–	2 00928%
of	A EP 	w ork 	f orce 	
represented 	b y 		
a	u nionemployees are represented by unions. We worked closely with 
union leaders during our restructuring to ensure they understood 
what we were doing and why we had to do it. They were collab -
orative and supportive throughout the process. The company and labor frequently work together on projects that support our com -
munities, such as United Way and Operation Feed in Central Ohio.
 D iversity of the work force in 2010 was affected very little by 
last year’s severance program. Approximately one-third of our em-ployees are minorities or females. In 2010 as in past years, we set diversity targets for females and minorities for management, pro -
fessional and front-line positions. Placement rates in three of the six job categories exceeded target: females in the management and 
professional categories and minorities in front-line posts. We made 
progress in our placement rate for minorities in management and professional positions but were unable to reach our targets, largely due to the work force reorganization.
 A EP is committed to providing opportunities for small, minor -
ity-owned and women-owned businesses. We view supplier diver -
sity as a business imperative, and we’re focused on continuous improvement as a way to maximize business effectiveness and operational efficiency. Adoption of a new supplier registration tool 
in 2010 and increased educational outreach efforts will help us to 
identify new opportunities for diverse suppliers.provement program. Health improvement programs include health coaching, wellness condition management for certain chronic con -
ditions, maternity management and cardiovascular activities. 
Our Corporate Culture & Values
A strong corporate culture is built around openness and collabo -
ration while fostering community and communication that extend beyond company walls. 
 W e are committed to open, candid and honest discussions 
with our stakeholders and we encourage the same dialogue among employees. It has been a slow, deliberate path, but we believe we are well on our way to building the kind of open culture we need and want for sustainable success in the years to come. 
 T his openness is fostered through the company intranet site, 
AEP Now, where employees can react to news items and stories about company events and people. They also can comment on internal blogs, including one written by CEO Mike Morris entitled “Wide Open.” The culture of openness was especially evident dur -
ing the restructuring that followed 2010’s work force reduction. 
Employees shared ideas and even criticized or questioned corpo -
rate decisions without fear of reprimand. The most viewed stories 
on AEP Now in 2010 involved the severance program and its effects on the company, and dozens of employees posted reactions to those pieces. Read more about this in Stakeholder Engagement . 
 W e rely on these attributes to guide us and they are embodied 
in all that we do. Wherever we go, our culture goes with us. Future changes in senior management are not likely to alter this culture of openness. It is becoming an entrenched part of AEP that could help attract new employees as well as retain existing talent.
Labor Relations & Diversity
We have an excellent relationship with our labor unions. Labor unions have worked with AEP leadership not only on the financial challenges we have faced during the economic downturn, but also in major legislative, regulatory and work force-related initiatives. 
 T he restructuring in 2010 didn’t change the demographics 
of our represented work force; approximately 28 percent of our 
 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   37Organized Labor at AEP
Labor Union  N umber of Employees
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers  3 ,327
Utility Workers Union of America  1,163
United Steelworkers of America  5 12
United Mine Workers of America  2 82
International Union of Operating Engineers  2
Contractor safety 
is taking on greater 
emphasis at AEP  
as we institute a Path to Excellence 
for contract workers. 
These contractors 
are working on a 
transmission project in West Texas. www.AEPsustainability.com38 S ocial Performance: Public Policyon today’s concerns but tomorrow’s needs, especially in regard to 
energy. America is at a crossroads: One road requires investment today that will bring us new supplies, including more renewable, nuclear and clean-coal energy tomorrow. The other road fosters lower prices today but leads to higher prices in the years ahead and 
a much more uncertain energy future. Unfortunately, it is far from 
clear which path the nation will choose.
 A s the prospect for climate change legislation has receded, 
the attention to other environmental regulations affecting the power sector has grown. In 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed new rules for air emission reductions and the disposal of coal ash with additional proposals in 2011 for air and water. These proposals raise serious concerns for us about 
the timing for compliance, the ability to secure the billions of dollars 
in capital that will be needed and the potential reliability risks cre -
ated by the proposed timetables. Read more about our positions on these issues, how they will affect AEP and what we are doing in Environmental Performance.
 D uring 2010, we engaged in a robust advocacy campaign on 
these issues, educating our state environmental regulators, elected officials, customers, employees and other stakeholders about the implications of these rules and asking for support of our positions. Many of these stakeholders shared our concerns and communi -
cated that to the EPA.
 R ather than isolated rules that often are not coordinated and 
fail to consider the impact on the nation’s electrical system or our communities, we support a more comprehensive approach that considers the impact of plant closings on the nation’s grid and sets Each year that the United States fails to enact a comprehensive energy policy, two things happen: The nation’s energy future is put in greater jeopardy, and AEP’s public policy function becomes an evermore important aspect of what this com -
pany does.
 W hen the economy slows, energy often becomes the public 
policy stepchild. The nation’s focus turns to protecting jobs, main -
taining family incomes and managing government revenues. The Congress’s failure to pass significant energy legislation in 2010 reflects that pattern. 
 A s AEP deals with issues such as climate change, environmen -
tal regulation, transmission policy, rate regulation, inland waterway maintenance and others, we recognize that our public policy efforts are a basic element of our success. We realize we have a respon -
sibility to be truthful, honorable, fair and transparent, and to serve 
the interests of many diverse stakeholders. Because congressional 
inaction is likely to lead to an even greater collision between energy supply, increasing demand and prices, environmental policy and international dynamics, we expect to be even more involved in pub -
lic policy matters in the future. 
 O ur goal remains to deliver safe and reliable energy at the most 
reasonable cost to our customers. We have taken our own steps to trim corporate expenses, including reducing the size of our work force during the past year, reducing travel, cutting our own energy use and improving operating efficiencies. However, we also believe that the nation’s energy future is put at more risk by inaction and 
short-sighted decisions that consider only today’s circumstances. 
 W e believe that strong public policy must be based not only 
Social 	P erformance: 	
Public Policy$642,000 
employee 	c ontributions 	t o 	A EP’s 	f ederal 	P AC 	i n 	2 010
$329 in	rate	increases 	in	2010millionTrack 	R ecord 	o f 	R ate 	C hanges 	( i n millions  )
2006 		 $ 450
 2007  $ 352 
 2008  $ 527	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
	2009 	 	 $ 659
	2010  $ 329 
 2011 Estimated  $ 235
n Pending/future rate cases include cases yet to be filed
Note: Rate changes in this chart exclude revenues with offsetting costs.oxide, mercury and other  
emissions, electricity will  
become more expen -
sive. AEP has spent more  
than $5 billion on numer-  
ous environmental up-
grades since 2000. These expenses ultimately are reflected in rates and make energy more expen -
sive. In fact, the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an advocacy 
group we support that 
promotes the use of coal, reports that half of U.S. households will devote at least 20 percent of their after-tax income to residential and trans -
portation energy in 2011. That number was 12 percent in 2001. Higher gasoline prices are a large part of this increase, but it’s clear that escalating energy prices have a disproportionate effect on lower-income households. 
 A s regulators and customers approach the limits of what they 
are able or willing to pay for electricity, our ability to develop newer but more expensive forms of energy, such as wind, solar, biomass and clean coal – at the pace we had anticipated a few years ago –  
is affected.
 I n addition, we plan to install technologies such as smart 
 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   39www.AEPsustainability.com
a more rational time frame for compliance. AEP alone would save billions of dollars in costs, retain more jobs and affect our commu -
nities less severely if allowed to spread these major environmental projects over a longer period. 
The Cost of Electricity
The cost of electricity is critical to our customers. Even though our rates remain below the national average, our customers generally live in lower-income regions and are particularly sensitive to rate increases. In addition, much of our service territory was affected by the loss of manufacturing jobs in our region. A comparison of state 
median incomes shows that virtually all of our states are below the 
national median income. 
 T his is particularly true in our Appalachian Power and Ken -
tucky Power service areas. Both companies have seen rising cus -
tomer complaints due to recent rate increases. Customers of both operating companies have voiced protest in person, in petitions, on social media outlets and through legislators who are taking a more 
active role in opposing rate increases for their constituents. As the 
economy remains weak in both areas, we can expect continued resistance and opposition to future rate increases – and vocal criti -
cism from customers who are finding it increasingly difficult to pay their electric bills, particularly during the coldest and hottest times of the year. 
 T he fact remains that coal is still among the most affordable 
generation sources in the nation and largely is the reason behind  
our low rates. But as the nation addresses issues such as climate  
change and the need to further reduce sulfur dioxide, nitrogen 
McDonald’s franchisee 
and Appalachian Power 
customer Sherry Wolf 
demonstrates the 
electric vehicle charging 
system she installed 
at her restaurant in 
Huntington, W.Va. Wolf 
and her husband, Tom, invested in the system 
to encourage the use of 
electric vehicles. 2009 Median Household Income 
by State  ( two-year average in dollars  ) 
AEP States  A mount  
Arkansas  $ 3 7,987 
Indiana  $ 4 5,324
Kentucky  $ 4 1,828 
Louisiana  $ 4 2,423
Michigan  $ 4 7,797 
Ohio  $ 4 6,318 
Oklahoma  $ 4 5,907 
Tennessee  $ 4 0,034 
Texas  $ 4 6,895 
Virginia  $ 6 1,126 
West Virginia  $ 3 9,170
United States Average  $ 49,945
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current 
Population Survey, 2007 to 2010 Annual 
Social and Economic Supplements.   
As regulators and customers approach the limits of what they are able or willing to  
pay for electricity, our ability to develop  newer but more expensive forms of energy, 
such as renewables and clean coal, at the same pace we expected a few years ago  
is affected.
The M/V Mariner and a tow of 15 coal barges prepares to leave the Newburgh lock on the Ohio 
River near Newburgh, Ind., as the M/V Hoosier State and its barges get ready to enter. AEP 
supports legislation that would improve the nation’s inland waterways and navigation system.  40 S ocial Performance: Public Policycustomers because our rates have always been among the lowest 
in the state. With recent changes in the market, however, some competitors are able to undercut our regulated rates to certain cus -
tomers, particularly commercial customers. The lost load has not significantly harmed our business at this time. We formed a subsid -
iary, AEP Retail Energy, which also allows us to offer competitive 
services in deregulated states, including Ohio and Texas.  
 I n addition, Demand Response Curtailment Service Providers 
are currently enrolling AEP retail customers in demand response programs sponsored by regional transmission organizations, such as those offered by PJM Interconnection. We contend that it is not appropriate for retail customers, who are taking service under regulated retail rates, to participate in wholesale market-based 
programs under the current rules and arrangements. The current 
structure allows a select few customers to independently benefit from generation capacity that is dedicated to serving all retail cus -
tomers. In addition, we are working to correct the rate inequities that have prompted customers to shop for less expensive power.
 W e believe that participation by retail customers in such pro -
grams should be offered only through their utility and under terms approved by the responsible state regulatory commission. This arrangement would allow the costs and benefits of such programs to be shared among all retail customers. We continue to work with 
our state public service commissions on this issue. 
Inland Waterway Improvements
The poor state of our nation’s inland waterways transportation infrastructure is a serious issue for us and for the nation. We oper -
ate one of the nation’s largest inland barge companies, and the meters and smart grid systems that will give customers far more ability to control their energy use and costs. However, these will be deployed only where regulatory approval is certain. For example, we likely will not meet our goal of installing smart meters throughout our customer base by 2015 without additional regulatory support. We will work with all of our regulators to advance new forms of 
energy and deploy new technology as quickly as we can, but we 
can do so only when they permit us to obtain cost recovery.
NERC Security Standards
All bulk power system owners, operators and users, including AEP, are now required to comply with system reliability standards developed by the North American Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC). Operating under the auspices of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, NERC is charged with developing and enforcing 
these standards to ensure the reliability and security of the nation’s electrical grid. NERC standards became mandatory in 2007 and fines for violations can be significant. 
 A EP has created a cross-functional team of executives from 
the Transmission, Legal, Regulatory Services, Commercial Opera -
tions, Generation, Shared Services, Corporate Planning and Bud -
geting and Distribution groups to implement new compliance requirements. These include training for all employees in areas such as proper record-keeping procedures, cyber security and 
physical access rules for critical facilities.
 N ERC is scheduled to conduct an extensive audit of AEP’s 
compliance with the reliability standards later in 2011. We expect to 
be prepared for the audit but also realize that it may uncover system risks. Penalties largely are determined by the risk factor associated with the violation as well as the severity level. Read more about this issue in Energy Security, Reliability & Growth .
Retail Energy & Curtailment Service ProvidersThe development of a competitive electricity retail market in Ohio – our largest state in terms of revenues, employees and custom -
ers – presents a challenge to AEP. While competition has existed in Ohio since 2000, there were few attempts to sign up AEP Ohio 
AEP’s Mike Morris, Scott Osterholt and Karen Sloneker join U.S. Energy Secretary 
Steven Chu on a tour of the mobile gridSMART  ® showcase.
AEP Barge Transportation is Cost Effective
1 Barge = 14.4 Rail Cars =  70 Tractor-Trailers 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   41www.AEPsustainability.com
 A EP continues to be politically active through its political action 
committees (PACs) as well as through direct corporate contribu -
tions where permitted by law. We maintain lobbyists in Washington, 
D.C., and in each state where we have operations, except in Ten -
nessee, Illinois and Missouri. Our full-time lobbyists work closely with our employee-run PACs to direct contributions to candidates 
and officeholders who will best represent our interests. 
 A EP’s federal PAC contributed approximately $582,000 to 
candidates in 2010 and received about $642,000 in contributions 
from employees. AEP operates state PACs in Ohio, Michigan, Texas and Virginia. Reports about each PAC’s activities are available at 
www.fec.gov  and the respective state websites. We spent more 
than $10 million on federal lobbying efforts in 2010. Approximately $4.5 million of the dues or payments we made to trade organiza -
tions also was designated for lobbying activities. We post reports  
on our activities to our website at 
www.AEPsustainability.com/our
issues/publicpolicy/lobbying.aspx , including breakdowns of where 
the money went.decay of the lock system on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers is caus -
ing costly river traffic delays and adding to the expense of hauling 
the millions of tons of coal, grains, metals and other commodities 
that we ship. 
 M ore than half of the 240 operational lock chambers run by 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are over 50 years old. We rely on barges to deliver coal from various places along the Ohio River and upstream, including western coal from our Cook Coal Terminal in Metropolis, Ill. Increasingly, broken and undependable locks raise our costs and affect our ability to deliver to our customers on time. 
For example, coal delivery costs increased $1.7 million as a result 
of closure of just one facility in 2010. Lock 52 near the Cook Coal Terminal was closed for 32 days. That same closure increased our commercial hauling costs by about $2.9 million.
 T he Army Corps of Engineers, which maintains and operates 
the inland waterways, recognizes the problems but has not received adequate funding from Congress to address them. AEP supports adoption of the Inland Waterways Capital Development Plan, which would include a 30 percent to 45 percent increase in the fuel tax we pay for our barge operations, to fund capital improvements over 
a 20-year period. That proposal did not make the legislative cut in 
Congress in 2010. But we will continue to advocate on its behalf.
 T he nation’s waterways provide an efficient, safe, low-cost, 
low-impact mode of annually transporting approximately 600 mil -
lion tons of commodities valued at $70 billion, according to the Army Corps of Engineers. Shifting even part of that load to rail or trucks would result in more congestion, more fuel consumption, more pollution, higher road maintenance costs and higher overall 
transportation costs for coal, grains, other commodities and manu -
factured goods. 
 R epairing the lock system will benefit not only AEP and the 
electric industry but the nation’s economy and the environment.
 Political InvolvementLike many companies, we support candidates and legislation that we believe are in the best interest of our company and our stake -
holders. We have a responsibility to be forthcoming about our polit -
ical and lobbying activities and to make sure that we are not saying one thing in public and doing something else in the political arena. 
 W e have many different constituencies and interests that are 
not always aligned or in agreement. We therefore try to be mea -
sured and balanced in taking public policy positions. We work to identify and weigh the environmental, economic and social issues involved in any specific piece of legislation or policy paper. We seek common-ground solutions wherever possible and attempt to align 
our interests with those of others whenever we can. 
 S ometimes we are faced with difficult decisions that please 
some AEP stakeholders and displease others. The best we can do 
is to be open and candid about our rationale and invite discussion and dialogue with those who have differing viewpoints. To find out more about how we do this, please see Stakeholder Engagement .Our Customers Speak Out 
about Rate Increases
As energy bills continue to increase, cus-  
tomers in some of our hardest-hit service  
territories have expressed their anger. We are sensitive to 
the effect that higher rates have on our customers. Our goal is to deliver reliable energy at the lowest cost pos -
sible, but new environmental regulations will require sig -
nificant investments in our plants to comply. Customers posted these comments about their bills in online forums:
“I think there will be a lot of people this winter whose 
electricity will get turned off because they can’t pay their bill. I will probably be one of them. We have three kids and we have to have electricity and we have to have food. But if worse comes to worse, I will burn candles and use kero -
sene if I have to ’ cause food is more important.
” 
– A  Kentucky Power customer writing in an online forum in response 
to an increase in electricity rates
“Last month my bill was $188 for 1,888 kWh. In Decem -
ber 2008, it was $128 for 1,890 kWh. …  S omething is 
wrong with this picture. …  I  have e-mailed AEP several 
times, SCC (Virginia’s State Corporation Commission) sev -
eral times so now I am on to my congressman, my senator and delegates. I hope you guys will join me in making your voice heard.
”  
–  A n Appalachian Power customer’s comments on Face book about 
higher electricity bills in Virginia
42 S ocial Performance: Stakeholder Engagement A s we create a culture of openness within AEP, we have en-
couraged a similar culture of openness with our stakeholders. It is 
not uncommon for leaders of environmental groups or governors in our states to call our chairman or other senior executives to dis -
cuss issues, raise concerns or challenge our positions or actions. We feel free to call them on the same basis. Last year, for example, 
we organized stakeholder calls, chaired by Mike Morris, to answer 
questions about our position on proposed EPA regulations. We see transparency, accessibility and engagement as important ways to manage our business risks, build trusting relationships, support our communities and ensure our financial health.
How We Engage
In today’s interconnected world, technology enables us to engage with more stakeholders on a broader range of issues. We believe strongly in face-to-face engagement; it is the best way to build trust and to ensure that we are being heard and understood and that we are hearing and understanding others.
 W e began to venture into social media during 2010 to expand 
our reach and frequency of stakeholder contact. We can have dis -
cussions and also monitor the conversations that people are hav -
ing about us. This helps us to understand the issues and receive feedback about how decisions and business strategies affect our customers. We compile and distribute a daily summary of social 
media “chatter” about AEP and key issues to AEP managers.
 W e now have a social media governance committee and pol -
icy, and more than 100 people across AEP are regularly and offi -
cially using Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn, among other Our ability to succeed as an organization and to deliver finan -
cial and social value is tied directly to the strength of our 
relationships with our shareholders and with other stake -
holders. We provide an essential service to society and to 
local communities that requires us to be accountable, transparent 
and trustworthy. In addition, our operating environment is chang -
ing dramatically and becoming significantly more complex, and we 
must work with all of our stakeholders to evolve and thrive in it.
 W e have found that if we work with our stakeholders in good 
faith to find common ground, and if we are honest and candid about our decisions and the basis for them, they will respond in kind – even when our views differ sharply. We deeply appreciate and respect stakeholders’ willingness to bring their issues, ques -
tions and concerns directly to us, and we will always endeavor to 
earn and keep that trust. 
 E ngagement makes us a stronger, better and more resilient 
company because our stakeholders:
• Inform us of key issues that affect people who are important to us.
• Challenge us continually to improve our performance.
• Give us insights into points of view that we may not otherwise 
have considered.
• Help us see and understand how we are perceived outside of the company.
• Work with us to find common ground and collaborate on com -
mon objectives.
• Hold us accountable for our actions and impacts. 
• Are willing to engage in meaningful dialogue to achieve reason -
able solutions.
Social 	P erformance: 	
Stakeholder Engagement
AEP Chairman & CEO Mike Morris, left, Dale Heydlauff, vice president of corpor-  
ate communications, and President Nick Akins during a webcast to employees.433thousand
number 	o f 	c ustomers 	w ho	s witched 	
to	p aperless 	bi lling 	in	2 010
$75.3million  total 	
assistance 	p rovided 	t o 		
AEP	c ustomers 	in	2 010 2011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   43www.AEPsustainability.com
 L ast June we formed an external Energy Efficiency Advisory 
Council. The council includes 13 manufacturing, trade, technol -
ogy, environmental and policy experts, who will help us achieve 
our energy efficiency and conservation goals and also help drive national awareness to change behaviors, support new technolo -
gies and standards, and influence public policy regarding efficiency 
and conservation. networks. We “tweet” during power outages, for example, to give 
customers instant information about restoration efforts. During one early 2011 massive ice and snow storm, more than 500,000 cus -
tomers in Texas and Ohio were affected by power outages. Twitter and Facebook were integral parts of our customer communica -
tions efforts during these events. Our corporate Twitter account 
has nearly 800 followers (@AEPnews) and our sustainability director 
has a separate account with more than 300 additional followers  
(@Watts4U). 
 A EP and our operating companies were mentioned more than 
17,000 times in social media arenas in 2010. The most discussed  
topics were company news (the employee severance program, leadership changes, etc.), outages, rate cases, investor information,  
environmental issues and energy efficiency.
 L egislators across the country also have begun using social 
media, blogs and other online tools to communicate with their con -
stituents and advocate their positions. In some AEP jurisdictions, legislators united with customers concerned about their rising electricity prices to voice their positions and create alliances, using some of the same online tools. 
 W e held nine stakeholder meetings in 2010, most of them in  
person but some by phone. Our discussions focused on such issues as the cost of electricity, the future of coal, energy efficiency,  
environmental regulations, climate change, supply chain and our changing business model. We also published a mid-year update to 
our website (
www.AEPsustainability.com/reporting ).
Stakeholder Dialogues & Issues
During the past five years, we have engaged with more than 100 
stakeholders on a wide range of issues. Energy efficiency is often a top concern, and last year we formed two stakeholder teams on the topic. The first brought together a small group of represen -
tatives from Ceres, the Natural Resources Defense Council and 
AEP to talk about increasing energy efficiency through the use of 
a rate structure known as decoupling, which would separate util -
ity income from electricity sales. Prior to forming that group, our discussion had focused on why some stakeholders supported  
that approach and why we opposed it. We learned that we agreed on many aspects of decoupling and the importance of energy  
efficiency but disagreed on other key points, and our discussions will continue.Assistance Provided in 2010 to Help Customers  
Pay Their Electric Bills  
Company  2 009 2 010 %  Change
Appalachian Power  $ 3 5,912,830  $ 2 6,990,405  – 2 4.8  %
Kentucky Power  $ 4, 514,950  $ 4, 586,968  1.6%
Indiana Michigan Power   $ 9, 244,881  $ 9, 027,788  – 2 .3 %
AEP Ohio   $ 2 1,123,833  $ 1 8,017,939  – 1 4.7  %
Public Service Co. of Oklahoma   $ 1 0,415,763  $ 1 1,281,714  8.3 %
Southwestern Electric Power Co.   $ 5,132,579  $ 5 ,407,410  5 .4 %
Totals   $86,344,836  $75,312,224  – 1 2.8  %
It is not uncommon for leaders of environmental groups or governors in our states 
to call our chairman or other senior executives to take issue with our positions  
or challenge our actions. We encourage this culture of openness and accessibility.A Stakeholder’s Perspective
We invited Allen Hershkowitz, senior scientist at the Natu -
ral Resources Defense Council, to write a brief statement 
about his views on stakeholder dialogue and the impor -
tance of collaboration between industry, organizations, customers and government. Below are two excerpts. The 
entire statement is at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
“The time is long past when dialogue between environ -
mental groups and industry is viewed as either a risk to 
business operations or selling out. All we’re doing is com -
ing together to try and find an effective path to resolve difficult problems.
”
“Needless to say, dialogue does not mean that we 
abandon our principles or agenda. Indeed, it means bring -
ing our concerns to the negotiation table for discussion. In my case, important differences exist between AEP and NRDC: We disapprove strongly with the use by AEP of coal 
obtained from mountaintop removal mining (MTR) sites.
”Allen Hershkowitz, left, senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 
tours the Mountaineer Plant control room with Plant Manager Charles Powell. 
Hershkowitz visited Mountaineer to become familiar with how coal plants operate.
44 S ocial Performance: Stakeholder Engagementwould consider moving from large-scale centralized power stations to 
smaller-scale decentralized options.   
 In response, we rewrote sections of our report each year to clar -
ify our business strategy and transition plan, citing a combination of 
factors that are driving change, including environmental and climate-related issues. We are still developing a transition plan and when it is complete, we will share it with stakeholders. 
Engaging Our Investors
We seek to maximize shareholder value and strongly believe that shareholder return will be higher in the long run if we build strong, trusting relationships with our stakeholders. Engagement creates  
and protects long-term value and is focused on sustainable growth, which in turn promotes higher returns for shareholders. For example, 
by achieving our financial goals we can provide new opportunities 
to innovate, achieve cost-saving operational efficiencies, improve our environmental performance and create better prospects for our company and employees. Innovation, cost savings and improved performance, in turn, help us to improve financial returns. Profits build trust with investors, allow us to fulfill our nonfinancial commit -
ments and keep us competitive and financially healthy.
 I nvestor outreach is a cornerstone of any successful investor 
relations (IR) function. Approximately 69 percent of our outstanding shares are owned by institutional investors who have an investment horizon of more than two years. Our IR team increased its outreach to investors by 36 percent in 2010 over 2009. We participated in 40 investor conferences and in-person forums, hosted nine investor 
visits to our corporate headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, and met 
face-to-face with more than 500 financial investors in five countries. This robust outreach continues in 2011. 
 O ur discussions most often focus on the legislative and regu -
latory uncertainties we face in our 11 states and particularly in Ohio, where approximately 40 percent of our earnings are generated. Investors are interested in how we will maintain fiscal discipline and match our capital expenditures with operating cash flows. Interest 
also remains high in our transmission growth strategy and in the 
potential opportunities, challenges and financial implications of cli - T he council met twice last year and chose education, codes 
and standards, commercial lighting and industrial technologies as its priorities for collaboration. Early in 2011, the group sent a letter of support to U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, urging adoption of the proposed Energy Efficient and Smart Appliance Agreement of 2010. This agreement would set new minimum energy efficiency 
standards for home appliances, extend and update tax credits 
for developing and manufacturing smart appliances, and include “smart grid” readiness as a feature of future ENERGY STAR quali -
fied appliances. In addition to saving energy, resources and money, these appliances will enable quicker deployment of smart appli -
ances to consumers. Read the letter online at 
www.AEPsustain -
ability.com .
 W e also meet with stakeholders every year to obtain feedback 
on our Corporate Accountability Report  before it is published. Ceres, 
a national network of investors, environmental organizations and other public interest groups, helps to organize a multistakeholder meeting with AEP executives in our Columbus, Ohio, headquarters. In 2010 and 2011, this group asked us to provide more information on how 
our business model is evolving to meet a carbon-constrained future. 
They also asked us about the role of technology and whether AEP 
2010 	C haritable 	G iving 	b y	A rea	o f	F ocus
	 n Education	 24 %
	 n Community 		 14%
	 n Arts	&	C ulture 		 12 %
	 n Environment	 12 %
	 n Safety 	&	H ealth 		 11 %
	 n Hunger 	&	H ousing 		 9 %
	 n Economic 	D evelopment	 8 %
	 n United 	W ay 		 5 %
	 n Youth 		 5 %Total Philanthropic Giving ( C orporate and AEP Foundation  ) 
State  2 010
Arkansas  $ 3 56,444
Indiana  $ 1,589,000
Kentucky  $ 4 28,006
Louisiana  $ 3 68,095
Michigan  $ 7 14,853
Ohio  $ 11,149,674
Oklahoma  $ 7 09,016
Tennessee  $ 3 3,553State  2 010
Texas  $ 1,631,808
Virginia  $ 1,676,385
West Virginia  $ 2 ,247,377
Other  * $ 2,725,615
Total  $ 23,629,826
* G iving to organizations outside  
 A EP’s service area or those that  
 b enefit multiple stateswww.AEPsustainability.com
 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   45 W e survey our customers regularly to assess our service per -
formance and to set internal targets to ensure customer satisfac -
tion, which remained high in 2010. We combine our surveys, con -
ducted by a third party, with industry benchmarks of our peers to 
create a Customer Satisfaction Benchmarking Index. In 2010, AEP 
placed in the 82nd percentile relative to our national peer group in 
overall customer satisfaction, which exceeded our goal of reaching the 75th percentile. Satisfaction levels reached the 91st percentile relative to a national peer group for large commercial industrial cus -
tomers, the 82nd percentile for residential customers and the 74th percentile for small commercial customers. 
 A ccount delinquencies can be a measure of economic growth 
or downturn. Residential account delinquencies increased signifi -
cantly in 2010, up 48 percent from 2009. Nonresidential custom -
ers were not immune to the economic climate, either, as the aver -
age delinquent account balances for these customers increased approximately 10 percent from 2009.
 W e work with customers to keep them from being delinquent, 
providing payment plans and other forms of assistance. We con -
nect them with energy assistance programs when appropriate. AEP customers received approximately $75.3 million in energy assistance last year, a 13 percent decrease from 2009.
Employee Engagement
We believe that employee engagement begins with a culture in which employees are free to speak their minds. Our chairman, Mike Morris, has advocated and fostered an unprecedented level of openness that has changed our culture for the better. Employees have many opportunities and forums to discuss issues with each 
other and with management and are encouraged to do so. While mate change policies and regulations.
 W e have seen a proliferation of enterprises that assess com -
panies’ sustainability performance and provide that research to the 
financial community. In 2010, we responded to at least a dozen different surveys that queried us on corporate governance, climate and water risk management, political contributions policies and our 
forestry footprint. We analyzed the results from the largest surveys 
to understand what information is most important to the research -
ers and, by extension, the investment community. Although we don’t agree with the implied emphasis in all cases, we hope to improve this report by considering that kind of feedback. 
Connecting with Customers
We are in business to deliver comfort to customers by providing reliable, affordable, high-quality power “24/7.”  The cost of electric -
ity has increased significantly in the last five years, which has been particularly challenging during the recession. Most of the 11 states in our service territory were already below the national median 
income and were further affected by the recession. 
 O ur customer service centers are often the first point of con -
tact for customers who wish to communicate with us. Last year, we 
spoke with more customers, for a longer time per call. We spent an average of approximately 4.5 minutes per call discussing high bills, the recession and other issues. Call volume into our customer 
service centers daily increased over 2009 levels yet remained just 
under 50,000. Consequently, the amount of time customers had to wait on hold to talk to us – called the average speed of answer – was longer. 
  A t the same time, the number of customers conducting busi -
ness with us online increased. Customers logged in to our utility websites to pay bills or conduct other business more than 4.2 mil -
lion times in 2010. This is nearly double the online customer con -
tacts in 2009. The Internet is much more efficient for customers and 
for AEP. It can reduce the number of calls we handle and on-hold 
wait times. By the end of 2010, approximately 433,000 customers switched to paperless billing and more than 1.1 million, mostly resi -
dential customers, were conducting online transactions with us. 
2010  Customer Satisfaction Results
  Q uartile Ranking  
Survey Type  %  Satisfied  v s. National Peer Group
Residential  8 2.8%  1 st
Commercial  8 9.4%  2 nd
Manage d/Key Accounts  8 2.0%  1 st
Call Center Transactions  8 4.5%  N A  
Providing support 
to the community 
is a long-standing tradition at AEP . 
Here, employees 
from AEP Ohio 
deliver holiday 
food boxes at a 
Cambridge, Ohio, 
food pantry. 48%increase 	i n 	r esidential 		
account 			
delinquencies 	
compared 	
with 	2 009
employee 	w eb -
casts 	c onducted 	
in	2 010 	 27 Company Blogs Foster Candor, Communications 
AEP provides several ways for employees to communicate and provide feedback, including 20 blogs. One of the more popular is 
Chairman and CEO Mike Morris’s blog, called “Wide Open,” on which any employee is free to post. Here are some excerpts from “Wide Open” from April 2010, regarding the announcement of the voluntary severance program.
“All in all, these are very difficult times, and these are very difficult things to go through. Those of you who are happy, and many 
of you are, I wish you well. Those of you who are not as pleased with the program, I’m sorry about that, but it is essential. One has laid out a pretty critical point that I’d like to at least address. It has to do with the whole notion of shareholders first. And the answer to that is, and always has been: YES, shareholders first. If it weren’t for people willing to invest in the company, we’d have no company. I appreciate that customers are essential, because if they aren’t satisfied, we have no business. And I know that 
we as employees are there to please our customers. So, I understand the trinity of what we’re dealing with – it is an equilateral 
triangle – but, the shareholders are at the peak of the triangle, and we need to understand that.
” 
–  P osted by Chairman Mike Morris
“In some line crews we have been short-handed for some time, and work a lot of overtime to restore power. This being said, 
with further reductions of line mechanics how will we be able to keep up customer service and not have to increase the amount of overtime worked?
” 
–  P osted by an AEP employee 
“Declaring the 400th consecutive dividend during a contraction is at the same time unavoidable and bold. Shareholders really 
must come first. We don’t just exist because of shareholders’ investments; we will *continue* to exist as shareholders *continue* to consider us a “sure thing.” This dividend may raise a couple eyebrows, but it declares we’re contracting in a controlled and forward-thinking way.
”  
–  P osted by an AEP employee
46 S ocial Performance: Stakeholder Engagementinvolvement are supported by AEP Connects Grants of $150 each. The grants go to organizations of employees’ choosing, where they have volunteered 40 or more hours during the year. In 2010, 617 grants were awarded to employee-supported organizations. We also track the economic value of the volunteer time our employees 
give, which was approximately $1.2 million (using a value of volun -
teer time of $20.85 per hour, based upon the Independent Sector 
estimated value).
Supporting Economic Prosperity & Charitable Giving
In a slow economy, AEP’s community support is more important  
than ever. Our operating companies contributed more than $2.5 mil-  
lion in 2010 to more than 160 state and local organizations that help create jobs and improve the quality of life in our local communities. This is an increase of more than $1 million from 2009.  
 A EP and our AEP Foundation donated a total of more than 
$23.6 million to some 2,700 organizations in 2010. This was a slight increase from the more than $23.4 million contributed in 2009.  
 S ocial investments are vital to keeping valuable community 
organizations intact and able to provide services that our custom -
ers need. AEP contributed approximately $11.8 million in corporate 
giving; our AEP Foundation donated more than $11.7 million.   ground rules require that discourse be respectful, employees feel free to comment on anything – including the chairman’s blog posts. And they do.
 W e held 27 employee webcasts last year on issues ranging 
from gridSMART  ® to copper theft and transmission strategy to 
transformation of our Generation business. Employees are encour -
aged to call in or submit questions in advance, which executives answer live on the air. The webcasts are recorded and can be viewed by employees on demand.
 W e organized a weeklong Energy Sustainability Week to 
help our employees better connect sustainability, their jobs and our business strategy. More than 60 events were held at 30 work locations in seven states. We collaborated on the effort with peer utilities through the Electric Power Research Institute Sustainability Interest Group.
Involved in Our Communities
Strong communities are good for people and good for business. It’s not only our operating companies that are engaged in the com -
munity; our employees are, too. AEP employees donated more than 57,000 volunteer hours in 2010 to assist a variety of organizations and educational institutions. And they did this at their own initiative 
and on their own time. We are very proud of this tradition of service.
 O ur employees’ generosity and our commitment to community   2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report   47	
l American Electric Power Co., Inc.  l S & P  500  l S & P  Electric Utilities
* $ 100 invested on 12/31/05 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends.
 F iscal year ending Dec. 31.
 © 2010 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Cos., Inc. All rights reserved.Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return     
Among American Electric Power Co., Inc., The S&P 500 Index & The S&P Electric Utilities Index    
  $ 123 $ 152 $ 113 $ 116 $ 121
  $ 120 $ 135 $ 101 $ 111 $ 120
  $ 116 $ 122 $ 77 $ 97 $ 112
 $ 100*
	December 	 D ecember	 December	 December	 December	 December	
	 2005	 2006	 2007	 2008	 2009	 2010Corporate 	&	S hareholder 	I nformation
Corporate Headquarters
1 Riverside Plaza
Columbus, OH 43215-2373
614-716-1000
AEP is incorporated in New York.
Stock Exchange Listing:  The Company’s common stock is traded princi -
pally on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AEP .Internet Home Page:  Information about AEP , including financial documents, 
Securities and Exchange Commission filings, news releases, investor presen -
tations, shareholder information and customer service information, is avail -
able at www.AEP.com/investors .
Inquiries Regarding Your Stock Holdings:  Registered shareholders 
(shares that you own, in your name) should contact the Company’s transfer 
agent, listed below, if you have questions about your account, address chang -
es, stock transfer, lost certificates, direct deposits, dividend checks and other administrative matters. You should have your Social Security number or ac -
count number ready; the transfer agent will not speak to third parties about an account without the shareholder’s approval or appropriate documents.
Transfer Agent & Registrar
Computershare Trust Company,  N .A.
P .O. Box 43078Providence, RI 02940-3078
Overnight Deliveries: 250 Royall Street, Canton, MA 02021-1011
Telephone Response Group:  1 -800-328-6955
Internet address:  www.computershare.com/investor
Hearing Impaired #: TDD:  1 -800-952-9245
Beneficial Holders: (Stock held in a bank or brokerage account)  — W hen 
you purchase stock and it is held for you by your broker, it is listed with the   
Company in the broker’s name, and this is sometimes referred to as “street 
name” or a “beneficial owner.” AEP does not know the identity of individual 
shareholders who hold their shares in this manner; we simply know that a broker holds a certain number of shares which may be for any number of 
investors. If you hold your stock in street name, you receive all dividend pay -
ments, annual reports and proxy materials through your broker. Therefore, questions about your account should be directed to your broker.
Dividend Reinvestment & Direct Stock Purchase Plan:  A Dividend Re-
investment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan is available to all investors. It is 
an economical and convenient method of purchasing shares of AEP common 
stock, through initial cash investments, cash dividends and/or additional op -
tional cash purchases. You may obtain the Plan prospectus and enrollment 
authorization form by contacting the transfer agent or visiting www.AEP.com 
/investors/directstockpurchase .
Financial Community Inquiries:  Institutional investors or securities anal-
ysts who have questions should direct inquiries to Bette Jo Rozsa, 614-716-2840, bjrozsa@AEP.com ; Julie Sherwood, 614-716-2663,  jasherwood
@AEP.com ; or Sara Macioch, 614-716-2835, semacioch@AEP.com .
Individual shareholders should contact Kathleen Kozero, 614-716-2819,  
klkozero@AEP.com .
Number of Shareholders:
 As of Dec.  3 1, 2010, there were approximately 
91,000 registered shareholders and approximately 331,000 shareholders  
holding stock in street name through a bank or broker. There were 
480,807,156 shares outstanding on Dec.  3 1, 2010.
Form 10-K:  Upon request, we will provide without charge a copy of our Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec.  3 1, 2 010. A copy can be obtained via mail 
with a written request to AEP Investor Relations, by telephone at 1-800-237-2667 or electronically at  klkozero@AEP.com . www.AEPsustainability.comGRI Table of Contents / Key Indicators
All GRI information and data are on the Web  
Key:  C AR 2 011 = Report Page Number 
 E U = Electric Utility Sector Supplement   
Profile
Strategy & Profile
1.1 S tatement by the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 – 5
1.2 D escription of key impacts, risks, and opportunities
Organizational Profile 
2.1 N ame of the organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cover
2.2 P rimary brands, products, and/or services . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.3 O perational structure of the organization . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.4 L ocation of organization’s headquarters  . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.5 C ountries in which the company has operations  . . . . . Inside cover
2.6 N ature of ownership and legal form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
2.7 M arkets served  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.8 S cale of the reporting organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.9 S igniﬁcant changes in size, structure, or ownership
2.10 A wards received in the reporting period
Report Parameters 
3.1 R eporting period  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
3.2 D ate of most recent previous report (if any) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
3.3 R eporting cycle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
3.4 C ontact point for questions regarding the report . . . . . Inside cover
3.5 P rocess for deﬁning report content  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
3.6 B oundary of the report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
3.7 S peciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report
3.8 R eporting on other entities
3.9 D ata measurement techniques and the bases of calculations . . . 8
3.10 E xplanation of the nature and effect of any re-statement
3.11 S igniﬁcant changes from previous reporting period
GRI Content Index 
3.12 S tandard disclosures table  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
3.13 A ccuracy and completeness of report . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
Governance, Commitments & Engagement
4.1 G overnance structure of the organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
4.2 I ndicate whether the Chair of the Board is also 
 a n executive of ﬁc er . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
4.3 I ndependence of the Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
4.4 M aking recommendations to the Executive Board
4.5 L inkage between performance and executive compensation
4.6 A voiding conﬂicts of interest
4.7 Q ualiﬁcations of the Executive Board 
4.8 C orporate mission and values
4.9 B oard-level processes for identifying and managing risks 
 a nd opportunities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14.10 P rocesses for evaluating the Board’s own performance
4.11 H ow the precautionary approach is addressed . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 – 5
4.12 E xternally developed charters
4.13 M emberships in associations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 – 4 6
4.14 S takeholder groups engaged by the organization  . . . . . . . .  43 – 4 4
4.15 I denti ﬁc ation and selection of stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 – 4 6
4.16 A pproaches to stakeholder engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 – 4 3
4.17 U se of stakeholder engagement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 – 4 6
Economic Performance Indicators
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 – 1 3
EC1 D irect economic value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 – 1 5
EC2 F inancial implications of climate change  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 – 3 1
EC3 D eﬁned beneﬁt plan coverage
EC4 F inancial assistance received from government  . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
EC5 E ntry level wage compared to local minimum wage
EC6 L ocally based suppliers spending
EC7 H iring from local community
EC8 P ublic bene ﬁt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
EC9 I ndirect economic bene ﬁt s
Environmental Performance Indicators
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22  – 2 7
Material 
EN1 M aterials used by weight or volume  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
EN2 P ercentage of materials recycled  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23 – 2 4
Energy
EN3 D irect energy consumption by primary energy source . . . . . 30 – 3 1
EN4 I ndirect energy consumption by primary energy source
EN5 C onservation and ef ﬁc iency improvement savings  . . . . . . . . . .  31
EN6 E nergy-ef ﬁc ient or renewable initiatives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
EN7  I nitiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption
Water
EN8  T otal water withdrawal by source
EN9 W ater sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal  
 o f water  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26  – 2 7
EN10  P ercentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
Biodiversity
EN11  L ocation and size of high biodiversity land 
EN12  I mpacts on biodiversity  
EN13  H abitats protected or restored . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
EN14  S trategies for managing impacts on biodiversity  . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
EN15  N umber of IUCN Red List species and national conservation 
 l ist species with habitats in areas affected by operations
48 G RI Table of Contents / Key Indicators C AR 2 011  C AR 2 011	 2011 	A EP	C orporate 	A ccountability 	R eport www.AEPsustainability.com
Emissions, Effluents & Waste
EN16	 Greenhouse 	g as	e missions 	b y	w eight 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	I nside 	c over
EN17	 Other 	r elevant 	i ndirect 	g reenhouse 	g as	e missions 		. . . . . . . . 	I nside 	c over
EN18	 Greenhouse 	g as	e missions 	r eductions 	i nitiatives 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28	–	3 1
EN19	 Greenhouse 	g as	e missions 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EN20	 NOx, 	S O2,	a nd 	o ther 	s igniﬁcant 	a ir	e missions 	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.Inside 	c over
EN21	 Total 	w ater	d ischarge 	b y	q uality 	a nd	d estination 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26	–	2 7
EN22	 Waste 	v olume 	b y	t ype	a nd	d isposal 	m ethod 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
EN23	 Total 	n umber 	a nd	v olume 	o f	s igniﬁcant 	s pills. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
EN24	 Hazardous 	w aste. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
EN25	 Water 	a nd	r unoff 	d ischarges 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26	–	2 7
Products & Services
EN26	 Initiatives 	t o	m itigate 	e nvironmental 	i mpacts 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22	–	2 7
EN27	 Percentage 	o f	p roducts 	s old	a nd	t heir	p ackaging 	m aterials 	
	 that 	a re	r eclaimed 	b y	c ategory
EN28	 Fines 	f or	n oncompliance 	w ith	e nvironmental 	r egulations . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
EN29	 Impacts 	o f	t ransporting 	p roducts, 	g oods, 	m aterials 	a nd	w ork	f orce
EN30	 Total 	e nvironmental 	p rotection 	e xpenditures 	a nd	i nvestments 	
	 by 	t ype		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23,	2 6
Labor Practices & Decent Work
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32	–	3 7
LA1	 Total 	w ork	f orce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32	
LA2	 Employee 	t urnover 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
LA3	 Full-time, 	t emporary 	o r	p art-time 	e mployee 	b eneﬁt s
LA4	 Employees 	c overed 	b y	c ollective 	b argaining 	a greements 	 . . . . . . . . . . . 37
LA5	 Minimum 	n otice 	r egarding 	o perational 	c hanges
LA6	 Percentage 	o f	w ork	f orce 	r epresented 	i n	h ealth 	a nd 	
	 safety 	c ommittees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33	–	3 4
LA7	 Rates 	o f	i njury 	a nd	a bsenteeism 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
LA8	 Serious 	d iseases 	p rograms
LA9	 Health 	a nd	s afety 	t opics 	c overed 	i n	f ormal 	a greements
LA10	 Average 	h ours	o f	t raining
LA11	 Skills 	m anagement 	a nd	l ifelong 	l earning 	p rograms 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . 35	–	3 6
LA12	 Percentage 	o f	e mployees 	r eceiving 	p erformance 	r eviews
LA13	 Composition 	o f	g overnance 	b odies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
LA14	 Ratio 	o f	b asic	s alary 	o f	m en	t o	w omen
Human Rights
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4 2
HR1	 Human 	r ights 	c lauses 	i n	i nvestment 	a greements
HR2	 Human 	r ights 	s creening 	f or	c ontractors
HR3	 Human 	r ights 	p olicies, 	p rocedures 	a nd	t raining
HR4	 Discrimination 	i ncidents 	a nd	a ctions 	t aken
HR5	 Freedom 	o f	a ssociation
HR6	 Child 	l abor
HR7	 Compulsory 	l abor
HR8	 Security 	p ersonnel 	t rained 	i n	h uman 	r ightsHR9	 Violations 	o f	i ndigenous 	p eople’s 	r ights 	
Society
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,	4 2– 	4 4
SO1	 Nature, 	s cope 	a nd	e ffectiveness 	o f	a ny	p rograms
SO2	 Business 	u nits	a nalyzed 	f or	c orruption
SO3	 Percentage 	o f	e mployees 	t rained 	i n	a nti-corruption
SO4	 Actions 	t aken 	i n	r esponse 	t o	i ncidents 	o f	c orruption
SO5	 Public 	p olicy 	p ositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38–	4 1
SO6	 Contributions 	t o	p olitical 	p arties 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
SO7	 Legal 	a ctions 	f or	a nti-competitive 	b ehavior
SO8	 Fines 	f or	n oncompliance 	w ith	l aws	a nd	r egulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Product Responsibility
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4	–	5
PR1	 Life 	c ycle	s tages 	o f	p roducts 	a nd	s ervices 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	1 6	–	1 8
PR2	 Number 	o f	n oncompliance 	i ncidents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
PR3	 Product 	a nd	s ervice 	i nformation 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16	–	1 7
PR4	 Number 	o f	n oncompliance 	l abeling 	i ncidents
PR5	 Customer 	s atisfaction 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PR6	 Programs 	r elated 	t o	m arketing 	c ommunications 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PR7	 Number 	o f	n oncompliance 	m arketing 	i ncidents
PR8	 Substantiated 	b reaches 	o f	c ustomer 	p rivacy
PR9	 Fines 	f or	u se	o f	p roducts 	a nd	s ervices 	n oncompliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23	 CAR 2 011  C AR 2 011
Electric 	U tility 	S ector 	S upplement 	I ndex
Profile
Organizational Profile 
EU1	 Installed 	c apacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EU2	 Net 	e nergy 	o utput 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EU3	 Number 	o f	a ccounts 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2 0
EU4	 Transmission 	a nd	D istribution 	m ileage . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EU5	 CO 2	p ermits
Economics
EU6	 Reliability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17	–	1 8
EU7	 Demand-side 	p rograms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 1
EU8	 R&D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	1 5,	3 1
EU9	 Nuclear 	d ecommissioning
EU10	 Planned 	c apacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	1 8
EU11	 Generation 	e fﬁc iency
EU12	 Losses
Environmental
EN1	 Commentary 	–	M aterials 	b y	w eight 	o r	v olume . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 0
EN8	 Commentary 	–	T otal	w ater	w ithdrawal 	b y	s ource
EN12	 Commentary 	–	B iodiversity 	a ctivities
EU13	 Biodiversity 	o ffset
EN14	 Commentary 	–	B iodiversity 	s trategy
EN16	 Commentary 	–	G reenhouse 	g as	e missions . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EN18	 Commentary 	–	G reenhouse 	g as	r eduction 	i nitiatives 	. . .30	–	3 1
EN20	 Commentary 	–	A ir	e missions 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside 	c over
EN21	 Commentary 	–	W ater	d ischarge 		 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2 7
EN22	 Commentary 	–	W aste	t ype	&	d isposal 	m ethod . . . . . . . . . . . 	2 7
Labor
EU14	 Work 	f orce 	r etention 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35	–	3 6
EU15	 Eligible 	t o	r etire	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 6
EU16	 Health 	&	s afety 	p olicies 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32	–	3 4
LA1	 Commentary 	–	T otal	w ork	f orce 	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 2
LA2	 Commentary 	–	T urnover
EU17	 Days 	w orked 	b y	c ontractor
EU18	 Percent 	o f	h ealth 	&	s afety 	s creening 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 6
EU	L A4	 Percent 	o f	c ontractors 	c overed 	b y	u nions
EU	L A7	 Health 	&	s afety 	o f	c ontractors 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 5Human Rights
HR5	 Commentary 	–	F reedom 	o f	a ssociation
Society
SO1	 Commentary 	–	C ommunity 	i mpact 	p rograms . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4 6
EU19	 Stakeholder 	i nvolvement 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42	–	4 6
EU20	 Displaced 	p eople
EU21	 Contingency 	p lanning
EU22	 Displaced 	p eople
EU23	 Electricity 	s ervices 	p rograms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4 3
EU24	 Practices 	a ddressing 	b arriers 	t o	s ervices
Product Responsibility
PR1	 Commentary 	–	L ife-cycle 	s tages
EU25	 Public 	i njuries 	&	f atalities 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	3 5
EU26	 Unserved 	p opulation
EU27	 Residential 	d isconnections
EU28	 Power 	o utage 	f requency 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
EU29	 Average 	p ower 	o utage 	d uration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
EU30	 Average 	p lant	a vailability C AR 2 011  C AR 2 011 2 011 AEP Corporate Accountability Report  Forward-Looking 	I nformation
This report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, 
any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. 
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are:
• The economic climate and growth in, or contraction within, our service territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns.
• Inflationary or deflationary interest rate trends.
• Volatility in the financial markets, particularly developments affecting the availability of capital on reasonable terms and developments  
impairing our ability to finance new capital projects and refinance existing debt at attractive rates.
• The availability and cost of funds to finance working capital and capital needs, particularly during periods when the time lag between 
incurring costs and recovery is long and the costs are material.
• Electric load, customer growth and the impact of retail competition, 
particularly in Ohio.
• Weather conditions, including storms, and our ability to recover sig-nificant storm restoration costs through applicable rate mechanisms.
• Available sources and costs of, and transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters.
• Availability of necessary generating capacity and the performance of our generating plants.
• Our ability to resolve I&M’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Unit  1  res-
toration and outage-related issues through warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.
• Our ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded costs in connec-tion with deregulation.
• Our ability to recover increases in fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates.
• Our ability to build or acquire generating capacity, including the Turk 
Plant, and transmission line facilities (  i ncluding our ability to obtain 
any necessary regulatory approvals and permits  )  when needed at 
acceptable prices and terms and to recover those costs (  i ncluding 
the costs of projects that are canceled  )  through applicable rate 
cases or competitive rates.
• New legislation, litigation and government regulation, including  over-sight of energy commodity trading and new or heightened require-  
ments for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances or additional regula-
tion of fly ash and similar combustion products that could impact the 
continued operation and cost recovery of our plants.• Timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations 
and other regulatory decisions (  i ncluding rate or other recovery of 
new investments in generation, distribution and transmission service 
and environmental compliance  ) .
• Resolution of litigation.
• Our ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs.
• Our ability to develop and execute a strategy based on a view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related 
commodities.
• Changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we 
have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy 
trading market.
• Actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt.
• Volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, coal, nu-
clear fuel and other energy-related commodities.
• Changes in utility regulation, including the implementation of ESPs and related regulation in Ohio and the allocation of costs within re-
gional transmission organizations, including PJM and SPP.
• Accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting 
standard-setting bodies.
• The impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the in-vestments held by our pension, other postretirement benefit plans, 
captive insurance entity and nuclear decommissioning trust and the 
impact on future funding requirements.
• Prices and demand for power that we generate and sell at wholesale.
• Changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing or alternative sources of generation.
• Other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of ter-
rorism (  i ncluding increased security costs  ) , embargoes, cyber secu-
rity threats and other catastrophic events.
• Our ability to recover through rates or prices any remaining un-recovered investment in generating units that may be retired before 
the end of their previously projected useful lives.
AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation  
to update any forward-looking information.www.AEPsustainability.comsmart 	m eters 	in stalled 	in	O hio
27	American Electric Power
1 Riverside Plaza
Columbus, OH 43215614-716-1000www.AEP.com