2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    1 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    2 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    3 
 Message from the Chairman  
At American Electric Power, we are positioned for superior long -term financial gains because we 
carefully manage and measure our financial, environmental and social performance while providing our 
customers with safe, clean  and reliable energy.  
As our industry’s transformation unfolds, AEP is uniquely poised for success. The foundation of our business is built on the strength and diversity of our regulated companies; our investments in transmission enable the growth of renew able resources while modernizing the 
power grid; and our history of innovation guides our pursuit of new technology solutions for the future.  
Nicholas K. Akins  
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer  
American Electric Power  
We are forging new partnerships to speed innovation and building on established relationships to boldly transform our company. As we adapt our 110- year-old business to become the next -generation energy 
company, we have many opportunities to engage with policymakers, regulators, st akeholders, customers 
and investors about how our industry is evolving. Our vision is to deliver an energy future built on diverse energy resources and an interactive power grid that is more reliable and secure, with technologies that enhance access and se rvices for all customers.  
Our strategy is to modernize the power grid to support a reliable, clean energy future and modern technologies, with a focus on three key elements: building infrastructure and technology to give customers choice about how they us e energy, supporting strong communities with economic 
development opportunities, and providing investors a long- term opportunity for sustainable shareholder 
returns. Our employees help us implement this strategy with a disciplined and execution -oriented 
approach supported by a culture of safety, innovation, agility and continuous improvement.  
Signposts of Success  
Throughout 2015, we reached several important milestones, positioning our businesses for near -term 
success and long -term sustainable growth. Our goal was simple: to establish a firm foundation to 
advance our company financially, operationally, culturally and strategically.  
We continued to optimize our regulated businesses to position us for the structural changes occurring in 
our industry. We also invested in our energy infrastructure to create an operational platform to enable customers to create value for themselves, by interacting with us, while public policies and regulatory models continue to evolve. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    4 
 We are evolving to become the optimizer and  integrator of multiple resources – for customers and with 
customers. That is why we are embracing and helping to develop a transactional energy grid – one with 
clear and frequent two -way communications between the power grid and customers. Catalysts for t his 
transformation include abundant, low -cost natural gas, environmental regulations, slowing load growth 
on our system, and the advancement of new technologies that are changing the capabilities of the power grid.  
We began laying the foundation for the e nergy grid of the future nearly a decade ago with the launch of 
our gridSMART® initiative. That effort began a journey of technological growth to accommodate a more diverse energy mix, improve energy delivery and use new technologies that benefit customers  and 
enhance the operation of the power grid. gridSMART® gave us the equivalent of a smart phone, but with no apps. Today, we are developing the technology to enable our customers to make choices that improve their service, reduce cost and deepen their rel ationship with us – beyond the basics of monthly 
billing and outage restoration. 
Financial, Social and Environmental Performance  
Strong Financial Health  
I am pleased to report that AEP’s financial health is at its strongest in years. Our balance sheet and credit metrics are strong, we have sufficient liquidity, and a proven track record of disciplined spending. In 2015, our operating earnings per share grew by 7.6 percent and our quarterly dividend increased by nearly 6 percent. Our performance was strong: We raised our earnings guidance twice during the year. We also paid quarterly dividends to our investors, a continuous tradition that dates back more than a century. In fact, the first quarterly dividend approved in 2016 marked the company’s 424th consecut ive 
quarterly common stock cash dividend to shareholders of record. AEP has paid a cash dividend on its common stock every quarter since July 1910.  
AEP is experiencing a cultural transformation, the foundation of which is based on employee engagement and c ontinuous improvement. Employees continue to identify and implement cost reduction 
strategies, waste elimination techniques and process improvements that enable us to allocate additional resources to invest in priority areas and grow our bottom line. We ar e excited about this cultural change, 
not as a one -time initiative, but as a sustainable, continuous part of our business that will redefine who 
we are for many years to come.  
Our regulated companies are driving overall growth which should continue as we i nvest capital to 
modernize the power grid and improve the customer experience. For example, AEP Transmission Holding Company contributed 39 cents per share in 2015, compared with 31 cents in 2014 – a reflection of its accelerated growth. Successful regulat ory proceedings and the cost savings achieved through 
employee -led efforts have contributed as well. Our 2016 outlook solidly supports our projected 4 
percent to 6 percent operating earnings growth.  
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    5 
 Strong Social Performance – Safety, People, Communities  
In 2015, we achieved an important new milestone – four consecutive years without an employee fatality. 
This was a signifi cant breakthrough, because it had not occurred since at least 1970 when we began to 
keep comprehensive safety performance data. I am deeply grateful to our employees for demonstrating the mutual care and commitment to each other that made this achievement possible. 
Sadly, we were reminded of how lives can be changed forever when safety focus is lost. In 2015, four 
AEP contractors lost their lives and there were 11 public fatalities resulting from people coming into 
contact with our electrical equipment. And, in early 2016, a veteran transmission employee lost his life and another employee was seriously injured after their vehicle was struck by a train as they were crossing the tracks. These tragedies profoundly affected every employee at AEP, reminded us of how 
vigilant we must always be about safety and health, and strengthened our resolve for Zero Harm. We are 
taking a hard look at these events to identify hazard elimination and risk mitigation strategies. We must, 
and we will, do better.  
Although we face numerous challenges in our quest, we 
are determined to reach our goal. Our strong safety culture 
and deep commitment to Zero Harm will guide us. In 2016, we will implement a plan designed to get us to Zero Harm in the future. It includes setting clear expe ctations, 
increasing personal accountability, providing additional safety training, and being more rigorous when it comes to measuring our performance.  
We know that our success as an organization depends on motivated, engaged employees. Three years 
ago, w e assessed our culture for ways to get employees more engaged to help us reach our business 
goals. We have many opportunities to grow as an organization, and we have seen meaningful improvement in our culture survey results in the last two years. I am exci ted by our focus on an open, 
collaborative work environment that values each individual’s contributions. This environment is evidenced and boosted by our seven employee resource groups and the diversity of our work force.  
Our success also depends on the st rength and vitality of our communities. In 2015, AEP and the AEP 
Foundation contributed approximately $13.5 million in charitable donations to 1,800 community organizations. We also helped build stronger communities by providing economic development opport unities to attract jobs, support capital investment and grow local economies. Our Economic & 
Business Development team worked with state, regional and local economic development partners on 
170 projects during the year to attract or retain businesses in our communities that are expected to create 
more than 22,000 jobs in our communities.  
We are also investing in education to ensure that graduates are well -prepared to join the work force of 
tomorrow. Education opens the door to new opportunities, many of which otherwise would not be 
possible. Being raised in an area of economic hardship, I understand some of the obstacles faced by many families in our communities today.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    6 
 I want to make sure that children growing up today in our communities get the kind of support, guidance 
and resources they deserve. That is why we created Credits CountSM, a dual -enrollment program that is 
helping to build career pathways for economically disadvantaged students in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics  (STEM). We have committed more than $11 million to create 
this signature program. Our goal is to establish at least one Credits Count program in each of our seven regulated companies’ service territories to help create a new generation of highly skilled t alent to meet 
the needs of our company and our country.  
Environmental Performance  
2015 was a landmark year for the environment, as over 190 nations acted globally to reach a historic climate agreement last December, culminating decades of debate and negoti ation. AEP has always 
maintained that climate change is a global issue and global responsibility – no single country or 
company can carry the burden. The Paris agreement sets the stage for such a global solution.  
We constantly discuss our carbon profile a nd our plans to reduce emissions with investors, 
policymakers, environmental groups, customers and other stakeholders. We have made significant 
progress and will continue to reduce our carbon footprint as we diversify our energy resource portfolio. Through 2015, AEP’s carbon emissions have already declined by 39 percent from 2000 levels. 
In the United States, the Clean Power Plan – the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) mandate to 
regulate carbon emissions in the power sector – has been stayed by the U .S. Supreme Court. Regardless 
of the outcome of legal challenges, the EPA still has authority to regulate carbon. AEP has been preparing for this for a long time. Our integrated resource plans factor carbon pricing as a proxy for regulation and we develop plans that give customers what they value most, regardless of the resource.  
From 2000 through 2016, we will have 
invested an estimated $8.5 billion to install 
environmental controls on our plants which 
have significantly reduced sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury emissions. In 
addition, between 2011 and mid- 2016, we 
retired more than 7,200 megawatts (MW) of 
coal-fueled generating capacity. We are 
replacing it with transmission, natural gas 
and renewables, including solar and wind, as 
well as energ y storage. We are also 
continuing to grow our customer energy efficiency and demand response programs.  
Between 2011 and mid- 2016, we retired more than 7,200 megawatts  
(MW) of coal -fueled generating capacity. We are replacing it with  
transmission, natural  gas and renewables, including solar and wind,  
as well as energy storage.  
 
Although we are converting some coal plants to natural gas and building our renewable portfolio, we believe fossil fuels continue to be an essential part of a balanced energy mix. As our industry relies more 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    7 
 and more on natural gas for power generation, we need to support advancements in the development of 
technologies that will keep fossil fuels in the mix for the long term. A diverse mix of resources is essential to manage resource and operational risk and to ensure an affordable, resilient and reliable power grid.
 
In Ohio, we worked with key stakeholders on an important settlement of our expanded Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) case that would have given the state the best mechanis m within current law to have a 
say in the long -term viability of existing resources, ensure stable electricity prices and promote 
development of new resources within the region. But in April 2016 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) unfortunatel y intruded into Ohio’s ability to protect its retail customers from 
market volatility and plan for its generation needs by requiring a federal review of the PPA. Waiting for FERC to complete a federal review of the PPA is not in our best interest. Although we continue to believe the PPA is the best long -term approach for our Ohio customers and the state, we are focused on 
moving decisively to become a fully regulated utility company. We will continue to pursue this strategy and seek innovative, collaborative solutions to create the kind of clean energy future we all want to see.  
Building a Sustainable Future  
The energy industry transformation is very much like the game -changing evolution of the 
telecommunications industry. Where once the phone was plugged into the wall, today it is mobile – connected to digital wireless networks and loaded with apps that make life easier. Unlike that industry, however, there is no substitute for electricity nor can you completely become disconnected from the power grid. The t ransformation that is underway in our industry is dramatic, disruptive, and is being 
shaped by customer choice, advanced technology, resource diversity, and unprecedented connectivity. At the heart of this transformation is the power grid that we all rely on, every day.  
We are changing our business to accommodate local generation of clean energy, optimize power flows and connect diverse resources to the power grid. By 2034, our current integrated resource plans call for adding approximately 3,400 MW of sola r, 6,300 MW of wind and 3,000 MW of natural gas. This 
includes the 900 MW of solar and wind in the AEP Ohio PPA settlement.  
The power grid will change as we integrate new 24/7 energy resources, local generation, and large -scale 
universal renewables, and merge all of that with technological advances that will drive further efficiency and use of electricity. Our transmission and distribution business strategy is based on targeted capital investments to build infrastructure that enables local generation and pr ovides it in a safe, clean, reliable 
way for all customers.  
Technology and Innovation  
As the industry’s transmission pioneer and the nation’s largest transmission owner, AEP is working to create a more flexible and resilient power grid that will support c hanges in generation and allow all 
customers to take advantage of new technologies in the most cost -effective way. Our investments in new 
infrastructure and technology will improve both operational efficiency and the customer experience.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    8 
 Technology is chan ging how customers can, and will want to, interact with their energy companies. 
Smart grid technologies are helping us to improve service quality and reliability while empowering 
customers to use energy more efficiently. We have installed more than 1.6 mil lion smart meters across 
our service territory and currently have plans to deploy approximately 900,000 additional meters, pending regulatory approval. In addition to giving customers more control, smart meter data will help us enhance the customer experience and prepare for new products and services that customers want from their power company.  
The importance of the customer experience to AEP is why we created a new position of Chief Customer Officer in May 2016. This ensures we remain focused on having the right business models, regulatory structures and focus to effectively anticipate and meet the evolving needs and expectations of our customers.  
We are also building an internal team for big data and analytics. In 2015, we initiated a proof of concept project, called the Big Data Olympics, to better understand what we can learn from big data analytics to 
improve the customer experience. With big data, for example, we can receive advance notice of impending equipment failures, allowing us to take preventive  action before service is disrupted. We 
want a much stronger internal understanding of how we can effectively use big data and we are partnering with others, such as IBM, to help get us there faster.  
To develop the next -generation energy company, we need partners who are developing new 
technologies to increase the utility of the power grid – much like apps have increased the power of smart phones. We have several partnerships with technology leaders to help us innovate new ways to use the power grid so tha t we can meet the expectations of our customers as well as achieve our business goals.  
Our new BOLD™ transmission line design exemplifies these new grid -based technology applications. 
The new, patented 345 kilovolt (kV) line design delivers up to 60 perc ent more power in a smaller right-
of-way than conventional designs. BOLD 
– the next -generation transmission line 
design – is an ideal solution for updating the more than 125,000 miles of 230- kV 
and 345- kV lines in the United States, 
especially in congested  urban areas. We 
are now marketing BOLD globally.  
 
AEP Transmission’s new and compact line, called 
BOLD™ (Breakthrough Overhead Line Design), is a preferred design due to its lower profile tower 
and inherent electrical efficiencies, including 
greater capacity, lower audible noise and lower 
electromagnetic fields, that can reduce right -of-
way land needs.  
Cost-effective energy storage is another technology advancement we are exploring. In 2015, we invested 
in Greensmith, a company focused on grid- scale energy  storage deployment because we want to be at 
the forefront of advancing these technologies for our customers. This investment builds on more than a 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    9 
 decade of experience with energy storage technologies, including deployment of the first U.S. 
demonstration of the Na/S (sodium sulfur) battery technology in 2002 at one of our commercial offices in Ohio. 
Energy storage technology is important because it can maintain service during times of stress on the 
grid. It also helps to optimize intermittent renewable ene rgy resources, improve power quality and 
reduce voltage fluctuations. Energy storage is already cost -effective in certain situations and will 
become more prevalent over time. AEP is building its first substation protection and control system operated entir ely by fiber -optic technology. Fiber, which is relatively new to our industry, is less 
vulnerable to interruption and interference and allows for faster testing and equipment commissioning, which will enhance reliability. We are collaborating with General Electric to build this fiber optic substation, which will be operational by late 2016.  
Grid Security  
Like all major infrastructure, the electric grid is subject to cyberattacks, physical attacks and natural disasters. Although there is no single solution to make the power grid completely immune from threats, AEP and the industry have taken several steps to evaluate our systems, reduce the potential of attack and improve our response if an attack occurs. We are doing this, in part, through industry and gove rnment 
partnerships to deploy tools, processes and drills to strengthen our ability to prevent, detect and recover.  
In 2015, AEP and several other utilities formed Grid Assurance™, an industry -designed solution to 
deliver subscribers a cost -effective process of pooling the needs of transmission owners across the 
United States and providing quick access to critical, long lead- time equipment that can be readily 
deployed to expedite restoration. Subscribers would have the right to call upon this inventory unde r an 
array of qualifying events, such as physical attacks, cyberattacks, earthquakes and severe weather.  
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission granted approval to Grid Assurance in 2016, paving the way for utilities to begin subscribing to the service and establishing a process for recovering costs after a qualifying event occurs. This service complements the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) Spare Transformer Equipment Program, which provides companies with transformers of certain voltages after a pres idential declaration of a national emergency caused by terrorism.  
The Pace of Progress  
We are moving in exciting and challenging directions to improve the customer experience, deploy new technologies, and leverage our industry’s expertise in operating the  electric system. We have a lot to be 
proud of and much more opportunity ahead. We are continually challenged as technology advancements and changes to consumer expectations converge with policy and regulatory reforms.  
The next transformation in our indus try is likely to come in the regulatory arena, where federal and state 
regulators struggle to keep pace with the rapid innovation that is propelling the industry forward. Today, 
as customers take advantage of subsidies, self -generate their electricity, eng age in energy efficiency 
activities, expect unique solutions based on their own use and profile, and, in some cases, sell power 
back to the grid, regulations must evolve to keep pace.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    10 
 The role of the regulator is not to pick winners and losers; rather, it is entrusted with protecting the 
public interest and maintaining reliability of the grid. Today, customer empowerment in the digital age means more choices and competition, making the task of regulation more complex.  
We do not expect, nor do we seek, a one -size-fits-all solution, but in general, the process needs to be fair 
to all customers, recognize the value of clean energy to customers (even if it is not the least -cost choice), 
and protect the reliability and security of the energy grid. And it needs t o move faster if we are going to 
achieve the level of energy and cost savings we know to be possible. We are talking to and working with regulators and policymakers in our states and in Washington, D.C., to help ensure a regulatory transition that meets th ese goals.  
An Exciting Future  
At AEP, we are proud to have a role in shaping the future of our business and our industry. We are committed to creating a smarter, more secure grid; developing new products and solutions that enhance the customer experience; and leveraging the ingenuity of our employees to reinvent what the next -
generation energy company looks like and how we operate. We’ll do this while staying true to our core commitment to providing the safe, reliable and increasingly clean electricity that is the backbone of our nation’s economy and powers our customers’ daily lives.  
As my year -long tenure as chairman of the Edison Electric Institute draws to a close in June, I am 
grateful for having had the opportunity to lead our industry during this exci ting time. We are showing 
the world that our industry has the expertise to operate the largest machine – the electric power grid – 
and that we are best qualified to lead the transition to a clean energy future.  
Finally, I want to recognize the men and wom en of AEP. They have the talent, ingenuity, innovative 
capacity and agility we need to succeed and our values will guide us. Together, we will work hard to shape the future and position AEP to excel as it unfolds. As we do so, we will continue to engage our stakeholders and leverage our experience to boldly transform AEP. I invite you to join us on this exciting journey.  
Thank you,  
 
Nicholas K. Akins  
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer  
American Electric Power  
 
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    11 
 Enterprise Risk Management  
AEP is faced with an array of risks, many of them well understood and controlled, while others are 
emerging and not yet well defined. Our effectiveness at managing risk helps us to identify and prepare for new opportunities, ensure regulatory compliance, drive profitability and growth, and encourage controlled risk- taking in innovative investments.  
Our enterprise risk management process continuously  evaluates our level of acceptable risk based on 
internal targets and guidelines, the external environment and operating conditions. Good risk management reduces risk and, in the long -term, lowers costs to serve customers by allowing us to focus 
resources to improve reliability and reduce the length of customer outages.  
One way we are managing risk is through our new Transmission Asset Health Center, which allows us to prioritize our assets from highest to lowest risk of equipment failure. This ranking give s us the 
information we need to be proactive, minimizing potential impacts to customers.  
As part of our risk management and strategic planning processes, we can improve reliability, reduce financial uncertainty and better communicate our operational decisi on-making to stakeholders. We use 
an assortment of tools to identify and quantify risks. For example, our commercial compliance program provides mandatory compliance training for commercial trading functions as well as surveillance and monitoring of transa ctions. This tool helps mitigate the risks of a potential violation of regulations, 
including those issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. By embedding risk management into business units and functi ons, we can better 
manage regulatory expectations while improving business results. 
An area of emerging concern is the potential for significant policy changes in other states to cascade to 
our states and disrupt AEP’s business. For example, the New York P ublic Utility Commission’s 
“Reforming Energy Vision” proposal would significantly reduce the role of the utility, including restructuring the New York distribution system’s rate -making, system efficiency, resource diversity, 
reliability and resiliency. If such a change were to occur in the states where we operate, it could have a 
material impact on our financial and operational performance.  
AEP expects our relationship with our customers to continue to be valued, as surveys have shown. The convolution of di stribution and energy grid investments with customer technology preferences, either 
generation or usage related, requires the AEP -customer relationship to endure.  
We work with our regulators to invest in our system for the benefit of our customers. The reg ulatory 
frameworks in our states allow AEP the opportunity to earn a fair return on these investments.  
AEP’s enterprise risk management is governed by an Enterprise Risk Oversight group, led by our Chief 
Risk Officer. This group is responsible for developing the collective risk assessment of the company. A Risk Executive Committee makes recommendations to business unit leaders for risk mitigation, where 
appropriate, and identifies the major risks and material issues on an enterprise wide basis that could 
impact corporate goals. These are monitored, reported and discussed regularly with the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    12 
 Carbon Profile Analysis  
In an increasingly carbon -constrained world, investors and owners of carbon- intensive assets (such as 
coal-fueled power plants) are keenly aware of the potential financial risks associated with those assets. 
More and more, investors – especially those with a focus on social impact investing – are incorporating 
this risk into their investment analyses and a sking operators about risk mitigation strategies. Some of our 
own investors and other interested stakeholders have been asking these questions of AEP. In response, we are reporting on our risk exposure and risk mitigation strategies, which align with the t ransformation 
of our company that is already underway.  
Following the retirement of coal -fueled 
generating units in 2015, 54 percent of 
AEP’s generating capacity was from 
coal and 26 percent from natural gas – both fossil fuels. Today, the focus is on coal because it emits approximately double the carbon dioxide (CO
2) of 
natural gas. Some investors are especially concerned about the potential impact to their investment portfolios from stranded coal assets – such as a coal plant that loses economic value well ahead of its anticipated useful life.   
In response to new standards for regional haze and mercury, in 2016,  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma retired Unit 4 at the Northeastern  
coal-fired plant and retrofitted Unit 3 with new environmental controls.  
AEP’s exposure to carbon regulation is already greatly reduced compared with five years ago. Between 
2011 and mid- 2016, AEP retired more than 7,200 megawatts (MW) of coal -fueled generating capacity. 
These retirements were driven by a number of factors, inclu ding environmental regulations. Between 
2000 and 2015, AEP’s CO 2 emissions have declined 39 percent. This is due to a combination of plant 
retirements, low natural gas prices that caused coal units to operate less frequently, the addition of renewable generation and slowing load growth.  
The typical pricing structure that regulators establish for cost recovery of generating stations is based on the useful life of the plant and is depreciated over time. During the life of the units regulators allow us to collect the investment from customers over time. In this case, several coal units were taken out of 
service before the end of their useful life. Investors have expressed concern about the financial impact of this to AEP. Under today’s regulatory compact, withi n which we operate, we have been allowed to 
recover the full value of the units in our regulated utilities when we demonstrate prudency of the investments. In 2015, the remaining net book value of the regulated retired coal units received regulatory approval for cost recovery, except for $148 million, pending final approval. As additional regulated units are retired, we have and will continue to seek recovery of the remaining net book values of those units. Within our competitive generation business, the ne t book value of those units was zero. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    13 
 Additional opportunities associated with reducing carbon include investments to refuel or repower coal 
units with natural gas or the construction of new combined- cycle natural gas units. AEP has no plans to 
build new c oal plants and is carefully scrutinizing all investments in our existing coal fleet.  
Where appropriate, we are working with state utility commissions to shorten the time it takes to recover existing and new plant investments; typically we would recover the costs of these investments over the life of the units. This strategy increases the likelihood of full cost recovery if units are retired early, and recognizes the long -term uncertainty of coal generation in our fleet.  
Recent debate and calls for divestment in companies that have coal in their fuel portfolio or derive revenues from coal -related activities (i.e. electricity generation) is not constructive and harmful to 
investors. There is a major transformation under way in the electric utility industry th at is expanding 
resource diversity and should be appropriately considered in the debate.  
AEP has reduced carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions 39 percent from 2000 levels and we will continue to 
reduce our carbon footprint as we transition to more renewables and natural gas. AEP’s coal -fueled 
generating capacity has been reduced from 68 percent in 1999 to 50 percent in 2016. Between 2000 and 2016, we will have invested $8.5 billion in environmental controls. The funding for these investments comes from equity and debt capital from our shareholders and bondholders which is paid for by 
customers through increased rates.  
AEP’s investments in transmission also interconnect approximately 7,500 MW of renewable resources 
across our service territory. AEP’s renewable port folio includes about 3,200 megawatts of wind and 
solar today (including 59 MW of biomass), and by 2034, with regulatory approval, we will have added 
approximately another 3,400 MW of solar, 6,300 MW of wind and 3,000 MW of natural gas.  
It is our position t hat those who are interested in emissions reductions, increasing clean energy resources 
and earning high financial returns can realize these goals by investing in AEP.  
Several factors impact carbon asset analysis  
• Risk Factors – policies, regulations, tech nologies, markets, etc.  
o Clean Power Plan (CPP) -  CO 2 emissions reductions in energy sector.  
o Lack of commercially -viable technology to directly reduce carbon emissions, such as 
carbon capture and storage (CCS). 
o Depressed coal market caused by low natural g as prices, and cost -competitiveness of 
renewables.  
o Regulations driving coal out of the energy supply chain affects resource diversity with 
possible similar efforts aimed at natural gas production.  
o The current and future state of regulation is uncertain. 
• Exposure – to operators of carbon -intensive assets and financial exposure to lenders and 
investors.   
o If the CPP is implemented, federal emission guidelines would require states to develop plans to achieve the required emission reductions. These state plans w ould likely result in 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    14 
 a carbon trading system that will place a value (cost) on each ton of carbon emitted from 
affected generating units.  
o Lack of technology (such as CCS) could limit the viability of traditional coal generation stations in the long -term, should emission limitations require additional significant 
reductions.  
o Several coal producers have filed for bankruptcy, which may impact future coal supply and lead to industry consolidation.  
o Regulations affecting coal production could affect supply and costs.  
• Analysis – how is carbon risk being evaluated?   
o AEP has been planning for this regulatory possibility for a number of years through the inclusion of a carbon price in its integrated resource planning process. As additional details emerge about how t he CPP or other regulations may be implemented, AEP will 
reassess its carbon price and related planning processes.  
o AEP has assessed the commercial viability of CCS and included carbon regulations within planning processes. 
o AEP continually assesses coal mar ket fundamentals to examine both supply and demand.  
• Management Approach  
o AEP is focusing its investments on shifting to non- emitting generation, such as large -
scale renewables, and will have retired approximately 25 percent of its coal generating fleet by the end of 2016.  
o AEP took an active role in advancing CCS technology through research and development several years ago and has reduced potential exposure through coal unit retirements and asset diversification.  
o AEP actively manages its coal procurement pr ocess to ensure a diverse, reliable supply of 
coal is available at a reasonable cost.  
o Capital expenditures have moved substantially from environmental investments to investments in infrastructure, including transmission. 
o Existing coal plants play a vital r ole in providing reliable, 24/7 capacity and energy to the 
power grid. We will continue to responsibly operate these plants to deliver value to our customers and communities.  
o AEP does not foresee construction of new coal plants in the U.S.  
Enterprise Security  
Today, it is not a matter of if there will be a cyber or physical attack. It is a matter of when. Hackers are more sophisticated and despite companies’ best efforts to prevent these incidents, the focus has shifted 
to managing these risks by improvin g our defenses. In today’s world, we know that anything can 
happen. How quickly we respond to an event affects our customers, our reputation and the reliability of 
the power grid. Our approach is to deter, detect, delay and respond if an event occurs.  
In 2015, AEP created the position of Chief Security Officer (CSO) to strengthen AEP’s governance of enterprise security and ensure greater coordination of efforts, use of financial and operational resources, compliance with regulations and employee awareness. The CSO reports to the Chief Operating Officer.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    15 
 We believe that the best security program we can have for the electric power grid is to maintain a 
resilient grid. We need to be prepared when incidents occur so that business can continue and we can protect  the reliability of the grid. Where our focus was once directed primarily on prevention, today we 
are increasingly focused on how we respond when an incident does occur. One way we are doing this is the adoption of the nationally -known Incident Command Sys tem (ICS) for disaster preparedness and 
responsiveness. Used by the military, government agencies and other energy companies, ICS provides a consistent and proven crisis response platform to support business continuity and underpins AEP’s 
emergency restoration plan. ICS is being integrated into business continuity plans across AEP.  
 
Another line of defense for AEP and the electric power industry is having a national inventory and 
access to critical spare parts for the power system. Grid Assurance™ , an industry initiative led by AEP 
and several other companies, addresses vulnerabilities in the nation’s grid that were emphasized in a 
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) report. In it, the DOE cited current grid protections as potentially inadequate “to address the security and reliability concerns associated with simultaneous failures of multiple high -voltage transformers.”  
Grid Assurance will expedite responses to major events that damage the power grid – naturally or intentionally – by providing transmission- owning subscribers faster access to vital spare transmission 
equipment. This equipment, such as transformers and circuit breakers for substations, often requires lengthy production and delivery lead ti mes. The expansion of existing inventory of spare equipment in 
the United States is important to assuring the resiliency of the nation’s electric grid.  
Grid Assurance services will complement the Edison Elect ric Institute’s
 existing Spare Transformer 
Equipment Program (STEP), which can provide utilities access to transformers after a presidential declaration of a national emergency caused by terrorism. Grid Assurance will offer subscribers equipment (transfor mers, circuit breakers and other items) from an inventory that will meet their needs 
after a broader spectrum of qualifying events. In March 2016, Grid Assurance received approval from the 
Federal Energy Regu latory Commission  (FERC) to move forward.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    16 
 Planning for the unknown is difficult at best. But the stakes are high and the potential threat has led to 
new standards for cyber and physical security of the grid from the North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation  (NERC). The next major revision of the NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) 
Standards becomes effective July 1, 2016. The new Standard expands protections against physical and cyber -attacks  on the power grid. AEP hosted its second NERC Reliability & Compliance summit in 
April 2016, bringing together executives from AEP, NERC and Regional Entities to which we belong, to focus on the evolving reliability/security regulatory environment and str ategies to keep AEP’s 
compliance program in sync with the changes.  
In July 2015, FERC approved a new physical security reliability standard (CIP -014), requiring owners 
and operators of transmission facilities to protect critical transmission substations a nd control centers 
whose damage by physical attack could threaten reliability of the system. In response, AEP classified its substations into tiers based on the critical nature of the equipment to determine the level of security needed. This tiered approac h allows us to design security controls directly in to new infrastructure from 
the start, building the costs into capital projects as needed. It is a measured approach that allows us to be more proactive with existing and new infrastructure while balancing  risk and cost.  
AEP has designed a Security Awareness Training program for all employees covering physical and cybersecurity risks. The training is updated periodically to meet emerging cyber and physical threats and it places a shared responsibility for security with employees and the company.  
We are also pushing cyber security deeper into the supply chain. We are working with our vendors to determine the level of security they have in place to understand and identify areas of vulnerability. We use surve ys, questionnaires and other assessment tools to evaluate the risk they pose to AEP before we 
sign a contract. This approach allows our business units to better understand the risks so they can make more informed decisions about the level of risk they are willing to assume.  
Business Continuity  
Companies – especially those engaged in critical infrastructure – must prepare detailed plans for continued operation following a crisis that diminishes their ability to function. Staffing, physical infrastructure and  information systems are at risk in such scenarios.  
AEP’s business continuity program is a partnership between our corporate business continuity team, business units and other support organizations. Together, we build plans to allow for an effective recov ery effort in the event of a disaster. The plans are designed to minimize business disruptions by 
decreasing response times, limiting financial impacts and maintaining customer confidence during a business interruption. We employ many types of planning, including:  
• Recovery of critical business processes such as staffing, alternate work locations, and essential tasks.  
• Recovery of information systems and technologies required to support critical business processes following a disaster.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    17 
 • Crisis management pla nning for command, control, coordination and communication as we 
respond to a crisis, emergency or major disruptive incident that affects AEP locations, staff or 
stakeholders.  
This planning process was critical following a series of underground distribution network disruptions in 2014 that exposed risks to the security and availability of our data and IT infrastructure, and raised our awareness of the need to be ready for new risks in the future. We view business continuity in terms of risk, resiliency and response, and we plan accordingly.  
In addition to launching a four -year plan to upgrade and enhance AEP’s 16 underground distribution 
networks, we built a new Tier III data center that came online in 2015. Tier III data centers are important because they d o not require shutdowns for equipment replacement and maintenance. In April 2016, AEP 
was recognized by Data Center Dynamics (DCD) as a winner of the 2016 DCD U.S. & Canada Awards for innovation and leadership in the development of the new data center.  
Plans are under way for another data center to reinforce our disaster recovery efforts in the unlikely 
event that a regional disaster would occur, giving us redundancies that are critical when in recovery mode. 
Ethics & Compliance  
At AEP, we are guided by hi gh standards of ethics and compliance. Our employees strongly believe we 
are committed to health, safety and environmental compliance, and that it is unacceptable to bend the rules to get the job done. AEP’s Board of Directors, management and every employe e are guided by 
principles of business conduct
 and are held accountable for maintaining the highest level of ethical 
behavior.  
We encourage employees to speak up when 
they see something that falls short of these 
expectations. If employees are unwilling to report an ethics or compliance violation because of fear of retaliation, our corporate culture, our reputation and the fina ncial 
health of the company are at risk. We maintain a confidential 24/7 hotline that allows employees to report concerns anonymously or to seek guidance on ethical, 
safety or compliance issues.  
We also provide annual, mandatory training to all employees on the Principles of Business Conduct. 
This training includes evaluation of several distinct scenarios in some of our higher risk areas – including conflicts of interest, misuse of company assets, management of personally identifiable information, and our anti -retaliation policy – which helps our employees consider the Principles in the 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    18 
 context of “real world” risks that might arise in their day -to-day job duties. Significant portions of our 
employee population also receive regular compliance training on the federal and state codes of conduct 
that govern our business activities.  
Lobbying & Political Contributions  
The electric utility industry is undergoing a fundamental transformation driven by a number of factors, including new regulations and public polic ies. For the benefit of all stakeholders, we actively participate 
in the political process and in lobbying activities at the national, state and local levels.  
The investments needed to modernize the power grid are in the billions of dollars and the stakes have never been higher. To understand the policies and regulations that could affect our business, we participate in a number of organizations, lobby on our customers’ behalf and contribute to political candidates.  
Each year, AEP publicly discloses lobbying activities  and political contributions
. We also annually 
report on the portion of membership dues from organizations, such as the BRT and EEI, that go toward lobbying. We post our 
lobbying policy  online and we have a process in place whereby information 
regarding political contributions is reviewed annually by AEP’s Board of Directors.  
 
Trade Groups  
Among the organizations we are actively engaged with are the Business Roundtable (BRT), where our 
Chairman, President and CEO, Nick Akins, chairs the Energy and Environment Committee, as well as the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) where he is completing a o ne-year term as chair. We engage in these 
activities to stay current on issues, learn best practices and advocate on behalf of our customers, employees and shareholders.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    19 
 We have been asked by stakeholders why we belong to some organizations whose positions  may 
conflict with AEP’s. In general, we believe it is better to be at the table and engaged in the discussion, 
whether we are in total agreement or not. When we disagree, we voice our concerns and work to change the position. Sometimes we prevail and some times we do not, but we strive to reach an appropriate 
position, based on the facts available. In addition, many of our customers belong to these organizations and this helps us understand their concerns and needs. 
We believe in transparency and active par ticipation in public debate. Our experience is that open, candid 
discussion and a good- faith attempt to reach common ground is the best way to do business.  
Stakeholder Engagement 
Our ability to make informed decisions relies on the strength of the relatio nships we have with our many 
different stakeholders. To AEP, stakeholder engagement is a business imperative.  
During the last decade, we have cultivated a commitment to engagement and transparency by being 
accessible, responsive, honest and open with thos e with whom we engage. We seek to foster healthy, 
trusting relationships that turn conflict into cooperation and, ultimately, into partnership. In 2015, we made progress toward this objective and laid out a plan to expand our engagement efforts in 2016.  
Stakeholder engagement in 2015 was largely dominated by carbon, specifically the Clean Power Plan 
(CPP), and the evolving utility business model. AEP held several meetings with four environmental 
groups – Natural Resources Defense Council, Environmental Def ense Fund, Sierra Club and Clean Air 
Task Force – over the potential impacts of the CPP to the grid. Although we disagreed on some aspects of the rule, we agreed to try to identify opportunities to work together that would benefit the states we serve as th ey determine their compliance strategies.  
For example, we agreed that renewable energy, energy efficiency and grid modernization initiatives will be critical for the future, regardless of what happens with the CPP. As AEP diversifies its energy portfolio, we will be looking for opportunities to work together to seek state commission support for utility investments in options such as universal solar projects that broaden access to renewable energy to more customers.  
In 2015, we saw increased investor intere st in AEP’s evolving business model in a low -carbon, high -
tech world. This report reflects extensive discussion with some AEP investors to address their concerns about our ability to sustainably grow earnings in the future as more customers seek to self -generate their 
electricity. They also wanted to know more about the impact of technologies and new regulations that 
can potentially affect AEP’s long -term growth. For example, we discussed our carbon profile including 
how we factor carbon into our capital investment strategy. AEP’s Board of Directors approves the capital investment plan, which maps to AEP’s strategy of being a less carbon- intensive company in the 
future.  
In response to investor discussions, we are providing a detailed view – as best we can – of the 
opportunities and risks, our strategy for growth and our plan for achievement. Sections of AEP’s 2015 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    20 
 Form 10- K were enhanced to reflect these i nvestor discussions and provide a clearer picture of the 
transformation we are undergoing.  
In 2015, Mark McCullough, executive vice president – Generation, took the lead as AEP’s executive 
champion of stakeholder engagement. To ensure continuity and deepen our relationships, we began meeting one -on-one with the stakeholder groups. This will continue in 2016. In addition, we have begun 
to implement a plan to increase our outreach to social impact investors and expand the circle of non -
governmental organizati ons (NGOs) with whom we engage. Our experience is that transparency and 
open, honest communications are important to building trusting relationships, eliminating misperceptions and increasing awareness and understanding of AEP’s transformation. 
 
Another a venue of stakeholder engagement occurs in our integrated resource planning  (IRP) process. 
Most of our states have formal stakeholder processes for developing these resource plans, while others are more informal. In all cases, the intent is to be inclusive, listen to stakeholder ideas and concerns, answer their questions and consider their input as we develop resource plans for our jurisdictions.  
In Indiana, Arkansas and Loui siana, for example, the stakeholder process is formalized and includes 
representatives from customer groups, various industry groups, environmental groups and others. In these states, we share the IRP with the stakeholders before filing it with the state u tility commission. In 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    21 
 other states, such as Oklahoma, Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia, the engagement process is less 
iterative but there are clear communication pathways before and during the process of developing and approving IRPs for those states. While each process is unique, it is still based on the principles of engagement and transparency.  
Our stakeholder engagement  efforts include our employees. Learn More: How we engage our employees
 
About This Report  
AEP is proud to share with you our 2016 Corporate Accountability Report. This is AEP’s seventh integrated report and our 10th year of reporting our overall performance. This web- based report includes 
significant data and information about AEP’s  performance that is largely based on calendar year 2015, 
unless otherwise noted.  
In addition to reporting on 2015 performance and showing three - to five -year performance trends, this 
report offers insight into AEP’s transformation as it evolves its busine ss model. We increased our use of 
photos, charts and infographics to help tell our story.  
AEP’s report follows the GRI G4 guidelines for data quality, report content and organizational boundaries. We also report according to GRI’s Electric Utility Sector Supplement. In developing our report, we consider the principles set forth by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the proposed Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for our sector. However, we believe there is no one -size-fits-all approach to voluntary reporting so we adapt them as appropriate to 
demonstrate we are directionally in concurrence.  
Audit Statement 
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of company performance statements contained within the 2016 AEP Corporate Accountability Report. Financial information was reconciled with AEP's audited financial statements, if applicable, or to such other sources as deemed appropriate. Selected processes used in accumulating the significant nonfinancial data wer e reviewed and the associated data 
reconciled to the sources(s). The appropriateness of the context in which data are presented was also reviewed. Finally, forward- looking information was verified as consistent with other public information 
disclosed by AE P. Based upon our review, we believe the performance information contained within the 
Report is appropriately stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and nonfinancial information are reasonable.  
 
Andrew B. Reis  
Vice President, Audit Services  May 16, 2016  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    22 
 Statement of AEP’s Board of Directors  
The AEP Board of Directors  has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s sustainability 
initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. This report marks the 10th 
year that AEP has provided a comprehensive account of it s performance, integrating financial with 
sustainability reporting. The Committee fully supports this approach. Stakeholders have expressed approval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting.  
Throughout the  year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability 
objectives, challenges, targets and progress. The Committee reviewed and discussed the final text of this report before its adoption of a formal resolution approving the report.  
The 2016 Corporate Accountability Report reflects robust disclosure about AEP’s 2015 performance as well as the company’s strategy and vision for the future. AEP’s changing business model, its transition to a clean energy future, and its plan for futur e growth are discussed to provide clarity about the 
transformation of the company and the industry. AEP management had numerous discussions with multiple investors, large and small, and agreed to additional disclosure to address these issues. AEP is committed to being transparent, candid and open about its business, and this report is a reflection of that commitment.  
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports from management about the company’s sustainability initiatives and financial reporting an d economic performance. These issues are the subject 
of active discussion at Board meetings and Board committee meetings.  
The Committee believes this document is a reasonable and clear presentation of the company’s plans and of its environmental, social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized that management will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to changing circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report.  
 
Thomas E, Hoaglin Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
May 2016  
Sustainabi lity Governance  
As the demand for transparency and public disclosure continues to grow, so do AEP’s efforts around sustainability and performance reporting. AEP’s Corporate Accountability Report is used to communicate and respond to stakeholder concerns, m anage shareholder engagement, drive performance, 
and recruit and retain employees -  while proactively telling AEP’s story. AEP’s report has evolved from 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    23 
 what was once a past performance- based environmental report into a more future -focused integrated 
repor t – tying our financial performance to our environmental, social and governance performance to 
show linkage with AEP’s business strategy.  
In 2015, AEP implemented a governance structure around corporate sustainability through the creation 
of an internal Enterprise Sustainability Council. Co-chaired by representatives from the Corporate Sustainability and Ethics and Compliance departments, the Council consists of some of the top leaders and decision -makers from across the company.  
Nick Akins, chairman, pr esident and CEO; David 
Feinberg, executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary; and Lana Hillebrand, senior vice president and chief administrative officer, serve as executive sponsors.  
The Council established the following goals and o bjectives:  
• Ensure activities and decisions, including performance reporting align with our strategic plan and 
business objectives.  
• Serve as champions of AEP’s sustainability initiatives – seek opportunities to link sustainability 
with culture, values, bus iness performance and material issues.  
• Share work, best practices, and ideas to identify potential risks/opportunities and emerging 
issues/trends and collaborate in developing solutions and sustainability goals/objectives.  
• Manage disclosure to achieve th e right balance compatible with AEP’s commitment to 
transparency, materiality and aligns with reporting guidelines.  
• Accountability for accuracy of the information disclosed. 
The Council provides a forum for key decision- makers to come together, and reflec ts the maturity of 
sustainability and the reporting process at AEP. It has become embedded in AEP’s business strategy, supporting our culture initiatives of strategic alignment and employee engagement, as well as, our continuous improvement efforts. The Council also reflects AEP’s commitment to sustainability reporting -- addressing stakeholder concerns by telling our balanced, accurate and complete story.  
Global Reporting Initiative  
This report was primarily developed according to the Global Reporting 
Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (G4). The 
GRI guidelines provide a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for sustainability  reporting. We 
are using the G4 standards, as well as the Electric Utility Sector Supplement for reporting on industry -specific information.  
View AEP’s 2016 GRI -G4 Report.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    24 
 Carbon Disclosure Project  
As a pillar of the company's commitment to social responsibility, AEP places high value and priority on 
transparency in our actions. By responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey(s), AEP recognizes the importance of our disclosure  and our commitment to the interests of our stakeholders. 
This is AEP’s eighth year responding to CDP.  
CDP is an international, not -for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and 
cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vi tal environmental information. They work with market 
forces to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and 
take action to reduce them. CDP now holds the largest collection globally of primary climate change, water and forest -risk information and puts these insights at the heart of strategic business, investment 
and policy decisions.  
• Carbon Disclosure Proj ect - AEP's 2016 Response  (PDF)  
• CDP Water Disclosure Project -  AEP's 2016 Response  (PDF)  
• CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project -  AEP's 2015 Response  (PDF)  
Coal Supplier Survey  
America’s energy future will no doubt contain a greater diversity of energy sources but coal will continue to be the f oundation of that resource base for the foreseeable future. At the same time, the life 
cycle of coal is of great concern to many of our stakeholders – from mining practices and combustion for energy production to disposal of coal combustion byproducts. Thr ough our stakeholder engagement 
process AEP committed to annually survey our coal suppliers to assess their environmental, safety and health performance.  
The purpose of this survey is to collect information about where and how our suppliers source their c oal 
that AEP purchases and to collect data on their overall performance in the areas of safety, health and environmental compliance. This company -specific data will not be shared publicly but will be used by 
AEP to help us analyze and identify best practic es and begin to understand some of the social 
ramifications of the electric and coal industries.  
This resource site provides information for our suppliers about the survey, including links to the 
Global 
Reporting Initiative’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement  (MMSS). Several performance indicators 
from the MMSS are included in our survey. Our commitment to transparency includes making the 
aggregated final repo rt and analysis public by posting it to the web.  
• 2014 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
• 2013 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
• 2011 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
• 2010 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
• 2009 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
• GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement – Supplier Matrix   (pdf) 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    25 
 Past Reports  
 
2015 
 
2014 
 
2013  
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010  
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2006 
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    26 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    27 
 Today’s Environment 
AEP’s transformation -  to adapt the legacy energy system to become a smarter, resource -diverse power 
grid that is reliable, secure and modern - reflects the 
transition happening across our industry.  
For 110 years, we have thought about our business in 
terms of generation, transmission and distribution – a 
one-directional flow of power and information to 
customers. That’s how the electric utility system was 
originally designed and the prudency of those decisions and customer rates were determined by regulators to support that structure.  
Today, there is a clean energy transition under way to reduce carbon, enable large - and small -scale 
renewables, integrate advanced technologies and provide power and inf ormation that flow both ways. In 
addition, technology plays an important role in energy efficiency because it makes the system more efficient, helps consumers manage their energy usage, lowers cost for customers and AEP, and helps to reduce emissions. As w e embrace these changes, we also need 
to define the rules and policies that govern our industry, enabling us to be responsive to customers’ needs.  
Among the catalysts for change:  
• Technology advancements  
• Increasing demand for clean energy  
• Customer attitudes  
• Commodity prices  
• Environmental regulations  
• Competitors’ actions  
• Public policies  
• Declining cost curves  
To meet these challenges, we are developing new partnerships and building on established relationships with our customers. Our goal is to make the custo mer 
experience unique, while providing access to the power 
grid and its services to all customers. In the process, 
we are reinventing ourselves by focusing on customers, 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    28 
 resources and technologies of the future, being 
disciplined in our allocation of capit al and fostering a 
customer -centric culture of innovation and operational 
excellence.  
Our investment strategy is shifting from being compliance- driven to optimizing the system for 
efficiency and operational excellence, diversifying our resource portfolio to reduce environmental impact and investing in infrastructure that delivers positive value to our customers and investors.  
This transformation presents new opportunities for 
growth but also carries a degree of risk and responsibility. We are engaging in  discussions with 
policymakers, regulators, customers, investors and stakeholders about how we are evolving and how they can support our efforts. 
Customer Experience & Expectations  
Technology is giving customers options and tools to make choices based on t heir values, as much as on 
cost. While we are primarily a regulated energy company, we have to respond to dynamic and changing customer needs and do it as well as the best competitive consumer products companies.  
Customer Expectations  
To understand what customers want from their energy company is, in some ways, to understand Millennials. In 2015, Millennials made up more than 50 percent of the American work force. By 2025, it is estimated that number will climb to 75 percent. They are already our employees and our customers. They are digitally savvy, socially conscious, always connected and willing to share, and they want information immediately, conveniently and at a low cost. Millennials are instrumental in helping us to reshape the customer experience.  
The conveniences we get from technology make life easier, allow us to conduct business at any time, and give us portability and mobility. Customers want the same interactive experience with AEP – personal, online, mobile, in “the cloud,” and securely delivered to their newest mobile device. It also has to be simple, fast and provide value – something that is as individual as customers themselves.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    29 
 Our challenge is to be innovative in the products we offer to our customers and help to transform the 
regulator y process, public policies and pricing plans that enable change at the same speed that 
technology and customer demands are changing. We have much work to do before we can claim success, but it is a journey to which we are committed. 
AEP is investing in its  people and infrastructure to deliver on our customer promise. We are developing 
short - and long -term strategies and plans to deploy new technologies that enable customers to access the 
information they need, when they need it and through their platform of  choice – on their phone, tablet, 
website or through a customer contact center.  
In 2015, we began a three -year project to install new customer contact center technology which would 
enable us to work across multiple platforms to serve customers. For exampl e, a single contact center 
agent could respond to email, phone calls, text messages and social media, and manage online chat 
sessions. The new system has been planned for 2018. In preparation, we are developing work force training plans to give our employe es new problem resolution skills, empowering them to give every 
customer a positive experience. This is part of our culture change at AEP.  
It is important to understand that this dynamic is playing out across the electric utility industry. The pace of chan ge is moving more quickly in some parts of the country, slower in others.  
AEP’s ultimate goal is to be the preferred energy services provider for our customers. We began laying the foundation for this with our gridSMART® initiative nearly a decade ago, ga ining valuable 
experience with new technology applications on the distribution grid. Those applications have improved operational efficiency, outage prevention and restoration, and provided diagnostic capabilities to identify equipment problems before they  become service disruptions. It is this smart grid foundation that enables 
the technologies that customers want today.  
However, technology is only part of the equation. We need a strong customer -centric culture, too. Our 
recent employee culture surveys tel l us that our employees are committed to our customers. Our culture 
transformation journey is helping us understand how we can improve the customer experience.  
Big Data & Analytics  
Imagine knowing your customers well enough that you could develop products and services that fit their specific needs, encouraging innovation, and delivering what customers want. Feedback from customers tells us we need to do a better job communicating with them, both in the content we send and the channels through which we send it.  
As we learn more about our customers, we can better understand their needs and preferences and target communications accordingly, resulting in more effective customer service, increased customer empowerment and improved customer satisfaction. That is the power of big data and analytics – the new frontier in understanding and improving the customer experience. In 2016, AEP will build an internal 
team to enhance our knowledge and experience with big data and analytics. 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    30 
 Data -gathering Infrastructure  
Today , AEP’s smart grid technology is at the forefront of providing us with robust and frequent 
information, using smart meters, communications networks and data management systems. Smart grid 
technologies empower customers to use energy more efficiently and manage costs. The data collected also helps AEP to customize programs and services for customers. Smart meters were initially used to automate meter reading, improve bill accuracy and to manage physical assets, people and outages.  
Today, we are learning how  additional analytics, based on this data, can help us predict equipment 
failure so we can proactively take action to prevent an outage from occurring. For example, we are using an analytic that can identify when specific distribution transformers are on t he brink of failure, allowing 
us to fix or replace them before an outage occurs.  
Other analyses help us identify meter configuration errors, potential meter failures and meter connection issues based upon the internal temperature of the meter. They also help us to identify and prevent energy theft – a public safety concern and a threat to our revenues. And, we are exploring how analytics can help us improve our interactions with customers, such as improving the accuracy of the outage information we give customers if the lights go out. 
Big Data Olympics  
To improve our interactions with customers and their experience with us, we need to better understand 
their preferences and expectations. In 2015, our customer service organization launched an initiative to 
build a comprehensive, 360- degree view of our customers. Using a broad set of information about our 
customers from many sources, we looked at an array of things including usage and payment history, website visits, mobile alert history, call center activity,  program participation information, outage data 
and demographic information. We tested several hypotheses to improve our understanding of customers, including proactive communications, improved call center services and performance, and broader adoption of existing payment, savings and energy management programs. We called this project the Big Data Olympics.  
The results were eye -opening and led to further discussions and exploration of additional analytics to 
help drive improved customer web experiences and  better target marketing and advertising campaigns. 
In addition, our call center managers found the data helpful to address the needs of repeat callers. The 
analysis found the majority of repeat calls were coming from one customer segment; additional analy sis 
will help us develop solutions that will reduce the number of repeat callers.  
Having a more comprehensive view of our customers will allow our companies to design better 
products, services and outreach programs. And, it will help us have more meaningf ul conversations with 
customers about how we balance our capital investments to meet the objectives of the communities we serve.  
The Big Data Olympics also included a case study to develop a work force optimization model to help us improve our ability to f orecast future workloads and optimally assign the work to employee and 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    31 
 contract crews, balancing cost and work efficiency with customer needs. We used historical data to 
generate a forecast and optimization software to determine the best way to do certain jobs, based on the type of work, cost profile and geography.  
We learned there are potential opportunities that not only achieve significant cost savings but allow us to dedicate more resources to priorities that directly impact customers’ experience. We believe this will increase customer satisfaction in the long run, as well as increase employee engagement and satisfaction.  
As we increasingly begin to use data to better understand, communicate with and serve our customers, it is important to recognize th at data 
privacy remains a critical priority for AEP and our industry. We continuously work to protect the confidentiality of customer information and to prevent unauthorized use. Because of the substantial investment in cyber -related defenses 
by AEP to def end its critical systems, we believe 
AEP customers should be confident in the security of data and information. 
In 2015, our customer service organization launched an 
initiative called Big Data Olympics where we used a broad set 
of information about our customers, such as: usage and 
payment history, website visits, mobile alert history, call center activity, program participation information and outage 
data - to help us better understand their preferences and 
expectations.  
Knowledge -Building  
Applying big data concepts and analytics to better manage our business and serve our customers 
requires a major shift in how we think and a technical skill set that we need to develop. We need to better understand how to deliver greater value to our customers.  
Through the use of analytics, our 2016 goals are to:  
• Determine how to better serve and market to our customers  
• Sustain continuous improvements to ensure we have the resources we need  
• Improve reliability and reduce risk for customers and AEP  
• Expand Big Data Olymp ics to other business units  
• Begin to build a data and analytics foundation for AEP as we transition to the next -generation 
energy company  
As we build in- house knowledge of data analytics, we know it will take at least two to three years to 
achieve the skil l level and experience we need. We have established an enterprise analytics services 
team and a customer and grid analytics team, pairing the knowledge and expertise of our Information 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    32 
 Technology team with that of our Customer & Distribution Services group. As we develop our own 
internal talent and infrastructure, we will work with partners, including IBM and others, to fill in the gaps until we get there.  
This is an emerging field that creates new job opportunities for the future. The biggest challenge we  face 
is a shortage of talent with the right technical and analytical skills needed for this type of work. According to the McKinsey Global Institute, the “demand for deep analytical talent in the United States could be 50 percent to 60 percent greater tha n its supply by 2018.” We need a plan to attract the best 
talent because we will be competing with high -tech companies, such as Google and Apple.  
Learn more about workforce planning
 
Customer  Care  
Different types of customers want and need diverse things from AEP. As we learn more about our residential customers, we are also working with our commercial and industrial customers to serve their needs. These customers need efficient energy management strategies that can be integrated into facilities nationwide. AEP is dedicated to providing a level of service that exceeds customer expectations and we are constantly thinking of new ways to meet their needs.  
Market competition forces companies to be  quick and agile. If we 
are not, the price is high. If we are not providing excellent service, our customers will leave us, which is costly. Enhancing the customer experience requires us to have people and processes in place to retain and grow our customer  base.  
Understanding customers’ needs can lead to new business opportunities. AEP’s new OnSite Partners, a subsidiary of AEP 
Energy, was conceived by talking to our customers. We learned that large commercial and industrial customers wanted customized ene rgy solutions that are more reliable, localized and environmentally 
sustainable.  
OnSite Partners was created with that in mind – to provide solutions based on market knowledge, 
technology innovations and deal structuring. This could include distributed solar, wind, combined heat and power, energy storage, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other forms of cost -reducing 
energy technologies.  
Often, customers don’t think of the traditional regulated power company as being nimble because of long lead times needed for big, new projects. AEP is turning to its employees to find solutions, even 
when that means reconfiguring products and services to help large customers connect to the grid more quickly. This is especially important to oil and gas customers, who need large amounts of electricity in remote locations.  
For example, AEP’s transmission team continues to use skid- mounted substations that tap into existing 
transmission lines near the business sites, providing a reliable, interim solution until the gri d is 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    33 
 expanded. This allows us to serve a large customer within a few months, compared with the average of 
18 months to build a new station. This employee -developed solution is a competitive advantage for AEP 
and allows us to be more responsive to customers . 
Skid Mounted Stations  
Benefits  
• Flexible, modular design speeds up construction. 
• Quick installation.  
• Wide range of voltage capabilities (4kV to 34.5 kV) meets varying customer needs.  
• Speeds AEP customer service as well as AEP revenue stream.  
• Environmenta lly friendly option for initial 
load (versus diesel generators).  
Station in a Box  
Another example of solutions -oriented customer care is the Station in a Box (SIB), a joint effort between 
AEP’s Transmission Engineering and Supply Chain organizations to support new and fast -tracked 
emerging load opportunities. The SIB approach is effective when long lead- time material and equipment 
are on a project’s critical path schedule. Materials are purchased in advance and packaged in a portable storage container that can be delivered at the station site for construction. This approach offers flexibility and can be used system -wide. In addition, engineering is greatly simplified and expedited and station 
construction can be accelerated by several months.  
Communicating w ith Customers  
Proactive communication with customers allows them to make more informed decisions about their energy use and run successful businesses. AEP’s National Accounts and Economic & Business Development teams work together to help companies expand, relocate, efficiently manage their energy use and troubleshoot. Our National Accounts team has been recognized for four consecutive years by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) for outstanding customer service to these large customers.  
What makes this aw ard unique is that customers do the voting. Votes were cast by EEI National Key 
Accounts customers, representing a wide variety of industries, including national brands such as Costco, HealthSouth, Marriott Hotels, Staples, TJX Companies, and Walmart. Our customers are the backbone 
of our business, so recognition from them is the highest compliment.  
In addition, AEP’s Key Accounts and Economic & Business Development teams are collaborating with the EEI, the World Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund to develop a set of “buyer’s principles” where large customers that want renewable energy and need their energy company to help 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    34 
 them achieve their goal, work together to develop a solution. This effort to better serve current and 
prospective customers  is part of our strategy to attract and retain businesses to our service territory.  
Learn more: Residential Customer Efforts  
Sustainable Electricity  
Technology and having a balanced energy mix are vit al attributes of a reliable, secure supply of 
electricity. They are also essential to achieving environmental goals in a clean energy economy. As the resource mix changes, the electric power system is being transformed – and so is AEP. 
Clean Energy Future  
Our strategy to diversify includes increasing our use of natural gas and renewable generation and reconfiguring the grid to support further integration of distributed energy resources, increased energy efficiency and demand response, and the growth of other customer -
driven technologies. The expansion of renewable resources is a key driver of growth in our transmission business. 
There is no doubt feder al and state policy and society are moving toward the use of clean energy, 
regardless of what happens with the Clean Power Plan. New and existing fossil -fueled generation 
resources will be expected to achieve higher efficiencies and include advanced environmental control 
capabilities. AEP’s existing coal units are controlled or in the process of being controlle d to achieve 
compliance with current environmental regulations. In the future, decisions to maintain these units will be driven by their ability to operate and perform economically as market conditions and environmental regulations change.  
With that in min d, we will continue to prudently invest in technologies that support a balanced portfolio 
of generation assets. For the existing fossil fleet, our focus is on technologies that can improve 
efficiency, reliability, flexibility and maintenance of these asset s. Improved monitoring and diagnostic 
capabilities, as well as applying “lean” processes and principles, will complement these investments and ensure these units continue to provide value to our customers and reliability of the power grid.  
Given current economics, the logical technology choice for new 24/7 power sources will be high-
efficiency combined -cycle natural gas units. However, wind and solar generation will play an increasing 
role as they become cost -competitive at grid -scale as an intermittent energy resource and align with 
regulatory mandates and customer preferences.  
We are also investing in energy storage technologies that have the capability to improve the efficiency 
of the power grid and enable reliability with greater use of variable resourc es in the future.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    35 
 The power grid of the future will need all of these sources to provide all customers access to safe, 
reliable and cost -effective electricity. Customer -focused energy efficiency programs and technologies 
will provide additional opportunit ies for AEP to adapt and serve our customers as the power grid 
becomes more and more decentralized.  
 
Resource Planning  
Our stakeholders often ask if we factor the cost of carbon into our resource planning. The answer is yes; the potential for carbon regul ation has been part of our integrated resource planning process for several 
years. AEP’s planning process, which helps our states plan their energy and capacity needs over time, considers available resource and market options to achieve an adequate mix of resources at reasonable costs for our customers.  
Several AEP operating company subsidiaries are required to develop periodic integrated resource plans 
(IRP) that are filed with state public utility commissions. IRPs help companies and state regulators pla n 
for meeting customers’ capacity and energy needs over a certain period of time. Learn more about resource planning
 at AEP.  
AEP Operating Company by S tate Case Number/Docket  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    36 
 Appalachian Power Co. – Virginia  APCo VA PUE -2015 -00036  
Southwestern Electric Power Co. – Louisiana  SWEPCO LA I -33013  
Southwestern Electric Power Co. – Arkansas  SWEPCO  AR Doc.07 -011-U  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma - Oklahoma  PSO OK 2015 IRP  
Kentucky Power Co. - Kentucky  KPCo KY 2013 IRPNEED 2013 IRP  
IRPs in Indiana and West Virginia are currently pending  
 
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    37 
 Renewables  
In 2016, the U.S. Energy Information Administration predicts renewable energy used in the power 
sector will grow by n early 10 percent over 2015 levels. 
The growth of renewable resources in AEP’s service 
areas is also climbing d and has the potential to expand, as we invest in large -scale renewable 
resources. Increasingly, customers want clean energy choices at a reasonab le cost and they want their energy 
companies to work with and for them to make it happen. In fact, our current integrated resource plans show that by 2034, a majority of our resource additions will be made up of renewables and energy efficiency.  
We believ e we are best positioned to meet our 
customers’ clean energy needs. Owning, operating and maintaining large -scale energy infrastructure is what 
we do best. We can achieve economies of scale that individual customers cannot while achieving the same environm ental benefits and controlling integration with 
the grid. We can leverage the power grid to be the optimizer and integrator of all resources and technologies. We have the knowledge and experience to cost -effectively and efficiently develop universal 
solar projects, for example, which would expand access to solar power to more customers rather than the few who can afford private solar panels. And, we can leverage our assets to achieve maximum benefit for our system, the communities we serve and our customers . As our operating companies develop 
integrated resource plans, universal wind and solar are often among the resource choices in those plans and will continue to be in the future.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    38 
 On Jan.6, 2016, one of four new universal solar facilities in 
Indiana bega n commercial operation. The Deer Creek Solar 
Facility, just south of Marion, Ind., has a nameplate capacity of 2.5 megawatts (MW) of electricity – enough energy to power about 350 homes annually. Three more facilities are under construction and are expected to be placed in commercial operation by the end of 2016. In total, the four facilities will have a total nameplate capacity of 14.7 MW. In addition to investing in large scale renewable projects, we also purchase renewable energy through power purchase a greements (PPAs). Effective January 1, 2016, 
AEP’s regulated operating companies’ portfolio included PPAs for 2,630 MW of wind (which includes 800 MW of wind identified in AEP operating companies’ IRP plans that have recently been 
placed in service) and 10 .1 MW of solar power. In addition, we have included plans for approximately 
3,400 MW of new solar generation and 6,300 MW of new wind power between now and 2034.  
Universal solar makes more long -term sense because we can provide it more cost -effectively fo r 
customers than smaller scale renewables. Furthermore, we are able to align it with grid operations, preventing unnecessary costs of integration for the long -term, such as the need to build additional 
transmission lines or substations. 
Our renewable portf olio is designed to provide clean energy options that meet energy and capacity 
needs. We expect these resources to continue to grow regardless of the legal challenges to the Clean 
Power Plan (CPP). Many states already have voluntary or mandatory renewable energy goals and targets. We expect the demand for clean energy will grow, not diminish.  
 
  
 
   
 
    
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    39 
 
 
Natural Gas  
Shale gas formations across AEP’s service territory have been a game- changer for the availability and 
cost of natural gas. As new regulations force a shift away from coal, low -cost natural gas has become the 
resource of choice for 24/7 power generation. Having a reliable, steady supply of fuel is critical to 
maintaining grid reliability, especially during periods of peak demand.  
Natural gas  is an important part of our resource portfolio, especially as we have retired approximately 25 
percent of our coal -fueled power plants that provided 
24/7 power. We are cautious, however, of relying too heavily on any single resource as the main baseload fuel for 24/7 power needs. Volatility in prices, pipeline 
capacity issues, and fluctuations in supply and demand could impact the availability of natural gas for power generation. For example, on January 7, 2014, during the polar vortex, 9,300 MW of natural  gas generation, 
which represented five percent of PJM’s generating capacity, was unavailable due to interruption of natural gas service.  
The availability of natural gas, especially during peak demand periods and when variable resources are unavailable is  why several of our natural gas plants are connected to at least two pipelines. This gives us 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    40 
 greater access to competitive supplies and reliable delivery. We also are working with regulators to align 
the needs and interests of the gas and electric industr ies to gain more certainty and flexibility when 
procuring and scheduling natural gas for our units. Learn more about gas -electric harmonization efforts 
under way.  
AEP’s Clinch River Plant, Unit 1 and Unit 2 began operations as natural gas units in Februar y 2016 and 
April 2016, respectively. Two units of the plant’s three coal -fueled units were converted to natural gas. 
A third coal unit, at the Big Sandy Plant in Kentucky, is being converted from coal to natural gas and will be in operation in June 2016. T hese conversions ensure reliability for customers while complying 
with new environmental regulations. Keeping these plants in operation also supports local communities with jobs and local taxes, while providing low -cost, 24/7 power.  
Shale Gas – Growth for the Future  
The natural resources in AEP’s 11- state service territory have presented an excellent opportunity to 
support economic and business development and create new jobs. Since 2011, many shale oil and gas customers tapped into these resources in AEP’s  Ohio, West Virginia, Oklahoma, and Texas service 
territories.  
AEP has tracked short - and long -term customer power requests since 2011; today, this data is helping us 
to plan transmission improvements to meet customers’ needs. In 2015, new customer reques ts from oil 
and gas companies slowed, predominately due to the drop in oil prices globally. However, with growing demand for natural gas in foreign markets, including India, Japan, and South Korea, the oil market has begun to rebound here in the United Sta tes to meet that demand.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    41 
 As customer needs increase, AEP is ready with solutions to meet new service requests. For example, 
AEP is engineering and building transmission system improvements that will further enhance service reliability in the shale regions .  
Shale customers require a highly reliable supply of electricity to maintain many of their 24/7 operations, as well as meet their downstream customer needs. In AEP’s eastern service territory, planning engineers developed a transmission shale expansion plan to help us forecast where transmission improvements will likely be needed.  
This plan will help us to prioritize our investments and system improvements to maximize benefits to customers and the power grid. A similar effort is under way in AEP’s wester n service territory. These 
efforts position AEP to seize growth opportunities in shale regions as they develop.  
In addition, we have developed the concept of regional engineering teams that will focus resources where needed in the higher growth shale regio ns. These teams will also improve efficiencies across 
AEP’s territory, as well as support our cultural journey through collaboration and engagement.  
As oil and gas drilling activities have increased in shale gas -rich regions of the country, the incidents of 
earthquakes have also been increasing. The U.S. Geological Service and others have tied the process of disposing of wastewater from oil and gas extraction activities to surges in earthquakes in eight states – including states in AEP’s service territory (Arkansas, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas). This concerns us and, as we rely more heavily on natural gas for power generation, we will look to that industry to insure 
responsible practices are in place to minimize environmental impacts, as well as address the ea rthquake 
concerns.  
Coal Fleet Transition  
Having a diverse resource mix that includes coal is imperative to achieving an affordable and balanced 
energy portfolio. Our nation’s coal -fueled power plants have delivered significant benefits to the country 
and our economy for many decades. Today, the coal -
fueled power plant fleet in the United States is cleaner and more efficient, thanks to breakthroughs in technology and investments in new environmental controls.  
Between 2000 and 2016, AEP will have invested an 
estimated $8.5 billion to date in its coal units to comply with various environmental regulations. Through 2015, AEP’s carbon emissions have already declined 39 percent from 2000 levels, and we expect further reductions as we transition to more natural gas 
and renewable resources in the future. Because coal will continue to be important to a reliable and diverse resource mix, we have planned additional investments up to $1.4 billion between 2017 and 2025 to comply with new environmental regulations. This  ensures our ability to maintain reliable, affordable 
service for our customers.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    42 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
Between 2011 and mid- 2016, AEP retired more than 7,200 megawatts (MW) of coal -fueled generation. 
The retirements are part of our plan to comply with the new federal Mercury Air Toxics Standards for 
existing power plants. At the end of 2015, AEP’s total generating capacity was approximately 32,000 MW, of which approximately 18,000 MW are coal -fueled.  
 
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    43 
 Coal Technologies  
Although we do not see any new coal plants comi ng online, we support the development of technologies 
that will allow existing coal plants to remain part of our country’s balanced portfolio. AEP’s John W. 
Turk Jr., Power Plant in Arkansas is an example of the kind of technology innovation that is needed to 
keep coal in the resource mix. The 600- megawatt facility, which began operation in December 2012, is 
one of the cleanest, most efficient coal plants in the United States. It operates the country’s only "ultra -
supercritical" steam cycle using advanced m aterials and combustion technology to consume less coal 
and produce fewer emissions, including carbon dioxide, than traditional pulverized coal plants. In addition, state -of-the-art emission control technologies and the use of low -sulfur coal enable the Tu rk 
Plant to meet emission limits that are among the most stringent ever required for a pulverized coal unit.  
To effectively reduce the carbon footprint of fossil generation, ultra -supercritical technologies for power 
generation such as the Turk Plant are a step in the right direction, but still cannot achieve the stringent 
new source performance standards for CO
2 that will be enforced through Section 111(b) of the Clean Air 
Act.  
There are, however, transformational technologies under development that have  the potential to build 
upon the types of innovation that the Turk Plant has pioneered for the industry, further reducing CO 2 
emissions from fossil -fueled power generation. Technologies currently in early development stages, 
such as pressurized oxy -combust ion, chemical looping and supercritical CO 2 power cycles, all rely on 
alternative fuel -to-energy conversions and fundamentally different ways of energy production and/or 
efficiency improvements to mitigate and/or easily separate CO 2 emissions for other use s or for storage.  
Unlike the pre - and post -combustion carbon capture systems that have been inadequately demonstrated 
at commercial scale to date, we believe these technologies have greater potential to meet industry cost 
and performance targets. To suppor t development, demonstration and deployment of these technologies, 
the industry, along with the Electric Power Research Institute, U.S. Department of Energy, technology suppliers and academia are working to test and validate state- of-the-art equipment and components, new 
metal alloys, alternative materials, and advanced manufacturing techniques. The goal is to have low -
carbon fossil -fueled power generation technology options available in the 2030 to 2035 timeframe.  
Energy Efficiency and Demand Response  
Over the past decade, there has been a significant change in electricity usage trends. One key factor 
causing slower growth in electricity usage is the saturation of energy efficient technologies. This saturation has substantially increased as a result of fed eral energy policy, state requirements and energy 
efficiency and demand response programs implemented by utilities. AEP’s load forecasting modeling tracks these trends, which helps us develop resource plans for our companies that account for these changes over time.  
Energy efficiency and demand response are important elements of AEP’s resource portfolio; they are tools that encourage reduced energy consumption, either during times of peak demand, or throughout the 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    44 
 day or year. AEP currently has energy efficiency as well as demand response programs in place in 
almost all of its service territories.  
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT) was the catalyst for establishing energy efficiency as a priority for the nation. EPACT’s success led to more aggressive inc reases in efficiency standards with the 
passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA). The EISA set new energy efficiency standards covering vehicles, lighting, motors, building codes and other categories of energy -
using equipment. The  increased standards have had a pronounced effect on energy consumption, which 
AEP has seen in its service territory, particularly over the last decade.  
Federal codes and standards for residential and commercial lighting – combined with other efficiency gains from other energy -consuming appliances and building systems – are also helping to drive 
consumption down over time.  
These naturally -occurring reductions in future energy usage that are brought about by such emerging 
federal codes and standards (reflected in the chart) are incorporated into the customer load-  and peak -
demand forecasts that are relied upon for integrated resource planning purposes. The operating company 
plans implicitly capture these energy usage reductions over time. 
 
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    45 
 Energy Efficien cy Achievements  
Today, AEP offers customers more than 100 energy 
efficiency programs across nearly our entire 11 state service territory. In 2015, AEP’s energy efficiency programs were credited with over 1 million megawatt hours (MWh) of energy reduction a nd over 250 
megawatts (MW) of demand reduction, with associated program costs of $159 million.  
Cumulatively, from 2008 through 2015, these programs have been credited with reducing annual consumption by nearly 6 million MWh and peak demand by over 1,500 M W, with program costs of 
approximately $875 million. 
Energy efficiency is viewed as a readily deployable, 
relatively low -cost and clean energy resource that 
provides many benefits. Energy efficiency reduces energy consumption by incorporating energy effici ency improvements in their homes and 
businesses; the trade -off is the up -front investment in a building/appliance/equipment modification, 
upgrade or new technology.  
Energy Efficiency Growth  
There have been steady gains achieved through energy efficiency d uring the last two decades and AEP 
foresees additional future impacts, which we account for in our integrated resource planning process. Among the drivers of energy efficiency growth:  
• Energy costs  - As the cost of energy increases, the value of energy effi ciency increases.  
• Technology costs  - The cost of energy efficiency technologies is decreasing. For example, the 
cost of LED bulbs has decreased substantially in the last few years. They are on tr ack to replace 
CFLs as the next -generation lightbulb.  
• Techno logy improvements  – As devices become more interconnected and controllable, the 
ability to monitor and manage energy consumption rises. Today, this is seen more among commercial and industrial customers (e.g. more efficient building control systems) but is  gaining 
penetration among residential customers through technologies such as smart thermostats.  
• Environmental reasons  – Some customers want to reduce energy consumption to support 
environmental sustainability in addition to achieving economic benefits. 
• Building code efficiency standards  – While building code standards can have a large impact 
over the life of a building, the adoption of these standards occurs gradually over time and the benefits are most often seen in new construction or major restorations  or renovations. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    46 
 • Public policy  – A combination of federal mandates and company -sponsored energy efficiency 
programs have had a significant impact on the development of more energy efficient 
technologies and their rapid adoption rate in AEP’s service territ ory.  
• Appliances  – In addition to lighting, there have been significant increases in the saturation of 
energy efficient technology related to other appliances such as cooling systems, clothes washers and dryers, water heaters, dishwashers, etc.  
As a result  of these developments, subsequent achievements from utility -sponsored energy efficiency 
programs that exceed the ‘naturally occurring’ and efficiency codes -driven energy savings will likely be 
more challenging and expensive to implement in the future.  
Every three to four years, AEP conducts a residential appliance saturation survey to monitor the 
saturation and age of various appliances in residential homes. We compare the findings to projections from the U.S. Energy Information Administration to understand the trends for which we plan accordingly.  
 
Demand Reduction 
Demand response supports reliability of the power grid by helping to reduce peak periods of demand. Demand -side management includes energy company -sponsored programs and rate structures that 
encourage customers to reduce energy consumption during peak demand periods. Within each of AEP’s 
state integrated resource plans, the potential for more demand -side resources, as well as other smart 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    47 
 grid-related projects such as volt VAR optimization, are modeled on the same economic basis as supply -
side resources (generating capacity).  
Peak demand is reported in megawatts and is the amount of power used at the time of maximum power 
usage. Peak demand periods vary across AEP’s service territory. For example, Appalachian Power Company’s system peak generally occurs on a winter weekday morning, when electric heating and appliance usage is happening at the same time that commercial equipment and industrial machinery is ramping up electric use. Whereas Public Ser vice Company of Oklahoma’s system peak, for example, 
typically occurs in the afternoon of a summer weekday, as people get home from work or school and increase their use of air conditioners and fans, while the demand from commercial and industrial customer s remains high.  
As peak demand grows with the economy and population, new capacity would ultimately be needed. To defer building new power plants, there are several ways to reduce the peak load. For example, a customer with an interruptible contract with AEP agrees to allow the company to “interrupt” or reduce its power consumption in exchange for reduced rates. 
For the first time, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) is forecasting the lowest 
peak demand growth rates on record in its  annual long -term reliability assessment of the bulk power 
system. NERC forecasts that winter and summer peak demand growth during the next decade will drop below1 percent for the first time.  
NERC also predicts that declining demand growth rates will continue. With the decline in peak demand, less new capacity is needed, allowing energy companies to use more of existing resources to meet future resource needs. It also frees up capital that can be invested on other things such as transmission and 
distributio n infrastructure that improve service to customers.  
We’ve been predicting slow growth in peak demand for a number of years due to various factors. Our increasing rates to comply with new environmental regulations, combined with higher saturation of energy  efficient appliances, slower population growth and shifting demographics, and the shift in our 
overall economy away from manufacturing and toward a more service- sector based economy, all point 
to much slower demand growth than we’ve experienced historical ly. 
Energy efficiency and demand response programs can affect customer bills in differing ways. Customers can be favorably impacted through the delay in investment required for new generation resources, and benefit through avoidance of incremental costs as sociated with environmental compliance costs. This 
benefit to the customer, however, comes with a price due to the up- front and ongoing costs of the 
programs themselves.  
Distributed Energy Resources  
The advent of distributed energy resources (DER) and the integration of information technologies with 
the power grid are creating new challenges and opportunities for the electric power industry. DER 
technologies include energy efficiency, demand response distributed generation (DG), microgrids, energy storage and electric vehicles. These demand -side technologies – often on the customer side of the 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    48 
 meter – are growing in popularity as technology costs decline, reliability and performance improves, and 
consumers opt for greater flexibility and control over their e nergy generation and use and its cost.  
Cost-effective advancements in technologies such as solar, natural gas turbines and reciprocating 
engines, and energy storage are setting the stage for microgrid opportunities, and paving the way for emerging distrib uted generation (DG) technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, and flow batteries. 
If properly integrated, DER technologies like these, coupled with innovative pricing structures, can provide operational benefits for AEP and the power grid, and financial benefits for the customer.  
For instance, accurate pricing signals can be designed to fairly compensate customers with private local generation to optimize production at peak- demand times that provide the greatest benefit. In much the 
same way, these accurate pricing signals could further support development of energy storage resources to help meet peak demands. In the end, revision of the current pricing construct could provide a more sustainable pricing structure for all customers who rely on the ser vices provided by the power grid. 
Local Generation  
Local generation – technologies that generate electricity at or near where it will be used, such as private 
solar and combined heat and power – is growing in popularity as costs come down, government subsidies continue to be extended, reliability and performance improve and consumers opt for greater 
flexibility and control over their energy use and cost. Local generation is creating new challenges and opportunities for the energy industry.  
Large industrial  and commercial customers have been the early adopters of local generation, where 
energy managers want more control over their systems, lower costs and increased reliability of the power that drives their business and keeps them competitive. The economics of local generation, particularly private solar, continue to improve, increasing their saturation rate.  
AEP's solar generation growth
 
Examples of local generation systems in use b y residential, commercial and industrial customers  
Residential Sector  Commercial & Industrial Sector  
Solar photovoltaic panels  Combined heat and power systems  
Small wind turbines  Solar photovoltaic panels  
Natural gas fuel cells  Wind  
Emergency back -up generators  Natural gas or biogas fuel cells  
 Reciprocating internal combustion engines, including back -up generators  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    49 
 Local Generation and Grid Reliability  
Local generation can have positive and adverse effects on the reliability of the electric grid.  Despite the 
growth of emerging local generation technologies, customers will continue to depend on the grid; 
therefore integration of local generation must be done in a way that maintains the reliable service that we all depend upon daily.  
Distributed re sources may provide energy security, resiliency and a way to reduce emissions. But it also 
means that more of the grid’s energy and capacity is spread across more sources. As local generation 
penetration grows, the need to modernize the grid infrastructure  to integrate these resources in a safe and 
efficient manner is heightened.  
Nearly all customers, including those who have installed local generation, continue to rely upon the grid for fundamental services. Capacity (the obligation to provide energy and demand whenever it is needed) is a fundamental service provided to all customers connected to the grid. This includes times when local generation sources are not producing energy, such as when a cloudy day prevents private solar customers from producing sufficient energy to meet all of their needs, or when their system is not operational. Conversely, they also need the grid when their system produces more energy than they need.  
The grid also provides voltage control, frequency support and other ancillary s ervices that are essential 
to reliability and all the devices we connect to. Without these fundamental services, all customers – DG 
and non- DG – would not be able to operate any of the electrical equipment in their homes or businesses. 
There have been some bold predictions made regarding the electric utility industry’s quick demise resulting from the growth of local generation and other distributed resources. While it is true that the future will likely require power companies to build less central generation than we have in the past, we 
will continue to rely upon 24/7 capacity as a cost -effective and reliable source to maintain the reliability 
of the grid.  
We have already taken steps to prepare the grid and we are making further investments in our transmiss ion and distribution systems to accommodate a multitude of resources that will need to be 
connected to our system. Our gridSMART
® initiative is one example of how we have laid the 
foundation for a modern grid. Now, we are focused on building out the infras tructure and engaging with 
regulators and policymakers to review the rules to enable this bold new future.  
Technology & Innovation  
AEP is developing strategies and investi ng in technology to be the next -generation energy company -- 
one that co -exists with, accommodates and incorporates distributed generation, energy storage and 
advanced energy management. 
Technology Focus  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    50 
  AEP’s Focus:  
1. Universal Solar  
2. Energy Storage  
3. Non-renewable Distributed Generation  
4. Volt/VAR  
We believe that a robust, modern grid is a natural enabler of new technology. The power grid serves as 
the backbone to support diverse generation resources and distributed energy technologies. And, it assures cost -effective, efficient and reliab le delivery of electricity, regardless of how it is produced.  
In the future, the integrated grid will be decentralized, digitized and have a smaller carbon footprint. Technology and information, including the use of big data and predictive analytics, will  help us to 
identify and develop programs and services for customers, while enabling them to deploy new technologies to personalize their use of energy.  
In 2015, AEP established an Enterprise Technology Council that is focusing on the deployment of innovative technologies to support the integrated grid and meet customer demand and expectations. 
 
On Jan.6, 2016, one of four new universal solar facilities in 
Indiana began commercial operation. The Deer Creek Solar 
Facility, just south of Marion, Ind., has a nameplate capacity of 
2.5 megawatts (MW) of electricity –  enough energy to power 
about 350 homes annually.  
Universal Solar  
We are seeking to standardize the design and 
deployment of large -scale photovoltaic systems to 
ensure consistency and to better man age their 
integration with our system.  
AEP has extensive power systems engineering experience and is the largest transmission owner and operator in the U.S., which we believe gives us an advantage in the ability to optimally integrate variable resources wi th the grid. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    51 
  
Solar Generation Growth  
Customer adoption of local generation in AEP’s service territories, particularly among residential 
customers, is slower compared with other parts of the country. The areas in the U.S. that have seen the highest penetr ation of private solar generation are typically in places where supporting subsidies are in 
place and/or the average household incomes and/or the local energy company’s rates are relatively high. Electricity rates in AEP’s service territory are still below  the U.S. average and typically below the 
average rate for the states we serve. At the same time, average household incomes within AEP’s service territory are nearly 20 percent below the U.S. average.  
Although the current number of local generation custom ers on the AEP system is relatively modest, it is 
increasing. During the past three years, customer -owned private solar generation in AEP’s service 
territory has increased from 0.03 percent in 2013 to 0.06 percent of our total 5.4 million customers in 2015. However, even with that growth, the threat to AEP’s financial status is not a material risk for the foreseeable future.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    52 
 As the cost of solar continues to decline, and with the extension of federal investment tax credits, 
customer adoption may continue to increase over time. However, we believe that installing private solar panels remains economically challenging for most residential customers.  
The following chart shows the fairly rapid decline of expected installed solar costs, based on a combination of  AEP market intelligence and the Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s (BNEF) installed 
cost of solar forecast. The costs shown do not include the 30 percent federal Investment Tax Credit (which remains at that level for the next three years, then is reduced incr ementally through 2021, until 
leveling off at 10 percent thereafter).  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That is why AEP believes large -scale universal solar is a better alternative to private solar. It is more 
cost-effective (typically half the cost) for AEP to build it than  for individual homes and businesses, and 
it expands access to more customers. Without subsidies, residential rooftop solar remains considerably 
more expensive than large, universal solar. We are actively pursuing opportunities to invest in universal 
solar  projects; our first projects are in Indiana and Michigan.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    53 
 Renewable Associations  
As we increase our renewable portfolio, we need to increase our knowledge of these resources as they 
interact with the power grid. We are doing this by participating in renew able energy trade organizations. 
We have been members of the American Wind Energy Association  for more than a decade. In 2015, we 
joined the Smar t Electric Power Alliance . 
AEP also has joined with the Edison Electric Institute , the World Resources Institute  and the World 
Wildlife Fund  to advocate for a set of “buyer’s principles” where large customers that want renewable 
energy and need their energy company to achieve their goal, work together to develop a solution. AEP’s Key Acc ounts and Economic & Business Development teams are collaborating on this effort to serve 
current customers and as part of our strategy to attract new businesses to our service territory.  
Energy Storage  
Reliable and affordable energy storage – equipment that stores power and distributes energy on demand 
when and where it is needed most – will be extremely important to enable large -scale deployment of 
renewable resources. In addition to grid- scale storage applications, we are also exploring the use of 
energy  storage for specific customer applications. 
Distributed energy storage can have application in several areas:  
• Frequency regulation  - Batteries have the ability to rapidly respond to frequency regulation 
signals on the grid. Regional transmission organizat ions are recognizing the need for greater 
amounts of frequency regulation due to the integration of distributed resources.  
• Firming of renewables  - Wind and solar often do not generate energy when and where it is 
needed most. Deploying batteries to charge using excess wind/solar energy can allow for better use and management of variable renewable energy sources.        
• Peak shaving -  Batteries can provide power during peak demand times to limit customer 
demand and alleviate strain on the power grid.  
• Relia bility improvements  - Batteries can 
provide back -up power in case of an outage. 
For example, a total of three2 -MW NaS 
(sodium sulfur) batteries were deployed in Appalachian Power, Ohio Power and Indiana Michigan Power in 2008. Each battery is capable of pr oviding islanding (backup 
power) for over seven hours when loss of power from the substation occurs.  
 Power quality  - Batteries are capable of 
conditioning the flow of power so it can be used by  sensitive electronic equipment.  
AEP's Electric Transmission T exas’ 4 -MW NAS® sodium     
sulfur battery system located in Presidio, Texas.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    54 
 In many cases, batteries can provide peak power and thus delay the need for building transmission or 
distribution lines or electrical substations located near peak loads. They can also help to smooth the variability of renewables. In addition, batteries are a relatively quick -fix solution that can be relocated if 
they are needed elsewhere on the system.  
AEP is an industry leader in deployment of batteries to support the power grid  
Year 
Deployed  Project  Benefits to Grid Achieved  
2002 First U.S. demonstration of sodium 
sulfur (NaS) battery in the United 
States at AEP  Tested the combined power quality and peak shaving capabilities of the NaS battery  
2006 
1 MW / 7.2 MWh NaS battery  Allowed deferral of capital investment in distribution 
system in Charleston, WV  
2009 Three 2 MW/14.4 MWh NaS 
batteries  Provided peak load shaving and demonstrated 
increased reliability by providing back- up power in 
Milton, WV, Churubusco, IN, and Bluffton, Ohio.  
2010 4 MW/ 24 MWh NaS battery  Transmission capital deferral while providing back -up 
power to the town of Presidio, Texas  
The biggest barrier to wider deployment has been cost, which has significantly decreased since AEP 
initially piloted community energy storage as part of the gridSMART® demonstration project in Ohio. 
We recognize the need to continue exploring a variety of options and possibilities for delivering 
electricity to our customers, including further development of energy storage technolo gy. That’s one of 
the reasons we invested $5 million in Greensmith Energy Management Systems, LLC . Greensmith’s 
main focus is maximizing the efficiency of battery storage. We believe that our investment will help 
further advance energy storage technologies and support deployment of innovative energy infrastructure solutions that will benefit our customers.  
Non-renewable Distributed Generation & Combined Heat & 
Power  
Unlike traditional centralized powe r plants that require electricity to be transmitted over long distances, 
distributed generation (DG), also known as local generation, produces electricity on- site, close to the 
point of consumption. Efficient, flexible and dispatchable local generation tec hnologies fueled by 
natural gas can be deployed cost -effectively to meet grid and customer demands for reliability, 
resiliency and sustainability. The most prevalent of these technologies are aero -derivative combustion 
turbines, reciprocating internal comb ustion engines, and fuel cells. 
These technologies can be integrated directly with the customer to provide combined heat and power (CHP) opportunities to further enhance the efficiency and improve the overall carbon footprint of the technology. CHP applica tions recover waste heat from the power generation equipment and reuse it to 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    55 
 supply heating, cooling, steam and/or hot water to nearby buildings or industrial processes. The 
integration and effective design of DG with CHP can provide environmental, economi c and energy 
infrastructure benefits for customers and the power grid.  
We believe that providing non- renewable local generation and/or CHP solutions ranging from 1 to 50 
MW in locations where it can best benefit the grid and the customer can be highly bene ficial in both 
regulated and competitive environments. Careful consideration of services that these systems continue to rely upon, such as capacity from the power grid, need to be properly evaluated. 
Volt VAR Optimization  
Applying technology on our distribution system allows us to monitor and more tightly control voltage, which creates energy and demand savings for customers. Known as Volt VAR Optimization (VVO), this technology has proven its technical viability in achieving demand and energy savings.  
Typically, distribution lines deliver electricity at a voltage between 114 and 126 volts. Using the full 
range of voltage is common practice in our industry; it has been a way to ensure the strength of the voltage between the point of origin and the customer. But studies and our experience have demonstrated that optimizing voltage –  delivering electricity at the lower end of the range – reduces customer energy 
demand and consumption, and thus lowers their bills.  
VVO is a unique type of energy efficiency and de mand reduction. Energy companies can identify the 
areas where the greatest increases in efficiency can be achieved, and it doesn’t require participation or behavioral change by customers. Upgrading the circuits with VVO control equipment enables other grid efforts to improve reliability and outage restoration with relatively small incremental investments.  
To help us advance this technology, we signed a research and development agreement with Utilidata
, a 
supplier of voltage optimization and digital automation systems for our industry, to accelerate the 
application of digital control technologies to high value smart grid solutions. AEP is providing Utilidata access to our operations and planning expe rtise to help guide the next -generation of grid applications. 
The goal is to bring innovation to the market faster. We invested $4 million in Utilidata because we believe their technology is a provider of innovation to the market.  
This is an example of the mutual benefits of energy and technology companies working together to develop the modern grid. We need each other to test and standardize technologies that smoothly integrate with the grid and give customers the flexibility they want. By working together we fulf ill a 
mutual need and achieve a common goal.  
Of the approximate 6,000 circuits on our system, we have deployed VVO on 87 circuits. Because VVO is such an effective tool in achieving demand and energy savings, it can have an immediate negative impact on a company’s financial results since most of the costs associated with serving customers don’t decrease as customers use less electricity.  
VVO is a next -generation energy efficiency program and regulators should support it in the same way 
they historically su pported other energy efficiency programs. This is simply another tool in the toolbox 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    56 
 that enables AEP to create energy and demand savings for our customers. And there is widespread 
support for this approach. 
In November 2012, the National Association of R egulatory 
Commissioners (NARUC) supported the adoption and rapid deployment of VVO. In addition, the National Electrical Manufacturers Association supports NARUC’s call to advance VVO technologies.  
Within AEP’s service territory, the Michigan Public Servic e 
Commission and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission have approved plans for Indiana Michigan Power Company to qualify VVO as an energy efficiency program. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission has also approved VVO for a limited timeframe for the Public Service Company of Oklahoma.  
We are actively discussing the application of this technology with regulators and stakeholders and need their support to enable us to achieve the significant levels of energy and demand savings that we know are achievable wi thout financial harm to 
AEP.  
Looking up at the 120 -foot pole at Elcona  
Station in Elkhart, Ind. The station is part of  
Indiana Michigan Power's volt var optimization  
project, a distribution automation system.  
 
Next -Generation Energy Company 
The pivot to clean energy is accelerating the transformation of the power grid to optimize it for reliability, resiliency, efficiency, affordability and environmental responsibility. Technology, innovation and information are key drivers of this transformation. We mus t have appropriate planning, 
communication and engagement among all stakeholders to ensure the proper balance of technologies and infrastructure to prevent creating new risks to the grid.  
The cost and maturity of technology is changing fast and impacting our business model. As we develop options for our companies to deploy, we are simultaneously working in our states to encourage public policies and regulatory actions to support them. We recognize that we have to take the lead if we want to innovate, or we risk our competitiveness. The technologies we are focused on and investing in today 
present the greatest op portunity for building the next -generation energy company.  
The energy company of the future will be more complex, efficient and distributed. We are building a better network to make it easier for customers to plug in to the power grid when and how they want to, while providing quality, reliable power as efficiently and cost -effectively as possible.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    57 
 A Smarter Network  
Modernizing the power grid requires  sustained, strategic investments. To build a network capable of 
providing benefits beyond what is in place today, we need reliable generation resources and a modern 
transmission and distribution system. At the same time, we have to maintain and operate a system that provides safe, reliable electricity to our customers, every day.  
Some of our infrastructure is more than a century old and the legacy systems that make operational and control decisions for the major generation, transmission and distribution equipment that make up the grid are in the process of being transformed from analog to digital. This transformation includes 
thousands of devices across the AEP system and construction of an AEP -owned fiber network.  
As we modernize the grid, we deploy new  
technologies that generate real -time data, allowing 
us to determine the health of new assets. There is also an evolution under way to learn how to use the data we collect to better serve our customers, prioritize our resources and manage our work force. As we do this, we are making the grid more flexible 
and putting in place a self -healing grid that is more 
secure, reliable and connected.  
AEP's underground network monitoring system will give  
 our operating companies greater insight into the status  
and he alth of the underground networks.  
AEP’s Underground Distribution Network Monitoring project is a good example of grid hardening and modernization. It is the deployment of a robust monitoring system of the health and operational status of equipment that wi ll support existing sensor technology as well as developing technology. When 
complete in 2018, we will have next -generation capabilities to handle the technologies and resources of 
the future, making our underground networks one of the first in the country  to have this level of 
monitoring and control.  
AEP is also deploying a continuous, online monitoring system for existing underground transmission systems. Implementing new monitoring technology, including analytics, will allow AEP to better assess the heal th of these existing, critical underground circuits, improving reliability. One pilot project 
includes the Davidson- Dublin 138- kV circuit, scheduled to be completed in 2016. Other underground 
transmission circuits will be upgraded over the next few years t o develop and incorporate different types 
of new sensor technologies. 
The Self -Healing Grid  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    58 
 AEP’s gridSMART® initiative is the foundation for providing advanced grid infrastructure that is 
needed to realize the many potential benefits of the smart grid. AE P is deploying smart grid technologies 
across our service territory, with regulatory support. 
Smart meters – a critical step in creating a smarter network – establish a two -way data connection 
between AEP and our customers, which is increasingly important as smart appliances and devices need 
more information from the grid to function optimally. Having smart grid technology helps us to pinpoint sources of customer outages with greater speed and accuracy, improving outage restoration capabilities. We have ins talled more than 1.6 million smart meters across our system and plan to deploy 
approximately 900,000 additional meters, with regulatory support.  
Distribution automation circuit reconfiguration (DACR) is an important grid technology that 
significantly impr oves reliability of the power grid through real -time monitoring and reaction. DACR 
continuously monitors for potential electrical faults and isolates portions of the network when a fault occurs, strategically re -routing electric loads to available circuits  to maintain energy delivery to the 
majority of customers. This is known as a “self -healing” system. A smart grid has the ability to locate 
and isolate problems within the network as they occur. With DACR, we can effectively split the network into islands that would be managed separately to prevent a larger event, such as cascading outages. As the repairs are made, controllers would prepare the island to rejoin the larger grid.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    59 
 Technology Breakthroughs  
As we do our part to modernize the grid, we are taking bold actions to diversify our energy resources, 
invest in new technology and optimize our existing infrastructure to meet changing customer demands. The result has been cutting -edge innovation from our employees and technology partners.  
BOLD™ Transmission  
Siting of large infrastructure requires collaboration with the public and landowners to find the best solution. AEP Transmission’s new and compact line, called BOLD™ (Breakthrough Overhead Line Design), is a preferred design due to its lower profile tower and inherent electrical efficiencies, including greater capacity, lower audible noise and lower electromagnetic fields, that can reduce right -of-way land 
needs. A team of AEP engineers developed the high -capacity 345 -kilovolt (kV) line design to move 
power over long distances; it is now being expanded to new voltage classes for different applications. BOLD’s first application, a 22 -mile rebuild of an existing 138- kV line in Indiana, is well under way and 
on track for a mid- 2016 completion.  
In 2015, AEP established BOLD™ Transmission
, LLC, a subsidiary of AEP Transmission Holding 
Company, to accelerate adoption of this next -generation line technology across the industry. PJM 
Interconn ection, the regional transmission organization that oversees the transmission of bulk electricity 
in 13 states and the District of Columbia, approved a second deployment of BOLD technology in 
Indiana. A third deployment of BOLD for a wind farm interconnect ion in Texas was recently approved 
by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which manages the transmission grid that covers the 
majority of the state.  
AEP believes there is a significant market for 230 -kV BOLD lines because of an abundance of this 
voltage class. AEP is testing a 230 -kV version of 
BOLD at the Electric Power Research Institute lab in Massachusetts. BOLD’s value is significant, especially to replace aging infrastructure at 230- kV, since it provides a 
bigger increase in power -carrying cap ability that 
can be achieved cost competitively. BOLD could be useful in replacement and upgrade of aging infrastructure throughout the United States, including over 125,000 miles of 230- kV and 345 -
kV.  
By packing more power in a compact design, BOLD provi des  
12 times the power carrying capability of the 138 kV structure,  
33 percent more than the 500 kV structure, and 42 percent 
more than the conventional 345 kV structure. BOLD also 
maximizes capacity in a right -of-way and its low profile is 
designed for greater public acceptance.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    60 
 BOLD Transmission has patents in the United States and Canada, with patents pending in Mexico, 
South Korea, China and the European Union, similar to those already approved by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  
The BOLD Edge  
• Up to 40% -  60% more power -carrying capability than conventional designs.  
• Facilitates renewable energy interconnection.  
• Reduces challenges to long -distance transmission.  
• Low profile wins greater public acceptance.  
• Packs more power in a right -of-way.  
Asset H ealth Center  
AEP Transmission developed a system -wide analytical tool, called the Asset Health Center (AHC), to 
reduce unexpected equipment failures through enhanced real -time monitoring, enabling us to prioritize 
assets and resources. Phase one deploys in  2016, moving AEP Transmission closer to condition- based 
maintenance, which relies on ‘real time’ performance information of vital station equipment, such as transformers, circuit breakers and batteries, rather than time -based maintenance. Pinpointing weak assets 
on our system and correcting them improves our system reliability and efficient use of maintenance 
resources.  
The AHC was developed for extra- high voltage (EHV) equipment with technology partner 
Ventyx/ABB. The AHC is implementing software to monitor lower voltage equipment (138- kV and 
lower) and has started a pilot program to monitor underground transmission facilities. We are also 
looking at how this technology may benefit our generation and distribution businesses. The next rollout of the AHC wil l target equipment at 138 -kV and lower.  
AHC benefits customers and shareholders by helping to:  
• Reduce the consequences of equipment failure (and outages) with asset condition data, predictive analytics, and risk modeling.  
• Achieve system reliability, powe r 
availability, high -quality performance 
and compliance goals.  
• Optimize workforce productivity and safety by targeting maintenance where it is most needed.  
• Prioritize asset replacements (investments).  
• Reduce capital costs from unexpected failures.  
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    61 
 Trans mission Re -conductoring Live Line  
In 2015, AEP completed the longest and most 
complex “re- conductoring -while -energized” 
project in company history, with upgrades for two 345- kV transmission lines between Corpus 
Christi, Texas and the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV). This project was unique 
because an energized re -conductor project of 
this size and length had never been attempted.  
The project spanned nearly three years and involved careful installation of new conductor onto two existing and diminished 1970s era extra- high-voltage lines while they remained 
energized; plus upgrades to stations along the routes. Each re -conductored line branches 120 
miles from the Lon Hill Station to separate destinations, North Edinburg and Rio Hondo stations, delivering much -needed additional 
power into the LRGV, including grid access to emerging wind generation and other resources.  
Demand for electricity in LRGV has grown 80 percent since 1996 due to steady population growth and commercial development. Meanwhile, generating capacity has remained steady at about 1,600 megawatts (MW) during that 20 -year period, not enough to handle season peak loads, such as the record 
2,730 MW in the winter of 2011 when power was imported to meet demand. Forecasts predict load in 
the LRGV will climb to more than 3,000 MW by the end of the decade.  
AEP is a finalist for the Edison Electric Institute's (EEI's) 2016 Edison Award, the electric power industry's most prestigious honor. The award recognizes distinguished leadership, innovation, and progress in advancing the electric power industry. AEP is being recognized for this re -conductoring 
project.  
Fiber Optics  
AEP is building its first substation protection and control system to be entirely operated by fiber -optic 
technology. Various U.S. utiliti es have installed components of a fiber -optic protection system while 
continuing to rely on traditional copper -based protection systems. AEP’s installation will rely entirely on 
fiber -optic protection and is expected to be built in Ohio in late 2016. Threa d-like fiber -optic wires will 
take the place of most of the copper wiring that would otherwise be required in the station. AEP’s launch of fiber -optic technology is a collaborative effort with General Electric.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    62 
 Although fiber -optic technology is decades ol d and a mainstay in the telecommunications industry, the 
energy industry has been slow to adopt it because hard- wired copper holds a time -tested and reliable 
performance record. Among the reasons for adopting fiber optics:  
1. It matches the skillset of newly -trained engineers and technicians; to them, fiber -optics is the 
“new copper.”  
2. Fiber is less vulnerable to interferences (such as those caused by lightning or high- voltage 
switching impulses) in the harsh substation electromagnetic environment.  
3. The AEP -developed drop -in control modules (DICM), a standardized substation control house, 
can accept fiber -optic wiring and devices.  
4. It connects customers to the grid faster, meeting their business needs.  
Electromagnetic Pulse Disturbance Mitigation  
High -impact, low -frequency (HILF) events are a growing concern in the power industry. These include 
natural events such as severe weather, pandemics or solar flares. HILF events also include man -made 
actions, such as cyber, physical, or coordinated attacks, including elect romagnetic pulse (EMP) and 
intentional EM interference (IEMI) attacks. Policymakers are looking to the energy industry to develop 
an effective, affordable response based on scientific evidence and testing.  
EMP refers to a very intense, short burst of elect romagnetic energy that can impact electronic or 
electrical equipment. Man -made, high- energy EMPs result from the detonation of a nuclear or other 
high-energy explosive device. A HEMP (high altitude electromagnetic pulse) is a nuclear warhead 
det¬onated hig h above the Earth’s surface to produce more wide¬spread EMP effects. HEMP 
detonation can occur with little or no warning, making mitigation based on operational strategies ineffective. Therefore, response to the HEMP threat generally comes in the form of hardening assets to reduce initial damage, and recovery to reduce the duration of the interruption. 
The redundant nature of the U.S. power grid provides significant protection from a wide range of natural 
and man -made threats. In addition, AEP is implementing a number of mitigation techniques for further 
protection, including:  
• Development of the Drop in Control Module (DICM), an EMP -resistant control house in the 
substation that shields the electronic equipment. The DICM is built using a metal exterior with special consideration to ensure bonding of metal members, improved grounding and cable en¬trances.  
• Installation of power supply and communication cables with integrated shields. For example, individually shield¬ed twisted pair cables with an overall grounded shield.  
• Installation of filters applied at cable entry points to re¬duce high frequency, conducted energy, which can im¬pact electronics.  
• Incorporating EMP resiliency into new components, such as relays and communication systems through equip¬ment ma nufacturers.  
AEP is also piloting fiber -based protective relay systems that will provide enhanced shielding 
effectiveness by minimizing traditional copper conductors/cable penetrating the building. The benefits 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    63 
 of the fiber system will also provide an opportunity to install enhanced EMP solutions at the fiber cable 
entrances which have also been identified as an area of improvement.  
AEP continues to be a leader in this area, by actively participating in and leading industry and regulatory 
hosted discussions, including the Electric Power Research Institute and the North American Transmission Forum EMP working groups.  
Unmanned Aircraft Systems  
In 2015, AEP assembled a multi -disciplined team to explore opportunities for using unmanned aircraft 
systems, or drone technology, for a variety of inspection applications across our generation, transmission and distribution system. Our generation business unit has used the technology for boiler furnace and boiler inspections that otherwise would require significant out age time, affecting customers. It would 
also have required building scaffolding to gain access to the equipment for inspection. Using drone technology proved to be more cost -effective, safer for our employees and produced high- quality results.  
Additional  opportunities to use drone technology are being explored within each business unit, along 
with an effort to engage in the development of legislation and regulations associated with it. We are also exploring business case opportunities for owning and opera ting our own drone technology. AEP is 
working with the Electric Power Research Institute in a study to investigate the potential for increasing 
worker safety and reducing transmission line 
inspection and maintenance costs by using 
drone technology.  
 
 
 
AEP is exploring opportunities for using unmanned 
aircraft systems, or drone technology, for a variety of 
inspection applications across our generation, transmission and distribution system.  
Electric Office  
A new geographical information system called Electric  Office has been deployed to give us greater 
control of automated circuits by integrating our mapping system with the outage management system 
and our new distribution Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. Once in place, our dispatchers will be able to see what’s happening on the system in real -time, allowing us to minimize 
impacts to customers. Starting in 2016, the SCADA system will be implemented across AEP, one company at a time, with an estimated completion in 2018. Once it is fully operational, we will be better 
able to pinpoint the location of problems and more efficiently deploy resources. SCADA is important as 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    64 
 the use of local generation on our system grows because it allows us to “see” how those resources are 
interacting with the  power grid and make real -time adjustments.  
Transmission SCADA  
Transmission uses SCADA to perform centralized monitoring and control of field sites, including monitoring alarms and processing associated with analog and status data. Based on information rec eived 
from remote stations, automated or operator -driven supervisory commands can be sent to remote station 
control devices.  
These SCADA systems and the remote station control devices continue to mature and evolve as technology changes. AEP Transmission ha s implemented a new Remote Terminal Unit platform into the 
station design to improve  the interface between the next -generation Intelligent Electronic Devices within 
the substation and the centralized SCADA systems. This SCADA information is being used to r espond 
to station alarms and system conditions. Additionally, field employees are using mobile devices to report station entry/exit, and further uses of mobile devices, such as electronic switch orders, are in various stages of implementation.  
Regulations and Policies  
Investor -owned, vertically integrated energy companies have built, operated and maintained the power 
grid from end- to-end for many years. A key principle of how these companies operate is known as the 
Regulatory Compact, which is the tradition al model of regulation, where customers in each customer 
class are treated equally and regulators judge the prudency of investments and allow recovery of these costs of service along with a reasonable return on capital. AEP is engaging with regulators and policymakers at the state and federal levels to explore how regulatory models can evolve as we modernize the grid to respond to new paradigms in meeting customer needs.  
Modernizing the Rules  
Today’s customers are always plugged in and want the convenience  of easy access to information, 24/7, 
from any device. The investments in new technology and infrastructure to reconfigure the power grid and the systems that deliver what customers want are critical to building the next- generation energy 
company.  
Today’s  growing demands on the power grid to ensure reliability and resiliency at a time of 
unprecedented growth of variable resources, the slowing of load growth, mandates to mitigate risk from cyber and physical threats, as well as ongoing environmental mandates make that model extremely challenging. Technology is constantly evolving but the regulations and public policies that currently govern the electric power industry are not keeping pace.  
Modernizing the power grid is a prerequisite to realizing the full value from innovations – from energy efficiency, demand response, new electro -technologies such as electric vehicles, renewables and local 
generation, energy storage and programs and offerings that allow customers to optimize their energy 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    65 
 use. It will take time to obtain state or federal regulatory approvals to develop the infrastructure and 
systems needed to manage this new transactional grid. In addition, the regulatory recovery model will 
need to evolve to provide accurate pricing signals that ensure fair ness to all customers. To achieve this, 
we must keep sustainability and fairness at the center of the dialogue.  
Net Energy Metering  
The growth of distributed generation (DG), also known as local generation, has raised new discussion about the value of the grid and who pays to use it. Although the current number of net energy metering 
(NEM) customers on the AEP system is relatively modest, it is increasing.  
NEM customers do not go “off the grid.” In fact, NEM customers choose to stay connected and rely on the grid to support all of their on- demand electricity needs. They use the grid to import energy at times 
when their system is not meeting their instantaneous needs, and use the grid differently than non -NEM 
customers.  
Public policies and rate structures est ablished to encourage early development of local generation have 
led to unintended consequences that must be addressed. NEM tariffs were established to incent local generation, which has, indeed, occurred. Some NEM tariffs credit DG customers at the full r etail rate, 
which includes both the costs of the energy itself, as well as the fixed costs associated with grid infrastructure (such as the distribution poles, wires and meter necessary to provide service to them). In essence, NEM pays the customer as if t hey provided all the products and services of a utility, including 
balancing the system, cyber security and administrative costs such as customer contact centers, when the customer truly only provides energy intermittently to the system.  
When NEM customers  use the grid under current pricing structures, they aren’t fully paying for the 
services they receive. Instead, these costs are shifted to other customers. Those who end up paying are customers who do not have local generation, including low -income and ot her vulnerable customers. This 
is unfair and ultimately, unsustainable.  
This issue is being actively addressed in many policy and regulatory proceedings across the nation. 
Stakeholders are attempting to find solutions that continue to support customer de sires to generate their 
own electricity with renewable resources at competitive rates, while also correcting the cross -subsidy 
that causes all other customers to pay more for the 
benefit of local generation customers. AEP has been active in these policy de bates and regulatory 
proceedings to address these issues and advocate for fair, equitable and sustainable solutions. 
 
AEP has been active in net energy metering policy debates and 
regulatory proceedings to address issues and advocate for fair, 
equitable an d sustainable solutions.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    66 
 Capacity Markets  
A significant financial risk for AEP is the outcome of annual PJM Reliability Pricing Model capacity 
auctions. The auctions are conducted three years prior to the delivery year, and determine the prices AEP will b e paid for its unregulated generating capacity. These auctions have been historically volatile, 
with prices ranging from $16/MW -day to $174/MW -day. The 2015 auction for the planning year 
beginning June 1, 2018 through May 31, 2019, cleared at $165/MW -day. 
Capacity payments represent an important portion of an unregulated plant’s income. AEP Generation Resources may experience increased revenue and earnings volatility due to its exposure to PJM’s capacity market in addition to fuel and power prices. 
The 2015 auction was the first base auction run under the new Capacity Performance (CP) rules. 
Approved by FERC in June 2015, the new CP rules were created largely in reaction to significant forced outages and fuel delivery challenges during the polar vortex of 2014.  
FERC also allowed PJM to conduct supplemental auctions for 2016/17 and 2017/18. These 
supplemental auctions allowed units to re -offer for these delivery years if they could meet the higher 
availability requirements. The supplemental auctions cleared at $134/MW -day for 2016/17 and 
$151/MW -day for 2017/18, compared to the initial base auction prices of $59/MW -day and $120/MW -
day. 
The most significant change in the new rules involves the assessments to generators for non-performance. Beginning in 2016/17, if a unit fails to perform during a PJM emergency, it will be assessed approximately $1,900/MWh in 2016/17, increasing to approximately $3,500/MWh by 2018/19. This is significantly higher than under the previous rules, and the financial risk stemming from  these 
higher rates were likely incorporated into the capacity offers for years beginning 2016/17.  
Unregulated generation:  AEP’s unregulated generation will realize the initial revenue increase from 
the higher auction prices.  
Regulated generation -  FRR req uirements:  The June 2015 FERC order gave a three -year exemption 
through 2018/19 for Fixed Resource Requirement (FRR) entities from the Capacity Performance requirements. The FRR alternative is the self -supply option, in which a utility that owns enough 
generation to cover its own load requirements is not required to participate in the PJM capacity auction. 
This is primarily applicable to regulated states only. AEP has chosen this option for its integrated utilities since the inception of the PJM capacity ma rket in 2007. FRR entities will become exposed to the 
capacity performance requirements in 2019/2020. 
Our Strategy for Growth  
AEP’s strategy for growth is focused on our approach to investing capital and a commitment to continuous improvement that benefits  our customers and shareholders. In spite of lower demand for our 
product, we are investing and innovating to become the next -generation energy company that provides 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    67 
 solutions customers want and long- term value creation for our shareholders. AEP is poised for success 
in a world where the electric industry and the power grid are becoming more complex. Our history of 
leading change and world- class engineering expertise are attributes that will lead us into the future.  
We are focused on bringing our investment s closer to what our customers value (even if it is not least 
cost) while advocating for policies that fairly value the power grid. Our intent is to operate a modern grid that is reliable, sustainable and adaptable with new and emerging technologies to eff iciently meet 
customer demands.  
AEP is building upon a sol id foundation to shape the next -generation energy company. We are 
deploying capital predominantly in our regulated business where it delivers shared value for customers and investors. Our projected annual 4 to 6 percent operating earnings growth rate is predicated on this strategy, as well as our commitment to continued focus on sustainable continuous improvement efforts and expense discipline. 
Our transmission business is the major growth engine for  AEP. The U.S. transmission system is in the 
midst of a major upgrade not seen in decades and AEP is among those making significant investments to 
modernize the grid. In addition to investments within our regulated footprint, we pursue projects and partner ships throughout North America that benefit communities in our traditional service areas and 
beyond.  
Transmission is the great optimizer and, in fact, should be viewed as a resource. A robust transmission 
system is the key to ensuring the availability of a diverse generation mix (coal, wind, gas, etc.). It also 
facilitates interstate commerce and our national defense. To keep pace with our growing needs, aging 
transmission infrastructure will need to be replaced and the current system expanded to facilitat e use of 
new technologies.  
AEP Transmission is investing in the future by creating the infrastructure needed for electric reliability and economic growth. Upgrading and rebuilding existing infrastructure that is near the end of its useful life is equally  important. High -capacity, extra- high voltage lines are more energy -efficient than lower 
voltage lines and offer part of the solution to a more reliable, flexible and resilient grid. In addition, new 
innovation and technology – such as AEP’s new BOLD™ 
transmission line design – is needed to ensure that our 
electrical grid continues to serve us well in the future.  
Growing our business includes working with partners to modernize the power grid and pursuing projects competitively inside and outside of our traditional service territory. For example, Prairie Wind Transmission is a joint venture between Electric Transmission America, LLC (a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of American Electric Power and Berkshire Hathaway Energy) and Westar Energy, which r ecently completed a $158 
million transmission line that delivers energy from Kansas to customers in Kansas and Oklahoma. AEP’s competitive 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    68 
 transmission affiliate, Transource Energy®, LLC (Transource) pursues competitive, regulated 
transmission projects within and beyond AEP’s service area under FERC Order 1000.  
One project is being built by Electric Transmission Texas (ETT), a joint venture of subsidiaries of AEP 
and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company. The other project is being jointly constructed by ETT a nd 
Sharyland Utilities. With the completion of these Valley projects, ETT is on track to have over $2.9 billion in transmission assets by the end of 2016. ETT has several projects with various completion dates 
scheduled through 2025.  
Through 2018, AEP Tra nsmission Holding Company (AEPTHCo) is expected to add a billion dollars 
annually to AEP's rate base. In 2015, AEPTHCo contributed 39 cents per share to earnings – a reflection 
of its accelerated growth and future potential.  
In addition to reliability, our investments in the power grid help to ensure security of the grid. Grid Assurance is an example of how the industry – and AEP – is preparing to recover from an event by ensuring we have access to critical equipment that often has long lead times for production.  
A Proven Strategy 
Some investors and other stakeholders want to know more about the impact that greater adoption of local generation resources, energy efficiency and demand response programs will have on reducing demand for centrally -generated electricity, and the potential impact to revenues. While it is anticipated 
that increased adoption of private rooftop solar would reduce the energy and capacity requirements of our regulated electric utilities, we plan for this in our integrated resource planning process.  
AEP has a proven strategy of investing in our regulated businesses to benefit customers and deliver solid earnings growth and strong shareholder value. We will continue to invest in infrastructure that improves reliability, gives customers the clean energy they want and enhances the overall customer experience. This strategy allows us to earn a return on those investments, which is good for investors and customers.  
We have consistently stated that earnings growth will be achieved through a co mbination of capital 
investment, rate recovery, identified sustainable cost savings and spending discipline. Through this combination of tactics, we will be able to achieve our earnings guidance.  
Business Model Evolution  
For more than a century, we have focused our business on the assets we built and the one -way flow of 
power to our customers from those assets. Today, we are thinking differently. Infrastructure development is central to our growth strategy, but the focus is on how the system responds to and meets customer demand; we are transforming our system to become the solutions -oriented energy provider of 
choice for our customers.  
We have built a strong foundation for the future with a focus on enhancing the customer experience and creating shareholder  value.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    69 
 Our financial health is solid and we have a Regulatory Compact that supports investments in 
infrastructure to improve the customer experience and reliability of the grid. We are focused on bringing our investments closer to what our customers want and value, while advocating for policies that value the power grid. We are also building a culture of engagement, continuous improvement, innovation and Zero Harm among our employees.  
Today, we are investing in infrastructure that makes the power grid more  flexible and an optimizer of all 
resources and technologies. We are developing new skills in big data and analytics to help us better understand and serve our customers’ needs, and leveraging the foundation we already put in place (through gridSMART® init iatives) to improve operational performance and reliability. And we are 
working with our regulators and policymakers to redefine the rules to support grid modernization. We are also investing in and partnering with companies to bring next -generation technologies to market 
faster, such as our investment in energy storage.  
At the heart of our strategy is our people; an engaging culture is a prerequisite for everything we do. It drives continuous improvement, agility, our focus on safety, innovation and compe titiveness. We are 
transforming our culture to be more customer -centric to address changing customer needs. As we do 
this, we are boldly transforming AEP to be the next -generation energy company.  
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    70 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    71 
 Communicating with Customers  
The custo mer experience encompasses every touch point we have with our customers, whether on the 
phone, through social media and outage alerts, with a line crew in the field, through billing and online 
transactions, or through the interactions our employees have while serving in the community. Increasing 
numbers of customers want the ability to access their bill and service information at any time, from any 
location, on any device.  
One way we are improving our communications with customers is through mobile alerts. In 2015, AEP 
offered mobile outage alerts to its 5.4 million customers. But the technology is only as good as the information it delivers, which is why we have multiple efforts under way to improve our outage assessment capabilities to provide customers with more accurate and timely data. Customers can also sign up for alerts to start and stop service, report an outage and to be notified of bill payments.  
As we learn more about what our customers want, we will be able to use the mobile alert communication channel to provide information about programs and services that matter most to them. Our customer analytics will get us there.  
The Role of Social Media  
Customers are the driving force behind how and where we interact with them. Increasingly, they are using  social media, text, chat and other online tools to connect with us. Because they are always plugged 
in, they expect immediate response from us 24/7, similar to other online retail experiences. This is especially true during outages, when customers want re al time, accurate information about restoration 
efforts.  
In response, we are developing a long -term plan 
to give us a stronger online presence that would allow for expanded monitoring, reporting and analysis of the communications channels customers and ot her stakeholders are using to 
contact AEP. This includes constantly developing new content, including short videos, 
infographics and blog posts as well as using 
other social media channels, such as Instagram, because the use of pictures and videos tells ou r 
story so well.  
AEP and its operating companies actively engage through social media. In 2015, AEP managed 14 Facebook pages, 14 Twitter handles, eight YouTube channels, three Instagram accounts and one corporate LinkedIn page. Investor -related informatio n and power outages were the two most talked 
about categories via social media, followed by company and Ohio news and environmental -related 
posts.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    72 
 Social media also allow us to:  
• Quickly disseminate information and correct misperceptions  
• Address customer c oncerns  
• Convey corporate branding 
• Share our community involvement  
• Educate the public on electric safety  
• Gauge customer perceptions  
• Attract new employees  
• Communicate and educate customers on company initiatives, such as energy efficiency  
Customer Contact, C ustomer Care  
In 2015, customers conducted more than 19.6 million online transactions, or an 11.4 percent increase 
from the previous year, and web traffic also increased for desktop and mobile users. Online bill pay and electronic billing is a win -win for u s and our customers; it is more efficient, eco -friendly and enhances 
customer satisfaction.  
 
In addition to self -service options available on the web and over the phone, we are dedicated to 
providing customers with access to professional and helpful customer operations associates. In 2015, our Customer Operations Centers handled nearly 23 million customer calls, a 5 percent increase from 2014. As we improve our contact center capabilities, we expect those numbers will decrease as more customers opt for sel f-serve or online options. We also hope to reduce the number of customer calls, 
using big data and analytics to better understand why customers are calling and whether they can be 
better served using online options. In 2015, AEP’s Customer Operations Cente rs were awarded the 
Certification of Excellence for a seventh time by Benchmark Portal, a global leader in contact center 
benchmarking, certification, training and consulting. The certification recognizes AEP’s effective use of people, processes and technology when serving customers.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    73 
 If we don’t deliver unique products and services to our customers, 
our competitors will. That is why AEP Energy, our competitive business unit, is focused on providing customers with solutions such as long- term agreements, fu ll end -to-end energy management 
solutions and being their trusted energy provider. Our Key Accounts team is doing the same thing for our large commercial and industrial customers on the regulated side. Our customers want to focus on their business, not our s. Our job is to give them 
what they need, when they need it. 
Energy Assistance  
From time to time customers may experience unexpected financial hardships. These hardships can put customers in a tough situation where they have to choose between paying thei r energy bills and feeding 
their families. AEP has several initiatives and resources that help customers manage their electricity bills 
and reduce their energy consumption, including energy efficiency programs, rebates and incentives, monthly payment plans  and energy assistance grants 
and programs.  
• Approximately $65.8 million in federal and private energy assistance.  
• More than 7,873 pledges totaling $2.3 million in energy assistance pledges from our self -serve agency websites.  
AEP provides several options  to help customers 
save energy and reduce their overall costs while keeping their homes comfortable and safe. Learn more about the many energy assistance programs offered across AEP’s service territory:  
• Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)  
• Appalachian Power: Take Charge Virginia, West Virginia Utility Assistance Program, Neighbor 
to Neighbor Fund  
• AEP Ohio: Ohio PIPP Plus , Community Assistance 
Program , Neighbor to Neighbor Program  
• Public Service Company of Oklahoma: Light A Life 
Fund  
• Southwestern Electric Power Company: Neighbor to 
Neighbor Fund  
• AEP Texas: Targeted Low Income Program ( Texas 
Central  and Texas North ) 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    74 
 Customer Satisfaction  
Customer s judge their experience with any company in terms of cost, quality and service. They also 
measure value by how a company responds when something goes wrong. And their perceptions of AEP 
can directly impact regulatory and financial outcomes, as well as our  reputation. 
Demonstrating that we care about our 
customers in every interaction is the 
hallmark of a positive customer 
experience. Providing reliable, quality, affordable service is just the beginning. We have to understand and anticipate 
what our custom ers want and be ready 
to meet those expectations. One way to 
measure our performance is through customer satisfaction surveys.  
AEP actively engages with residential, 
commercial and industrial customers 
using phone and online surveys, 
including the J.D. Power Electric Utility Residential Customer Satisfaction Study
SM. The 2015 survey 
measured satisfaction among 140 electric utility brands in the U.S. Satisfaction is examined across six 
factors: power quality and reliability; price; billing and payment; corp orate citizenship; communications; 
and customer service. AEP’s results show that overall customer satisfaction is moving in the right 
direction; AEP’s operating companies in the survey recorded improvements in overall customer satisfaction from the prior y ear. However, we can do better and that is our commitment.  
One thing we do know is that technology and information are fundamental to customer satisfaction. We 
have action -oriented, measurable customer experience work plans for each of our operating compan ies 
to help us prioritize our efforts. We continue to promote outage and billing text alerts and email alerts to 
keep our customers informed. In 2016, we will engage customers in new ways. For example, we are 
creating customer research panels to test messa ging, get feedback on programs and services, and 
measure perceptions of our company.  
Reliability  
Reliable electric service is a critical public need. Our nation’s economic success and security depends 
upon our ability to preserve this fundamental resource. We expect electricity to be there all the time to power the machines, electronics and systems that drive just about everything we do. As we modernize the grid, we are improving reliability for customers.  
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    75 
 Reliability Performance  
We track our transmission and distribution reliability performance 
with several metrics that are used industry -wide. These indicators 
show us how reliable our system is and how our customers are impacted when it is not. They do not include major storms. The investments we are making in our transmission and distribution system improve reliability and operating efficiency and prepare the system for new technologies.  
The Syst em Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) represents how many minutes the average 
customer experiences an interruption in electric service in a given year. During 2015, the AEP System 
SAIDI was 229.5 minutes, excluding major events, a 4.4 percent incr ease from 2014. The growth of vegetation 
contributed to about 32 percent of SAIDI results and failure of distribution line equipment accounted for about 21 percent of SAIDI.  
The System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) represents the number of interruptions experienced by 
customers in a year. During 2015, the system’s SAIFI was 1.468, a 6.8 percent increase from 2014. Vegetation and distribution line equipment failures were also the major contributors to SAIFI performance.  
The Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) 
represents the average length of time it takes to restore service when an outage occurs. AEP’s 2015 CAIDI was 156.3 minutes, a 2.3 percent decrease from 2014.  
Reliability Investments  
Maintaining the approximately 264,000- miles in our transmission and distribution network comes with 
an array of challenges while we are upgrading the infrastructure to meet demands and changes in our generation portfolio. These include the age of our infrastructure, the threat of external int erruptions, the 
transformation of our generation fleet, the difficulty of siting new facilities, new and future environmental regulations, and the magnitude of investments needed. In response, we are investing in infrastructure and using technology to prevent and mitigate service disruptions and to better communicate with our customers.  
Vegetation -related outages and equipment failure are among the biggest challenges to AEP’s service 
reliability. Managing vegetation on our rights of way is a key to maintaining transmission and 
distribution system reliability. AEP manages the trees and vegetation around power lines using a combination of performance -based (such as targeting low performing circuits) and cycle -based 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    76 
 maintenance strategies. Maintaining a regula r tree -trimming cycle is a significant expense that directly 
affects customer bills and satisfaction.  
During the past five years, AEP has invested more than $1.49 billion in vegetation management, 
including $348 million in 2015. The issue of reliability h as prompted several states to consider or 
implement shorter intervals between tree trimming programs.  
Severe weather events have made it clear that electric distribution and transmission systems need to be made more resistant to damage from vegetation dur ing major storms. Over 
the past several years, AEP and our operating companies have received approvals from state commissions in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to implement vegetation management programs, moving tree -trimming and other vegetation 
management to a three-  four- or five -year cycle, to lessen 
future storm impacts. Four -year vegetation management cycles 
have already been established in Oklahoma and Ohio. 
At the end of 2015, Appala chian Power
 concluded its three -
year vegetation management pilot program in Virginia. This 
program allowed the company to trim, remove, or treat trees and brush near electric facilities on 30 distribution circuits across its Virginia service territory. Pr ogram work was 
completed on approximately 2,200 miles of overhead line. Vegetation -related interruptions to customers on these circuits showed a nearly 40 percent improvement 
in frequency and 31 percent improvement in duration. 
In addition to vegetation ma nagement, we are investing in new infrastructure to improve reliability for 
customers. For example, Appalachian Power will begin construction in 2016 on a project to improve reliability in southwest Virginia. The Duffield Area Improvements project is an es timated $14 million 
investment in transmission upgrades. The need was identified following a period of extreme weather during winter 2014. Extreme weather conditions could create stress on the existing system and lead to power outages. In addition to improving reliability for the region, the project will provide a modern transmission system that can enhance local economic development. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2017. 
A second transmission project will bolster the transmission grid  in four Virginia counties. The Roanoke 
Area Switching Improvements Project is an estimated $30 million investment in the region with 
upgrades to at least 14 area substations. Construction is expected to be completed in the fall of 2017.  
Grid Security  
One physical threat to the electricity infrastructure is severe weather. When weather causes power outages, there are financial costs, as well as political, reputation and social risks, especially when the disruption is prolonged. We cannot prevent power outages, but we can take storm -hardening measures to 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    77 
 reduce the damage from a major event, improve recovery time when a disruption occurs, reduce the 
number of outages and lower the costs to customers.  
In 2014, AEP implemented new design criteria to strengthen, or harden, the distribution system. We 
now design new and replacement poles to withstand wind speeds and ice accumulation that exceeds the National Electrical Safety Code requirement for our service territory. In 2015, more than 95,000 poles were designed using the new storm -hardening criteria across the AEP system.  
These hardening measures are predicted to increase the strength of electric structures 
by at least 25 percent with nominal increase 
in cost. We also developed an assessment 
tool to help us determine where to deploy 
capital funds to maximize the benefits of grid-hardening initiatives. Among the 
criteria we are using include the number of customers served; the type of customer (how many on a particular circuit are considered “critical” customer s, such as 
hospitals and nursing homes, law enforcement agencies and water or 
wastewater facilities); the age of the poles; and the average duration of outages. This allows us to put 
our resources to work where they deliver the most value for our customers . 
Nationally, and within our service territories, hardening, reliability and grid modernization initiatives 
have garnered support from state utility commissions.  
AEP is among other utilities participating in the 
Electric Power Research Institute’s three- year Grid 
Resiliency Project . Started in 2013, the project will provide our industry with tools and strategies to 
improve the distribution system’s ability to withstand severe weathe r events.  
EPRI’s research ranged from physical failure modes of components to documenting strategies such as 
storm restoration and vegetation management, to applying modern technologies such as circuit automation. In addition, the research looked at the costs/benefits of placing overhead lines underground and developed a model to help prioritize resiliency investments.  
The Grid Resiliency Project benefited AEP by providing views of practices across a large, representative cross -section of the industry, and increasing our understanding of what occurs when distribution lines 
are coated with ice and snow or impacted by high winds and falling trees.  
AEP focuses on three areas to manage service restoration during large -scale power outages:  
• Use of the Incident C ommand System (ICS) – This nationally known crisis management tool 
is a standard for responding to small and large emergencies and incidents.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    78 
 • Technology improvements  -- Introducing new tools and improving our systems to better 
manage workload during major events and to provide more timely and accurate information to 
customers and other stakeholders.  
• Process improvements  – Standardizing our assessment process and implementing a number of 
restoration process enhancements that will improve how we manage our cr ews and other 
resources.  
Reliability Compliance  
The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC)  develops and enforces rules and standards 
protecting the North American bulk power system, which se rves more than 334 million people. In 
addition to developing reliability standards, NERC also conducts annual reliability assessments, monitors the bulk power system and educates, trains and certifies industry personnel. These rules and standards are const antly evolving, and they affect virtually everything we do in planning, operating, 
maintaining and protecting the grid on a daily basis.  
We engage our employees through continuous communication about their contribution to AEP’s reliability compliance. This includes basic facility security measures, such as displaying an employee identification badge at all times; following facility access control policies like escorting visitors in secure areas; and maintaining strong passwords. Additionally, NERC requires  a rigorous program to 
maintain and operate bulk electric system protection equipment. These security, operations and maintenance practices are necessary and effective in preserving the integrity of the services we provide and contribute to the safe operat ion of our assets.  
The reliability standards in place today require processes and procedures to maintain and advance the reliability and resiliency of the bulk electricity system. Noncompliance with NERC reliability standards can lead to serious financial  consequences and reputational risk. Maintaining a culture of compliance 
has been a priority for us and is reflected in the 2015 NERC audits. 
In the fourth quarter of 2015, AEP went through two rigorous NERC audits, which covered Operations 
and Planning NE RC standards. The auditors focused, in more detail than the past, on a reduced scope of 
requirements as a result of their newly implemented risk -based approach to compliance. Auditors 
requested supporting data for AEP’s procedures, policies and specific sa feguards, and conducted on -site 
investigations and personnel interviews.  
Although AEP officially received three possible minor violations in the audits, the auditors recognized AEP for its progress in achieving a strong compliance culture and identified s everal areas of best 
practices.  
In addition to audits that focus on what is required today, we also need to be prepared for what might be required tomorrow. To that end, AEP participates in NERC’s cycle of enhancing existing and creating 
new requirements. AEP is in the final stages of achieving compliance with the most recent Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Standards, which has an enforcement date of July 1, 2016.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    79 
 We are testing many of our CIP processes in a trial compliance period in preparation  for the deadline. 
Furthermore, AEP will be implementing the latest version of the protection system maintenance and 
testing Reliability Standard, PRC -005-6, which includes various scope and terminology changes.  
Risk -Based Compliance Monitoring  
Throughout 2015, NERC implemented risk- based compliance monitoring, which arose from its 
Reliability Assurance Initiative (RAI). Risk -based compliance monitoring allows NERC to focus its 
compliance monitoring activities around certain risk elements. NERC initiated RA I in 2012 as a means 
of shifting to a more collaborative process of identifying reliability risks and using that information to better gauge future compliance monitoring and enforcement efforts. On Feb. 19, 2015, FERC approved the transition to a risk -based approach, pending some modifications. We agree that this new reliability 
philosophy is much more effective and efficient because it allows us to focus on higher -risk issues, 
thereby boosting system reliability.  
Supporting Our Communities  
AEP and our employees play an important role in the economic viability of our communities. Whether through employment and wages, taxes and corporate philanthropy, or volunteer hours and economic development efforts, we actively engage and support local communities and ec onomies in which we 
operate and serve.  
Corporate Giving 
Corporate philanthropy is important to our communities because it helps enhance the quality of life, advances education and other worthy endeavors, and enriches communities. No matter how big or sma ll the effort we are 
personally committed to making positive change. In 2015, AEP and the American Electric Power Foundation donated approximately $13.5 million to support 1,800 community organizations.  
Contributions are made primarily in the areas 
of education, basic human services, such as hunger and housing, safety and health, and the environment. In the area of education, preference is given to grades pre -K through 12 in the fields of science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). 
In 2015, th e AEP Foundation collaborated with Ashland Community and Technical College in Ashland, 
Ky., to provide an $815,000 grant -  expanding AEP’s signature Credits Count
SM program to aid eastern 
Kentucky’s Lawrence County Schools. Another $800,000 grant was announced in early 2016, to expand 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    80 
 the Credits CountSM program to Ivy Tech Community College Marion, IN campus in the Indiana -
Michigan service territory. The grants will be distributed over five years. 
Credits CountSM is a five -year, dual enrollment program, c reated by the AEP Foundation, to help 
students pursue college level STEM education and careers while completing their high school diploma. 
The program engages students’ families and 
provides the opportunity for students to graduate 
from high school with at  least 12 college credits 
toward a career -ready certificate or toward a college 
degree in STEM fields that may include engineering, 
energy, the environment or information technology.  
Since the program launched in 2013, the Foundation has committed more th an $11 million over multiple 
years for Credits Count in five AEP operating companies’ service areas in Ohio, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Kentucky and Indiana.  
The AEP Foundation also supports local housing 
efforts, such as the Shreveport Community Renewal for it s Friendship House program. In 2015, the AEP 
Foundation donated $25,000 to fund another unit in the program, which provides a variety of services to low-income, high -crime neighborhoods. Community 
coordinators and their families live in the five Friendship Houses located throughout Shreveport and Bossier City in La., building trusting 
relationships and serving as catalysts for rebuilding safe and caring neighborhoods.  
In Columbus, the Foundation also committed 
$300,000 as part of its second installment of a $1.5 million, five -year grant to the Community Shelter 
Board. The Community Shelter Board oversees funding for homelessness prevention, emergency 
shelters, and housing services. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    81 
 
 
Volunteerism  
Corporate philanthropy is one way we support our local communities. Another is through our 
employees, many of whom selflessly and generously give their time and resources to support their communities. Our employees serve as social change agents, whether donating time and effort through employee volunteer programs, s uch as local United Way campaigns or serving on local boards and 
commissions. Our employees can also be found leading youth groups, coaching Little League teams and protecting their communities as volunteer firefighters or auxiliary police officers.  
Other  Community Commitments Made in 2015:  
• 750,000 of meals donated to the Mid- Ohio Foodbank through AEP’s employee - and retiree- led 
Operation Feed campaign in 2015.  
• Kentucky Power (KPCo) received the 2015 Corporate Partnership Award for its employee 
volunteer efforts with the Kentucky River Area Development District and its annual Senior Day 
Games. KPCo has served as the primary corporate sponsor of the event since it began in 2002 – donating money and volunteer hours.  
• More than 300 Appalachian Power Company em ployee and retiree volunteers visited classrooms 
in Virginia, West Virginia and Tennessee for its “Read to Me Day” program in 2015. In addition to classroom visits, APCo has donated nearly 5,000 books to school libraries since the program began in 2001.  
Economic & Business Development 
Building strong, vibrant communities requires an investment that goes beyond dollars and cents. AEP’s Economic and Business Development
 (E&BD) team puts its expertise and conne ctions to work, helping 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    82 
 local communities attract and retain businesses and jobs. From site certifications to attracting foreign 
investment to our service territory, the E&BD team connects customers with communities.  
In 2015, the E&BD team worked on 170 business attraction and retention projects that are expected to create 22,500 jobs in our communities, including projects from companies such as Energy Transfer Partners, Cheniere Energy, Markwest Energy, M&G Chemicals and Kinder Morgan.  
AEP - Your Business  Partner  
The E&BD team provides comprehensive location advisory services to companies looking to expand or locate new operations, including property searches and screening; custom community and site analysis; and introductions to local economic development  partners and industry resources.  
The team has recently launched a new and improved website – www.aeped.com
 – that 
provides companies and site selection consultants with essential information about locating and expanding in AEP’s 11- state territory. Site selection 
typically starts on the Internet, so it is critical to make a compelling case about opportunities that exist in your region. The website features detailed information on AEP states and premier ce rtified 
sites, as well as several interactive mapping tools that provide demographic and business data about AEP -served counties and a tool to tell users if their 
location is served by AEP.  
For several years, the E&BD team has built a portfolio of well- prepared sites in our service territory to 
meet the needs of expanding companies. These sites have undergone a rigorous certification process to ensure they are ready for immediate development. They reduce the risks associated with development and accelerate speed to market by providing detailed information, including price and availability, utilities, access, environmental concerns and potential development costs.  
Italian automotive supplier, ELDOR Corporation, announced its decision in March 2016 to locate  its 
first U.S. production plant on an AEP certified industrial site in Botetourt County, Virginia. ELDOR 
will invest $75 million and plans 350 new jobs at the facility over the next five years. In addition to the Botetourt site, AEP has, as of March 2016, certified and is actively marketing 12 other sites for industrial use, 10 sites for data center development and six sites for food and beverage processing.  
In 2015, the E&BD team launched its foreign direct investment (FDI) strategy. FDI is a key source of 
capital, job creation and innovation. The United States and AEP states in particular, are attractive and competitive destinations for FDI. In collaboration with state and other economic development partners, AEP is working to attract international inves tment into our service territory. We have hired consultants 
in five key markets: Canada, China, Germany, India and Japan. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    83 
 Amazon, the largest Internet -based retailer in the United States, announced in March 2016 that it 
selected AEP Ohio’s service territo ry in central Ohio as the location for its $1.1 billion investment in 
three new data centers. AEP’s valued customer service, comprehensive economic and business 
development services, and reliable power delivery 
solutions were a few key reasons that persuaded Amazon to choose suburban Columbus. The E&BD team helped the large Internet retailer identify sites for its data center development and AEP Transmission Planning provided 
service delivery plans to each site.  
AEP’s experience and technical know -how allo wed us to 
work on Amazon’s accelerated timeframe and provide 
temporary electric to service to each site while permanent service buildout is in progress. Also, because of the strength and breadth of AEP’s transmission system, Amazon is able to access clean energy 
alternatives in the PJM Marketplace to power its operations. Central Ohio also awaits construction of two Amazon distribution centers that could bring more than 2,000 jobs to the area. One center is expected to be served by AEP Ohio
. 
Our strong relationships with state and local development officials, workforce agencies and other utilities are among the reasons customers want us to be their energy advisor. Our business is more than just making electric ity; it’s about making connections with communities, businesses and people. In 
addition to our corporate E&BD efforts, our operating company economic development initiatives include grant programs for communities and businesses, community and site marketin g assistance, and 
ally training on topics such as workforce development, selling strategies, site readiness and business retention and expansion. 
Public Safety  
Protecting the public from unsafe contact with our electrical equipment is a challenge and we are always looking for better ways to get important information to our customers and to the public. As an industry, we continue to be concerned with the number of people from the public who come into contact with power lines and electric equipment.  
Those a t risk range from billboard installers and 
highway construction workers to homeowners doing 
home improvements and thieves who steal from 
substations and other equipment. Our industry is 
active in educating the public about the danger of coming into contact  with live electrical equipment as 
well as promoting how to safely work around facilities.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    84 
 In 2015, AEP re -launched our public safety campaign using local and cable television, and online media 
placements. The ads aired across AEP’s 11 -state service territ ory and were produced in both English and 
Spanish for select markets.  
Despite our efforts, we experienced 11 public fatalities in 2015. Four were the result of vehicles crashing 
into utility poles, and six were caused by contact with our electrical facilities. This was fewer than in 2014, when we experienced 16 public fatalities, including one that resulted from copper theft. However, we continue to strive for Zero Harm. 
Sustainable Procurement  
We work with fuel and nonfuel suppliers to drive continuous im provement and efficiencies within the 
supply chain, while improving environmental and safety performance. We ask suppliers about their sustainability strategy and activities through our procurement process, and we advise them of opportunities to help them reduce or mitigate their impacts on natural resources.  
Non-fuel Suppliers  
AEP buys millions of dollars in goods and services every year, ranging from chemical solvents and office supplies to vehicles and industrial equipment. As a large company, we are able to manage costs by negotiating prices, being strategic about sourcing and managing inventory. By applying an integrated supply program model for our procurement activities, we are able to look at the whole value chain from sourcing through inventory. Our goal is to be an industry leader in procurement performance, cost and value by 2018.  
One way we are improving efficiency is through strategic sourcing - optimizing what we buy and how 
we buy it. Our procurement team is getting involved earlier in the pur chasing process and standardizing 
the process by educating employees on best procurement practices. We are looking at the total cost as well as end -of-life value, financial and environmental impacts. We are also using different forms of 
technology, such as  bar code scanning through mobile devices to capture, store and share instant data. 
This type of technology allows increased accuracy, and gives us the ability to instantly communicate with others throughout the company.  
Cybersecurity poses an increasing risk within our supply chain. As data breaches increase, so does the concern for how to protect our systems, to which many of our suppliers have access. AEP’s Procurement team is working very closely with our Enterprise Security team to address these conce rns. We are 
implementing a screening process and developing criteria to identify the high -risk suppliers to help 
prioritize our efforts. Learn more about AEP’s approach to cybersecurity.  
Supplier Diversity  
One way we can be a leader in supply chain and procurement practices is by ensuring we have a diverse supplier base. Increasingly, we are receiving inquiries about our supplier diversity program. This is an area we are working to expand beyond a compliance -based program towards best practice. We believe 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    85 
 that having a strong, diverse pool of suppliers is as important to AEP as it is to the business owners in 
our communities who want to do business with us. We are strengthening this network by identifying and 
helping to qualify small, diverse and competitive  suppliers to be part of AEP’s supplier portfolio to 
compete for our business.  
We are building a business plan to establish a program that will lead us to best practice for supplier 
diversity. This will add value to AEP and the local communities and econo mies where we conduct 
business and where our employees live and work. It will also help us achieve the cost savings and level of service we expect and need from our suppliers.  
 
Fuel Suppliers  
Since 2009, AEP has worked with its coal suppliers to survey their environmental, safety and health performance. We have conducted five surveys of our coal suppliers
, a commitment we made to 
stakeholders to better understand the life cycle of  coal, its impact on the environment, how our suppliers 
are addressing those impacts and sharing of leading practices.  
The 2014 AEP Sustainability Survey of Coal Suppliers  repeat edly showed our suppliers outperforming 
the national average in safety and health performance and an improved environmental performance over the years. We also have seen an increased commitment to sustainability reporting. Due to the rapid changes in the coal and electric industries, AEP suspended the coal supplier survey in 2015.  
We respond annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Supply Chain Survey . This survey aims 
to drive action on climate change among both purchasing companies and their suppliers. The survey provides us with a different platform to be transparent about our sustainable supply chain efforts and collects business -related climate change inform ation from our suppliers  
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    86 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    87 
 Safety & Health Performance  
To AEP, Zero Harm means we care for each other; we care enough to always choose the safest way to 
do a job; and, we take responsibility and accountability for speaking up to prevent harm. W e believe 
every event is preventable and we will not put productivity ahead of safety.  
The road to Zero Harm is challenging but rewarding, with many successes along the way. In 2015, we achieved something we had not done since we began keeping statistics i n 1970; four consecutive years 
without an employee fatality. This was quickly tempered in early 2016 when an AEP Transmission employee lost his life while on the job. A second employee was severely injured in this life -changing 
event.  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  This immeasurable loss is felt by every employee. It is unacceptable to each of us and strengthened our 
resolve to work harder to achieve Zero Harm – zero injuries, zero fatalities. We must do everything in our power to ensure that every employee and contractor g oes home at the end of each day in the same 
condition as when they came to work.  
We have established an aggressive plan to transform our approach to safety and health, and to build systems and a culture that support and sustain world- class safety and healt h performance. Our strategy is 
based on the findings and recommendations from a 2015 safety gap analysis and safety perception survey of employees. The survey was conducted by DuPont Sustainable Solutions.  
Zero Harm at AEP  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    88 
 • Zero Harm means we care about ev ery employee’s health and well -being.  
• Zero Harm means we care that every employee can retire suffering no long -term effects of their 
work at AEP.  
• Zero Harm means we care to know the job, be trained appropriately and choose the safe way 
every time.  
• Zero Ha rm means we care to watch out for each other and stop any job if it is unsafe.  
• Zero Harm means we care to learn from every event and get continuously get better  
Path to Zero Harm 
Over the past decade, we have made great progress in injury/illness preventi on by providing employees 
with training, tools, resources and data to prevent harm. Although AEP’s performance is good compared to our industry peers – we want to move from good to great in Zero Harm. In 2016, we will pursue Zero Harm by focusing our effor ts on:  
• Engaging and developing leadership.  
• Engaging and developing employees.  
• Setting clear and consistent expectations, standards and accountability.  
• Measuring serious injuries and using the industry standard DART (Days Away/Restricted or Job Transfer) r ate to focus on high- consequence 
risks.  
• Improving safety and health and risk management systems.  
Zero Harm: We Care About People  
To achieve Zero Harm, our five -year plan is grounded in 
communication and action. We have committed to:  
• Adopt, communicate and implement a system -wide 
framework for safety and health.  
• Replace historical recordable rate performance 
metrics with a DART rate of measure to focus our attention on events with more serious consequences.  
• Reward employees by setting performance- based goals  based on proactive measures.  
Safety & Health Gap Analysis  
To help us enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of AEP’s safety and health management system, we 
hired DuPont Sustainable Solutions to complete a comprehensive evaluation of AEP’s safety and he alth 
culture. The DuPont Integrated Safety Management System model was used to benchmark AEP’s safety management system against companies with world -class performance.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    89 
 The evaluation consisted of a company -wide safety and health perception survey, site vis its, a review of 
safety management system documents, interviews with key AEP stakeholders, and workplace 
observations and discussions with front -line employees. The assessment identified several areas of 
strengths as well as areas for improvement.  
We will continue to work to close these gaps in 2016, which will strengthen the foundation for safety going forward. These initiatives will enable a Zero Harm culture; allow us to implement a consistent organization- wide solution and sustain the results we achieve . 
Contractor Safety & Health  
No aspect of our work is more important than safety and health, whether it is an AEP employee or an AEP contractor. Our focus is on prevention. As we strive for Zero Harm with our employee work force, we seek the same level of  commitment and performance 
among our contractors. We invest time and resources to ensure the safety and health of our contractor work force and we hold them accountable for their performance. This has become critically important as our contractor work for ce has increased to support the 
growth of our business. As a result, in early 2016, we created a new leadership position responsible for contractor safety and health performance.  
Our ongoing efforts to improve contractor safety and health have included: a rigorous contractor pre -
qualification process; setting clear expectations for compliance and commitment; incorporating leading indicators into the contractor oversight process; proactively addressing trends; and actively engaging AEP personnel in contractor oversight.  
The recordable rate for AEP’s major contractors was 1.29 versus the 1.40 target. Overall, we are making progress but it is not enough, especially when four AEP contractors were fatally injured during 2015.  
Managing Performance  
Audits of saf ety and health efforts help us stay compliant 
with company policies, laws and regulations. The audits also help flag potential hazards that could lead to harm.  
Internal audits of our safety and health management 
system and compliance processes are a part of our quest for Zero Harm. Safety and health programs were audited 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    90 
 at 18 locations in 2015. In addition, a system -wide audit for contractor safety and health programs 
oversight was conducted for all utility operations. All audit findings are assigned acti on plans to address 
findings and then corrected and shared with business unit leaders and safety and health professionals to 
leverage lessons learned.  
In 2016, we are reviewing our processes for sharing information and lessons learned to ensure there is consistency across the AEP system and that important information to prevent harm is shared with each 
and every employee and contractor.  
Our Generation business unit uses the Managing Environment, Safety and Health (MESH) information management system to tra ck performance and ensure compliance with requirements. Each of our power 
plants has electronic MESH manuals that link to corporate resources while also addressing plant -specific 
processes.  
Workforce Planning & Optimization  
According to the Center for Energy Workforce Development  (CEWD), an aging work force plays a 
significant role in the industry’s transformation. The CEWD’s 2015 “Gaps in the Energy Workforce Pipeline” survey shows that overall, the electri c and natural gas utility work force is getting younger and 
that retirement forecasts in future years are trending downward for the first time since the survey began in 2006. A large number of workers in our industry will retire in the next five to 10 year s; at the same time, the industry is making 
progress filling the gap with younger employees.  
A skilled work force is critical to AEP’s success. Many of our skilled and technical employees, such as plant operators and line mechanics, are approaching retirement eligibility. AEP defines retirement eligibility as a minimum age of 55 years with 10 years of service. To prepare and develop the work force of the future, we are actively engaged in several initiatives to attract people with the technical skills we w ill 
need. This can be challenging as we find ourselves competing with other industries, such as the shale gas and technology -
driven industries, for the same skilled workforce. The skillsets we will need are also changing. As we develop our data analytics t eam, for example, we will need different technical 
skills to be successful. This field is very competitive and we will be competing with companies such as Google and 
Amazon for the best talent. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    91 
 One way we are addressing this potential labor shortfall is b y developing work plans for each of our 
business units to identify potential staffing gaps, as 
well as opportunities to educate, train and prepare our future workforce. Work force planning enables us to grow the business while giving our employees opportunities to develop their knowledge and their skills.  
Through AEP’s Big Data Olympics
, we are working 
to develop a work force optimization model. The purpose of the model is to help us improve our ability to forecast future workloads and optimally assign the work to employee and contract crews from a cost efficiency and customer satisfaction perspective.  
Training  
Providing our workforce with the proper tools and training is part of ou r commitment to employees. 
AEP provides a broad range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition support. Programs develop knowledge, competencies and learning that collectively benefit our employees, the business objectives of AEP and the communities we serve.  
Our knowledge and skills development strategy is accomplished through our processes for ongoing 
performance coaching, operational skills training, resources supporting our commitment to environment, safety and health, job progression training, tuition assistance, and other forms of training that help employees improve their skills and become better leaders. In 2015, AEP employees completed more than 1 million hours of training, as tracked in our corporate -wide learning management system.  
To ensure a pipeline for our future work force needs, AEP has training alliances with various community colleges, vocational and technical schools across our 11- state service territory. We work 
with these institutions to develop academ ic programs needed to prepare employees for upward mobility 
opportunities and to attract external job seekers interested in a career in our industry. Our 
education partners include: 
Columbus State 
Community C ollege , Ohio Mid- East Career & 
Technical Center , Texas State Technical College , 
and Oklahoma State Univ ersity Institute of 
Technology , among many others.  
AEP has several training facilities, including distribution 
line training schools, that are important resources for hands -
on training to learn new skills and sharpen existing ones.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    92 
 Jobs for Veterans  
AEP a ctively supports, recruits and hires military veterans, and educates, trains and prepares them to 
transition into energy industry jobs. Many veterans bring key skillsets to the work force, such as 
leadership, discipline, teamwork, reliability and safety, m aking them attractive recruits for our company.  
AEP is actively involved in the Troops to Energy Jobs  effort to increase the percentage of veterans in the 
energy industry work force. Eleven pe rcent of AEP’s workforce are military veterans, and 11 percent of 
AEP's new hires are military veterans.  
Military veterans tend to have the technical training, experience and personal characteristics that make them a great fit for careers in the energy i ndustry. We hold open houses for veterans to learn about 
skilled craft positions within the company, and watch live demonstrations of line mechanic work. They also get a preview of the different technologies used to operate the grid. AEP encourages veterans to actively seek and apply for jobs at AEP that match their training and skill.  
AEP has enhanced its military benefits. For example, in early 2016, AEP amended its bereavement policy to allow military veterans and reservists paid time off to attend fune ral 
services for a service member with whom they have served. We understand that a fellow service member is often as close as a family member and the loss is deeply felt by our veterans. The policy change is in addition to AEP’s regular employee bereavemen t policy.  
We are proud of our work to support military veterans. In 2016, AEP has been recognized for the 13th year as a Top 100 Military Friendly Employer by Victory Media. In 2015, AEP was also named one of the nation's Best of the Best Top Veteran -Frien dly Companies by U.S. Veterans Magazine
. Also, AEP is 
participating in the Veteran Jobs Mission, which has grown to over 200 companies. The coalition is committed to hiring veterans and has col lectively hired more than 300,000 veterans since its inception in 
2011. 
Labor Relations  
More than one fourth of AEP’s work force is represented by labor unions. We value the relationships we have with our unionized employees and believe in a trusting, coll aborative and respectful partnership. 
We are working with our labor partners to strengthen these relationships to ensure that we have a culture that attracts and supports employees who can adapt to the rapid changes occurring in our company and industry. O ur partnership with labor is critical to meeting the growing expectations of our customers and 
adapting to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    93 
 In 2015, we negotiated a three -year collective bargaining agreement and wage package with the Utili ty 
Workers Union of America. Multi -year agreements enhance continuity for both the company and the 
work force. We plan to continue to negotiate multi -year 
contracts with our other unions throughout 2016.  
Our relationship often goes beyond the confines of a  
contract. We also partner with labor to strengthen our 
safety culture as well as support vibrant communities. Our physical work force is at the front line every day keeping the lights on for customers; their active partnership with AEP to ensure we achieve Zero Harm is imperative if we are to achieve our goal.  
Culture Commitment 
Research shows that companies with a strong culture and a strategic business plan outperform their peers. A strong culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long- term success. At 
AEP, we continually work to foster a culture that will support the adaptability and focus needed to succeed in a fast -paced, changing work environment. This includes building on our commitment to 
customers, safety, operational excellence and innovation.  
To measure our progress AEP conducts employee culture surveys. The 2015 AEP Employee Culture 
Survey had an 82 percent participation rate, compared with 74 percent in 2014. The results showed meaningful improvement, especially around en gagement, performance recognition and accountability. 
This is a strong reflection of the work we have done over the past three years to strengthen these areas of focus.  
The survey also showed us that we have more work to do. To continue the momentum and continually improve, work groups develop culture action plans each year and we are currently focused on sharing best practices across the AEP system. 
 
A strong and healthy culture is essential to help our employees understand how they contribute to AEP’s s trategic goals, fostered by collaborative, 
supportive leaders who provide timely feedback and recognition, and continuously engage their employees. This in turn will lead to better performance, whether it’s the safety and health performance of our employees, reliability performance of the system, or interactions we have with our customers.  
Work teams not onl y develop annual culture action plans, 
many also have formed local culture committees.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    94 
 Engaging our Employees  
Employee engagement was one of the cultu re focus areas that showed meaningful improvement in the 
2015 AEP Employee Culture survey. In 2015, 41 percent of employees responded that they were 
engaged, compared to 27 percent in 2014. In addition, we saw a decrease in both employees who were 
not enga ged and actively disengaged 
compared to 2014.  
One way we are empowering employee engagement is through our Power up & Lead culture leadership workshop where employees learn about their own behaviors and leadership styles, and what it takes to be effective communicators. In 2015, AEP 
accelerated the implementation of Power up & Lead by offering several flexible options to adapt to AEP’s work force needs. We increased the number of participants from more than 1,600 in 2014 to 5,282 in 2015. Since the workshop began in 2013, more than 8,300 employees have completed Power up & Lead. AEP plans to continue an accelerated pace for the training in 2016.  
To help employees understand how they contribute to the company’s overall strategic goals, AEP launched a learning  map called “AEP’s Strategy for the Future.” This interactive map exercise allows 
small groups of employees to learn about AEP’s past successes, current challenges, what’s changing, and AEP’s strategy for future success. The learning map supports AEP’s cul tural pillar of strategic 
alignment. More than 10,700 employees have completed the learning map since it launched in 2015.  
AEP has been named to Fortune magazine’s World’s Most Admired Companies list in the electric and gas utilities sector for the third year in a row. Each year, Fortune surveys top executives, directors and 
financial analysts about the companies in their industry based upon nine criteria: financial soundness, use of corporate assets, long -term investment value, quality of management, qual ity of products and 
services, people management, innovation, social responsibility, and global competitiveness. Our employees, and AEP’s commitment to developing a culture that will support the adaptability and focus that our employees will need to succeed  in a fast -paced, changing work environment, is and will 
continue to be the center of our success.  
Continuous Improvement  
Almost every work process can be improved, and people who do the work every day are the best ones to identify those opportunities. AEP  has adopted Lean as our primary framework to continuously improve. 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    95 
 Lean relies on a well -known experiential learning cycle known as Plan- Do-Check -Adjust. By giving 
employees ownership and the freedom to experiment with possible solutions, we foster entrepreneurship 
which, in turn, sparks creativity, innovation and prudent risk- taking. We have celebrated many successes 
as a result.  
Successes  
Creating lean business processes started modestly as a pilot program at AEP’s Gavin Power Plant over 
three years ago  and quickly grew. Through 2015, there have been more than 65 deployments of Lean 
throughout the enterprise and thousands of employee ideas submitted to improve processes that create 
efficiencies and reduce waste, as well as, create a favorable sustainable bottom line financial impact. The initial deployment of lean continuous improvement efforts has been completed at 16 power plants, all 31 distribution districts, all five regions of Transmission Field Services, Cook Nuclear Plant, Commercial Operations, I nformation Technology, Customer and Distributions Services, and 
Procurement -Supply Chain and Fleet group. Other business units across AEP are also adopting Lean 
principles and have begun their own journey to continuous improvement. 
Here are some successes:  
AEP’s finance department launched the “Every Dollar Counts” campaign to remind employees of the 
importance of being good stewards of AEP’s financial resources.  
One way we are doing this is by leveraging the Supply Chain, Procurement and Fleet Operations organization. Procurement is not about buying the cheapest item; it is about having the right item, at the right place, at the right time, for the right price.  
Through this focused effort, the procurement team, working with business units across AEP, was able to contribute a substantial operations and maintenance savings in 2016 through the strategic sourcing of goods and services. Our goal is to become 
an industry leader in cost, performance and value in Procurement, Supply Chain and Fleet Operations 
activity, and we believe this effort reflects positively on our journey.  
Employees in the Transmission Field Services organization found that in remote areas in West Virginia, locating line faults could be time -consuming. When called upon to locate a line fault they would 
sometimes end up on long hikes through mountainous terrain to find the problem. The solution the team adopted was to install relatively low -cost fault indicators along lines prone to outages in those remote 
areas. During a fault event, simple  LED indicators direct crews more quickly to the fault location, 
helping to reduce the duration of the outage.  
What works well in one location may also work in another. That is why we are making a concerted effort to share ideas and solutions learned from  other Lean deployments. One example of idea -sharing 
occurred at AEP’s Conesville Plant, where an equipment operator saw an improved FGD (flue gas 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    96 
 desulfurization) belt wash system at another plant and took the idea back to Conesville. Sharing ideas in 
this way indicates that a continuous improvement culture is maturing.  
A key driver behind the success of these efforts has been the high level of employee engagement. Going forward, we will focus on embedding Lean/continuous improvement principles in our dail y work, 
sustaining those efforts and developing leaders as coaches to promote and support a problem -solving 
culture.  
Diversity at AEP  
We are committed to and value diversity at AEP and in the communities where we live, work and operate. To us, diversity i nvolves ethnicity, gender, age, and other demographic factors. It also includes 
valuing diversity of thought, experiences, skills, ideas and culture, all of which make the company and the community stronger.  
At the end of 2015, our board of directors , 
executive council 
team  and regional utility presidents  included seven women, 
two African Americans and two Hispanics. Women made up 24 percent of this group and minorities 14 percent. Being diverse within the upper ranks of the company helps us gain a broader perspective on busine ss issues, allowing us to make 
better decisions. It also sets an example for more diversity within our work force and in our communities.  
We work on becoming more diverse from the board room to the front line. We track the advancement of women and 
minori ties from front -line craft -level positions to executive posts. We consider diversity in every hiring 
decision and look for development opportunities. One example of this is the AEP Women’s Leadership Series, which provides informal networking and professional development opportunities for female leaders within AEP.  
Workplace diversity is an important issue for all companies. Recognizing the evolving diversity of our work force and the global economy, AEP has changed policies, benefits, training and other r esources to be more 
inclusive. These efforts have been reflected in our 
Human 
Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index  score.  
In 2016, AEP scored 95 out of a possible 100 points, adding 15 points to our 2015 score of 80. This index has become a benchmarking tool for large U.S. companies to measure the fair, nondiscriminatory treatment of LGBT employees in the workplace. The AEP Pride Partnership employee resource group worked with the Office of 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    97 
 Diversity to improve the company’s HRC rating over the years.  
Employee Resource Groups  
Employee resource groups (ERGs) give voice to the diversity of our work force. They are an integral 
part of our culture and contribute to the success we are having in the area of inclusion. These groups support AEP’s values and goals, strengthen communication between AEP and its employees, provide a forum for exchanging new ideas and enhance the company’s desirability as a prospective employer. Currently, AEP has seven ERGs located at corporate headquarters and at satellite locations around the AEP system.  
AEP’s Employee Resource Groups:  
• Asian American Employee Partnership  
• Hispanic Origin -Latin American (HOLA) Employee Resource Group  
• African American Employee Resource Group  
• Military Veterans Employee Resource Group  
• AEP Pride Partnership (for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees and their allies)  
• Abled and Disabled Allies Partnering Together (ADAPT) 
• Native American Employee Reso urce Group (NAERG)  
 
Employee resource groups give voice to the diversity of our work force 
and   support AEP’s values and goals.  
Open to all employees, the ERGs sponsor programs and events focused on culture, education and 
personal and professional development. They are active community volunteers supporting efforts such as Project Mentor and Make a Difference Day. ERGs also play an active role in AEP’s diversity recruitment efforts.  
One of the key factors that contribute to the success and growth of our ER Gs is the support they receive 
from senior management. Each ERG has at least two senior leaders as executive sponsors who provide guidance and counsel to the groups’ mission and goals. In addition, the executive sponsors ensure the group has the right visi bility within the organization.  
In January 2016, AEP was selected for inclusion in the Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Index Fund
, a 
diversified mutual fund that invests in the highest -rated companies in the world in advancing women’s 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    98 
 leadership. This demonstrates that diversity is an investment choice as much as it is smart business for 
AEP.  
In February 2016, Appalachian Power Company  (APCo) w as recognized by the West Virginia Human 
Rights Commission for its efforts to eradicate discrimination and its promotion of civil rights in the 
workplace. APCo was among 20 honorees at the 
Commission’s West Virginia 13th Annual Civil 
Rights Day.   
AEP has a diversity and inclusion online training 
module that is required for all employees. The course provides information on the business case for diversity. It demonstrates how to respond effectively to differences, and increase the level of inclusion in the workplace. We meet regularly 
with business unit leaders to provide status updates on their individual progress toward increasing 
workforce diversity enterprise -wide.  
To maintain diversity in our employee candidate pool, we have established relationships with 
universities with minority and female populations, including Texas A&M University –Kingsville, 
Missouri University of Science & Technology and the University of Puerto Rico. We also have 
partnerships with organizations such as the Center for Energy Workforce Development  (CEWD), 
Direct 
Employers  and the United Negro College Fund  to assist us with our divers ity recruitment efforts. In 
2015, our Human Resources team provided a diverse slate of candidates to our hiring managers 63 percent of the time when a job was being filled.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    99 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    100 
 Compliance Performance  
Our facilities are subject to environmental regulatory and permitting requirements for which we must 
demonstrate compliance. Our goal is zero enforcement actions. We are also subject to routine environmental inspections of our facilities through scheduled – and unannounced – visits. During  these 
visits, regulators inspect physical facilities and monitor our compliance with regulatory requirements, permit limits and record -keeping obligations.  
Whenever agencies identify concerns, we proactively work with them to address those issues in a ti mely 
fashion to their satisfaction. If enforcement actions are initiated, we work with the regulatory agency to resolve those actions and identify and implement any corrective measures that may be needed to mitigate future risks by preventing recurrences.  
One of many voluntary actions we take to help drive continuous performance improvement is the use of an internal Environmental Performance Index for our generation business. We recorded six incidents in 2015. The index monitors incidents for opacity, water  
quality permits and oil and chemical spills at our power plants.  
In our Transmission business, we developed a 
mandatory environmental compliance training program and provide support from environmental specialists to ensure all transmission -related constr uction projects are built in full compliance with 
environmental permit requirements.  
Checks and Balances  
We use our environmental, safety and health management system to improve our environmental performance and to measure, track and report our progress. B y applying the principles of the ISO 14001 
standard to managing environmental performance, we enable a cycle of continuous improvement that helps diminish the risk of compliance incidents.  
One way we check our compliance is through internal audits. Audits provide additional focus on controlling risks and providing assurance that robust compliance processes are developed and implemented system- wide. In 2015, we conducted internal audits of our environmental management 
programs at 20 locations and a system -wide audit for environmental programs compliance at station 
construction sites.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    101 
 Our responsibility to environmental compliance will continue for requirements that remain effective at 
AEP -owned properties where generating units have been retired. This includes many existing state 
environmental requirements, in particular, those related to the management of water and coal -
combustion byproducts. We continue to work with regulators to amend permits as we move through the decommissioning process. 
ESH Policy & Phi losophy  
Environment, Safety & Health Philosophy  
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony with environmental protection.  
Environment, Safety & Health Policy  
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect people and the environment by committing to:  
• Maintain compliance with all applicable ES&H requirements while pursuing the spirit of ES&H 
stewardship;  
• Ensure that people wo rking for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into 
their business functions;  
• Support continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention; and  
• Hazard elimination through employee involvement and conti nual health and safety improvement.  
Emissions  
AEP’s investments in environmental controls have resulted in significant reductions in air emissions. Since 1990, sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and nitrogen oxide (NO x) emissions have been reduced by about 88 
percent and 87 percent respectively, while mercury emissions have declined by nearly 54 percent since 
2001. Mercury emissions information is reported to the EPA under the Toxics Release Inventory 
program .  
Our emissions will likely continue to decline further in the future with the installation of additional 
emission control systems on coal units, the retirement of additional coal units and the increased use of other resources, including natural gas and renewables. Between 2000 and 2016, AEP will have invested an estimated $8.5 billion in environmental controls for our plants, resulting in positive environmental impacts.  
Read more about AEP’s CO
2 emissions . 
 
 
 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    102 
 
 
 
Carbon & Climate  
In 2015, a number of global policy developments brought climate change and the role of carbon to the 
forefront of public discourse. From the Clean Power Plan to the United Nations -sponsored global 
climate talks and subsequent multi- nation agreement in Paris, the issue of carbon and climate intensified 
political and civil society scrutiny of carbon -intensive industries. Among them – the electric power 
sector.  
We have had many discu ssions with investors, environmental groups and other stakeholders about this 
issue and AEP’s plan to reduce carbon emissions. The EPA has the authority to regulate carbon. Regardless of the outcome of legal challenges to the Clean Power Plan, there will b e carbon regulations 
in the future.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    103 
 We have proactively addressed carbon emissions through voluntary actions as a member of the former 
Chicago Climate Exchange, and through our resource planning and investment processes. AEP is already less carbon -intensiv e than a decade ago. As we retire additional coal units and increase our use 
of renewables and other clean energy resources, our carbon footprint will continue to shrink. Our integrated resource plans reflect this diversification and incorporate a price fo r carbon, starting in 2022, 
as a proxy for future carbon regulations.  
With respect to mandated climate action, we strongly believe that any carbon policy or regulation must 
be rational in terms of timing, scope and reduction targets. Additionally, any cli mate action framework 
should be built on a rational approach and take into account the regional differences in the role of carbon within our economy to ensure that there is not undue economic harm.  
Clean Power Plan  
The U.S. EPA finalized the Clean Power Pl an (CPP) in October 2015, using an existing section of the 
Clean Air Act. The CPP would require states to develop state -level compliance plans. AEP began 
discussions with our states, urging them to develop state implementation plans, rather than be forced to comply with a federal implementation plan that would not account for each state’s unique energy and economic needs. 
The final rule raised legal concerns and was subsequently challenged in the D.C. Circuit Court by a 
number of stakeholders, including the  Utility Air Regulatory Group, of which AEP is a member.  
In February 2016, the rule was subject to a stay order from the U.S. Supreme Court to allow for the appropriate legal review of the rule. We continue to advocate that any plan to reduce greenhouse g as 
emissions be accompanied by a thorough assessment of the impact on grid reliability, allow adequate time for implementation, respect the authority of states and other federal agencies, and preserve a balanced, diverse mix of energy resources for electri city generation.  
The Supreme Court stay order doesn’t change AEP’s focus on generating and delivering electricity in ways that meet the needs and expectations of our customers. That includes diversifying our resource mix and investing in renewable generati on and other innovations that increase efficiency and reduce 
emissions.  
While the courts conduct a legal review of the CPP, AEP will continue its long -term 
commitment to serving our customers in cost effective and environmentally responsible ways.  
AEP’s c arbon dioxide emissions (CO
2) 
have been reduced 39 percent from 2000 
levels, and we will continue to reduce carbon dioxide emissions as we transition to more natural gas and 
renewable resources in the future. Our current resource plans have been developed to insure we are 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    104 
 factoring in future carbon regulations, but they are not CPP compliance plans, because we cannot 
develop such plans until after the states take action in response to the final rule. 
AEP’s CO 2 emissions significantly decreased between 2014 and 2015, largely due to low natural gas 
prices, slowing load growth and coal unit retirements. AEP’s CO 2 emissions were approximately 123 
million metric tons in 2014; they were approximately 102 million metric tons in 2015. This represents a 
16.5 percent decrease compared with 2014 and an approximate 39 percent reduction compared with our 
2000 CO 2 emissions of about 167 million metric tons. 
 
Our resource plans do include more renewables and natural gas -fueled generation based on the current 
prices for tho se sources of generation in the market place, irrespective of the CPP. The extension of the 
federal investment tax credits for renewables, and our expectation that price declines for renewable 
technologies will continue, makes economic sense for our custom ers and lowers our carbon profile to 
include these resources.  
AEP also reports annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project . This information is shared with investor 
groups, shareholders, government agencies, and other public organizations. These responses provide a 
valuable insight into how the company addresses and manages what many consider to be important 
business risks.  
Learn more about resource planning  
Environmental Regulations  
The increasing scope and stringency of environmental regulations pose technical, operational and financial challenges for our industry. These challenges, i ncluding uncertainties with timing, scope and 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    105 
 magnitude of future environmental regulations, are influencing decisions to upgrade or retire coal -fueled 
generating units. It also affects the planning process for new generation projects across our industry.  
AEP’s active participation in development of new regulations helps to ensure that new requirements are 
achievable, based on sound science, consistent with statutory authority, balanced with other rule -
makings, weigh the cost of compliance for customers, a nd can be implemented in a rational time frame. 
Compliance is important to us, but we also have a responsibility to our investors who make the required capital investment, and to our customers, who will ultimately pay for the implementation of compliance strategies, while expecting reliable electric service.  
Coal Ash  
The issue of coal ash disposal and handling came to the forefront nearly a decade ago and has since been subjected to a new federal rule covering the disposal and storage of coal combustion re siduals (CCR).  
In 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a new CCR rule regulating the disposal and beneficial re -use of coal combustion residuals generated at coal -fueled electric generating 
units, including fly ash, bottom ash, f lue gas desulfurization (FGD) byproduct and gypsum. CCR is now 
regulated as a non -hazardous solid waste and is subject to new minimum federal solid waste 
management standards, which went into effect in October 2015.  
Since the rule became final, AEP put s everal 
programs in place to ensure compliance and established a new leadership role to oversee these efforts. AEP’s inspection and maintenance program for fly ash ponds and other impoundments remains vigorous and is continuously monitored.  
Currently, AEP operates 24 CCR ponds that are impacted under this rule. We have an additional 14 ponds exempt from this rule because they are located at power plants we retired in 2015, before the new federal rule went into effect. These ponds will still be regulated and ultimately closed, but under existing state programs. Significant costs will be incurred to 
upgrade or close and replace the existing facilities including a $95 million increase in asset retirement obligations in the second quarter of 2015 primarily due to this rule.  
CCRs have long been used in concrete, wallboard and a wide variety of construction materials. While 
this benefits other industries, it also provides a source of financial and environmental benefits to AEP. In February 2014, the EPA completed a  risk evaluation of the beneficial uses of coal fly ash in concrete 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    106 
 and FGD gypsum in wallboard and concluded with support for these beneficial uses. Currently, 
approximately 40 percent of the coal ash and other residual products from AEP’s generating faci lities 
are used in the production of concrete and wallboard, as structural fill or soil additives, as abrasives or road treatment materials and for other beneficial uses. By diverting the coal ash to beneficial uses, we are minimizing our environmental imp acts by reducing the need for waste disposal sites.  
In 2015, AEP generated approximately 9.1 million tons of CCRs and was able to beneficially use more than 3 million tons, or 34 percent of the total. Beneficial use of CCRs (considered to be products if t hey 
are beneficially used), avoided approximately $17 million in disposal costs in 2015 and generated more than $7.7 million in revenues. 
For a complete regulations update, please see AEP’s Form 10K
 under Environmental Issues.  
New Source Review  
In 2007, AEP signed a court -approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. In 2013, a 
modification to the decree was approved by the U.S. Distric t Court for the Southern District of Ohio, 
Eastern Division. The modification lowered a system -wide SO2 emission cap for AEP plants that 
becomes increasingly stringent through 2029. The modification also gives us more flexibility in how we 
meet these requi rements.  
NSR Consent Decree Annual Report Archive (PDF)  
• 2015 NSR Annual Report  
• 2014 NSR Annual Report  
• 2013 NSR Annual Report  
• 2012 NSR Annual Report  
• 2011 NSR Annual Report  
• 2010 NSR Annual Report  
• 2009 NSR Annual Report  
• 2008 NSR Annual Report  
Managing Water  
Water is a critical input in the production of electricity. It is used in power plant boilers as well a s for 
cooling, cleaning and in some cases, to transport fly ash and bottom ash. Water is also the source of hydroelectric power and provides transportation for our captive barge fleet to operate on several rivers.  
Water quality, availability, use and mana gement are increasingly important sustainability issues for 
society and our company. We are taking steps to reduce our water consumption, improve water quality and address water availability issues as we comply with current regulations and prepare for new ones. Plant retirements during 2015 have significantly reduced AEP’s water footprint with a net water use reduction of 1,316 million gallons/day (MGD)], which represents a reduction of 18 percent when 2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    107 
 compared to 2014 water withdrawal. We are also particip ating in industry research to find new ways to 
treat waste -water and reduce the use and consumption of water by power plants. 
AEP places a high value on reporting our usage and management of water throughout our system. One 
way we do this is through volunt ary reporting efforts. We participate annually in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project Water Survey . The 2015 questionnaire was issued on behalf of 617 investors  representing $63 
trillion in assets who seek business -critical information about water consumption and water use strategy 
and planning. In addition, AEP provides extensive water data in our Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) 
report.  
Water Quality Improvements  
Under the authority of the Clean Water Act, the EPA establishes wastewater discharge limits for new and existing steam electric power plants (coal, oil, gas and nuclear). On Nov. 3, 2015, the agency published revised steam electric power generating effluent guidelines in the Federal Register and set stricter performance standards that must be achieved at AEP coal -fired steam electric generating 
facilities. The new requirements can be accessed at EPA link.  
The new guidelines will require that AEP install technologies to eliminate the discharge of fly ash and 
bottom ash transport waters and to limit the discharge of pollutants from wet scrubber wastewater treatment systems. Upgrades an d the 
installation of additional wastewater treatment systems will be required at most of AEP’s active coal -fueled 
facilities.  
The new limits will be implemented 
through each facility’s NPDES wastewater discharge permit, which is typically renewed on a fi ve-year 
basis. AEP is in the process of evaluating many new technologies that can efficiently treat waste-
waters and reduce the release of pollutants.  
 
Water Research Center  
AEP is one of 14 companies that have joined the Electric Power Research Institute and the Southern 
Research Institute  to establish a first- of-a-kind research facility that addresses power plants’ water usage 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    108 
 and treatment. The Water Research Center  at Georgia Power Company’s Plant Bowen focuses on 
finding new ways to manage and treat wastewater and to reduce and conserve water used in the 
production of electricity.  
Ohio River Basin Water Quality Trading Project  
AEP began working with the Electric Power Research Institute  (EPRI) and other partners on a market -
based approach to improve Ohio River water quality. We were one of the first utiliti es in the nation to 
take part in the world’s largest interstate water quality trading plan . Representatives from Ohio, Indiana 
and Kentucky pledged their support to the plan in 2012, and the first trades took place in March 2014, culminating a five -year effort. By the end of 2015, AEP’s purchase of stewardship credits reduced 
nutrient loading to the river by 5,000 pounds.  
Due to new effluent limits for nutrients, such as nitrate -nitrite, AEP has no plans to use the trading 
program for compliance purposes; however, this important program can still provide a benefit, especially from an environmental sustainability perspective. For example, AEP has provided farmers with a gypsum -like material to line their cattle holding areas. If this is done and the farmers manage 
their manure, under the trading program, AEP can receive credit for keeping nutrients out of the local streams.  
Through leases, AEP can require farmers to manage their fertilizer use, generating addi tional nutrient 
credits, and also reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, such as nitrous oxide, which are closely 
related to fertilizer use. Through other management practices, not only are there nutrient reduction benefits, but ancillary benefits, such as carbon sequestration, habitat enhancement, soil runoff control and the creation of pollinator habitat.  
The program is good for farmers, the environment and the participating companies. In 2015, the program was awarded the U.S. Alliance – United States Water Prize
. AEP has a large presence on the 
river and it is important to protect this valuable natural resource.  
Waste and Chemical Management 
We manage many types of waste that result from the process of generating electricity, operating office buildings, and repairing and replacing equipment. We continue to reduce and divert waste from landfills through beneficial reuse or recycling.  
The amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) -containing equipment used across the company 
continues to decline. PCBs, which are known to have adverse health effects, have not been used in new electrical equipment in the U.S. for more than 36 years but are present in some of our older transformers and other pieces of electric equipment. We removed and recycled approximately 2,885 pieces of electrical equipment in 2015; approximately 5.7 percent of these items were found to contain PCBs greater than 500 parts per million (ppm).  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    109 
 The EPA is developing a pr oposed draft rule that would potentially require the phase out of certain 
PCB -containing equipment (potentially including equipment containing 50 ppm PCB or greater). AEP 
operates hundreds of thousands of pieces of electrical equipment that could be affect ed by the draft rule. 
Current regulations require that if you do not know the PCB content of certain types of equipment, you 
must assume that they contain 50 ppm of PCBs or greater. Due to the types, locations and quantities of the potentially affected equipment throughout the AEP system, the expense of identifying, sampling and potentially replacing all of this equipment, if required, would be significant. 
We had slightly more than 1,400 transmission and distribution equipment oil spills in 2015, similar t o 
the number of spills in 2014. Two of the spills contained greater than 500 ppm PCBs in both 2014 and 
2015. Most spills are caused by storms and vehicle accidents that damage the equipment.  
During 2015, the waste we recycled included approximately 646,000 gallons of oil, 767,000 pounds of 
paper and mixed office waste, 60 million pounds of scrap metal, 31,000 light bulbs, 142,000 pounds of batteries and more than 196,000 pounds of electronic equipment, such as computers and phones, preventing disposal in la ndfills. These numbers are not all -inclusive but are considered good estimates 
of waste management across AEP and indicate progress in reducing waste.  
 
Nuclear Waste Management 
The Department of Energy oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has charged fees to plant owners for this disposal. However, the government has stopped developing the Yucca Mountain storage facility in Nevada, leaving generators with no place for permanent disposal.  2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    110 
 Indiana Michigan Power owns and operate s the two -unit Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Michigan, 
which generates more than 2,000 MW of electricity. Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we face a 
significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel. We need a national soluti on for 
the long -term disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which should be part of a national energy plan.  
The uncertainty associated with long -term storage has placed the burden of interim storage on each 
nuclear facility. AEP is addressing this issue on the a ssumption that a workable offsite solution will not 
exist before the operating licenses for both Cook units expire two decades from now.  
In 2012, the Cook Plant began a program of loading spent nuclear fuel into dry casks (32 spent nuclear fuel assemblies contained within each dry cask). Without removal of the used- fuel assemblies, the 
spent fuel pool would have reached capacity in 2014, forcing shutdown of one or both Cook units.  
In 2015, the Cook Plant loaded 16 additional dry casks, making it one of the  largest dry cask -loading 
campaign conducted for an operating nuclear power plant in the U.S. Since the program began, there has been a total of 28 dry casks loaded into storage. The third dry cask loading is expected to occur in 2018. The current cask sto rage facility is designed to store 94 casks for a total of 3,008 spent nuclear fuel 
assemblies. This would support the operation of both units through the current operating license dates of 2035 for Unit 1 and 2038 for Unit 2. The pad could be expanded to facilitate removal of all fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel pool and full decommissioning of both units.  
Nuclear plant operators are required to maintain a plant decommissioning trust fund to safely decommission and decontaminate the plant upon c losure. At the end of 2015, the trust fund balance for 
the Cook Plant was approximately $1.8 billion. 
Natural Resources  
It is challenging to practice environmental stewardship while providing electricity at affordable rates. AEP is meeting this challenge in several ways. For example, efforts are under way to implement vegetation management practices on our transmission rights -of-way to encourage wildlife, while at the 
same time, meeting all North American Electric Reliability Corporation requirements.  
Conc erns about endangered or threatened species continue to grow nationally. As we seek to build new 
infrastructure, such as transmission facilities or renewable generation across our service territory, we are 
mindful of potential environmental and ecological impacts we might have. In several cases we are developing long -term habitat conservation plans to protect endangered or threatened species while 
reducing time constraints for meeting project deadlines. Working with organizations such as the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service helps us understand the issues, support habitat preservation and take appropriate voluntary actions to mitigate our impacts.  
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    111 
 The Indiana bat and Northern Long -Eared bat are two species AEP is mindful of protecting. The Indiana 
bat has been federally listed as endangered since 1967 and the Northern Long -Eared bat was federally 
listed as threatened in 2015. The Indiana bat is resident in nine of the 11 states in which AEP operates. 
Likewise, the Northern Long -Eared bat is found in 10 of the 11 s tates in which AEP operates. In some 
areas, tree cutting during certain times of the year must take into consideration potential effects on the habitat of both species. Since these bats roost and raise their young in trees with certain characteristics, all trees with these potential characteristics must be evaluated prior to clearing.  
AEP provides information about how we manage these and other issues through our participation in business and environmental disclosure surveys, such as the Global Reporting Initiative
.  
Conservation and Stewardship  
We continue to seek opportunities to integrate conservation measures into our management approach to rights -of-way (ROW) for new and rebuilt transmis sion lines. This involves addressing key ecological 
concerns while maintaining reliable transmission service. Working with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), we developed a range of conservation options for ROW land management. The toolkit gives AEP options to incorporate environmentally beneficial conservation practices into our ROW management efforts that are economical and protect reliability as we rebuild old lines and build new ones. 
 
AEP has a long history of partnering with the WHC on a variety of projects, primarily involving our power plants. Southwestern Electric Power Company’s Flint Creek Power Plant received a 2015 Pollinator Advocate Award from the WHC. Pollinators include bees, birds, bats and other insects and animals that spread pollen so plant fertilization can occur. Flint Creek also was recognized for recertification under WHC’s Corporate Lands for Learning program. Flint Creek has held certification under the program since 2004 and under WHC’s Wildlife at Work program since 2002. The tw o 
programs are being combined into WHC’s new Conservation Certification, and Flint Creek will be certified from 2016 through 2018. AEP’s Real Estate Asset Management group also works with the 
WHC to enhance our ReCreation Lands – 
approximately 60,000 acres  in southeast Ohio of 
reclaimed mine land.  
 
 
Photo of brown thrashers at AEP's Southwestern Electric 
Power Co.’s Flint Creek Power Plant. Flint Creek received a 2015 Pollinator Advocate Award from the Wildlife Habitat Council for its  environmental educati on and 
stewardship program . 
 
2016 AEP  Corporate Accountability Report    112 
 Avian Protection  
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and 
others have worked together to understand why birds collide with or are electrocuted by power lines. This i s a growing concern as construction of transmission facilities and renewable energy facilities 
accelerates across the United States.  
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company -specific Avian Protection Plans 
(APP) to mitigate the risks associated with bird interactions with electric facilities. AEP’s APP was 
completed in 2013 and we initiated the process of implementation. The plan’s purpose is to reduce the incidences of bird electrocutions and collisions with AEP’s equipment, and to reduce the frequency of 
bird-caused outages.  
AEP’s Avian Protection Plan  
AEP manages bird/power line interactions through a system -wide program across our 11 -state service 
territory, where a wide variety of bird species can be found. Currently, AEP’s primary challenge is on larger species that are more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on poles, or collide with towers and lines.  
The APP has several key components:  
• Employee training and compliance  – We educate our employees and provide traini ng on 
compliance with all federal and state laws. Our goal is to be proactive in preventing bird 
collisions and electrocutions. 
• Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures  – We have a process to 
incorporate bird safety into the design of  new lines and facilities.  
• Nest management and avian enhancement options  – We apply bird- safety tactics such as 
installing a dedicated de -energized pole for bird nesting or bird diverters to keep them away from 
wires.  
• Avian reporting systems and risk 
assessment methodologies  – We are 
updating our tracking system to 
improve our monitoring and reporting capabilities to allow us to be more proactive.  
• Public education – We promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation and work cooperatively with federal and state agencies and 
non-profit organizations.
 
Through our system -wide Avian Protection Plan, AEP manages 
bird/power line interactions across our 11 -state service territory, 
where a wide variety of bird species can be found.  
