AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER
2009 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINDEX OF TOPICS
 2 A Message From The Chairman 
  Michael G. Morris  
  Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
 4 Leadership, Management & Strategy
  Dennis E. Welch  
  Executive Vice President, Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities
 6 About This Report
  Strategy, Management & Governance  
 10 Environmental Performance
 20 Work Force Issues
 32 Public Policy
 40 Climate Change
 50 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
 58 Stakeholder Engagement
  A Letter from the Ceres Stakeholder Team  
 66 GRI Table of Contents
  Glossary of Terms
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustainability 
initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. At two of the Committee’s meetings in the 
past year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability objectives, challenges, targets 
and progress. That Committee gave management input and guidance for the proposed approach to this report, and then 
reviewed and discussed the final text of this report before recommending its approval by the full Board of Directors.
 The AEP Board of Directors has received periodic reports both from management and from the Committee on 
Directors and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives. Many of the topics in this report have 
been the subject of active discussion at Board and Committee meetings. Members of the Board all received copies of this 
report before it was published, and several directors made suggestions that have been incorporated into this report. 
Following its review, and upon recommendation of the Committee, the Board of Directors adopted a formal resolution 
approving this report.
 The Board believes this report is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s plans and performance 
and of its environmental, social and financial impacts. The Board realizes that the company must be prepared to make 
frequent adjustments in response to the difficult economic and financial situation that the nation is experiencing. The Board 
has emphasized to management that it will be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan to meet 
stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to changing circumstances while respecting 
the commitments in this report. 
 
LESTER A. HUDSON, JR.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 2009
SERVICE TERRITORYMARKET PRICE — COMMON STOCK  
 $51.24 
$41.67 $46.56 $49.11  
$25.54 
$33.28
 High Low Year-End High Low Year-End
  2007   2008
ANNUAL CO 2 EMISSIONS  
(in million metric tons)
 146.9
 145.1
 143.9 147.7 148.2  
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
In 20 08, AEP’s CO 2 emissions increased 0.32 percent  
while electricity demand grew 0.5 percent. The decline 
in SO 2 and NOx emissions reflects the success of our 
environmental programs.ANNUAL SO 2 EMISSIONS  
(in kilotons)
 830 816 774 
680 
579
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
ANNUAL NOx EMISSIONS  
(in kilotons)
 257 250 245 241 226
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008COMPANY OVERVIEW 2008
American Electric Power has been providing electric service for 
more than 100 years and is one of the nation’s largest electric 
utilities, serving 5.2 million customers in 11 states.    
Revenues (in billions)  $ 14.4 
Net Income (in millions)   $ 1,380 1 
Earnings Per Share  $ 3.43 1 
Cash Dividends Per Share $1.64
Service Territory 197,500 square miles
Transmission 39,000 miles
Distribution 213,000 miles
Generating Capacity  37,736 MW 2 
Generating Stations More than 80
Renewable Portfolio (hydro) 364 MW 3
Renewable Portfolio (wind) 1,296 MW 4
Total Assets (in billions) $ 4 5 . 2
U.S. Customers (year-end, in thousands) 5,213
Employees (year-end) 21,912   
1  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
2  Includes 270 MW of retired/decommissioned generating capacity
3 Excludes pumped storage
4 Regulated wind capacity online or under contract
AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian 
Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power  
(in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power,  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric 
Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio.
This report was printed by Cenveo Anderson Lithograph on 50 percent recycled paper, including 25 percent post-consumer waste, with soy-formulated 
inks. Cenveo Anderson Lithograph was chosen because it is an environmentally sustainable printer that is Forest Stewardship Council certified, has a 
zero landfill, 100 percent recycling policy for all hazardous and non-hazardous production waste byproducts, and is the only Air Quality Management 
District certified “totally enclosed” commercial print facility in the nation. This results in virtually no volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions being 
released from its production facilities into the atmosphere. By choosing this printer, AEP avoided releasing 149 pounds of VOC emissions and 6,174 pounds 
of greenhouse gas emissions.
AEP ECONOMIC IMPAC T 200 81  
Jobs 21,912 
Wages 2 $ 1,758,224,720  
Construction Expense s3  $3,981,200,000  
Local Taxe s $503,717,158
State Taxes $319,276,642
Federal Taxe s $504,773,323
Materials & Service s4 $8,798,769,223  
Value of All Contract s5 $19,685,558,382
Value of Supplier Diversity Contracts $935,528,930
Coal Purchased (tons) 80,000,000
Coal Average Purchase Price $47.14/ton
Corporate Givin g6 $23,599,899  
Economic Development Contribution s7 $1,247,444
 1  Reflects combined totals for the AEP utility units and the AEP 
  Service Corporation
 2  State unemployment wages
 3  Includes environmental expenditures and excludes AFUDC, capitalized 
  interest and assets acquired under leases
 4  Includes fuel, diversity spend and current open/pending contract dollars
 5  Includes open/pending contract dollars with varying expiration dates
 6  Includes all corporate and AEP Foundation contributions
 7  Includes grants and contributions by utility units to support  
  economic development
 Coal/Lignite Natural Gas 
 66% 23%
 
 
  Nuclear  
  6%
 
  Hydro, Wind 
  & Pumped Storage 
  5%AEP GENERATION FUEL PORTFOLIO2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  1HOW TO READ THIS REPORT
This report is divided into seven sections, each one focused on one of AEP’s material 
issues. To make it as comprehensive as possible for all readers, there is some redun -
dancy if you are reading multiple sections. See page 6 for descriptions of our material 
issues. Each section was written to be comprehensive so that if you don’t read any 
other section, you have a complete picture of that particular issue, metrics included. 
The photographs at the beginning of each section feature stakeholders who partici -
pated in our stakeholder meetings during the development of this report.
ADDITIONAL WEB CONTENT
This report is supported by additional performance data on our Web site, 
www.AEP .com/cr . Throughout the report, you will find Web links that may be useful. 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
We follow the GRI guidelines for this report; a complete index of performance indica -
tors is located at the end of this report. All of the data supporting these indicators can 
be found either in this report or on our Web site. This year, we also are reporting on 
electric utility sector-specific indicators.Committed To Our Principles,
Managing Within Our Means With significantly fewer resources 
to support business operations, we are 
responding in ways that ensure our 
sustainability. We cut approximately 
$750 million in spending on important 
capital projects and are operating with 
“no growth” budgets this year. The 
picture is no different for 2010 and 2011; 
we intend to hold our operating budgets 
flat going forward and further reduce 
capital spending in 2010 and 2011 by 
an additional $700 million from 2009 
levels. We also issued 69 million shares 
of common stock to reduce debt and 
revised our 2009 ongoing earnings guid -
ance. These actions will strengthen our 
balance sheet, improve our cash liquidity 
position, help ensure our credit ratings 
remain investment grade and provide us 
with continued access to credit markets. 
Inevitably, our progress on some com -
mitments will slow. Our intent is to move 
forward when and where we can.  
 The search for solutions dares all 
of us to think more creatively and to address public policy more comprehen -
sively, rather than as single-issue initia -
tives. We have to challenge ourselves to 
look beyond the assumptions that have 
historically guided our expectations and 
to work together. 
 Energy can and will play a central 
role in our global economic recovery. 
The time is now to advance policies  
and technologies, such as energy  
efficiency and smart grid technologies, 
that will stimulate growth, protect the 
environment and enhance communities. 
Conversely, poor policies could greatly 
impede our economic recovery. 
 We need a comprehensive domes -
tic energy policy and workable, realistic 
international climate agreements that 
will enable us to meet the economic, 
energy and environmental challenges 
we face. As we continue to work with our 
stakeholders, we have found large tracts 
of common ground. 
HIGHLIGHTS OF  
OUR PROGRESS IN 2008 
AEP has made significant progress 
toward the goals and commitments 
presented in our first two sustainability 
reports. One of our core values is the 
safety and health of our employees, and 
we are on track to achieve top quartile 
performance in our industry by 2010. 
We had our second consecutive year 
with no workplace employee fatalities in 
2008 — for the first time in our 102-year 
history. I am grateful beyond words to 
everyone in the AEP family for making 
this possible, but I am very sad to report 
that one of our employees lost his life 
on the job at the Dolet Hills lignite mine 
in Louisiana in March 2009. Regardless 
2 A Message From The Chairman
DEAR FRIENDS & COLLEAGUES: 
I am pleased to share American Electric 
Power’s third annual sustainability 
report. We believe that our ability to 
deliver a reasonable return to our 
shareholders is greatly enhanced when 
our operations also promote positive 
environmental and social outcomes. Our 
commitment to sustainability ensures 
that we take into account this business 
imperative in everything we do, whether 
in good times or in bad. 
 This is the third year in which we 
have met with many different stake -
holders, including employees, regula -
tors, environmental groups, investors, 
customers and others. These valuable 
interactions have taught us a lot about 
how our stakeholders perceive us and 
what they expect from us. I hope our 
stakeholders also have learned from 
these dialogues and now have a better 
understanding of AEP as we do of them.
 We face resource constraints and 
economic challenges unlike any in our 
lifetimes. The economic crisis gripping 
our nation and the rest of the world 
is creating hardships on our custom -
ers, our employees and our business. 
Industries are closing their doors; jobs 
are being eliminated; homes are being 
foreclosed upon; retirement savings are 
drying up; and many are having difficulty 
making ends meet. We see the effect 
as electricity consumption decreases, 
customer delinquencies increase, and 
regulators signal their unwillingness to 
raise customer rates and instead choose 
to defer costs. Some of our employees 
face hardships as well. AEP has frozen 
salaries, curtailed hiring and reduced 
business travel for the year. A Message From The Chairman2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  3of the cause, his family will never be the 
same. Fatalities and injuries are not ac -
ceptable. We must determine what went 
wrong, fix it, and refocus our efforts to 
ensure it is the very last time we have to 
report this news.  
 Our goal is zero harm, and clearly 
we have much more work to do. Two 
contractors lost their lives on the job,  
and several incidents occurred that 
caused loss of limbs and other serious 
injuries. We continue to experience 
serious near-misses, indicating that luck 
is still too much of a factor in our safety 
and health success. 
 I have many goals as chairman of 
AEP, but what I want most, by far, is for 
every employee, and those who work  
for us as contractors, to go home each 
night to their families and friends safe 
and sound. 
 We continue to have an excellent 
environmental performance record, 
although there is still room for improve -
ment. We received one significant 
enforcement action in 2008 related to a 
water quality permit at one of our power 
plants in West Virginia. Our goal contin -
ues to be zero enforcement actions.
  We are making good progress 
toward reducing our emissions. We ex -
ceeded our Chicago Climate Exchange 
commitment to reduce or offset carbon 
dioxide, and our investments in environ -
mental controls for our coal-fired gen -
eration plants have resulted in significant 
emissions reductions. 
 We received approval for the first 
ultra-supercritical pulverized coal plant 
in the United States. The Turk Plant in
Arkansas is designed to be retrofitted
with carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology and has one of the strictest 
air permits in the nation for coal-fired 
power plants. 
 At a time when the economy is in 
crisis and regulators are loathe to raise 
customer rates, energy efficiency is an 
excellent tool that can hold customer 
bills steady, delay the need for new gen-
eration resources and help us address 
climate change. To do it effectively, 
we must give customers more real-time
information about how they use electric -
ity so they know how to save it. Our 
gridSMARTSM initiative is key to solving 
that puzzle. We have installed 10,000 
meters in a pilot in Indiana and received 
approval to install 100,000 meters in 
Ohio and 1 million meters in Texas.
OUR GOALS FOR 2009 & BEYOND 
Our vision for the future is unchanged, but 
our progress will slow as we manage our 
resources differently in this environment. 
 We want to build on the growing 
momentum for a national interstate 
transmission system, which is vital to en -
abling commerce and economic recov -
ery and strengthening energy security. A 
modern transmission system would save 
energy, facilitate more efficient energy 
markets and give us far better options for 
addressing climate change by enabling 
renewable power to be sent from where 
it can be most efficiently produced to 
where it is needed most. We are working 
with many others to achieve this goal.
 Our CCS validation project at 
the Mountaineer Plant is a priority and 
will be operational in 2009. More than 
50 percent of the nation’s electricity 
comes from coal, and CCS is an innova -
tive way to deal with climate change. We will continue to work diligently 
to advance policies and develop tech -
nologies that support energy efficiency 
and demand reduction. This year, we 
set a new goal for energy reduction that 
complements our 1,000-MW demand 
reduction goal. We believe it is achiev -
able and will be acceptable to regula -
tors. We also are doubling our goal for 
renewable energy to 2,000 MW by the 
end of 2011, with regulatory support.
 We understand the new reality of 
today’s economy. That’s why our goal 
is to work to change the way the world 
produces, distributes and consumes 
energy. Supported by alternative 
regulatory solutions, new technologies, 
a strategic energy policy and greater 
collaboration with stakeholders and 
between nations, we believe that a 
secure, lower-carbon energy future that 
supports sustainable economic growth 
is within reach. We believe that coal will 
be part of our energy future and that 
advanced technology, more efficient use 
of energy and a modern interstate trans -
mission grid are what will allow it. The 
near-term will be challenging, but the 
future is full of promise and opportunity 
— and the men and women of AEP are 
prepared and eager to lead the way. We 
invite you to join us.
 Thank you for your interest in  
American Electric Power.
Sincerely, 
 
MICHAEL G. MORRIS 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer 
increased, and copper theft continues 
to be a primary cause. Our efforts to 
improve our environment, safety and 
health management systems are help -
ing us to address these issues.
 We value our work force by celebrat-
ing diversity, promoting personal growth 
and creating a workplace to engage 
and inspire employees. We are making 
progress in fostering the culture to move 
forward on our sustainability journey.
 
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 
The political landscape changed  
dramatically in 2008 and so did the 
regulatory terrain. Two important 
environmental rules — the Clean Air 
Interstate Rule (CAIR) and the Clean Air 
Mercury Rule — were overturned by the 
courts. Until a new rule is in place, CAIR 
will be kept intact, but we expect that 
its replacement will be more stringent 
and require additional investments for 
compliance. The U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) already has said 
it will develop new rules for mercury. 
We also expect the EPA to take a closer 
look at coal ash. We oppose regulating 
coal ash as a hazardous waste, but agree 
that some level of coordinated federal 
oversight of coal ash dams has merit, as 
long as it does not duplicate or overlap 
existing regulations.
 Climate legislation is a high priority 
for the Obama administration, and the 
proposed federal budget has provisions 
to establish a cap-and-trade bill. We 
are very concerned about the provision 
for 100 percent auction of allowances 
because of the negative impact that 
would have on customer rates. However, 
we intend to be part of the solution and 
4 Leadership, Management & Strategy Leadership, Management & Strategy
we must do everything in our power 
to reduce the risk of injury. The injuries 
our employees received last year, the 
two citations we received for non-com -
pliance with Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration regulations and 
the 43 citations from the Mine Safety 
and Health Administration underscore 
our need to improve. 
 
Our vision is to get to the cause of every 
accident, every injury and every near-
miss. We are reducing events through 
job hazard analyses, hazard recognition 
and risk assessment training along with 
an error reduction initiative (also known 
as Human Performance). Although we 
are on track to achieve top quartile per -
formance within our industry for safety 
and health, we will not be satisfied until 
we eliminate injuries completely. Only 
then can we be assured of no fatalities. 
Protecting the public is important for 
us, too. Although the public had fewer 
electrical contacts with our equip -
ment last year, the number of fatalities DEAR STAKEHOLDERS: 
Sustainability is a core commitment for 
AEP because it is a long-term, profitable 
business strategy that serves our share -
holders, customers, employees, com-
munities, the environment and society 
at large. We say long-term because we 
know that sustainability means meet -
ing the needs of today, tomorrow and 
beyond. It is a journey and we stick to 
the path, in good times and in bad. 
Sustainability also means holding 
ourselves accountable by measuring 
and reporting our results and by being 
deeply engaged with a wide variety  
of stakeholders. 
 We realize that we need to improve 
our environmental, safety and health 
performance and work with our contrac -
tors and suppliers to help them improve 
theirs. And we believe strongly that 
more innovation in our company and 
within our industry will lead to better 
ways of delivering a reliable supply of 
clean energy and help customers to 
use it more efficiently. We recognize 
today’s economic challenges could slow 
our progress.
 
CARING FOR PEOPLE 
The safety and health of our employees, 
contractors and the public is a core 
value for AEP. Although we have made 
great progress, we failed to live up to 
this value when an employee lost his life 
while performing his job in March 2009. 
As an organization, we are single-mind -
ed about preventing harm. Every one 
of us is troubled that employees and 
contractors get hurt on the job. Putting 
people in harm’s way without the tools 
to keep them safe is unacceptable, and 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  5will continue to work with Congress and 
the president toward that goal. AEP’s 
position is clear: we believe climate 
change is a global issue that requires 
reasonable, achievable actions that take 
into account affordability, the availability 
of technology, and timing. 
 We will work collaboratively with 
the new administration on a national 
energy policy and its connection to the 
environment and the economy. We will 
advocate for the rapid development of 
advanced technology to allow us to use 
coal in a more environmentally accept -
able way, such as at our carbon capture 
and storage validation project at the 
Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. The 
environmental effect of underground 
storage of CO 2 is another important 
area where we are working closely with 
federal and state regulators. We invited 
the public to learn more about this proj -
ect in 2008. Additional public hearings 
will occur in 2009.
 
WORKING INTERNATIONALLY 
We continue to work both in Wash -
ington and internationally through the 
World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) and the e8, 
among others. In 2008, the WBCSD 
released its second report at the U.N. 
Conference on Climate Change in 
Poland on technology and public policy 
solutions to address climate change. 
We agree with stakeholders who say 
the United States should take the 
lead on climate change and go to the 
next round of climate negotiations in 
Copenhagen later this year in a leader -
ship position. We will do our part to 
help make that happen.  MAKING PROGRESS; 
FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
I am pleased to share some of our many 
successes during the past year. AEP:
•	Recorded one of the best years for  
environmental performance in  
company history;
•	Brought two more scrubbers online at 
our power plants;
•	Achieved a 4.2 percent reduction  
in energy consumption in our  
office buildings;
•	Enlisted 10 suppliers to undergo an 
environmental review through the 
Green Suppliers Network, of which 
AEP is a corporate champion;
•	Installed three additional advanced 
energy storage batteries to support 
reliability of the distribution system 
and gain experience with large-scale 
battery storage;
•	Continued to press for Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) Silver certification at three of 
our facilities;
•	Deployed the first 10,000 meters  
of smart grid technology in South 
Bend, Ind.
We believe that climate change must 
be addressed as part of our nation’s 
energy policy and that energy efficiency 
is a resource that will help meet our 
energy needs. We believe that carbon 
capture and storage and advanced coal 
technology must be part of the solution 
and that the nation needs a bigger and 
more efficient transmission system, one 
that can have the same positive impact 
on the economy as the Federal Highway 
Act had in the 1950s and ‘60s. 
 We face many challenges: a new political landscape, a difficult economy, 
reluctance by regulators to raise rates, 
climate legislation, new and complex 
regulations, an aging work force, aging 
infrastructure and communities that are 
expecting businesses to step up their 
support of economic development in 
these hard times. 
 Sustainability encourages us to 
learn what others think and expect of us 
and look for ways to collaborate while 
adapting to change. As the challenges 
mount, it is even more important to 
work closely with regulators, environ -
mental groups, legislators, our own 
employees and other stakeholders to 
achieve the best results. We will call on 
our stakeholders to publicly support 
issues we agree on, such as technology 
advancements and energy efficiency. 
We expect they will push us harder on 
some issues, too.
 In spite of today’s uncertainties,  
this is a time of exciting new opportu -
nities and renewal — the prospect of 
building a brighter future for America. 
AEP will be part of that renewal and 
among those leading the way. We look 
forward to working together as we  
continue our journey .
Sincerely,
 
DENNIS E. WELCH 
Executive Vice President,  
Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities 
 
public policy, laws and regulations 
now and in the future enable us to 
continue to serve our customers, 
reward our shareholders and pursue 
our vision for sustainability. We will 
work with regulators and legislators 
on alternative rate-making solutions. 
•	Climate Change: AEP has a major 
role to play in addressing climate 
change, including bringing advanced 
coal and other technologies to com -
mercial scale, supporting energy  
efficiency programs and securing 
access to large-scale renewables 
through transmission development. 
Our company and the prosperity of 
many within our service territory  
require us to work effectively and  
cooperatively with government  
regulators, our stakeholders and the 
states and communities in which we 
operate on climate change issues.  
We must be a leader internationally  
to help achieve a global solution.
•	Energy Security, Reliability & 
Growth: Our electric generation and 
delivery systems must be modern, reli -
able and able to handle a diverse fuel 
supply and keep pace with customer 
demand. Collaboration with others 
is essential not only to create and 
maintain these systems, but to ensure 
adequate and timely cost recovery. 
•	Stakeholder Engagement:  All of 
the material issues we face and our 
well-being as a company increasingly 
depend on working closely with our 
stakeholders. Sustainability requires 
us to disclose our intentions, report 
on our performance and engage in 
active and forthright dialogue with 
our various stakeholders. 
6 About This ReportOUR CORPORATE VISION
We seek to maintain and strengthen our 
leadership as one of the largest genera -
tion and transmission companies in the 
United States. We strive to maintain our 
leadership as the largest electric distri -
bution business throughout the regions 
we serve, and to be a leader in technical 
innovation of power systems, environ -
mental technology, transmission systems 
and customer service.
OUR VISION FOR SUSTAINABILITY
American Electric Power will be an 
energy leader through programs and 
technologies that protect people, man -
age our impacts on the environment, 
promote energy efficiency, provide for 
customer control over electricity usage 
and provide for greater access to renew -
able forms of energy and advanced 
clean energy technologies. We will work 
with our regulators and other stakehold -
ers to achieve this through an approach 
that maximizes the positive economic, 
social and environmental impacts of  
our operations.
OUR MATERIAL ISSUES
Our material issues are those that  
(1) have a significant impact on the  
company’s finances or operations; 
(2) have or may have significant impact 
on the environment or society now or  
in the future; or (3) can substantially  
influence the assessments, decisions 
and actions of our stakeholders.
 We believe that our material  
issues are:
•	Leadership, Management &  
Strategy:  Sustainability requires  
a strong and committed leadership team willing to be aggressive and take 
prudent risks to maintain AEP’s role 
as an industry leader, meet the needs 
of our customers, deliver value to our 
shareholders and achieve our vision 
for sustainability. We will continue to 
integrate social and environmental 
considerations into our business.
•	Environmental Performance: 
Although environmental laws and 
regulations are complex and change 
frequently, we must comply at all 
times. Our challenge is to continu -
ously achieve compliance, reduce our  
 impact on the environment, improve 
the health of our communities and to 
go beyond compliance where we can.
•	Work Force Issues: Protecting the 
safety and health of our employees 
and contractors and reducing the 
number and severity of work-related 
injuries is a core value. We seek a 
skilled, diverse and highly motivated 
work force to build, operate and  
maintain existing and future genera -
tion, transmission and distribution 
technologies.
•	Public Policy: We must actively 
engage legislators, policymakers and 
other stakeholders to ensure that  A bout This R eport 
Cook Coal Terminal handles about 20 million 
tons of coal per year.
Photo by employee Rhonda Cowanable. Detailed financial information is 
available in AEP’s 2008 Annual Report  
to Shareholders  and other financial  
filings ( www.AEP.com/investors ). 
 AEP’s Board of Directors reviews 
this report, provides guidance, votes 
to approve its content and passes a 
resolution each year to publicly voice 
its intent to hold management account -
able. The resolution is published each 
year on the inside front cover. AEP’s 
sustainability initiatives are overseen by 
the Board’s Committee on Directors and 
Corporate Governance. AEP was recog -
nized by Corporate Secretary magazine 
last year for having one of the most in -
novative corporate social responsibility 
disclosure policies. AEP’s executive-level 
Steering Committee for Sustainable 
Development provides guidance on sus -
tainable development and participates 
in developing our reports.
 SustainAbility benchmarked last 
year’s report to identify strengths and 
areas for improvement. Our report 
scored well for its candor and forthright 
tone as well as its discussion of process, 
outcomes and value of the stakeholder 
engagement process. SustainAbility 
called it “a strong second report with 
significant evolution of coverage of 
critical sustainability issues.” The study 
noted areas for improvement, such as 
providing a better business case for 
action on climate change; providing a 
fuller picture of what is driving sustain -
ability across the business; and improv -
ing the presentation of performance 
data. These issues continue to be areas 
of interest to stakeholders, and we have 
worked to provide greater focus and 
clarity around them.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  7STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We conducted five stakeholder meet -
ings in the process of preparing this 
report. The engagement was more 
issue-focused and represented a wider 
range of stakeholder views than in the 
past. Our discussions with employees, 
customers, labor, academia, regulators, 
policymakers, environmental groups, 
community leaders and investors were 
candid and helped us to identify strate -
gies and specific actions. We are work -
ing to stay connected and talk more 
frequently with our stakeholders. 
 During the past year, we worked 
with SustainAbility, a leading sustain -
ability firm, to facilitate three stake -
holder meetings at the community level 
on climate and the environment, energy 
security and reliability, and work force 
issues. For the third year in a row, Ceres, 
a national network of investors, environ -
mental organizations and other public 
interest groups, facilitated a dialogue 
for us with stakeholders on a national 
level. This year’s report includes an 
unedited open letter to AEP from this 
stakeholder team (see Stakeholder 
Engagement section). We appreciate 
the candid discussions we had with 
all of our stakeholders and look for-
ward to continuing the dialogue. Our 
discussions are reflected throughout 
the report.
 Our primary stakeholders are: 
•	Shareholders and prospective  
 investors
•	Customers — large and small
•	AEP employees and retirees
•	Labor unions
•	Local communities
•	Federal and state legislators,   regulators and other elected leaders
•	Prospective employees
•	Suppliers and others doing  
 business with the company
•	Non-governmental organizations   
•	Professionals from industry, 
 government, labor and academia  
The following issues were  
identified by our stakeholders 
as being important to them:
•	Safety and health — for  
employees and contractors; for 
communities
•	A workplace that stimulates  
employees’ achieving their  
full potential
•	Leadership in the public  
policy arena
•	Climate change 
•	Environmental performance  
upstream and downstream
•	Cost of electricity; reliable,  
adequate supply
•	Leadership on energy  
efficiency/demand response 
•	Coal issues — mountaintop  
mining, coal ash, viability as a  
fuel source
•	Renewable energy and  
transmission
•	Collaboration, partnerships  
between AEP and its stakeholders
•	Impacts of the economy on our  
commitments
REPORTING  
PERIOD & DEVELOPMENT 
This report is based on performance 
and information for calendar year 2008, 
but provides three- to five-year data 
trends when that information is avail - 
this goal. Climate change must be ad -
dressed through reasonable legislation 
that sets ambitious but achievable goals. 
 Like many other companies, AEP is 
making adjustments to adapt to the cur -
rent economic crisis and to ensure our 
sustainability. We have fewer resources 
to support our business, and we are 
managing them carefully. We have taken 
steps to limit spending and reduce debt 
in response to the economic downturn. 
We know our customers also are facing 
hardship; we see it in the loss of jobs 
throughout our service territory. Electric -
ity consumption is down and customer 
delinquencies are up, as more custom -
ers face difficulties paying their bills. 
And we see it in regulatory decisions in 
our states where regulators are under -
standably unwilling to raise customer 
rates in this environment. But when rates 
are kept low and costs are deferred, we 
face difficult choices. We can no longer 
afford to spend now and collect later, 
especially as costs continue to escalate. 
This regulatory model is quickly creat -
ing a crisis in the electric industry, and 
our strategy is to work with regulators, 
legislators and other policymakers to 
develop alternative regulatory solutions.
 We have made progress on several 
fronts, including the $5.2 billion in 
environmental investments in our plants, 
although the recession may slow our 
pace. We are deeply concerned that if 
regulations move faster than the devel -
opment of technology, older coal plants 
could be forced to retire sooner, leading 
to more costly generation solutions 
and higher costs for customers. Our 
customers have seen their rates increase 
between 20 percent and 50 percent 
8 About This ReportCHANGES IN REPORTING
Starting in 2009, we will provide a semi -
annual update of our key commitments 
on our Web site ( www.AEP .com ). It will 
be the basis for a stakeholder briefing to 
be chaired by our executive leadership. 
 AEP was one of two U.S. compa -
nies that participated in a pilot program 
for the new Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Electric Utility Sector Supplement. 
The supplement was developed to be 
applicable on a global basis, regardless 
of size, type of generation, ownership, 
or other variations within the sector. The 
indicators were not final at press time; 
consequently, the indicators we reported 
on were evolving. We have provided an 
index of the GRI and Sector Supplement 
indicators at the end of this report, with 
the full data online at www.AEP .com .
REPORTING 
PRINCIPLES & GUIDANCE 
AEP’s report follows GRI’s G3 Report -
ing Principles. The GRI Electric Utility 
Sector Supplement will provide greater 
insight into our 
specific industry 
and the issues we 
face. We adhere to 
the GRI principles 
of materiality, 
stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability 
context, completeness, comparability, 
accuracy, timeliness, clarity, reliability 
and boundary setting. Our report is 
checked by GRI.
COMPLETENESS, RELIABILITY & 
ACCURACY OF REPORTING
AEP tracks all commitments made herein 
through our Enterprise Risk and Insur -ance Department. Each business unit 
collects and verifies data for which it is 
responsible, some of which is verified  
for regulatory compliance as well. We are 
working on a more complete informa -
tion management system and in 2010 
our Audit Services Department will begin 
to audit our data collection process. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
— IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
For additional information about this  
report, the GRI information posted 
on the company’s Web site or the com -
pany’s sustainability initiatives, please 
contact Sandy Nessing at smnessing
@AEP.com  or TaKeysha Cheney at 
tscheney@AEP.com .
Str ategy, M a nagem ent  
& G over na nce 
OUR STRATEGY  
FOR SUSTAINABILITY
Our vision, mission, and values outline 
the principles that guide our business 
and provide the context for integrating 
sustainability into our strategy, daily 
operations, measurement and reporting. 
As we looked more closely at what sus -
tainability means to us, we revised our 
Vision for Sustainability  to better reflect 
our vision for the future. 
 Our goal is to help secure a lower-
carbon energy future. That means more 
renewable energy, an extra-high voltage 
transmission backbone system, advanced 
coal technologies and energy efficiency. 
Our strategy and determination to 
achieve it have not changed. We want 
to work with all of our stakeholders to 
find common ground and move toward  
SUSTAINABILITY IS INTEGRATED THROUGHOUT AEP  
FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO FRONT-LINE EMPLOYEES
   AEP Board of Directors
 
   Chairman, President & CEO
   Executive Council
 Steering Committee     AEP 
 for Sustainable   Generation Transmission Distribution Service Corporation Development       
   AEP Employees
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  9during the last three years, driven 
largely by government mandates and 
fuel costs. We expect costs to rise 
further, and we are seeking alternative 
rate-making options that allow us to 
make needed investments and recover 
the cost of those investments sooner. 
 Better managing the pathway from 
power plant to customer is a big part of 
our strategy — from building a far more 
efficient interstate transmission system 
to new customer programs enabled by 
the smart meters of our gridSMARTSM 
initiative. Just as the federal highway 
system has facilitated growth in our 
national economy, so too will a modern 
electricity grid. It will create efficiencies  
for all electricity delivery, improve relia-
bility and drive growth in renewable 
forms of energy by moving electricity 
from where it can be generated to 
where it is needed. 
 We support more emphasis on 
energy efficiency because it is an excel -
lent tool to help customers manage their 
bills, delay or reduce the need for new 
generation and address climate change.
GOVERNANCE
At AEP, we strive to work with integrity, 
responsibility and fairness. Our Code  
of Conduct helps to ensure that we 
operate to the highest standards of 
integrity and legal compliance. Employ -
ees are trained and must certify their 
understanding of and compliance with 
this code. The office of Ethics & Compli -
ance operates a 24/7 hotline that allows 
employees to anonymously report or 
seek guidance on ethics and compliance 
issues. In 2008, 576 calls were handled, 
which was an increase from 476 cases in 2007. We think the increased volume 
results from more communication with 
employees and greater employee trust 
that their contacts will be kept confiden -
tial and not result in retribution. 
 AEP started an ethics and compli -
ance employee blog on the company’s 
intranet. The blog is one of the tools 
we use to connect with employees and 
enable the sharing of ideas, questions, 
thoughts, frustrations and opinions. Each 
week, the director of Ethics & Compli -
ance posts a new discussion topic.
 AEP’s enterprise risk reporting focuses on providing information and 
education about our risks. This helps 
us to understand our risks and take ac -
tions to mitigate them where appropri -
ate. Monthly reporting and risk execu -
tive committee discussions encompass 
both existing and emerging risks from 
all sectors of the company. The risks and 
commitments addressed in this report 
are part of our ongoing enterprise risk 
reporting process.  n“AEP has begun to lead and must convince our government to 
develop a timetable of long-term standards; change must be  
mandated. Other nations may not agree, but we should share 
more technology with them and lead the way with major cuts  
in CO 2 and investments in wind and solar energy.” 
Charles Dixon, Marshall, Texas; member of the Friends of Caddo Lake 
National Wildlife Refuge and AEP stakeholder
10 Environmental PerformanceEnvironmental Performance
Our success as a company rests on 
superior environmental performance and 
our willingness to engage regulators, en -
vironmentalists, communities and others 
around our environmental record and our 
plans for the future. 
 At the conclusion of our $5.2 billion 
environmental retrofit program, we will 
have installed controls that dramatically  
reduce airborne emissions on nearly 
three-quarters of our coal-burning power 
plants. Through 2008, we already have 
invested $4.36 billion in this program. 
As a result, in 2008 sulfur dioxide (SO 2) 
emissions from AEP 
power plants declined 
more than 100,000 
tons — a 15 percent 
reduction from 2007 
levels. In addition to 
air quality, we manage 
many other impacts 
to the environment 
every day. From land -
fills and ash ponds to 
water quality, poly -
chlorinated biphe -
nyls (PCBs) and electronic waste such as 
computers, cell phones and monitors, we 
have a social as well as legal responsibility 
to do what’s right. 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Doing what is right is the foundation of all 
environmental activity at AEP; compliance 
is the baseline by which we measure our 
performance. We are committed to being 
100 percent compliant at all times, to zero 
environmental enforcement actions and to 
go beyond compliance wherever possible. AEP received one significant enforcement 
action in 2008 compared with two during 
2007 and nine in 2006.1 We tie compensa -
tion to this metric for most of our Genera -
tion organization and other business units, 
such as Environmental Services, as well as 
for all senior officers. Whereas our compli -
ance record has improved, we will not be 
satisfied until we achieve and sustain zero 
environmental compliance actions.
 The enforcement action occurred 
when the West Virginia Department of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) found that 
we had exceeded the permit discharge 
limit for selenium in 
the fly ash pond at 
the Mitchell Plant 
from June 2006  
to May 2008. It 
proposed a fine 
of $47,530.
    We first be -
came aware of the 
problem after we 
installed a flue gas 
scrubber and a trona 
system at Mitchell. 
Trona is a mineral used to control sulfur 
trioxide levels in flue gas. Its installation 
increased the pH of the fly ash pond and 
resulted in selenium levels rising above 
permit limits. We identified this issue in 
our 2008 sustainability report, although 
the enforcement action was issued after 
the report was published. As we gained 
operating experience with the new air 
quality control equipment, we were able 
to better control the balance between the 
trona and the pH levels in the ash pond to 
bring the selenium levels within the permit TOP 5  
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES RAISED  
BY STAKEHOLDERS
•	Coal ash management
•	Supply chain impacts  
(fuel and non-fuel)
•	Mountaintop mining
•	Air quality issues
•	Water quality, availability
1 Significant enforcement actions are defined as actions arising from events that are within our control, 
have more than a minor environmental impact, and result in fines greater than $1,000.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  1112.3 
(in billions)
Gallons per day of total water discharges  
from AEP’s generating facilities
579,000
Tons of SO 2 emissions in 2008, down  
nearly 65% from 1980
226,000
Tons of NOx emissions in 2008, down  
nearly 60% from 1980
1.2 
(in millions)
Gallons of oil recycled in 2008
facilities and observing work practices. 
The auditing team reports directly to the 
chairman and chief executive officer.
 In 2008, we conducted audits at  
10 utility operations centers, six sites 
within River Operations and 15 power 
plants. Examples of adverse findings 
include deficiencies in an above-ground 
storage tank management program, new 
construction activities, asbestos abate -
ment and storm water permit compliance. 
We corrected these issues, implemented 
process controls to prevent their recur -
rence and shared audit results across the 
company. This year, we will begin unan -
nounced plant audits to mimic unan -
nounced visits from regulators. This will 
give us additional assurance that our 
compliance programs are strong and 
working effectively. 
 In addition to audits, we use MESH 
(Managing Environment, Safety and 
Health), our initiative to conform to the 
international environmental manage -
ment system standard ISO 14001, to raise 
awareness and knowledge and drive 
continuous improvements. So far, 36 fossil 
and hydro facilities are in different stages 
of implementing various MESH elements, 
and four additional plants will begin 
implementation in 2009. AIR QUALITY
The 1970 Clean Air Act (CAA) and 
subsequent amendments created public 
awareness about the importance of pollu -
tion control. The CAA helped to change 
the public’s attitude about the value of 
environmental protection and created 
widespread understanding that economic 
growth and a clean environment can go 
hand-in-hand. 
 The investments we’ve made to 
improve power plant operations have 
contributed to better air quality by reduc -
ing coal consumption and producing 
fewer emissions. AEP consistently has 
produced electricity more efficiently than 
the national average for coal-fired power 
plants: our coal-fired power plant fleet is 
approximately 3.5 percent more efficient 
than the national average. Between 2001 
and 2007, for example, we avoided burn -
ing 16.2 million tons of coal and the as -
sociated costs and space for ash disposal, 
saved approximately $559 million in fuel 
costs and avoided 39 million metric tons 
of carbon dioxide emissions as a result of 
our ongoing efficiency efforts. Because 
AEP has a large percentage of coal-fired 
capacity, the economic conditions of our 
service territory and the markets have 
resulted in lower coal consumption.
 Although we have been reducing 
coal plant emissions since the 1970s, our 
efforts have intensified the past 10 years. 
Court decisions in 2008 about U.S. Envi -
ronmental Protection Agency regulations 
created regulatory uncertainty, with the 
expectation that the rules will change and 
compliance costs will increase. 
 AEP’s environmental retrofit program 
to comply with the Clean Air Interstate 
Rule (CAIR) continues despite uncertainty 
over CAIR’s future. We devoted 14.5 million 
12 Environmental Performancelimit. We have been in compliance with 
the permit limit since May 2008.
 Our John Amos Plant near Charleston,  
W.Va., was involved in two air quality 
episodes in 2008. In both, weather condi -
tions caused haze to form in the Kanawha 
Valley near the plant, and the state’s 
DEP determined that the plant was a 
primary contributor. As part of our overall 
upgrade program, the plant is being 
retrofitted with scrubbers, including new 
equipment to control the visible emissions 
that can be caused by the scrubbers. 
We are working with the DEP to identify 
appropriate operating parameters for the 
trona injection systems to control the vis -
ible appearance of the stack plumes. The 
operating parameters come from lessons 
learned and experience gained in operat -
ing similar systems at other AEP plants. 
These events demonstrate the complexity 
of installing new environmental equip -
ment on our power plants.
 Unfortunately, we received three 
enforcement actions early in 2009. The 
first was issued by the Virginia Depart -
ment of Environmental Quality for 
exceeding a new SO 2 limit at our Clinch 
River Plant. In the process of switching 
to a lower-sulfur coal, we inadvertently 
reclaimed older, slightly higher-sulfur coal 
from the coal pile. The remaining two 
actions were issued by the West Virginia 
DEP related to the Amos Plant’s fly ash 
landfill and the Mountaineer Plant’s fly ash 
and gypsum landfill. A plan to address 
these concerns is being implemented. 
CHECKS & BALANCES ON  
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
To assess compliance and improve per -
formance, AEP conducts environmental 
audits by checking records, inspecting 
A conveyor transports gypsum from AEP’s Mitchell 
Plant to a nearby CertainTeed Corp. facility where 
it is used to make wallboard. “Achieving a high level of 
environmental performance 
has been an important goal for 
AEP for several decades and, 
in recent years, we have been a 
leader in implementing pollu-
tion control systems at our 
plants. We strive to not only be 
in compliance, but to achieve 
or go beyond compliance with 
innovative approaches that 
minimize the cost to our  
customers while achieving en -
vironmental goals. We realize 
that this is a critical attribute 
of a sustainable organization 
and an expectation of our vari -
ous stakeholders, whether our 
own employees, our customers, 
our regulatory agencies or the 
public interest groups that we 
work with.” 
 
John McManus, vice president, 
Environmental Serviceswork hours to CAIR-related construction 
in 2008, making it among the largest con -
struction programs in the country. Last 
year, new scrubbers were brought online 
at two coal units, and major construction 
continued on four additional units. One 
of these units also is being equipped with 
a selective catalytic reduction system to 
reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions; 
three others already have been equipped. 
 The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals 
found significant legal deficiencies in 
CAIR and ultimately ordered the U.S. EPA 
to revise and correct the rule. Concerned 
the court would completely set aside the 
rule and leave no program in place, we 
advocated with state regulatory agen -
cies and other utilities to keep CAIR in 
place. CAIR requires significant emission 
reductions and provides a degree of plan -
ning certainty for states and the private 
sector. Although the impact of the court’s 
decision is uncertain and a new rule may 
be more stringent than CAIR, the original 
program is still in place. We are working 
with the U.S. EPA and others to help reach 
a realistic, achievable solution. 
 Because of the global financial crisis, 
we are facing severe financial issues that 
are likely to continue through 2010  
or longer, forcing us to delay some of the
scrubber projects that are planned. We 
want our stakeholders to understand that
this is strictly a financial issue, not a change 
in our commitment to the environment.
MERCURY
The D.C. Circuit Court also set aside the 
U.S. EPA’s Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), 
a rule developed in concert with CAIR 
to reduce multiple pollutants. CAMR 
required coal-fired power plants to cap 
and reduce mercury emissions. The legal appeals of the D.C. Circuit Court 
decisions have to run their course, and 
the EPA intends to develop a mercury 
regulatory program to replace CAMR.
 The electric industry faces a chal -
lenge because the technology to control 
mercury emissions is relatively new and 
untested. Despite the reduction in our 
capital budget, we are continuing with 
the installation of an activated carbon 
injection mercury control system at our 
Rockport Plant in Indiana (2,600 MW), in 
part to gain experience with the technol -
ogy. Installation of the technology on 
the Pirkey Plant in Texas, AEP’s highest 
mercury emitter, was postponed because 
of the budget reduction. We will reevalu -
ate this decision periodically so that if 
cash flow increases, the project can 
move forward. In the meantime, we are 
installing continuous mercury monitoring 
equipment at more than 20 coal-fired 
power plants, including Pirkey.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  13
The Pirkey Plant, Hallsville, Texas, is one of 
20 AEP plants to receive continuous mercury 
monitoring equipment.
NSR CONSENT DECREE
We have been complying with the New 
Source Review consent decree that we 
entered in 2007, which was described in 
last year’s report. This requires environ -
mental controls on nearly 75 percent of 
the installed capacity of our coal plants 
in our eastern region and the retirement, 
retrofitting or repowering of approximate -porary jobs at the height of construction 
and will result in 110 permanent jobs. 
Turk is one of the few coal plants under 
construction in the United States.
WATER QUALITY & MANAGEMENT
Water and energy production are funda -
mentally related from an environmental 
perspective — we need water to make 
electricity (10.5 billion gallons per day 
at AEP), and we need energy to sanitize 
and purify water. As with all aspects of 
the environment, compliance with water 
quality permits and other regulations is 
the foundation of our water programs, but 
we are increasingly focused on water use 
management. Although most of the water 
we withdraw is returned to its source, we 
are beginning to look beyond compliance 
to a total water management approach. 
 We formed a task force late last year 
to review AEP’s water use and the impacts 
we have on water resources. We also will 
review water balances at our power plants 
to identify savings opportunities. Water is 
an increasingly valuable resource for our 
business, for the communities in which we 
operate and for the environment. We be -lieve that we must be more vigilant about 
how we manage it. 
 Although we need more than 10 bil-  
lion gallons of water a day to produce 
electricity, most of it goes through a 
once-through system and is returned 
to the source. The U.S. EPA continues 
to develop regulations under Section 
316(b) of the Clean Water Act to establish 
national performance requirements for 
once-through power plant cooling water 
systems. These regulations are designed 
to protect fish and other aquatic organ -
isms that come in contact with water 
intakes, which often take in more than 
2 million gallons per minute. The U.S. 
Supreme Court recently ruled that the 
EPA could consider costs as well as ben -
efits of compliance in setting the new rule.
 AEP owns and operates 18 power 
plants that would be affected by changes 
to this rule. One approach being consid -
ered — a requirement to install cool -
ing towers at these plants so that water 
can be recycled — would reduce plant 
efficiency and actually increase water 
consumption. We are talking with the 
U.S. EPA to help ensure that all implica -
tions and unintended consequences 
are considered.
 Underground carbon storage is a key 
component of advanced coal technology, 
and we must ensure that it does not con -
taminate drinking water resources. The 
EPA will regulate the storage of CO 2 by 
adding a new category of injection wells 
to the Safe Drinking Water Act regulations 
and creating extensive siting, testing and 
monitoring requirements to prevent leaks.
 Carbon dioxide in water is not neces -
sarily a problem — think of the carbon -
ation in soda — but too much can turn 
water slightly acidic and allow other heavy 
14 Environmental Performancely 2,000 MW of smaller, older and less 
efficient plants. The decree includes a cap 
on NOx emissions starting in 2009 and 
on SO 2 emissions starting in 2010. This 
year, we are adding NOx controls at some 
units and are operating all existing NOx 
controls on a year-round basis.
 In 2010, our SO 2 emissions cap takes 
effect and represents an approximate 
386,000-ton reduction from 2006 levels 
for our Midwestern plants. Both NOx and 
SO2 caps will decline under the consent 
decree until 2018 and 2019, respectively.
 The approval of an air permit for the 
John W. Turk Jr. Power Plant from the 
Arkansas Department of Environmental 
Quality was a significant achievement 
for AEP’s Southwestern Electric Power 
Company in 2008. This ultra-supercritical 
pulverized coal plant will be the first in the 
United States and will feature the most 
efficient existing technology for burning 
western coals. It also can be retrofit with 
carbon dioxide controls. The emission 
limits set by the state are among the most 
stringent ever for a pulverized coal plant.
 Although some opponents of the 
plant filed an appeal, we have been  
allowed to continue construction while 
the appeal is resolved. The plant will take  
48 months to build, will create 1,400 tem-
A rendering of the John W. Turk Jr. Power Plant, 
one of the few coal generating stations under 
construction in the United States.
Barium 35%  Copper 20%  
Chlorine Zinc 2% 12% 
Lead
2% 
Other Nickel 
2% 9%
 
Arsenic
3% Ammonia  
 6%
Selenium 3% 
 Manganese 6%AEP SYSTEMWIDE RELEASES 
TO WATER — 2007
(192,025 pounds, most recent data available)metals and toxic substances to leach into 
the water supply more easily. Carbon 
dioxide will be separated from drinking 
water aquifers by many thousands of feet. 
Typically, drinking water supplies are only 
a few hundred feet deep in the Midwest, 
whereas injection of CO 2 would take 
place at depths of more than 8,000 feet. 
In addition, a variety of safety steps will 
be incorporated to protect drinking water. 
 Although underground carbon stor -
age represents new territory for regula -
tors and for utilities, natural gas has been 
safely and effectively stored underground 
for decades. Scientific evidence shows the 
same can be true for CO 2. West Virginia 
has issued a draft permit for CO 2 under -
ground injection wells at our Mountaineer 
Plant, and we anticipate receiving a final 
permit and beginning injection operations 
in September 2009.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Minimizing landfill waste is a strategic 
objective for AEP. We recycle tons of 
materials each year, including light bulbs, 
glass, metal, paper, oil and electronics. If 
not properly handled, the special wastes 
that we track, such as hazardous wastes 
and PCBs, can have adverse effects on 
the environment. We seek opportunities 
to reuse materials, including coal combus -
tion products, whenever possible.
 In a unique arrangement of indus -
trial recycling involving AEP’s Mitchell Plant, coal is mined, electricity is gener -
ated, emissions are cleaned, gypsum is 
created and wallboard is manufactured 
— all along a three-mile stretch of a West 
Virginia highway. CertainTeed Corp., a 
manufacturer of wallboard and building 
supplies, opened a manufacturing facility 
adjacent to our plant in 2008 to obtain 
the material it needs for its product — a 
high-quality synthetic gypsum — that is 
created as a byproduct at our Mitchell and 
Cardinal Plants. More than 650,000 tons 
per year of gypsum — a byproduct of the 
process to remove SO 2 from flue gas — is 
now being recycled into wallboard instead 
of being placed in landfills.
 The turbine failure at Cook Nuclear 
Plant last year produced 240 cubic yards 
of asbestos waste that was properly 
disposed of. Approximately 1,600 gallons 
of turbine lubricating oil also were spilled, 
but were contained and cleaned up. The 
turbine is now being repaired. 
 We report annually to the EPA under 
the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) Program 
regarding the transfers and releases of 
toxic chemicals that occur off-site. Our 
TRI report can be found on our Web site, 
www.AEP .com .
MAKING PROGRESS ON PCBs 
We are making steady progress toward 
eliminating all PCB-containing electrical 
equipment, such as transformers and 
capacitors, from our power plants. Under 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  15WATER USED FOR PROCESSING, COOLING & CONSUMPTION  
(gallons per minute)
Typical 600 MW Plant With Cooling Towers Without Cooling Towers 
Water Consumed 5,025 784 
Water Withdrawn 6,431 401,610
Consumption Rate 78.1% 0.2%  ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX
(number of incidents per year)
 15 
9  12
 11  12 
10
 Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual
 2006 2007 2008
 This internal index sets targets for environmental 
 performance that are tied to compensation. It sets  
 goals for opacity, NPDES and oil and chemical spills.
the EPA’s National Partnership for Environ -
mental Priorities program, AEP voluntarily 
removed more than 100,000 pounds of 
PCB-containing mineral oil in 2008. Our 
Picway (Ohio), Amos (West Virginia) and 
Clinch River (Virginia) plants recently com -
pleted projects recognized by the EPA. 
 AEP had 2,150 large PCB capacitors 
in service at 57 locations in 2000, and 
only 160 of them remain. The volume and 
number of PCB and PCB-contaminated 
transformers has steadily declined and 
now constitutes a very small percentage 
of our oil-filled equipment. NUMBER OF COMPONENTS KNOWN  
TO CONTAIN PCBs  
 2,150  
160 
1,027 
356
 Capacitors Transformers
 2000 2008 1998 2008 In 2008, we had approximately 
1,684 documented spills from oil-filled 
equipment. These spills are often caused 
by car accidents or lightning strikes. A 
small portion of these (about 5 percent) 
were significant enough to be report -
able to regulatory agencies, and an 
even smaller number (about 2 percent) 
involved PCBs. 
COAL ASH & OTHER COAL ISSUES
In the wake of a major release from an  
unaffiliated coal ash disposal facility 
in Tennessee in December 2008, we reviewed our inspection and maintenance 
program for fly ash ponds and other 
impoundments. We also are leading 
an initiative through the Edison Electric 
Institute to identify best practices and 
develop an industry strategy for the long-
term maintenance of these facilities. 
 AEP annually consumes an estimated  
77 million tons of coal, generating 
significant quantities of coal combustion 
byproducts that need to be recycled or 
disposed of. Some of these products can 
be used for roofing materials, blasting 
grit, wallboard production or structural fill, 
among other things. As a member of the 
Coal Combustion Products Partnership, 
we promote the beneficial use of these 
byproducts, which helps to keep them 
out of landfills or ash ponds. In 2008, AEP 
produced 10.3 million tons of coal ash and 
found beneficial use for about 40 percent 
of it. Use of coal ash combustion byprod -
ucts resulted in approximately $14.3 mil -
lion in avoided costs for landfills. AEP also 
is a member of the American Coal Ash 
Association, Midwest Coal Ash Associa -
tion, Texas Coal Ash Utilization Group and 
the Western Region Ash Group. For more 
information about coal combustion prod -
16 Environmental Performanceucts, visit our Web site at www.AEP .com .
 We operate 40 earthen dam 
impoundments that are used to store 
cooling water, fly ash and bottom ash 
from coal-fired power plants. These 
include 11 large fly ash and bottom ash 
impoundments in Ohio, West Virginia, 
Kentucky and Indiana; six large water 
storage impoundments in Texas, Okla -
homa, Arkansas and Louisiana; and sev -
eral smaller ash storage impoundments 
located throughout our service territory. 
Our policy requires us to inspect and 
maintain these surface impoundments 
according to guidelines provided by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
and all applicable state regulations. In 
states where groundwater monitoring is 
not already required by permit, AEP plans 
to install and monitor wells, working with 
state agencies. AEP voluntarily installed 
groundwater monitoring wells around 
the Glen Lyn Plant bottom ash ponds in 
Virginia last year in accordance with a 
plan developed by the Utility Solid Waste 
Activities Group. The data from the  
wells will help assess groundwater qual -
ity near ash ponds and coal combustion 
landfills that are not already being moni -
The ash pond at the Amos Plant is one of 40 earthen dams that AEP operates throughout its system.Fly Ash FGD* Material 
56% 16%
 
 Gypsum  
 14%
 
  
  
 
 
Boiler Slag Bottom Ash  
2% 12% COAL COMBUSTION PRODUCTS PRODUCED
10.3 million tons of coal combustion products 
were produced in 2008.
*Flue gas desulfurizationtored. Additional wells will be installed  
at 15 power plants. In addition, all surface 
water discharges from ash ponds are sub -
ject to wastewater permit limitations.
 We realize this is an issue of great 
concern for many environmental groups 
and communities where these facilities 
are located. AEP’s largest facilities are 
inspected frequently by plant staff and 
annually by corporate engineering staff. 
In addition, some of the fly ash ponds are 
equipped with instruments that moni -
tor conditions. The monitoring data are 
collected at least annually, and a report 
on the condition and inspection results 
is provided to the plant for any action 
needed. We are committed to ensuring 
the structural integrity of these surface 
impoundments. 
 We recently testified before Con -
gress on a proposal to establish federal 
mechanisms to help ensure that coal ash 
dams continue to be managed safely. We 
agree that some level of federal oversight 
to ensure dam safety has merit. The U.S. 
EPA already has begun inventorying exist -
ing impoundments and assessing their 
structural integrity. Many states already 
have detailed permitting, design, inspec -
tion and maintenance requirements for 
these impoundments. It is imperative that 
a new federal program does not overlap 
or duplicate existing regulations and that 
the appropriate federal agency be given 
oversight to ensure an effective, coor -
dinated approach. We do not support 
regulating coal ash as a hazardous waste.
 
NUCLEAR WASTE
We are exploring options for expand -
ing our nuclear power capacity, which 
would potentially include increasing the 
output of two units at our Cook Nuclear Plant in Michigan. Although stakehold -
ers are increasingly receptive to nuclear 
power, they still have serious concerns 
about nuclear waste, which we share. Our 
plan is to employ on-site dry-cask spent 
nuclear fuel storage, starting in 2011, until 
a permanent facility becomes available. 
We currently ship class “A” low-level 
radioactive waste to appropriate disposal 
facilities but store class “B” and “C”  
radioactive waste at an on-site facility. 
ECOLOGICAL  
STEWARDSHIP & BIODIVERSITY
AEP’s facilities and the management of 
our land resources can directly affect 
biodiversity, and we are committed to 
establishing a corporate policy on biodi -
versity. Biodiversity describes the number 
of different species that live within a 
particular ecosystem. Some of our specific 
actions relate to compliance with state 
and federal laws, such as the Endangered 
Species Act. When protected or listed 
species are found on AEP’s property, we 
take the appropriate measures to protect 
them. In 2008, we implemented an Avian 
Protection Policy and are now developing 
the first phase of a formal Avian Protec -
tion Plan.
 We receive guidance from the U.S. 
Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the 
electric industry to ensure that we use 
best practices. Last year, a bald eagle 
was electrocuted at one of our facilities 
in Oklahoma. In response, we retrofitted 
certain types of electricity structures to 
make them safe for eagle perching. Since 
1944, AEP has planted more than 63 mil -
lion trees in the United States. Some of 
these forestry projects have been expan -
sions of National Wildlife Refuges and 
were listed as priority sites by the USFWS.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  17 Several power plants and transmis -
sion rights of way have undertaken habitat 
enhancement projects to attract and en -
courage development of various species. 
Many of these projects have been certi -
fied through the Wildlife Habitat Council, 
and some have received awards for their 
biodiversity successes. The international 
forestry projects undertaken to offset our 
carbon emissions are located in biodi -
versity “hot spots,” such as Bolivia, and 
enhance biodiversity.
 One concern raised by some stake-
holders is whether we consider environ-
mental impacts when siting new transmis -
sion lines and other facilities. We abso -
lutely take those issues into consideration 
and also look at how we can better man -
age rights of way to enhance biodiversity. 
In order to better understand and man -
age AEP’s impacts on biodiversity and 
address stakeholders’ interests, 
Spent nuclear fuel is stored on-site at the Cook 
Nuclear Plant. AEP is developing a dry-cask 
storage facility for spent fuel at Cook.we will take a methodological approach 
such as one developed by the World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development — Business and Biodiversity: 
The Handbook for Corporate Action .
WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS
Non-Fuel Suppliers
Doing business with AEP now means that 
suppliers are subject to greater scrutiny of 
their environmental performance. When 
AEP issues Requests for Proposals, sup -
pliers are asked about their environmental 
practices to determine if they align with 
AEP’s vision for sustainability. This is a first 
step in our commitment to hold ourselves 
accountable for the performance and 
practices of our supply chain. We also are 
developing a statement of principles for 
our supply chain that will include environ -
mental expectations and other issues.
 The Green Suppliers Network pro -
gram includes an environmental assess -
ment of the supplier’s business 
conducted by the U.S. EPA. 
When we joined in 2007, we 
set a goal to enlist five non-
fuel suppliers to participate 
in the first year. By the end of 
the year, 10 suppliers were on 
board. Early results showed im -
proved environmental perfor -
mance as well as more efficient 
business operations. You can learn about 
the experience of one AEP supplier who 
completed the program by visiting www.
AEP.com/cr .
 AEP is a founding member of the 
Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply 
Chain Alliance. This group of 15 electric 
utilities across the United States is focus -
ing initially on developing environmental 
performance criteria for suppliers specifi -
18 Environmental Performancecally related to poles and transformers. 
A sub-team was formed to engage with 
environmental groups and is processing 
the recommendations that were received.
Fuel Suppliers
Mountaintop mining practices are a 
major concern for some stakeholders, 
who have raised a host of health and 
environmental concerns stemming from 
the practice. Some of our stakeholders 
are concerned that we purchase coal from 
suppliers who employ mountaintop min -
ing practices. They have asked us to use 
our influence as the largest coal-burning 
utility in the United States to help end 
this type of mining. 
 In our last report, we committed to 
establishing criteria to evaluate the envi -
ronmental, safety and health performance 
of coal suppliers. We began discussions 
with some environmental groups, coal 
suppliers and peer utilities and now have 
a timeline to develop this 
evaluation process by year-
end. We are hiring a mining 
expert to help us identify the 
right performance indicators; 
we also will meet with stake -
holders during this process. 
We believe this process will 
help us begin to evaluate the 
social aspects of coal mining, 
give us an accurate understanding about 
how much of our coal comes from moun -
taintop mines and allow us to make more 
informed decisions in the future. We will 
have to test any possible purchasing re -
strictions and subsequent price increases 
with regulators for their acceptance and 
will look to our stakeholders to support us 
with our commissions.
 We do know that the percentage of mountaintop-mined coal that we consume 
is decreasing, but we do not know by how 
much. Scrubbers and other environmental 
plant controls require a different type of 
coal. We also are converting equipment 
to burn other types of coal that will further 
decrease our need for mountaintop-mined 
coal. We’re conducting a detailed analysis 
this year. 
 We face three challenges — what 
will replace this type of coal in the longer 
term; how to deal with the increased costs 
involved and the fact that our competitors 
will, in all likelihood, continue to use it; 
and how much influence we can realisti -
cally exert on our suppliers. We plan to 
continue these discussions and seek long-
term solutions. 
 Whether a fuel or non-fuel supplier, 
we don’t want to do business with com -
panies that persistently violate environ -
mental laws or that have poor records on 
safety and health.  n
USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.acaa-usa.org • www.epa.gov 
www.fws.gov • www.greensuppliers.govCHALLENGE 
Achieving environmental compliance, improving 
incident response and fostering positive regulatory 
relationships to enhance our environmental perfor -
mance in an environment of complex regulations.
To assess compliance and improve performance,  
we track measures of air quality, water quality and 
waste management through an internal Environ -
mental Performance Index (EPI). Performance is 
tied to compensation. The EPI sets a more stringent 
annual target of total number of incidents for 
the index. 
AEP’s biodiversity impacts, both positive and 
negative, need to be understood, prioritized and 
managed.
AEP’s environmental compliance requirements drive 
a $5.2 billion program to install environmental controls 
on coal-fired power plants to meet requirements of 
the Clean Air Act and EPA’s NOx State Implementa -
tion Plan rule and initial requirements of the CAIR.
The availability of water to make electricity  
and meet society’s needs is increasingly important  
because of impacts from climate change and  
population growth. 
Nuclear energy will play an increasingly important 
role in our nation’s energy future, but managing 
nuclear waste storage remains a significant 
challenge. 
Sustainable supply chain development is new to 
the utility industry but has become increasingly 
important as we seek to reduce our environmental 
impacts; questions remain about recovery of higher 
costs that may be incurred because of performance 
standards regarding sustainability.GOAL 
Zero enforcement actions.
ISO 14001:
Complete phase-in to conform to ISO 14001 stan -
dards by end of 2012 in all fossil and hydro power 
plants. Target in 2009 — four fossil plants begin 
implementation.
Continue proactive outreach with regulatory agencies.
2009 EPI goal = 10 or fewer incidents at  
generating units:
1. Opacity — a measure of visual appearance of  
gas exiting power plant stack and a rough 
 indicator of particulate emissions.
2. NPDES (National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
 System) permit requirements (wastewater 
 exceptions) — a measure of water quality permit 
compliance.
3. Oil and chemical spills — a measure of how we 
respond to and manage spills.
Utilize the WBCSD’s Business and Biodiversity:  
The Handbook for Corporate Action  as a tool to  
assess AEP’s impacts or potential impacts on 
biodiversity and ultimately develop a biodiversity 
strategy and action plan.
Ensure company is fully equipped and prepared to 
comply with increasingly stringent regulations. 
Initiate a study to review consumption patterns 
and identify opportunities to set goals to 
reduce water consumption at AEP facilities 
and power plants. 
On-site dry-cask storage of spent fuel at Cook 
Nuclear Plant, starting in 2011. 
Engage in national effort to develop  
permanent solution.
Champion Green Suppliers Network (GSN) process 
and the voluntary standards and guiding principles 
of the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply 
Chain Alliance to encourage non-fuel suppliers 
to incorporate best practices in their product and 
service provisioning.
Develop process to evaluate environment,  
safety and health performance of coal suppliers:
1st quarter 2009 — Hire mining consultant.
2nd quarter — Develop/send questionnaire to  
coal suppliers.
3rd quarter — Analysis; follow-up meetings with 
suppliers; stakeholder engagement.
4th quarter — Final due diligence with suppliers; 
plan in place.2008 PROGRESS 
Number of enforcement actions:
2008 — 1 
2007 — 2 
2006 — 9
2005 — 5
ISO 14001:
Phase I completed at 36 power plants, including 
17 hydro facilities.
 
Ongoing outreach with regulators.
EPI set a 2008 target of 12 or fewer incidents; 
10 occurred:
Opacity exceedances — 2
(2007 — 1; 2006 — 0)
NPDES — 5
(2007 — 7; 2006 — 9)
Oil and chemical spills — 3
(2007 — 3; 2006 — 0)
N/A (New Goal)
Completed more than two-thirds of program. 
Scrubbers brought online at two coal units in 
2008; four others under construction. 
Task force formed; review started for total water 
management approach.
Included water issues in stakeholder discussions.
Work continued to develop on-site storage facil-
ities at the Cook Nuclear Plant toward 2011 goal.
Ongoing work with policymakers and stake-  
holders to achieve a long-term solution.
10 suppliers agreed to participate in GSN in 2008.
Founding member of Electric Utility Industry 
Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance (non-fuel).
Began discussions with coal suppliers 
and stakeholders. 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  19Challenges, Goals, Progress — Environmental Performance20 Work Force Issues
“AEP has done a much better job with safety in the last few  
years, but I think safety has to become personal. Employees have  
to believe that their management truly believes in safety first. 
That message is a hard one to pass on but can be accomplished  
by walking and talking it every day — and it has to start at the 
top. I have seen a big change in mindset, but it is a fine line. 
I believe the continued implementation of MESH will help the 
future safety of the hourly workers. ” 
Bret Heltzel, maintenance welder, Rockport Plant, 
Indiana Michigan Power and AEP stakeholder32
Number of work/life programs offered  
to full- and part-time AEP employees 
 30%
Percentage of AEP employees who are  
represented by labor unions 
14.5 
(in millions)
Work hours devoted to environmental  
retrofit construction program
850
Number of automated external defibrillators 
added to AEP facilities in 2008TOP 5  
WORK FORCE ISSUES  
RAISED BY STAKEHOLDERS
•	Safety and health —  
employees and contractors
•	Aging work force — retention, 
recruitment issues
•	Managing talent through  
the recession
•	Communication
•	CultureSafety and health are part of our culture 
at AEP. We have created programs to 
improve our employees’ safety and health 
and believe we are seeing results. For the 
first time in AEP’s 102-year history, we 
had back-to-back years with no on-the-
job employee fatalities in 2007 and 2008. 
Unfortunately, an employee was killed 
at the Dolet Hills 
lignite mine in March 
2009 while moving 
a walking dragline. 
Although investiga -
tions are still under 
way, we will learn from 
this tragedy and make 
appropriate modifica -
tions to our policies 
and procedures to 
prevent a similar 
event. We have made 
progress across AEP 
to refocus and recom -
mit ourselves to working safely each day, 
but the loss of one of our employees 
shows that we still have work to do.
Ach i evi ng Zero H a r m 
Our core value is to have every employee 
return home from work safely each day. To 
reach our goal of zero harm, we must have 
the right policies, procedures, tools and 
training, as well as a culture that encour -
ages peer coaching, incident reporting, 
information sharing and corrective and 
preventive actions.
 Zero harm involves more than just 
preventing accidents; it also means 
preventing occupational illnesses that can 
have long-term effects on health. During 
our work force stakeholder meeting, 
employees expressed a desire for AEP to encourage a culture of safety that extends 
beyond the work day, to prevent vehicle 
accidents and other harm to employees 
and their families. By placing a value on 
safety and health, we will achieve our goal 
of zero harm — preventing injuries and ill -
nesses all the time. The loss of life should 
never occur.
    We had very 
serious injuries last 
year that changed 
the lives of some of 
our employees and 
their families forever. 
In many cases, pure 
luck prevented 
serious injury or 
death. These break -
downs happen in 
an instant, and the 
consequences can 
be severe. 
    We failed to 
meet our goal of zero harm because we 
had 39 life-altering injuries in 2008, and 
the fact that this was 11 fewer than in 
2007 was small consolation. Our goal is 
zero, and we will not be satisfied until 
we reach it. This year’s employee fatality 
underscores the urgency with which we 
must act.
 Many of the injuries were caused by 
falls or employees being struck by equip -
ment. In 2008 we held seven significant-
event conference calls with affected 
business units to ensure that information 
was shared and appropriate corrective 
and preventive actions were taken across 
AEP. We train employees to constantly 
assess and reassess the hazards in their 
environment and to minimize the associ -
ated risks by using the appropriate tools 
and techniques. 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  21Work Force Issues
 We ask employees to look out for 
each other on the job and to speak up if 
safety or health is compromised. Creating 
a culture in which employees are comfort -
able stepping forward remains a challenge. 
CHANGING PRACTICES 
TO SAVE LIVES 
When a safety or health event occurs, we 
analyze it, learn from it and make changes 
throughout the company to prevent simi -
lar occurrences. In October 2007, a coal 
equipment operator at the Mountaineer 
Plant in West Virginia got caught between 
a manlift step and the lower platform, 
severely injuring both legs. We examined 
this event and the risks posed by manlifts 
and decided to replace all manlifts with 
elevators by 2013 at a cost of approxi -
mately $17 million. Until all manlifts are 
removed from service, we require annual 
user education in addition to regular 
equipment maintenance.
 Safety and health performance ac -
counts for up to 25 percent of employees’ 
incentive compensation each year. We 
also have incorporated safety and health 
performance into our employee perfor -
mance evaluation process to ensure all 
employees understand and accept their 
responsibility. We set a “Path to Excel -
lence” to achieve top quartile perfor -
mance of Edison Electric Institute peer 
companies for safety and health, based 
on recordable and severity rates. It is a 
measurable goal, and compensation is 
tied to our performance toward this goal.
 We also try to learn from events that 
occur externally. Following a series of 
crane accidents last year in New York City 
and elsewhere, we drafted a new com -
pany policy and procedure for lifting and 
rigging that will be implemented this year. We participated in a national crane safety 
summit with other industries to discuss 
and share corrective actions for construc -
tion sites. Most summit participants want 
mandatory certification of crane opera -
tors, riggers and signal persons. Following 
the summit, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA) released a 
draft crane safety regulation about which  
AEP provided comments through our 
industry association. We are waiting for 
this regulation to be finalized and believe 
it will improve safety at construction sites.
 Pole-related injuries are a leading 
cause of lost time, restricted work days 
and injury severity. We made significant 
improvements in 2008 to address the 
problem. A safety process improvement 
team that included employees who do 
this work conducted a study in 2007 
and determined we could reduce these 
injuries by 50 percent by the end of 2008 
and eliminate them completely by the end 
of 2010. We began the mandatory use of 
fall restraint equipment in June 2008 and 
exceeded our first goal by reducing the 
number of incidents by 56 percent. 
 Another safety process team ad -
dressed hazards related to meter reading 
such as slips, trips, falls and dog bites. 
We mandated training and proper 
footwear and now provide footwear 
reimbursement for employees to ensure 
they have the proper protection. Injuries 
caused by slips, trips and falls decreased 
by 56 percent from 2007 to 2008. Dog 
bites increased slightly from 2007 to 2008 
despite a new policy that requires meter 
readers to carry dog bite prevention 
devices. We will conduct additional train -
ing and look for other ways to reduce 
animal hazards.
 AEP spent $1 million to place  
22 Work Force IssuesRecordable Injury Rates: AEP vs. Industry Peers
 
 2.21 
1.66 1.99 1.76 
1.70 
1.38 
1.45 
1.24
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
  Edison Electric Institute top quartile safety  
  performance is 1.24
 • AEP Annual Targets 
 • AEP Actual Performance
Injury Severity Rates: AEP vs. Industry Peers
 
 41.62  
31.7735.3842.83  
30.07  
26.94  25.56
 21.73
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
  Edison Electric Institute top quartile safety  
  performance is 21.73
 • AEP Annual Targets 
 • AEP Actual PerformanceEMPLOYEE SAFETY & HEALTH
“PATH TO EXCELLENCE”850 automated external defibrillators 
in all facilities to respond to potentially 
life-threatening heart problems that may 
occur on the job. According to OSHA,  
13 percent of all workplace fatalities result 
from sudden cardiac arrest. 
PARTNERING TO IMPROVE  
SAFETY & HEALTH PERFORMANCE 
AEP received two citations in 2008 from 
OSHA — the result of 19 inspections 
performed at our plants and construction 
sites. The Cardinal Plant in Ohio received 
a serious citation and a $2,125 fine for 
inadequate railing and fall protection on 
a barge unloader. We installed additional 
hand rails and fall protection systems at 
the Cardinal Plant and at four other plants 
with the same design. The penalty was 
later reduced to $1,487.
 We also received a $1,750 fine for 
an asbestos insulation spill that occurred when a turbine failed at our Cook Nuclear 
Plant in September 2008. We took quick 
and thorough action to clean up the as -
bestos, and after discussions with OSHA 
the penalty was reduced to $875.
 Our Dolet Hills lignite mine in Loui -
siana received 32 citations from the Mine 
Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) 
in December 2008 for violations that 
included electrical and housekeeping 
issues. We developed an action plan and 
educated our employees about the find -
ings to reinforce employee responsibility 
for safety and health, training, periodic 
inspections and accountability. In all, AEP 
received 43 citations from MSHA in 2008, 
which is a forceful warning that we need 
to strengthen our prevention programs. 
The recent employee fatality at this work 
site underscores the urgency of action 
on our part. 
 We work to be transparent, open 
and cooperative with our regulators 
to better meet their expectations and 
continuously improve our practices. 
We are working closely with OSHA in 
Ohio and West Virginia to develop a 
model program to reduce and control 
the dust found in coal plants so it will 
not harm people. We made this commit -
ment at a stakeholder meeting last year.
 We have a multi-year study under 
way to learn more about the health 
hazards of welding. OSHA does not have 
a welding exposure standard, partly 
because of the difficulty in predicting 
exposure levels. Our initial results show 
that additional controls may be needed 
for exposure to potential carcinogens, 
and the study is attempting to character -
ize the risk and hazard of more than 400 
welding processes and metals. We expect 
to complete the study in 2009.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  23
A new policy requiring the use of fall restraint 
equipment has dramatically reduced the number 
of pole-related injuries.NUMBER OF POLE-RELATED INCIDENTS  
 20 
19 21 
18 
8
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
NUMBER OF METER READER RECORDABLE 
INCIDENTS CAUSED BY DOG BITES  
 
17 26 
16 
9 12 
 
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008NUMBER OF METER READER RECORDABLE 
INCIDENTS CAUSED BY SLIPS/TRIPS/FALLS  
 33 
25 
12 25
 
11 
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008controls. Four plants will be added to the 
MESH system this year. 
 MESH teams see the safety progress 
being made as a result of formal goal-
setting and documentation. They meet 
regularly to manage and improve the 
environment, safety and health issues that 
are most pressing at their facilities. These 
include evaluating ways to reduce risk, 
improving employee competency through 
training, developing procedures for the 
safe management of hydrogen, reduc -
ing worker exposure to fugitive dust and 
asbestos and improving housekeeping 
and job safety analysis.
 Our Safety and Health Event Man -
agement System, launched in January 
2008, helps us make better decisions 
based upon accurate performance data. 
Through it, we are able to identify trends, 
develop leading indicators, reduce errors 
and put more emphasis on hazard recog -
nition and risk mitigation.
 Our safety and health audits enhance 
compliance and work to minimize harm to 
our employees and the public through the 
observation of work practices, work site inspections and records review. In 2008, 
we conducted audits at seven operations 
centers and five power plants. We share 
best practices across the company as part 
of the audit program.
 We made significant adverse findings 
in the asbestos and respiratory protec -
tion programs and in our operation and 
maintenance programs for cranes, result -
ing in procedural changes and corrective 
actions in both areas. In 2009, we will 
include audit reviews during plant outages 
so that work practices and procedures 
may be observed during these periods of 
high activity.
THE HUMAN SIDE  
OF SAFETY & HEALTH 
Everyone makes mistakes, so the focus 
of our Human Performance initiative is to 
reduce them and create controls so that 
mistakes don’t cause injuries. 
 AEP is working with renowned safety 
systems expert Dr. Chong Chiu, chairman 
of Performance Improvement Internation -
al (PII), to help reduce the frequency and 
severity of human errors through the use 
of seven tools and techniques that teach 
employees to take deliberate actions to 
prevent injuries from occurring. 
 PII assessed our safety culture, per-
formed a common cause analysis and 
conducted field evaluations at 14 district 
offices to observe our work. They identi -
fied 15 distribution work processes that 
need additional barriers to help prevent 
errors from becoming injuries. High-risk 
jobs require a minimum of three barriers 
to reduce the likelihood of a significant 
event occurring.
 The Human Performance initiative 
already is helping us to improve in some 
of our business units, including the Cook 
24 Work Force Issues“Our people are the key to 
producing and delivering a  
product that has truly changed 
the world — sometimes at 
personal risk. They deserve 
to know that their company 
values their safety unequivo -
cally, and that their company 
respects the legacy of service 
they’ve established, by assuring 
that well-trained replacements 
are available to keep that 
legacy going when they choose 
to retire.” 
 
Robert Powers, president, 
AEP Utilities
COMMITTING TO  
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 
AEP is now in the fourth year of imple -
menting MESH (Managing Environment, 
Safety and Health)  — an environment, 
safety and health management system 
that protects people and the environment
through the implementation of two 
international standards, ISO 14001 and 
OHSAS 18001.
 Through MESH, 36 of our power 
plants have identified their top safety 
and health issues and created objectives, 
targets and actions to address them. We 
have developed more than 83 objectives 
and 434 actions in the safety and health 
area of the system. These plants will now 
begin identifying roles, responsibilities 
and training needs for plant personnel 
and develop and document operational NUMBER OF RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS SYSTEMWIDE CAUSED 
BY SLIPS/TRIPS/FALLS  
 106 
90
 76 88
 77 
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008TARGETS FOR PUBLIC SAFETY  
“PATH TO EXCELLENCE”
 51 
  41 
   31 
    21 
 
     11 
 5
 4 3
 2 1 0
 2007 2008  2009 2010 2011 2012
 • Electrical Contacts 
 • Fatalities
  (2008 actual = 37 electrical contacts, 
  including 6 fatalities)Nuclear Plant and in transmission. We are 
adapting the same principles to our ener -
gy distribution operation, and during the 
next several years we hope to integrate 
the initiative throughout the company.
 All of these programs — MESH, risk 
assessment and hazard analysis, a safety 
and health event management system, 
Human Performance Initiative and audits 
— are the tools we use to strengthen our 
safety culture, prevent accidents, reduce 
their impacts and work toward zero harm.
PROTECTING CONTRACTORS  
WHO WORK FOR US 
Contractor safety is a major focus of our 
efforts. Starting in 2009, we set a record -
able injury goal and put systems in place 
to measure the safety performance of our 
contractors. Performance is tied to incen -
tive compensation for senior officers. We 
have thousands of contractors working 
at our facilities each year, most of them 
involved with construction and tree trim -
ming. While many of our contractors have 
improved their safety performance records, 
and we have been sharing our training 
and safety culture with them, we still had 
two contractor fatalities last year. That is 
not acceptable. 
 AEP is participating in an Edison 
Electric Institute task force to develop 
model contractor safety program guide -
lines. The goal is to create consistent 
safety and health expectations and prac -
tices that will result in fewer injuries and 
fatalities throughout the industry. 
PROTECTING THE PUBLIC 
Although our employees are trained 
to protect themselves from the dan -
gers of electricity, others who come in 
contact with our systems may not be so 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  25well-equipped. We saw fewer electrical 
contacts in 2008 than in previous years, 
but the number of fatalities increased. In 
2008, 37 non-employees came in contact 
with our electric facilities, resulting in the 
deaths of two non-AEP contractors and 
four members of the public. 
 Three of these public fatalities were 
related to attempted copper theft, which 
has increased dramatically during the last 
few years as copper prices reached all-
time highs. We placed ads in the media 
to remind potential trespassers of the 
dangers of getting too close to electri -
cal systems and worked with local media 
outlets to alert the public to the dangers 
associated with copper theft. We also be -
gan switching to copper-clad wire, which 
is less valuable to thieves. 
 To help us focus efforts to improve 
public safety, we have established a 
public safety “Path to Excellence” that is 
designed to eliminate preventable public 
fatalities and contacts with our electrical 
facilities during the next five years. Each 
year, our goal is to reduce preventable 
public fatalities by 20 percent and electri -
cal contacts by 10 percent.
 Our public safety program expanded as we developed and distributed new 
educational materials to contractors — 
those who do not work for AEP and do 
not receive our training — and the public, 
including two new videos. One campaign 
promoted our commercial contractor 
safety video, which is free online and on 
DVD by request. More than 1,000 copies 
have been ordered. A second video, 
Anatomy of an Electric System,  targeted 
employees, customers and teachers; 
nearly 3,000 copies have been distributed.NUMBER OF FATALITIES
 
3 3 6
 
2 
1 1 2 2 
1 1 2 4 
0 4 
2 3
 
0 2 2 4
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
 • Employees • AEP Contractors • Non-AEP Contractors • Public  
 PROMOTING HEALTH,  
WELLNESS & WORK/LIFE BALANCE
We have a strong focus on health and well -
ness within our company. We believe there 
is a strong connection between health and 
wellness and safety and productivity. The 
AEP Wellness … Energy for Life program, 
initiated in late 2007, provides employees 
and their families with access to health-
related education, tools and programs 
that promote good health, well-being and 
productivity. The program promotes the 
adoption of healthy habits and choices, 
which lower the risk of developing chronic 
health conditions.
 More than 56 percent of eligible 
employees and their spouses or domestic 
partners completed company-sponsored 
health assessment questionnaires during 
2007 and 2008. The results showed 
the top five highest risk factors for AEP 
employees are: lack of physical activity 
(48 percent), poor nutrition (43 percent), 
obesity (39 percent), high cholesterol 
(33 percent) and tobacco use (19 percent).
 Employee participation in health 
screenings increased 39 percent from 
2007 to 2008. Some of these tests led to 
life-saving discoveries for employees and 
their families. Our plans include develop -ing actions to address some of the health 
issues that have been identified.
 AEP is proud to offer employees  
32 work/life programs, including flexible 
work schedules, parental leave, alterna -
tive family benefits and backup daycare. 
Our employees have asked us to better 
publicize these programs so they can take 
advantage of them.
 We received the 2008 Dave Thomas 
Award for Adoption-Friendly Policies and 
consistently have been named to Working 
Mother  magazine’s list of the 100 Best 
Companies for Working Mothers. We also 
have been recognized as a Top Military-
Friendly Employer by GI Jobs  magazine 
for six consecutive years and were named 
Veteran Employer of the Year by the 
Buckeye State Council in Ohio for our 
military-friendly hiring practices and train -
ing programs.
Bui ldi ng A  
Sustainable Work Force 
Our continued success as an organization 
will depend on our ability to maintain  
a knowledgeable, skilled and diverse  
work force. We see several challenges 
ahead, including:
26 Work Force Issues•	An aging work force and projected 
employee retirements; 
•	Enhancing workplace diversity;
•	Long lead times to develop skilled 
workers for many key jobs; and
•	Economic impacts on workers, includ -
ing a wage freeze, limited hiring and 
budget reductions.
ECONOMIC CHALLENGES WE FACE 
We have had to make deep budget cuts 
due to the recession and are focused on 
keeping our employees engaged and 
productive. We expect these financial 
hardships to continue through 2010 and 
perhaps longer. This year, we are freezing 
wages and limiting hiring and business 
travel. We recognize these are tough 
times for our employees as well. We are 
offering tools to help, including free 
financial counseling, investment seminars, 
stress management programs and health 
and wellness activities. 
ONGOING DEVELOPMENT  
OF OUR EXISTING WORK FORCE 
Our newer employees must be trained 
and ready to step in when our experi -
enced employees retire. Our Legacy of 
Knowledge Program allows critical retire -
ment-age employees to continue working 
part-time with full-time benefits while 
they share their invaluable knowledge and 
experience with their successors. We also 
established “communities of practice” to 
help with knowledge transfer by capturing 
and sharing best practices and other job-
related information. Our first community 
focused on power plant efficiencies with 
40 active participants, and we hope to 
add communities on change management 
and error reduction in 2009.
 Some of our stakeholders asked that 
The AEP Wellness … Energy for Life program encourages employees to stay active and fit.2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  27
(in millions)
Cost to provide health screenings 
in 2008 
Number of military veterans hired in 2008  
Students selected for co-op or intern 
assignments in 2008
(in billions)
Total employee wages and benefits paid  
in 2008
$1.8
65
132
$2.1
Deck hand Gilbert Goodman. AEP has a fleet 
of more than 50 towboats that haul commodities 
on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers.we continue providing growth opportu -
nities for our seasoned employees. We 
address this through programs such as 
Grid®, which instills a common set of core 
leadership skills such as listening, collabo -
ration, team-building and learning to be 
candid in a respectful, constructive way. 
Since the program was implemented at 
AEP in 2005, about 1,600 leaders have at -
tended, including 238 employees in 2008. 
In addition, our targeted leadership pro -
gram focuses on the early identification 
and accelerated development of future 
leaders at all levels. We also are imple -
menting a new system to improve the 
quality and consistency of how individual 
performance is managed by providing 
feedback and coaching to employees 
throughout the year.
ATTRACTING  
DIVERSE, SKILLED TALENT 
Our work force is aging, which is a 
daunting challenge for AEP and for our 
industry. Many job categories require 
years of training before an employee is 
experienced enough to work in the field. 
 An overhead line worker, for ex -
ample, will begin with a combination 
of classroom and on-the-job training to learn everything from how to climb a 
pole to how to safely handle live electric -
ity. Even after four years, the worker may 
have the required training but is not yet 
qualified as a journeyman. In other parts 
of our business, such as generation and 
transmission, we have similar challenges. 
 We have focused our recruitment 
efforts on future needs and on develop -
ing and retaining employees. We hired 
1,692 employees in 2007 and 2,189 in 
2008. However, our hiring rate will slow 
considerably this year in response to the 
weak economy.
 The good news for AEP is that we 
recognized the aging work force issue 
several years ago and have been aggres -
sively recruiting and establishing alliances 
with two- and four-year colleges. This has 
resulted in more qualified job applicants 
with greater technical knowledge, which 
allows them to be productive employees 
sooner. Since 2003, 675 entry-level 
employees have begun training for distri -
bution positions at our line school.
 Looking forward, we expect the ag -
ing and shrinking work force will create 
long-term challenges to recruiting and 
retaining the talent we need to develop, 
operate and maintain the new technolo -gies that will meet our customers’ 
demands in the 21st century. One poten-
tial recruiting barrier is the negative 
perception many people have about coal, 
especially today when the general push is 
for ‘green’ jobs. As a result, we have en -
hanced our recruiting efforts to highlight 
AEP’s standing as an innovative company, 
including our leadership in pushing ad -
vanced coal technologies. 
 We expanded our co-op program in 
2008 to include our generation and con -
struction management groups. A total of 
132 students were placed in co-op/intern 
assignments involving all aspects of our 
business, from accounting and environ -
mental services to information technology 
and Web design. We hired 51 percent of 
our co-op/intern program participants 
in 2008. We participated in 86 college 
relations/recruiting events at 30 different 
schools and collaborated with the Center 
for Energy Workforce Development in its 
efforts to direct the nation’s youth toward 
careers in energy.
 Our stakeholders have challenged us 
— and we are committed — to build upon 
our education partnerships to further de -
velop a pipeline of industry workers who 
have the knowledge and skills we need. For  
28 Work Force IssuesAEP WORK FORCE BY GENERATION
Generation X  Baby Boomers 
1961–1981 1943 –1960 
44%  49%
 
 
  
  
 
Millennials  Traditionalists
1982 & after 1942 & before  
6.6%  0.4%PERCENTAGE OF AEP WORK FORCE & EMPLOYEES HIRED IN 2008 BY AGE
 
11.3% 40.7% 
17.5% 
30.8% 
33.6% 
19% 
16.1% 
4.2% 12.1%
 3.1% 9.3%
 2.1%
 18 – 29 30 – 39 40 – 50 51 – 54 55 – 58 Over 58• AEP Work Force 
• New Hires in 2008 example, we continue to engage under -
graduate engineering programs through 
our University Alliance Program, which  
allows students to help with research at 
our Dolan Engineering Laboratories in 
Ohio. In 2009, we expect to expand our 
involvement by engaging graduate-level 
programs in our technology and consum -
er behavioral research studies.
 AEP’s leadership in sustainability is 
helping us to attract new talent, especially 
among younger generations who are 
extremely concerned about the environ -
ment. One of the first questions prospec -
tive employees often ask is how AEP is 
involved in renewable energy resources 
and advanced coal technologies.
 In addition to partnering with 
schools, AEP’s Indiana Michigan Power 
received rate support for work force 
development at the Cook Nuclear Plant. 
The money will be used to hire additional 
fire and security personnel required 
by new Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
regulations and also help the plant 
tackle aging work force issues in engi -
neering and operations. This type of 
rate recovery can be a model for other 
states and illustrates that customers are 
willing to pay for reliability and a skilled 
work force.
 A diverse work force is key to AEP’s 
success because it brings a variety of 
cultures, generations, thought leadership 
and skills to our work. Although more than 
33 percent of our employees are minori -
ties and/or females, we face challenges in 
achieving our diversity targets in power 
plants and engineering jobs. This is due 
to the remote locations of many of our 
plants and the low number of females and 
minorities who study engineering.
 We started the AEP Executive Wom -
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  292008 EMPLOYMENT DATA — EEO-1  (as of Aug. 31, 2008)     
 Employees Females (%) Minorities (%) 
Total Employment 22,746 4,119 (18.1%)  3,433 (15.1%)
Officials & Managers 3,711 368 (9.9%)  319 (8.6%)
Professionals 5,625 1,456 (25.9%)  827 (14.7%)  
2007 EMPLOYMENT DATA — EEO-1 (as of Aug. 31, 2007)
 Employees Females (%)  Minorities (%) 
Total Employment 21,005 4,001  (19.0%) 3,075  (14.6%)
Officials & Managers 3,358 342  (10.2%)  272  (8.1%)
Professionals 5,285 1,367  (25.9%)  734  (13.9%)  
en’s Network in 2004 to foster profession -
al networking among women executives 
and to encourage the professional and 
leadership development of women within 
the company.
 AEP continues to partner with 
organizations that can help us increase, 
support and retain diverse talent, includ -
ing the American Association of Blacks 
in Energy and the Women’s International 
Network of Utility Professionals. In 2008, 
AEP joined the Board of Directors of the 
National Society of Black Engineers to 
encourage minority representation in 
professional and management jobs. 
 We have established strong relation -
ships at universities with large minority  
female populations and have continued 
our aggressive recruitment program at 
the University of Puerto Rico, which has 
the largest percentage of minority female 
engineering students. We were proud  
to be recognized by Working Mother   
magazine in 2008 as one of the Best  
Companies for Multicultural Women.
 We formed an informal alliance with 
Hard Hatted Women in 2008, a Cleve -
land, Ohio-based organization that helps 
women prepare for jobs in construction, 
manufacturing and other “nontraditional” employment through outreach, educa -
tion, training, support and job placement 
assistance. While this relationship is still 
developing, our goal is to use organiza -
tions like this to let women know they  
can choose from a variety of jobs in the 
utility industry. 
IMPROVING OUR CULTURE 
Our stakeholders emphasized the im -
portance of culture — fostering a work 
atmosphere that brings out the best in 
all employees, helps us recruit and retain 
younger workers and ensures the com -
pany’s future success. For the past several 
years, AEP’s leadership team has been 
driving a culture of high involvement, 
shared commitment, agility, collaboration 
and mutual care. 
 We recognize that changing corpo -
rate culture can take years of demonstra -
tion and reinforcement of these values 
by the leadership team, managers and 
employees. While we still have work to 
do to make these cultural priorities the 
norm at all levels of the organization, 
we have made progress and have a plan 
to implement six new efforts in 2009 to 
enhance our culture. During a stakeholder 
meeting, employees suggested that AEP conduct a culture survey and focus 
groups, which we are considering.
VALUING DIVERSITY  
IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
In addition to work force diversity, we 
want a diverse base of suppliers and have 
made strides in this area. We purchase 
approximately 23 percent of non-fuel 
materials and services from diverse sup -
pliers and have increased spending with 
these suppliers from $4.3 billion in 2006 
to nearly $5 billion in 2008.
 AEP developed a supplier diversity 
policy and received an “acceptable” 
classification in a supply chain diversity 
audit conducted in 2008 by the Small 
Business Administration (SBA). The 
SBA defines “acceptable” as a good 
faith effort to meet all of our own goals, 
but not meeting the rigorous criteria for 
a “highly successful” or “outstanding” 
rating. As recommended in the audit, 
AEP intends to build upon its efforts by 
continuing outreach programs to identify 
and locate diverse suppliers for future 
procurement opportunities, promoting 
and recognizing supplier diversity efforts 
internally, and continuing to build relation -
ships with groups such as the Women’s 
Business Enterprise National Council and 
National Minority Supplier Development 
Council. Our goal in the 2012 SBA audit is 
to achieve an “outstanding” rating.
MANAGING LABOR RELATIONS 
Close to 30 percent of AEP’s employees 
are represented by one of four major labor 
unions — International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers (IBEW); Utility Workers 
Union of America; United Steelworkers 
of America; and United Mine Workers of 
America. Our partnership with the unions 
30 Work Force Issuesextends into many areas. Union leaders 
recognized the difficult economic situation 
facing the company and were proactive 
in communicating with their members and 
working with management about the pay 
freeze for 2009. We collaborate with the 
unions through ongoing management and 
safety and health meetings and on com -
munity projects, such as Operation Feed 
in Central Ohio, and routinely invite union 
employees and local and national labor 
leaders to stakeholder meetings.
 In the first quarter of 2009, a new 
contract went into effect with the IBEW, 
which represents the majority of our union 
employees. This was the culmination of 
three years of partnering and negotiat -
ing at the local and national levels and 
resulted in a master contract agreement 
that establishes systemwide terms and 
conditions for IBEW members. This con -
tract runs through Feb. 16, 2012.
 Largely because we do not have policies in place regarding child labor and 
human rights, AEP consistently ranks low 
in the area of labor issues in sustainability 
benchmark surveys by investor analyst 
groups. Although we operate only within 
the United States, many of our suppliers 
do not; we recognize the value of these 
policies and plan to develop them.  nORGANIZED LABOR AT AEP 
Labor Union  Number of Employees
International Brotherhood  
of Electrical Workers  .......................  3,800
Utility Workers Union of America  ....1,400
United Steelworkers of America  ......... 525
United Mine Workers of America  ...... 400
Kent Harner, rail car mechanic. AEP uses a fleet 
of more than 9,000 rail cars to transport coal.USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.cewd.org • www.dol.gov
www.eei.org • www.ibew.org 
www.msha.gov • www.osha.gov 
www.sba.gov
 2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  31CHALLENGE 
Achieving top quartile performance within the 
electric industry by 2010, as measured by  
recordable and severity incident rates, requires 
a major shift at AEP in behaviors and attitudes 
about safety and health (benchmarking perfor -
mance against comparably sized EEI companies). 
It is imperative we eliminate worker fatalities.  
AEP’s history tells us the risk for job-related  
fatalities is high.
Improving contractor safety and health will 
require new expectations, measurement systems, 
oversight and evaluation. (New)
Although AEP conducts business within the  
United States, we are exposed to potential supply 
chain risks because many products we buy and 
use are made abroad. We also are involved in 
international projects.
We must ensure that AEP can recruit from a  
skilled and diverse labor pool to meet our evolv -
ing work force needs.
As competition for talent grows with the retire -
ment of Baby Boomers, AEP must ensure it has a 
culture that effectively attracts, retains and brings 
out the best in skilled talent.
To ensure we comply with all laws and regulations 
governing our business, we must comply with a 
strict Code of Conduct.
The health and wellness of our employees is 
essential to safety and to having a productive, 
healthy work force. Completing a confidential 
health risk assessment gives employees and their 
families information to make healthier lifestyle 
choices and helps us design programs that meet 
those needs.
Protecting the public is very challenging; copper 
theft makes it especially problematic.GOAL 
Recordable Rate — Goal:
2009 — 1.45
2010 — 1.24
2011 — 1.12
Severity Rate – Goal:
2009 — 25.56
2010 — 21.73
2011 — 19.58
Establish leading indicators to measure safety and 
health performance.
OHSAS 18001:
Long-term conformance with this standard will 
be reflected in recordable and severity rates. 
Complete first phase of rollout to all power plants 
by end of 2012. Four additional plants begin 
implementation in 2009.
Zero AEP employee fatalities.
Zero contractor fatalities.
Recordable Rate — New Goal:
2009 — 2.00 (2008 baseline is 2.10)
2010 — 1.80
Develop human rights and child labor policies  
by 2010. 
Develop a plan to move AEP to an “outstanding” 
SBA audit rating in 2012.
Develop or expand three partnerships that increase 
the skill base of the labor market or broaden our 
opportunities to recruit diverse individuals. 
Implement six specific efforts to continue shaping 
AEP’s culture in 2009. 
Complete 100 percent training and certification in 
AEP’s Code of Conduct.
2009 — 65 percent of employees and their 
spouses/domestic partners complete health risk 
assessment. 
Set five-year “Path to Excellence” (2009 – 2013) to 
reduce preventable public fatalities by 20 percent 
and electrical contacts by 10 percent each year.2008 PROGRESS 
Recordable Rate:
2008 — 1.38 (goal was 1.70)
2007 — 1.76
2006 — 1.66
Severity Rate:
2008 — 26.94 (goal was 30.07)
2007 — 42.83
2006 — 31.77
Safety and Health Event Management  
System created.
OHSAS 18001:
Phase I completed at 36 power plants, including 
17 hydro facilities. 
Conducted safety and health audits at seven  
operations centers and five power plants.
Zero employee fatalities in 2008 and 2007 — the 
first time in AEP’s history there were no fatalities 
for two consecutive years.
2008  — Two contractor fatalities
2007 — Two contractor fatalities
Began participation in EEI Contractor Safety  
Executive Task Force in May 2007 to define and 
align utility industry expectations for contractor 
safety. Developed a model program for contrac -
tor safety management.
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)Challenges, Goals, Progress — Work Force Issues32 Public Policy
“There is an exciting debate in the United States about our 
energy future, with many voices competing — and needing — to 
be heard. But one of the most critically important voices is that of 
utilities, because it is they who have the experience of dealing with 
the myriad challenges of both producing energy and delivering it. 
As a strategist, I believe passionately in the need to plan for the long 
term, not just tactically. Because of their business model, utilities 
are the sector of American business that practices most consistently 
real, long-term planning. That perspective means utilities must have 
a premier place at the table for any energy discussion.” 
Susan Eisenhower, Washington, D.C.; president, The Eisenhower GroupMuch has changed in the public policy 
arena in the past year, and we can expect 
more changes ahead. We have a new 
administration in Washington, new state 
and federal lawmakers, newly appointed 
officials and policymakers and a difficult 
economy. But AEP’s long-term goals 
remain consistent.
Our future depends on the outcome  
of important high-priority policy issues  
that include:
•	Alternative rate-making procedures 
that allow more contemporaneous cost 
recovery to ensure 
utilities remain 
financially viable to 
be able to deliver 
services in a timely 
manner that ben -
efits customers;
•	The development 
of an extra-high 
voltage (EHV) 
transmission grid to 
support a national 
energy strategy 
committed to en -
hanced reliability 
and optimal use of all resources, includ -
ing new renewable resources;
•	Federalization of siting authority for the 
EHV grid to overcome difficult decision-
making processes that do not support 
 a new national energy strategy;
•	Reasonable and achievable climate 
change policies that include a national 
cap-and-trade program;
•	Regulations and commercial-scale 
technology improvements to permit the 
capture and long-term safe storage of 
carbon dioxide to allow the continued
 use of coal;•	Timely deployment of smart grid tech -
nology to promote energy efficiency 
and give customers more control of 
energy use;
•	Energy efficiency and demand 
 response programs to reduce con -
sumption and slow the need to build 
new power plants; and 
•	Development of renewable energy 
standards to support mitigation of 
greenhouse gases.
THE ECONOMY
AEP is concerned about the nation’s econ-
omy. With nearly 
22,000 employees, 
we must ensure that 
our own finances and 
business are sound. 
        We need to  
provide our share -
holders with the 
opportunity to earn 
a reasonable return 
on their investments 
and ensure we have 
suitable access  
to capital to fund 
our operations.
 As we develop or advocate public 
policies, we also must keep in mind that 
our customers are experiencing their own 
economic difficulties.
 The economic turbulence has created 
additional policy challenges. Through rate 
freezes and caps, the prices we charge 
customers for electricity have been kept 
artificially low in many of our states. The 
rates also are relatively low because a 
high percentage of our electricity comes 
from low-cost coal-fired generation. New 
laws requiring environmental controls on 
coal-fired generation and the rising cost Public Policy
TOP 5  
PUBLIC POLICY ISSUES RAISED 
BY STAKEHOLDERS
•	Climate change, including  
advanced coal technologies 
and renewable energy
•	Transmission siting;  
federal versus state oversight
•	Cost of electricity
•	Energy efficiency
•	Alternative rate-making
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  33$195,500
Corporate political contributions 
in 2008  
$1.8
(in millions)
Federal, state and local lobbying 
expenditures in 2008
25
Siting meetings for the PATH Project 
$2.58
(in billions)
What AEP expects to spend on construction  
in 2009
not work given the magnitude of invest -
ment needed for this industry.
 Compared with many nations, 
power prices in the United States remain 
a bargain. However, some of the countries 
with which the United States competes 
most heavily still have very low prices for 
power. One of the ongoing obstacles to 
enacting climate change legislation in the 
United States is ensuring that our trading 
partners will take comparable action and 
that their prices for power will reflect the 
cost of those actions. This is an issue AEP 
follows closely and has addressed in its 
proposal that it drafted with the Interna -
tional Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
CHANGING THE  
COST RECOVERY SYSTEM
The Regulatory Compact is the system 
in which state utility regulators define a 
reasonable rate of return for a utility and 
then structure a system that allows the 
utility the opportunity to earn that return. 
In exchange, the utility serves customers 
within a given jurisdiction. Traditional cost 
recovery methods no longer work well. 
The utility industry can no longer afford 
to build needed infrastructure and wait to 
recover those costs later, sometimes many 
years down the road. 
 This is rapidly becoming a crisis as 
the industry is called upon to address  
an increasingly complex and expensive 
range of capital investments to replace 
aging infrastructure, expand existing 
infrastructure and meet environmental 
issues such as climate change. These 
investments carry increased risks and 
uncertainty and do not work well under a 
regulatory system built on price stability, 
long lag times to recover costs, and read -
ily available and affordable capital.
34 Public Policy Although the economic crisis has not 
caused the problem, it has made it worse 
by depriving us of financing options and 
needed flexibility. We are working with 
legislators and regulators to develop new 
regulatory models that will help meet 
these challenges. Faster cost recovery 
would reduce the cost and risk of many 
projects and would allow us to do more 
with fewer resources.
 If you were to view alternative regula -
tory models as a continuum, at one end 
would be a system in which all costs of RETAIL PRICES IN SELECTED COUNTRIES 
(in U.S. dollars per kWh)  
Austria  .............................................  .2261
Chinese Taipei  .................................  .0740
Czech Republic  ................................  .1917
Denmark  ..........................................  .2815
Finland ..............................................  .1711
France ...............................................  .1733
Hungary  ...........................................  .2558
India .................................................  .0543
Ireland  .............................................  .2463
Italy  ..................................................  .2715
Korea  ...............................................  .0946
Luxembourg  ....................................  .2307
Mexico  ..............................................  .1076
Netherlands  .....................................  .2417
New Zealand  .....................................  .1782
Norway  .............................................  .1752
Poland  ..............................................  .1792
Portugal  ...........................................  .2334
Slovak Republic  ...............................  .2009
Spain  ................................................  .1870
Switzerland  .......................................  .1556
Turkey  ...............................................  .1577
United Kingdom  ..............................  .2271
United States  ....................................  .1027
Source: Key World Energy Statistics 2008,  
International Energy Agency .to build needed generation are driving 
up the cost of energy. Electricity is going 
to cost more in the future — the best 
that AEP and other utilities can do is to 
mitigate those increases by helping cus -
tomers reduce their usage and demand. 
That will delay or avoid the cost of new 
facilities. We also need policies that will 
create a healthy and reasonable business 
environment for the industry. 
 It would be wrong to say that the 
financial policy and alternative rate-
making initiatives at AEP are based solely 
on the current recession. In reality, the 
credit crunch has simply made worse 
what had already shaped up as a “perfect 
storm” in the realm of utility policy and 
regulation. Rising costs for all fuels, an 
infrastructure that is aging and widely 
recognized as needing substantial invest -
ment for technological advancements, 
and a cost recovery system that requires 
utilities to carry the debt of new invest -
ments for years prior to any recovery does CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES  
ACTUAL & PROJECTED PEAK SUMMER LOAD
(in thousands of MW)
 709 704 758 789 782 789 806 822 837 851
 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12
North American Electric Reliability Council Region.
Source : Electric Power Annual , Jan. 21, 2009, 
Energy Information Administration.WIND RESOURCE MAP
 Existing 765 kV lines
 Proposed 765 kV lines• Greatest area of wind speed 
This map illustrates how a nationwide EHV transmission system could transport power generated 
in the wind corridor that runs from Texas to Canada to markets throughout the country.
Source: U.S.Department of Energy, National Renewable Energy Laboratory.service are included in a single charge-
per-kWh of consumption, with no adjust -
ments outside of a general rate case. Util -
ity revenues would be subject to intense 
volatility as customer usage varied. At 
the other end would be a decoupled rate 
structure in which virtually all costs of 
service are considered fixed and rolled 
into a flat user fee. Revenues in this case 
would be highly predictable but offer no 
flexibility to the benefit of either the utility 
or the consumer. Along the continuum are 
a host of rate-making tools. Among those 
garnering the most attention are:
•	Future test years:  Forecasted expen -
ditures are used to calculate revenue 
requirements, with true-up to actual 
expenditures. This already is in use in 
Georgia and Connecticut.
•	Construction Work In Progress 
(CWIP):  Financing costs are placed 
into the rate base during construction. 
Virginia routinely awards CWIP in rates. 
Few other states do it automatically, 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  35although many state commissions are 
authorized to consider it on a case-
 by-case basis.
•	Riders/trackers:  These tools are tariff 
adders that track specific categories of 
costs between rate cases. Most states 
allow them for fuel and purchased 
power costs (fuel adjustment clauses). 
Virginia has an Environmental and  
Reliability Rider, and West Virginia has 
an Expanded Net Energy Cost rider. 
•	Formula rates:  Automatic revised 
tariffs based on formulae or indices 
without extended regulatory proceed -
ings. These include performance-based 
rates. SWEPCO has formula rates in 
Louisiana. The Federal Energy Regula -
tory Commission (FERC) and Massachu -
setts follow formula rates, and legisla -
tion is pending in New Jersey.
BUILDING AN EXTRA-HIGH 
VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION BACKBONE
We believe an interstate EHV transmission grid is essential, and we’re committed to 
doing all we can to facilitate its develop -
ment. A national EHV backbone would:
•	Enhance the reliability and security of 
the grid;
•	Enable efficient and more affordable 
access to renewable energy such as 
wind and solar; and
•	Lower regional energy costs by reduc -
ing congestion charges and making 
more energy available when and where 
it’s needed.
 The siting process and arguments 
about cost allocation are impeding a 
much-needed national interstate trans -
mission system. We respect the legitimate 
interests of states and local communities 
and will look for opportunities to use 
existing rights of way where possible, but 
we support a larger role for the FERC. 
We believe transmission is interstate com -
merce and should be regulated as such — 
at the federal level. We are advocating for 
a revision of the Federal Power Act so that 
EHV transmission lines will be federally 
regulated, just like natural gas pipelines. 
 We support two multi-regional 
planning authorities, one for the Eastern 
Interconnection and one for the Western 
Interconnection. We also support cost al -
location for EHV backbone projects (those 
that overlay the existing grid) across the 
same wide areas. The benefits of such 
projects extend to broad geographic 
areas, and so should the costs. Allocating 
costs across a larger pool of consumers 
will, of course, reduce the impact of those 
costs on all individuals.
 We also support the plan promoted 
by oil and gas industry veteran T. Boone 
Pickens to reduce the nation’s depen -
dence on foreign oil because it would 
develop both transmission and renewable 36 Public PolicyAEP ENERGY EFFICIENCY & DEMAND RESPONSE PROGRAMS  
AEP has assembled a number of energy efficiency and demand response programs aimed at different types of customers. Below is a list of the more  
common programs by customer type. Not all programs will be offered in all jurisdictions, and some may apply to specific jurisdictions.  
Household / Residential Customer Programs 
Low-Income Weatherization Provides a variety of energy efficiency improvements to customers at or below a certain percentage of  
 federal guidelines. Program partners include state assistance agencies, community action agencies and/or  
 other third-party contractors.
ENERGY STAR New Homes Home builders are paid incentives for building new homes that meet ENERGY STAR New Home standards,  
 which require homes be at least 15 percent more energy efficient than homes built to 2004 International  
 Residential Code, and must meet U.S. EPA guidelines.
High-Efficiency Heat Pumps Incentives paid to residential customers and contractors who install qualifying high-efficiency heat pumps in  
 their homes.
Home Energy Fitness Provides turnkey energy analysis to qualifying customers, including blower door diagnostic analysis and 
 a variety of energy efficiency and conservation measures.
Mobile Home New Construction Incentives paid to customers and mobile home dealers for the installation of high-efficiency heat pumps 
 (13 SEER and higher) and upgraded insulation packages in new mobile homes.
Residential Standard Offer Incentives paid to participating contractors for installation of qualifying measures in retrofit applications.
Appliance Recycling Provides for the pick-up and disposal of second, inefficient, working refrigerators and freezers.
Compact Fluorescent Lighting (CFL) Provides monetary incentives for customers to replace incandescent bulbs with CFLs. Various delivery 
 methods may be utilized such as point-of-purchase, rebate coupons and bill inserts.
ENERGY STAR Appliances Provides financial incentives for the purchase of certain new appliances with an ENERGY STAR rating.
Renewable Energy Technology Provides financial incentives for the installation of solar and wind equipment. 
Commercial/Industrial Customer Programs 
CitySmart Pilot  Incentives paid to cities for certain measures installed in new or retrofit applications that provide verifiable  
 demand reduction and energy savings.
Commercial Solutions Facilitates a comprehensive approach to help commercial customers identify various energy efficiency and  
 cost-saving opportunities within the customer’s operation. It also provides the direct support, tools and  
 training necessary for customers to independently evaluate benefits of potential efficiency improvements.
Energy Efficiency for Cities Offers incentives to cities for installation of LED lighting retrofits for traffic signals, crosswalk signals and  
 building exit lighting.
Load Management Standard Offer Targets large commercial/industrial customers. Incentives are paid based on metered demand reduction to  
 participating customers who have identified interruptible load that can be curtailed on short notice.
Schools Conserving Resources (SCORE) SCORE Market Transformation Program targets school districts and cities to provide incentives for 
 installation of qualifying measures that provide verifiable demand and energy savings.
State and Municipal LED Lighting Provides incentives for the installation of new LED traffic signals in either a new or replacement installation.
Commercial and Industrial Lighting Provides financial incentives for installation of new high-efficiency lighting systems in a non-residential facility  
 in either a new construction or retrofit application.
Commercial and Industrial Motors Provides incentives for the installation of new properly sized high-efficiency motors in a new application or as  
 a replacement for a less efficient operating motor in a non-residential facility.
Commercial and/or Industrial Provides monetary incentives, based on savings, for a variety of retrofit measures, including installation of  
Standard Offer chillers, motors, heating/ventilation/air conditioning, lighting and window tinting/shading.
Large Industrial Process Open to large industrial and government customers (typically over 1,000 kW). Program may provide financial  
 support and assistance to identify and implement energy savings through a partnering approach with large  
 industrial customers.energy. We have asked our employees to 
support the Pickens Plan, and we expect 
to support it before Congress.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
& DEMAND RESPONSE  
In the past, AEP’s low rates have served 
as a disincentive to regulators to approve 
energy efficiency and demand response 
programs because these programs often 
cost customers more, not less. But the 
recession and the rising cost of energy 
give us two compelling scenarios in 
which we can raise awareness of energy 
efficiency alternatives with customers and 
policymakers. When the nation’s economy 
begins to recover, energy prices are likely 
to increase, which will provide further 
incentive for energy efficiency and 
demand response programs. 
 We are developing and implement -
ing energy efficiency and demand re -
sponse programs throughout our service 
territory in concert with our regulators 
and other stakeholders. Our programs are 
of significant interest to several stakehold -
ers, including environmental groups. 
 The challenge is to create cost-
effective programs that reduce energy 
consumption and demand so that capital 
expenses for new generating plants and 
infrastructure can be deferred or possibly 
avoided. These programs would ideally 
put utilities in a position of financial indif -
ference between investing in new genera -
tion or demand response and efficiency.
 We expect to have market poten -
tial studies completed in 10 of our 11 
states this year. Programs are in place in 
Arkansas, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Texas 
and have been proposed for Indiana 
and Michigan. In Ohio, the Public Utili -
ties Commission approved programs as part of AEP Ohio’s Energy Security Plan. 
Programs approved by regulators will be 
customized by each operating company 
based on several factors, including the 
cost of power, housing characteristics, 
air conditioning use, billing data, demo-
graphics and type of customer. We 
recently had a disappointing energy effi-
ciency decision in Indiana and will work 
harder to make our case to the commis -
sion based on the outcome of our market 
potential study. (Read more about this in 
the Climate Change section.)
 The American Recovery and Rein -
vestment Act of 2009 (“the Stimulus Bill”) 
includes significant energy efficiency 
provisions, such as incentives for home 
weatherization. We will work in our states 
to implement those programs where it is 
possible for us to do so.
RENEWABLE ENERGY STANDARDS
AEP is involved in discussions about a  
federal renewable energy standard (RES). 
A national RES would require use of a 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  37“As the regulatory process  
addresses increasingly complex 
issues, it’s becoming more 
important than ever that 
utilities work with all of their 
stakeholders to come up with 
regulatory solutions that 
address those issues in a way 
that’s fair to everyone. We are 
learning that, by listening to 
our customers, our employees, 
our investors and even our 
critics, we achieve better 
solutions and become a better 
company.” 
 
Craig Baker, senior vice president,
Regulatory Services
AEP hosted a town hall meeting with CEO Mike Morris and investor T. Boone Pickens in Columbus, Ohio, 
in March 2009 to promote the Pickens Plan.certain minimum amount of renewable 
energy. We have opposed a federal stan -
dard because we believed that one size 
could not possibly fit all — the wind power 
resources in Texas, for example, would be 
far different than those in Kentucky.
 However, the development of a 
nationwide transmission system that 
would allow the transport of renewable 
energy would help negate our concerns, 
as would tradable renewable energy 
credits. We propose that standards be 
phased in as transmission becomes 
38 Public Policyavailable. We also will seek an expanded 
definition of renewable energy to include 
advanced energy projects such as carbon 
capture and storage. We will continue 
working with the Obama administration 
and Congress on a federal RES as well as 
transmission legislation.
CARBON STORAGE POLICY
Carbon capture and storage presents a 
number of legal issues that must be re-
solved, or the technical ability to capture 
and store CO 2 will mean little. We want to 
ensure that states have policies in place to 
deal with liability for stored carbon. Only 
then can we make significant progress 
toward carbon capture and storage.
 Our vision is that we will inject CO 2 
into underground storage areas or use it 
for enhanced oil recovery. These tech -
nologies have been used and shown to be 
safe by the oil and gas industry for many 
years, and we believe they are viable ways 
to manage and store CO 2. 
 We are working with insurance com -
panies to assess the risks and costs and 
with state and national leaders to address 
long-term liability issues. We believe that 
the best option is for the government to 
accept the long-term liability for stored 
carbon regardless of whether insurance 
companies are willing to write such poli -
cies. This approach would provide the 
means for continued monitoring of the 
wells and corrective actions, if needed. 
We are promoting legislation in our states 
following the model advocated by the In -
terstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission.
OTHER DOMESTIC POLICY ISSUES
We are following several environmental 
rules — the Clean Air Interstate Rule, the 
Clean Air Mercury Rule and Section 316(b) “AEP is an integrated 
utility that has a wide range 
of stakeholders who often 
have competing interests and 
points of view. Our challenge 
is to develop comprehensive 
public policy strategies that 
balance the interests of those 
stakeholders, which include 
shareholders, customers,  
employees, environmental 
and consumer groups and 
government. Therefore,  
we must be at the forefront 
of the public policy arena 
championing solutions that 
make sense for all of us while 
being ever so careful to truly 
listen to those who have a 
stake in our overall success.” 
 
 Charles Patton, senior vice president, 
Regulatory & Public Policyof the Clean Water Act — as a result of 
judicial review. We also expect to see new 
regulations governing the management 
of coal ash impoundments as the result of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority coal ash 
dam failure in December 2008. We will 
work with regulators and policymakers 
to ensure that decisions are made on the 
basis of complete information.
 As disclosed in previous reports, 
AEP supports candidates for public office 
through contributions from our employee-
run political action committees (PACs). 
Information about federal PAC contribu -
tions is available online at www.fec.gov , 
and information about contributions from 
the company’s PACs in Michigan, Ohio, 
Texas and Virginia is available from the 
state sites. In 2008, we spent approxi -
mately $1.8 million on lobbying activities 
on a number of issues at the federal, state 
and local levels and made $195,500 in 
corporate political contributions.
INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENT
We are active on the international front 
as well. AEP is a member of the World 
Business Council for Sustainable De -
velopment and participated in the U.N. 
Climate Change Conference in Poland in 
December 2008. We recently co-authored 
a report with our industry peers in the 
international electric utility sector, Power 
to Change . This report outlines the public 
policies and technologies we believe are 
needed to address global climate change. 
We expect to be present at the next U.N. 
Climate Change Conference in Copenha -
gen, Denmark, in December 2009. n
USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.awea.org • www.fec.gov
www.wbcsd.orgCHALLENGE 
Current rate-making models incorporate too much
lag and do not account for the large investments 
necessary by utilities to replace existing facilities, 
expand capacity and modernize the grid. 
The state of the nation’s transmission grid is 
inadequate to meet future needs. We need an 
EHV transmission grid overlay, which requires 
modernization of siting processes and an 
interconnectionwide planning protocol.
To delay the need for new generation, AEP will 
promote energy efficiency and demand response 
programs in all 11 states to lower both the 
demand for power and the amount used. 
Renewable energy standards (RES) are becoming 
a popular tool for government to bring more 
renewable forms of energy into the market. A RES 
has been implemented in four of AEP’s 11 states, 
with virtually all others considering some kind of 
legislation. (New)
As carbon capture technology becomes commer -
cially available, there must be regulations in place 
that permit its safe long-term storage and that 
deal with long-term liability.GOAL  
Promote alternative rate-making models that 
reduce the time from investment to return on 
investment and help facilitate societal goals, such 
as energy conservation.
Lead the national policy effort to establish federal 
siting authority and broad-based planning proce -
dures and cost allocation.
Reduce or offset 1,000 MW of demand through 
energy efficiency programs by the end of 2012.
Work with state governments to implement com -
ponents of the American Recovery and Reinvest -
ment Act of 2009 related to energy efficiency and 
demand response.
Reduce energy consumption by 2,250,000 MWh 
by the end of 2012.
Ensure that RESes are achievable and appropriate 
for the states where AEP operates. Participate in 
developing legislation at the federal level for a 
national RES.
Develop plans to meet individual state RES 
requirements.
Help shape legislation that creates a mechanism 
to fund long-term storage and limit liability.2008 PROGRESS 
AEP has been working with regulators and 
legislators to explore several models, including 
future test years, Construction Work in Progress, 
riders and trackers and formula rates. 
Announced plans for EHV transmission projects 
that total 2,600 miles.
Presented our vision for new transmission 
planning, siting and cost allocation methodolo -
gies in several state and federal venues, including 
FERC, Department of Energy, Congress, National 
Conference of State Legislatures, Midwest 
Governors Association and others.
Conducted 25 siting meetings to seek public 
input for the PATH line in West Virginia. More than 
2,400 people attended.
 
Conducted or began market studies in 10 of 
our 11 states. Increased staff dedicated to devel -
oping and implementing energy efficiency and 
demand response programs throughout the sys -
tem. Identified 561 MW of the 1,000 MW demand 
reduction goal.
N/A (New Goal)
N/A (New Goal)
AEP has worked with the Obama administration 
regarding the development of a federal RES 
and expects to be involved as the discussion 
continues.
RES development plans are under way.
AEP has developed model legislation and started 
reviewing the costs of storage and potential for 
liability insurance.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  39Challenges, Goals, Progress — Public Policy“It’s important for AEP, like other corporations, to deploy life 
cycle assessment in making decisions about fuel mix. For too 
long, corporate America has externalized the costs of air pollution, 
public health and ecosystem services. We now add to that list  
the current difficult but critical issue of greenhouse gas emissions  
and climate change. When the cost of all of those things is inter -
nalized into the cost of electricity, we will have a very different 
view of the comparison between coal and wind, for example,  
or maybe coal and photovoltaics. We can’t depend on prices that 
are low for us now at the expense of the health and well-being of 
future generations.” 
Nick Brown, Ph.D., executive assistant for sustainability, 
University of Arkansas and AEP stakeholder
40 Climate ChangeThe decisions made in the next year or 
two on climate policy may well change 
the way we produce and use energy for 
decades to come. As the largest coal-
burning electric utility in the Western 
Hemisphere, AEP must lead the way. We 
respect that some of our stakeholders 
disagree with us on fundamental climate 
policy issues, such as 
emission reduction 
targets and allowance 
allocations, and that 
they feel we should 
have been more ag -
gressive addressing 
those issues. We be -
lieve it is time to focus 
on narrowing our dif -
ferences, emphasizing 
areas of commonality 
and moving forward. 
In that spirit, this sec -
tion discloses AEP’s 
views on the full range of issues related to 
climate change. 
OUR VIEW ON  
PUBLIC POLICY & CAP-AND-TRADE
AEP wants a federal energy policy that 
addresses the future energy needs and 
energy security of the United States and 
a separate climate change policy that 
addresses greenhouse gas (GHG) reduc -
tions through a federal cap-and-trade 
system. While we believe that climate and 
energy policy need to be addressed at 
the same time, some of our stakeholders 
prefer that energy issues be addressed 
as part of a climate bill. We agree with 
some of our stakeholders that climate 
change is best addressed through legisla -
tive action and not regulated through the 
existing Clean Air Act. The United States needs an interstate 
extra-high voltage (EHV) transmission 
system that is more efficient and can 
facilitate the delivery of clean energy 
from where it is generated to where it is 
needed. Today’s transmission system is 
built around the location of power plants. 
In a carbon-constrained world, we need 
to integrate substan -
tial new renewable 
and other resources 
into the grid. Renew -
able resources, such 
as solar and wind, 
often are located in 
remote areas. A new 
EHV transmission 
system must be built 
to bring this energy 
to the more popu -
lated areas where it 
is needed. The grid 
is not configured to 
handle a substantial shift to more diverse 
fuels and must be improved if we are to 
maximize those resources. 
 We support adoption of an economy 
wide cap-and-trade GHG reduction 
program that allows us to provide reli -
able, reasonably priced electricity to our 
customers while fostering international 
participation to address climate change. 
This program should include:
•	A cap that applies to all sectors of the 
economy and covers all GHGs;
•	A framework to maximize flexibility and 
minimize cost;
•	Targets for reducing emissions that 
match available technology and could 
decline over time as technology be -
comes available and can be deployed;
•	Unrestricted use of real and verifiable 
domestic and international emissions Climate Change
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  4148.7
(in billions)
Cubic meters of water that pass through AEP’s 
17 hydroelectric projects annually
 90%
Percentage of electricity generated  
daily by AEP from fossil fuels
215,000
Trees planted on company-owned  
lands in 2008
63.5
(in millions)
Trees planted by AEP between  
1944 and 2008TOP 5  
CLIMATE CHANGE ISSUES RAISED 
BY STAKEHOLDERS
•	Auction versus allocation  
— climate legislation
•	National renewable portfolio 
standard
•	Energy efficiency
•	The future of coal
•	Research and development and 
innovation
allowances to limit the economic bur -
den on emitters and on the economy  
as a whole; and
•	An appropriate trade measure to 
equalize the conditions of global trade 
should other countries fail to reduce 
their GHGs.
OUR VIEW ON PENDING LEGISLATION 
AEP still supports two pieces of climate 
change legislation introduced or devel -
oped within the 110th Congress: The Low 
Carbon Economy Act of 2007 (S. 1766) in -
troduced by Sens. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., 
and Arlen Specter, R-Pa., and a draft bill 
issued by Reps. Rick Boucher, D-Va., and 
John Dingell, D-Mich. Both pieces of leg -
islation called for economywide cap-and-
trade programs that included moderate 
initial emission reduction targets to allow 
for the development and deployment of 
critical low-carbon technology. 
 Both proposals included favorable 
options for allowance allocations and con -
tained language on international action 
and cost-containment mechanisms that 
were developed by AEP and the Interna -
tional Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 
While these proposals are unlikely to be 
reintroduced in the current Congress, AEP 
hopes that some of the key elements will 
be retained.
 AEP also supports the Carbon 
Capture and Storage Early Deployment 
Act (HR 6258) that was introduced by 
Rep. Boucher in 2008. This bill would 
provide funding for development and 
early deployment of systems to capture 
and store CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel 
generation. It would levy a small charge 
on distribution utilities based on the 
fossil energy and relative CO 2 emission 
rate of the energy used to supply their customers. This bill would provide 
approximately $1 billion in annual funding 
for development and deployment of 
this technology. 
 Recently, a climate bill with energy 
provisions was introduced that would 
establish a nationwide GHG cap-and-
trade program, sharply increase renew -
able energy production and revamp the 
energy efficiency of the U.S. economy. 
We are concerned about the aggressive 
targets and timetables and the prescrip -
tively high levels of renewable energy 
and energy efficiency standards that go 
beyond what we think realistically and 
cost effectively could be achieved.
OUR VIEW ON  
ALLOCATIONS VERSUS AUCTIONS
Emission allowances will have significant 
monetary value, and the decision about 
whether to allocate or auction them has 
enormous financial ramifications, from the 
smallest residential customers to the larg -
est businesses. We believe that auctions 
would place an unfair cost burden on 
customers of utilities whose power comes 
from coal and would likely cause signifi -
cant damage to AEP’s manufacturing cus -
tomer base, possibly creating significant  
job losses.
 We are passionate about our position 
supporting allocations because we have 
an obligation to our customers and the 
communities we serve. This is not about 
making profits for shareholders; it is about 
doing what’s best for our customers and 
the environment. In fact, because our 
rates are regulated, our profitability is 
not affected. 
 Some stakeholders have suggested 
that the government should collect 
money from customers and give it to 
42 Climate Change
AEP Ohio installed 70-kilowatt solar panels on two  
of its service centers to learn more about their 
installation and operation. 
offsets, such as methane capture from 
agriculture or landfills;
•	Allowance allocations to local electric 
distribution companies and other  
sources based on historical emissions 
and retail sales;
•	Incentives for early voluntary actions or 
investments to reduce emissions;
•	Long-term public and private funding 
to develop commercially viable tech -
nologies, such as carbon capture and 
storage;
•	Elimination of legal and regulatory 
barriers to the use of low- or no-carbon 
technology processes (e.g., carbon 
capture, nuclear, wind);
•	Regulatory approval of simultaneous 
 cost recovery for effective energy 
efficiency and demand response pro -
grams. We believe this is a key part of 
the climate solution;
•	A price ceiling (safety valve) on CO 2  companies to make required environmen -
tal improvements. Our skepticism that 
utilities would actually receive those funds 
is based on the billions of dollars cus-
tomers have already paid to the federal 
government over many years to build a 
permanent nuclear waste storage facility 
at Yucca Mountain, which still does not 
exist. The projected federal budget 
deficit makes us even more concerned 
about this idea. Although we disagree 
fundamentally with some stakeholders on 
the issue of allocation versus auction, we 
are committed to work toward a solution.
OUR VIEW ON USCAP
Last year, we explained why AEP has not 
joined the United States Climate Action 
Partnership (USCAP). USCAP recently is -
sued a more detailed blueprint for climate 
policy. We have carefully reviewed the 
revised USCAP proposal, which offers 
more detailed recommendations on key 
elements of climate policy, and found it 
is now much closer to AEP’s position. It 
includes a moderate initial cap, large al -
locations to the electric sector, significant 
commitment to technology development, 
limited restrictions on offsets and the use 
of an international pool of allowances as 
a cost containment mechanism. USCAP’s 
new recommendations also acknowledge 
that allocation is necessary to provide a 
smooth transition for consumers, trans -
form the economy and modernize energy 
infrastructure. It also explicitly notes 
the need for a full allocation of allowance 
value, at least initially, to local electric 
distribution companies to help cushion 
the rate impacts that will occur from a 
climate program. 
 Though the USCAP blueprint doesn’t 
contain an explicit price-based safety valve (or cap on price) that AEP supports, 
it includes language that will help con -
tain costs, including tropical rain forest 
preservation credits that can be released 
into the allowance trading system to help 
contain sharp price hikes. Many of these 
cost containment principles are in the 
Dingell-Boucher draft bill from late 2008, 
which AEP has supported.
 While we still don’t agree with the 
cap beyond 2020 and the level and 
severity of reductions required, we are in 
basic accord with most of the principles 
in USCAP today. Some of our stakehold -
ers want AEP to join USCAP or support its 
recommendations. We are in much closer 
alignment on key issues than we were a 
year ago, and we are considering these 
possibilities carefully.
OUR VIEW ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
America’s conservation ethic is not what 
it should be; we are 5 percent of the 
world’s population and consume 25 per-
cent of its natural resources, including 
fossil fuels. Even though much of this is 
driven by our high standard of living 
that includes larger homes and vehicles 
and all manner of electronics and appli -
ances, our lifestyles could be far more 
energy efficient. 
 Because we have some of the lowest 
electric rates in the country, the push for 
energy efficiency programs historically 
was not strong within our service territory, 
except where they were mandated. But as 
the cost of electricity and the cost to build 
new power plants increases, energy ef -
ficiency and demand response programs 
become essential. 
 We recently completed market 
potential studies in most of our states and 
have noted that public support is grow -
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  43 
“Climate change is a sig -
nificant global challenge. We 
recognize that legislation to 
address it will have a profound 
effect on how we operate our 
primarily fossil-fueled power 
plants and could redefine 
our entire resource planning 
process. AEP’s sustainability 
in a carbon-constrained world 
will be measured by our abil -
ity to translate the real-world 
issues of technology advances, 
customer cost impacts and 
construction and financial 
risks into federal and state 
policy objectives. We strongly 
believe in the importance of 
coal to America’s energy future 
and will continue to advance 
technologies that allow us to 
use it more acceptably. Energy 
efficiency, renewables, clean 
coal, nuclear, transmission and 
our gridSMARTSM initiative 
will all be needed to ensure 
our energy security.” 
 
Nicholas Akins, executive vice president, 
AEP GenerationAEP is testing two Plug-in Hybrid Electric 
Vehicles to learn more about their range and 
performance characteristics.in energy use and a reduction in demand. 
As a result, we set a first-time goal to 
reduce energy consumption by 2,250,000 
megawatt hours (MWh) by the end of 
2012. This goal would equal 1 percent of 
our energy sales in the year 2012, or the 
equivalent electricity to power 200,000 
homes for a year. We set this goal based 
on an Electric Power Research Institute 
study that found that U.S. energy efficien -
cy programs could realistically reduce the 
rate of consumption growth by 22 percent 
and achieve a 3.3 percent absolute reduc -
tion in consumption by 2020. However, 
when all of our market potential studies 
are completed, we will reevaluate our goal 
to better align it with those studies. We 
must still receive regulatory approval for 
the energy efficiency programs that will 
help us achieve this goal, and we will look 
to our stakeholders for their support.
 Stakeholders asked AEP about the 
potential to hire staff to conduct energy 
audits. Typically, we conduct energy au -
dits and other energy efficiency programs 
through third-party vendors. 
MOVING FORWARD  
IN OUR STATES, IN OUR BUILDINGS
In 2007, we set a goal to reduce demand 
by 1,000 MW by 2012. We have identified 
561 MW of potential reductions through 
customer programs. This, plus a new 
goal to reduce energy consumption 
by 2,250,000 MWh by 2012, is a 
realistic goal that we believe 
we can attain, and we will 
work with our regulators 
in our 11 states to gain 
their support. 
 In Oklahoma, 
Public Service Company 
of Oklahoma implemented several “quick start” programs that 
include recruiting customers to reduce 
usage during peak periods and partnering 
with the Oklahoma Department of Com -
merce, the Choctaw Indian Nation and 
Rebuild Together Tulsa on a low-income 
weatherization program. We see early 
positive results that will improve over 
time. Arkansas also initiated “quick start” 
programs last year. (For a state-by-state 
update on energy efficiency and demand 
response programs in AEP’s service terri -
tory, visit www.AEP .com/cr .)
 We are using metered electricity 
more efficiently within our own facilities. 
In 2008, we set an energy consump -
tion reduction goal of 3 percent over 
2007. We achieved a systemwide energy 
consumption reduction of 4.2 percent. 
Our goal is to reduce internal energy 
consumption by 8.5 percent by the end 
of this year, and 20 percent by 2012 by 
installing temperature controls, new heat -
ing and cooling equipment and chang -
ing lighting. We also made significant 
changes to our Corporate Data Center, a 
large consumer of electricity, resulting in ing. We were disappointed by a recent 
decision in Indiana that was critical of our 
energy efficiency efforts. We failed to 
provide sufficient supporting data to justi -
fy the programs we proposed. We intend 
to work with stakeholders in the ongoing 
collaborative to develop comprehensive 
programs with measurable, verifiable 
goals. We are committed to meeting 
the commission’s and our stakeholders’ 
expectations for energy efficiency and 
demand response programs. 
 To raise awareness on this issue, we 
launched a campaign to educate and pro -
vide tools for our employees to become 
better stewards of energy at work and at 
home. In a recent survey, 87 percent of 
employees said energy efficiency is very 
important or extremely important for 
America’s energy future. When asked 
how energy efficient they are at home, 
56 percent said cost is what keeps them 
from doing more, while 95 percent said 
cost savings is their strongest motivation. 
 Our stakeholders asked us to set effi -
ciency goals that include both a reduction 
44 Climate ChangeAEP REGULATED 
RENEWABLE ENERGY PORTFOLIO *
(in megawatts)
 
298 393 468 1,296  2,296 ** 
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011
 * Includes purchased power agreements
 ** Goal to add an additional 1,000 MW of renewable 
  energy by the end of 2011a 9.6 percent reduction in energy use by 
modifying how we operate and by using 
new virtualization technology that is more 
energy efficient. Lower energy consump -
tion reduces cooling requirements for 
the data center. The annual savings is 
estimated at $22,000 and avoids 489,000 
pounds of carbon emissions per year. 
OUR VIEW ON THE  
IMPORTANCE OF VOLUNTARY  
ACTIONS TO REDUCE EMISSIONS
As a founding member of the Chicago 
Climate Exchange (CCX), AEP commit-
ted to cumulatively reduce or offset 
48 million metric tons of CO 2 emissions 
from 2003 to 2010. Through 2008, we 
reduced or offset 51 million metric tons of 
CO2 — exceeding our target. We’ve done 
this in a number of ways, such as improv -
ing power plant efficiency, replacing or 
retiring less efficient and higher emit -
ting units, increasing our use of renew -
able power, reducing SF6 emissions and 
investing in forestry projects in the United 
States and abroad. For example, we have 
signed contracts to add 903 MW of wind 
capacity in the past two years — about 90 
percent of our goal toward adding 1,000 
MW of wind by 2011. Consequently, we 
will double this goal and add a total of
2,000 MW of renewable energy by the 
end of 2011, with regulatory support. 
This will help us to further diversify our 
fuel portfolio. Our upcoming integrated 
resource plan likely will contain a mini -
mal 10 percent renewable energy target 
by 2020. We already are planning to go 
beyond our initial commitment.
 AEP has made significant progress in 
reducing a potent GHG — SF6 — which 
is found in some electrical equipment. 
When AEP joined the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) SF6 Emission 
Reduction Partnership in 1999, our SF6 
leakage rate was 10 percent. In 2008, this 
rate had been reduced to 0.38 percent 
based on total system capacity, falling 
well below a self-imposed goal to achieve 
a maximum 2.5 percent leak rate from 
1996 levels. We did it by employing a 
combination of technologies such as put -
ting new breakers on lines to lower rates 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  45of SF6 leakage, investing in leak detection 
cameras and training field crews on SF6 
gas handling procedures.
 Our post-2010 strategy is to volun -
tarily reduce or offset an additional 5 mil-
lion tons of CO 2 per year by purchasing 
offsets from projects such as forestry,  
reducing methane from agriculture, add -
ing more renewable energy in our port -
folio and improving the efficiency of our 
HISTORICAL SF6 EMISSIONS
(in thousands of CO 2 metric tons)
 
192.8 271.2 
171.0 
158.8 242.0 
140.1 
21.2 44.6 
22.5 31.0 23.3
 
 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
   SF6 is a potent greenhouse gas used in distribution and transmission e quipment.AEP’S RENEWABLE ENERGY FOOTPRINT
• Wind resources• Hydroelectric projects
AEP states with renewable 
 energy standards
Other AEP states
AEP state with voluntary renewable 
 energy standardMI
OH
INWV
VA
KY
TN
AR
LAOK
TXILpower plants. The investments we have 
made in our coal-fired power plants make 
them more efficient than the national 
average for coal plants. Between 2001 
and 2007, these improvements helped us 
to avoid burning 16.2 million tons of coal, 
preventing the release of 39 million tons 
of CO 2. 
 AEP owns and operates 16 hydro -
electric and one pumped storage plant. 
These plants, which operate on six rivers, 
generate more than 1 million MWh of 
mostly emissions-free electricity each year 
and are important to the diversity of our 
overall fuel portfolio.
OUR VIEW ON 
EMISSION OFFSETS
AEP believes that verifiable offsets must 
be part of any climate legislation. AEP is 
a founding member of the Coalition for 
Emission Reduction Projects, which seeks 
to educate policymakers and the general 
public about the benefits of using offsets 
to meet compliance obligations under a federal GHG regulatory program. 
 Forestry must play a major role if we 
are to have any chance to stabilize the 
atmosphere at a level sufficient to avoid 
dangerous climate change. To ensure 
forestry offsets are fully included in 
domestic and international climate policy, 
AEP joined with conservation groups and 
other energy companies to develop The 
Forest Carbon Principles. Since 1944, AEP 
has planted 63 million trees in the United 
States; we also have invested in reforesta -
tion and forest conservation projects in 
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil and Guatemala.
OUR VIEW ON  
COAL & CLIMATE CHANGE
AEP consumes approximately 77 million 
tons of coal and 103 billion cubic feet  
of natural gas annually. Approximately 
90 percent of the electricity we produce 
comes from fossil fuels, and the remain -
der comes from nuclear, hydroelectric and 
wind power. As we strive toward achieving 
a sustainable electricity future, we must 
46 Climate Changerecognize and take into account certain 
realities — that about 50 percent of the 
nation’s daily electricity comes from coal; 
that hundreds of thousands of jobs in hun -
dreds of communities across the country 
depend on coal, with no other near-term 
means of support; and that we do not yet 
have the technologies or resources need -
ed to make a wholesale transition away 
from coal. We also must recognize that 
coal is a relatively abundant, inexpensive, 
domestic source of energy, which raises 
additional economic, social, political and 
national security issues.
 We know that coal, as plentiful as it 
is, is not a sustainable resource and comes 
with an environmental cost. We expect 
coal and other fossil fuels to be in the  
political crosshairs in the push for ‘green 
collar’ jobs to increase America’s renew -
able energy production. We support this 
push for technology and believe that it 
must include carbon capture and storage 
and new infrastructure, such as an  
EHV interstate transmission grid, that can 
efficiently deliver electricity from both 
renewable and non-renewable resources. 
 Our stakeholders challenge us to  
see “beyond coal.” The immediate need, 
and where AEP can do the most good,  
is to focus on developing and deploying
advanced coal technologies, such as 
carbon capture and storage, that allow 
us to use coal in a more environmentally 
acceptable way. 
 We are asking our stakeholders to 
help us persuade legislators, regulators 
and policymakers to support policies and 
incentives that accelerate advanced coal 
technology. Many of them have agreed 
to do so. At the same time, we recognize 
we will be retiring older, inefficient coal 
units sooner, increasing the percentage 
As more renewable energy becomes available, AEP will become less dependent on coal.of renewable energy we buy, making 
conversions in some plants to co-fire 
biomass and possibly increasing the 
capacity at our nuclear units. We expect 
that approximately 20 percent of our 
coal-fired fleet will be retired within the 
next 15 to 20 years. 
OUR VIEW ON  
ADVANCED COAL TECHNOLOGIES
Technology holds the key to coal’s future, 
and to AEP’s future. In 2008, we received 
approval from three states to build a new, 
ultra-supercritical pulverized coal plant in 
southwest Arkansas. The 600-MW John 
W. Turk Jr. Plant, once online in late 2012, 
will burn approximately 2 million fewer 
tons of coal during its lifetime than a com -
parably sized supercritical unit. Because 
less coal will be consumed, emissions of 
sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, 
CO2 and particulate matter will be reduced. The plant is designed to be 
retrofitted in the future with carbon 
capture and storage technology. 
 We expect that a 20-MW CO 2 
capture Process Validation Facility (PVF) 
under construction at our Mountaineer 
Plant in West Virginia will be operational 
this fall. The PVF is based on Alstom’s 
chilled ammonia process technology and 
will capture approximately 100,000 tons 
of CO 2 per year. The CO 2 will be com -
pressed and stored in saline formations 
located approximately 8,000 feet below 
the earth’s surface. We are seeking fund -
ing from the U.S. Department of Energy 
to build a new commercial-scale version 
of this technology to capture carbon 
dioxide from a 235-MW flue gas stream  
of the 1,300-MW Mountaineer Plant. If  
approved (a decision on funding is due 
this summer), we expect the commercial 
scale technology to have a 90 percent 
capture rate, or approximately 1.5 million 
tons of carbon dioxide per year. 
 The need for underground storage 
of CO 2 is growing. Natural gas has been 
safely and effectively stored underground 
for decades, so we have good reason 
to believe that CO 2 also can be stored 
safely. The U.S. EPA has proposed regula -
tions for a new class of underground 
injection wells for CO 2 to ensure that they 
are appropriately located, built, tested, 
monitored and ultimately closed with 
proper funding. A draft permit to store 
CO2 underground has been granted by 
the West Virginia Department of Envi -
ronmental Protection; a final permit is 
anticipated later this year.
  The U.S. Department of Energy’s  
GHG reduction program has three 
components that AEP strongly supports 
because they advance the technologies 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  47Powder River  Northern 
Basin & Other Appalachia 
44%  30%
 
 
  
  
 
 Central
 Appalachia  
 26% PROJECTED 2009 COAL PROCUREMENT 
The carbon capture equipment being installed 
at the Mountaineer Plant is expected to begin 
operations in fall 2009.needed to achieve CO 2 reductions from 
coal. They include research and develop -
ment; the Clean Coal Power Initiative; 
and the preservation of the FutureGen 
near-zero emissions plant in Mattoon, Ill. 
We believe the government’s decision to 
revisit FutureGen reflects an important 
step forward for carbon capture and 
storage technology in an advanced gas -
ification power plant. Another way AEP 
promotes advanced coal technologies is 
through the American Coalition for Clean 
Coal Electricity.
 The prospects for our proposed 
Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle 
(IGCC) plants in Ohio and West Virginia 
are uncertain. Without full support from 
regulators and legislators in Ohio, West 
Virginia and Virginia (the West Virginia 
plant also would serve customers in 
Virginia), we cannot make the massive 
investments needed to build this technol -
ogy, especially when cash flow is tight and 
access to credit is difficult and expensive. 
We continue to talk with our regulators 
and legislators about these options be -
cause we believe this technology is critical.
 Some stakeholders have asked us  
if we figure the cost of carbon into 
decisions on new technology, new facili -
ties and other business decisions; we do this through our integrated resource 
planning process. 
OUR VIEW ON INTERNATIONAL  
COLLABORATION ON CLIMATE
The power sector recognizes its front-line 
role in addressing climate change on a 
global basis. Through the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD), AEP and seven of the world’s 
largest electric utilities have endorsed a 
strategy that includes: 
•	National and international policies  to support low- to no-carbon  
technologies; 
•	Investment in transmission and  
distribution; 
•	Realistic pricing of electricity; 
•	Policies that allow countries to con -
tinue using their indigenous resources, 
including fossil fuels, to ensure their 
energy security; and 
•	A long-term international framework  
for emissions reductions and promo-
tion of low-carbon technologies and 
energy efficiency programs by all  
major economies.
 Through our leadership in the 
International Emissions Trading Associa -
tion (IETA), AEP and 170 other multina -
tional companies have helped to promote 
the development of worldwide, cost-
effective cap-and-trade systems.
 AEP agrees that the United States 
can and should lead the way toward a 
global climate change solution. How -
ever, the environment will not improve if 
developing economies do not take action 
alongside the developed economies. We 
will continue working through organiza -
tions such as the WBCSD, IETA, e8 and 
the Asia-Pacific Partnership to promote a 
global response that includes developing 
and sharing new technologies. 
 AEP supports “A Call for U.S. Leader -
ship on Forests and Climate Protection,” 
an international business initiative that 
recognizes the importance of protecting 
tropical forests. The initiative urges the 
United States to give priority in climate 
legislation and foreign policy to end tropi -
cal deforestation, because of the many 
benefits of forest conservation to climate 
protection, economic growth, interna -
tional security, poverty alleviation and 
biodiversity protection.OTHER WAYS WE’RE REDUCING 
OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
Among the other steps AEP is taking to 
reduce its CO 2 impacts are:
•	Setting energy conservation goals 
within our largest metered buildings 
and making our power plants  
more efficient;
•	Avoiding the need to landfill 60,000 
pounds of electronic waste as a result 
of an e-waste recycling day;
•	Requiring that all company computers 
purchased be ENERGY STAR compliant;
•	Setting all office printers to double-sid -
ed printing, which has saved more than 
89,000 pounds of paper and 760 trees. 
Human Resources is on target with a 
goal to reduce paper use by 1 million 
sheets on an ongoing basis by using 
the intranet to provide benefit informa -
tion, pay stubs, online program enroll -
ment and other services to employees;
•	Added 110 flex-fuel vehicles, 28 hybrid 
cars, two plug-in hybrid vehicles,  
one plug-in hybrid bucket truck and  
18 regular hybrid bucket trucks to our 
mobile fleet and three new, fuel-effi -
cient tow boats to our barge fleet; 
•	Seeking Leadership in Energy and  
Environment Design (LEED) certification 
for three AEP facilities;
•	Becoming a SmartWay Transport 
Partner, an EPA program that identi -
fies products and services that reduce 
transportation-related emissions.  
AEP is the first utility to receive this 
recognition; and
•	Installing two, 70-kilowatt solar systems 
at two service centers in Ohio.  n
48 Climate ChangeAEP GENERATION FLEET 
CAPACITY — 2008
Coal/Lignite Natural Gas 
66% 23%  
 Nuclear 
 6% 
 Hydro 
 2%
 
 Wind  
 1.5%
 
 Purchases  
 1.5%
AEP GENERATION FLEET CAPACITY 
PROJECTED — 2017
Coal/Lignite Natural Gas 
59%  28%  
 Wind/
 Solar  
 6% 
 Nuclear 
 5%
 
  Hydro 
 2%
 
USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.chicagoclimateexchange.com 
www.cleancoalusa.org • www.ieta.orgCHALLENGE 
Reduce or offset approximately 48 million metric 
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions 
between 2003 and 2010, in spite of uncertainty 
about how these voluntary reductions will be 
treated under federal climate legislation.
With no further actions, AEP’s emissions will  
continue to increase. 
Implement cost-effective energy efficiency and 
demand response programs that motivate cus -
tomers to reduce energy consumption.
Reasonable and achievable carbon controls 
that encourage other nations to participate as 
described in AEP’s climate change policy.
To lead by example, we must improve our own 
use of energy, reduce or offset emissions from 
our mobile fleet, improve the efficiency of our 
facilities and infrastructure and reduce the office 
waste stream. GOAL 
Meet our CCX commitment through 2010 with 
a broad portfolio of actions:
• Power plant efficiency improvements. 
• Renewable generation.
• Off-system GHG reduction projects.
• Direct purchase of emission credits through CCX.
We will implement our post-2010 strategy to re -
duce approximately 5 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalent emissions per year through:
• Bringing new advanced coal technologies to 
commercial operation.
• Increasing renewable energy.
• Carbon offsets, including agricultural methane, 
forestry, and market-based credit purchases.
• Making efficiency improvements to power 
plants and retiring less efficient, older plants.
Continued commitment to Leadership Group of 
National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency and to 
working with other stakeholders. 
Complete market potential studies in all 11 states.
Reduce demand by 1,000 MW by 2012.
Reduce energy use by 2,250,000 MWh by 2012. 
A market-based economywide federal cap-and-
trade program that rewards early action, allows 
GHG offsets, supports public and private funding 
for technology development, includes a safety 
valve on the price to purchase allowances that pro -
tects the economy and allocates allowances based 
on historical emissions and retail sales with only a 
small number of allowances auctioned or set aside 
for public benefit.
2009 goal — reduce energy use 8.5 percent;  
20 percent by end of 2012. New behaviors and 
equipment will support this goal. Challenge could 
be budget support for equipment.
Reduce AEP’s mobile fleet consumption of 
petroleum-based products by 5 percent in 2009 
through vehicle inventory reductions, use of ad -
vanced technology applications to reduce vehicle 
routing and idling, and conversion to alternative-
fueled and powered vehicles.
Offset or reduce GHG emissions from mobile 
fleet, including corporate jet. 
Build all facilities and improve efficiency of exist -
ing buildings using Leadership in Energy and 
Environment Design (LEED) standards, where 
appropriate. Seek LEED certification.
Enhance recycling to reduce office waste. 2008 PROGRESS 
Through 2008, reduced or offset CO 2 emissions 
by approximately 51 million metric tons with:
• Power plant efficiencies. 
• Purchased offsets from CCX.
• Retirement of older inefficient generation.
• Forestry.
• Mountaineer Plant 20-MW chilled ammonia 
carbon capture and storage project to begin 
operation fall 2009.
• Turk Plant approved, construction started.
• Signed contracts for 903 MW of wind. 
• Through 2008, contracted for 0.6 million tons 
per year of livestock methane offsets that 
begin in 2010.
• Market potential studies completed or ongoing 
in 10 of 11 states.
• Collaborative in Oklahoma resulted in early 
‘quick start’ program implementation. Quick 
start programs started in Arkansas.
• For complete state-by-state information on 2008 
EE/DR activities, please visit  www.AEP.com/cr .
• 561 MW of energy efficiency programs identified.
N/A (New Goal)
• Supported Low Carbon Economy Act of 2007  
(Bingaman-Specter) and Legislative Discussion 
Draft (Boucher-Dingell).
• Supported Carbon Capture and Storage Early 
Deployment Act.
• Helped write and signed second WBCSD 
climate report on technology and policy.
• Signed Forest Carbon Principles.
Reduced energy consumption 4.2 percent in 2008 
systemwide; reduced power use by corporate 
Data Center 9.6 percent from peak.
Fuel consumption/vehicles
2008 — 5.6 million gallons gasoline; 5.2 million 
gallons diesel; 163,563 gallons B20 biodiesel. 
2007 — 5.5 million gallons gasoline; 5 million 
gallons diesel; 283,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.
2006 — 5.5 million gallons gasoline; 4.7 million 
gallons diesel; 324,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.
2005 — 5.5 million gallons gasoline; 4.7 million 
gallons diesel; 4,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.
• Mobile fleet emissions offset through market-  
 based carbon credits purchased through CCX. 
• Added 28 hybrid cars, 110 flex fuel vehicles,  
 18 hybrid bucket trucks and three PHEVs to fleet.
Three facilities awaiting LEED certification. 
Program implemented at all large office facilities. 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  49Challenges, Goals, Progress — Climate Change“We will do whatever we need to do with you  
to convince regulators of why you need to invest 
in cost-effective energy efficiency. But the com -
pany needs to come forward with programs and 
incentive mechanisms that we can support.” 
Elizabeth Richter, environmental architect, 
Corpus Christi, Texas
“Sustainability is an all-encompassing concept that raises our  
consciousness in the way we work, play and live. Imagine that we 
all live in a closed system that has finite resources. In this context, 
we would make decisions based on scarcity rather than abundance.  
We would likely be more frugal and economical; we would allocate  
our collective resources wisely. We will likely consume with care 
and waste naught. In the practice of architecture, applying sus-
tainability principles is a matter of good design. We can design  
buildings that consume less, last longer and are in harmony with 
people and their context — creating more smart, livable spaces  
and places.” 
Elizabeth Chu Richter, FAIA, Corpus Christi, Texas; 
chief executive officer, Richter Architects and AEP stakeholder
50 Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthAEP’s basic services are to generate 
and deliver reliable, safe and reasonably 
priced electricity and to plan for how 
we will continue doing that in the future. 
When our customers flip the switch, they 
expect the lights to turn on. To provide 
this essential service, we operate and 
coordinate three complex systems — gen -
eration, transmission and distribution.
GENERATION OF ENERGY
With 38,000 megawatts (MW) of gener -
ating capacity, AEP 
is proud to provide 
secure, low-cost 
power to millions of 
users. Our fuel mix is 
66 percent coal,  
23 percent natural 
gas, 6 percent nuclear 
and 5 percent hydro, 
wind and pumped 
storage. We expect 
to further diversify  
this mix in the future 
with more renewable 
and possibly more 
nuclear power. 
 We use a 
resource planning process to plan gen -
eration needs for many years out. This 
process, which is conducted annually and 
updated continuously, considers project -
ed growth in demand, peak consumption, 
fuel and commodity prices, economic 
conditions, legislative and regulatory 
mandates and other factors to develop 
energy solutions at the lowest cost for our 
customers. This process guides the devel -
opment and seeks to ensure the reliability 
of our energy supply. 
 Daily energy needs are planned 
through our commercial operations group, which manages the dispatch of 
our plants in conjunction with regional 
transmission organizations to meet the 
demand for power on a regional basis.
 With the widespread use of air condi -
tioning and the addition of the four South -
western states of Arkansas, Louisiana, 
Oklahoma and Texas in 2000, AEP has 
largely become a summer peaking sys -
tem. The energy efficiency and demand 
response programs we are developing will 
thus be geared toward reducing demand 
during the summer 
cooling season. 
    To meet pro -
jected demand in 
the fast-growing 
Southwestern Elec -
tric Power Company 
(SWEPCO) service 
territory, in late 2008 
we began construc -
tion of the 600-MW 
John W. Turk Jr. ul -
tra-supercritical coal 
plant in southwest 
Arkansas. SWEPCO 
received the final air 
quality permit from 
the Arkansas Department of Environmen -
tal Quality in November 2008. Construc -
tion should be complete at the end of 
2012. This plant will serve the base load 
needs of customers in Arkansas, Louisiana 
and Texas. See the section on Climate 
Change for more information about the 
Turk Plant.
 SWEPCO also is building the 
500-MW J. Lamar Stall combined-cycle 
natural gas unit at the existing Arsenal Hill 
Plant in Shreveport, La. It is scheduled for 
completion in 2010 and will help to meet 
intermediate needs. Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
212,781
Miles of overhead & underground  
distribution lines in 11 states 
2.25
(in million megawatt hours)
Energy reduction goal by the end of 2011
 4.2% 
Energy consumption reduction in 
AEP facilities in 2008
2,1 1 6 
Total circuit miles of 765 kV 
transmission lines
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  51TOP 5  
ENERGY SECURITY, RELIABILITY 
& GROWTH ISSUES RAISED 
BY STAKEHOLDERS
•	Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles 
— impact to grid, environment
•	Energy efficiency and 
 conservation standards
•	Siting of new infrastructure
•	Marry energy security with  
environmental responsibility
•	Educate, inform consumers  
more effectively
 In our East region, the outage of the 
1,055 MW Unit 1 at the Cook Nuclear 
Plant in Bridgman, Mich., on Sept. 20, 
2008, was caused by the failure of low-
pressure turbine blades that damaged the 
unit’s main turbine and generator, causing 
a fire that resulted in additional damage. 
There were no emissions of radioactive 
materials and no injuries. The earliest the 
unit may be returned to service is Sep -
tember 2009.
 The Cook Nuclear Plant has imple -
mented a program, based on industry 
guidelines, to meet a 2010 industry goal 
for fuel reliability. This includes items such 
as fuel surveillance and inspection and 
mitigation of debris. These actions allow 
the plant to operate more efficiently, 
achieve maximum fuel performance, 
minimize high radiation and contamina -
tion levels in the plant and reduce radio -
active waste.
TRANSMISSION
Transmission refers to the high-voltage 
system of power lines that move electrici -
ty from the point of generation to where it 
is transformed into lower-voltage energy 
for safe delivery into homes, offices and 
factories. We have 39,000 miles of lines 
that deliver power in our 11 states. 
 We believe it is critical for the United 
States to build a new, interstate extra-high 
voltage (EHV) transmission system to en -
sure future energy reliability. The existing 
transmission grid, while functional, cannot 
handle the existing traffic efficiently and 
concurrently bring large quantities of 
renewable power from where it can be 
produced to the nation’s population cen -
ters. Transmission system shortfalls have 
been more frequent and larger — the 
2003 blackout caused 50 million people to lose their power within a minute. 
 According to the North American 
Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC), the 
United States will need 14,500 miles of 
new transmission lines by 2016 to deliver 
all sources of electricity to these popula -
tion centers. The siting challenges alone 
make this nearly impossible; opposition 
to siting a 90-mile transmission line from 
West Virginia to Virginia dragged out 
the completion of one AEP project for 
16 years. 
 A new interstate grid also will help 
us to address the challenges of climate 
change and the need for greater energy 
independence by facilitating the transmis -
sion and encouraging the development  
of renewable energy. Transmission 
siting depends almost entirely on state 
approval. We believe that new EHV lines 
of 345 kV and higher should be regulated 
similarly to natural gas pipelines — by 
the federal government through the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC). (See the section on Public Policy 
for more information.) 
 We are encouraged by the introduc -
tion of federal legislation that will grant 
the FERC transmission siting authority, but 
we are concerned about provisions that 
would restrict these new lines to transmit -
ting power from mostly renewable sourc -
es. This restriction would be unworkable 
and would deny the nation the flexibility 
it needs to meet future energy demands. 
This is an area of intense interest, and AEP 
expects to be fully involved as legislation 
moves forward. Some of our stakeholders 
would support a modern grid only if it is 
used for renewable energy. We disagree 
and oppose this position. It would be like 
exclusively allowing only plug-in electric 
vehicles on the nation’s highways. This 
52 Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthTRANSMISSION LINE MILES BY    
OPERATING COMPANY 
Company Total 765 kV 
AEP Appalachian Power  30 —
Appalachian Power 6,741 734
Indiana Michigan Power  5,344 615
Kentucky Power 1,234 258 
AEP Ohio   9,232  509
Public Service  3,592 — 
Company of Oklahoma   
Southwestern Electric  3,530 —
Power Company  
AEP Texas   9,356 — 
AEP System  39,059 2,116
AEP first proposed an interstate transmission 
superhighway, similar to the nation’s interstate 
highway system, in 2006.is not practical or viable; neither compa -
nies nor regulators would invest in such a 
limited system.
 Regardless of the regulatory system 
that is selected, as the nation enacts 
new mandates on the use of renewable 
energy, policymakers must recognize that 
EHV transmission will be required to 
efficiently and cost effectively bring that 
renewable energy to market. We support 
investor T. Boone Pickens’ energy inde -
pendence plan ( www.PickensPlan.com ) 
that calls for more wind energy, a modern 
grid and shifting parts of the transporta -
tion sector to alternative fuels, such as 
natural gas and electricity. We agree 
with him that a robust EHV transmission 
system is needed to bring energy created 
by wind on the Western plains to market. 
 To spur the development of transmis -
sion, AEP Transmission Company, a wholly 
owned subsidiary, has entered into  
several joint ventures and expects to be 
involved in more. Creating a separate 
transmission company gives us more  
flexibility in structuring projects. 
DISTRIBUTION
Distribution refers to the system that 
delivers electricity from the high-voltage 
transmission system into homes, offices 
or factories. Three key indices represent -ing electric delivery system reliability are 
the average number of outages in a given 
time period, the frequency of interrup -
tions (SAIFI), and the amount of time that 
the average customer is without power 
(SAIDI). During the past five years, AEP’s 
systemwide SAIFI has improved, SAIDI 
has trended in a slight negative direction, 
and the number of outages has increased.
 Our performance data indicate that 
our reliability varies widely from company 
to company. For example, the average 
customer in Texas was without power 
107 minutes in 2008 (excluding major 
storms), whereas the average customer 
of Kentucky Power was without power for 
almost 500 minutes. This range reflects 
factors such as terrain, climate, vegeta -
tion, customer density and staffing. Since 
2004, distribution equipment failures have 
replaced vegetation inside the right of 
way as the number one cause of customer 
interruption time. 
 We would like to say that our outage 
numbers will improve, but our ability to 
invest in reliability is limited. We are talk -
ing with regulators and legislators about 
alternative rate-making arrangements to 
better facilitate the investments we need 
to improve reliability. Our long-term goal 
is to move to the next generation of smart 
grid technology to bring about significant 
improvements.  We continue to uncover 
ways to optimize our vegetation manage -
ment spending.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  53“When we ask, ‘What is 
our mission as a company?’, 
there is one answer that I 
think stands above all others: 
Our job is to provide comfort, 
protection and opportunity to 
our customers. So reliability 
and energy security aren’t just 
abstract principles. They are 
core values that also define 
in practical terms what our 
22,000 employees are expected 
to do, every single day.” 
 
Susan Tomasky, president, 
AEP Transmission
SYSTEMWIDE RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE  
 2005 2006 2007 2008 
SAIFI 1.546 1.518 1.519 1.468  
SAIDI 197.7 191.4 189.8 198.0 
SAIFI indicates the number of sustained outages
the average customer experienced during the year.
SAIDI indicate s the amount of time the average 
customer was without service due to sustained  
interruptions during the year, measured in min -
utes. Target is 186.4CAUSE OF OUTAGES     
(number per year)
 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 
Equipment Failure 32,551 41,725 41,672 45,762 46,252
Vegetation Inside Right of Way 25,117 24,057 23,527 22,294 23,485
Vegetation Outside Right of Way 9,592 10,534 13,717 14,246 16,704
CAPITAL & HUMAN  
RESOURCES CONSTRAINTS
In response to the recession and credit 
crisis, we reduced the distribution capital 
budget by 39 percent, from $1.1 billion 
to $686 million in 2009. Less money will 
be available for preventive maintenance 
and equipment upgrades. These cuts 
mean AEP will not be able to make any 
significant investments in new distribution 
technology or system upgrades in 2009. 
Some employees and labor leaders have THE SOUTH BEND PILOT — gridSMARTSM AT WORK
Beginning in late 2008, about 10,000 AEP custom -
ers in South Bend, Ind., began participating in our 
first major rollout of gridSMARTSM technology.
 Through the use of automated communica -
tions equipment, new smart meters and time-of-  
day rates, these customers are participating in a 
pilot program that will help determine if electricity 
users are ready to take more control over their 
usage and their energy bills. 
 The concept is that, given timely information 
and the ability to postpone some energy usage to 
a period of lower rates, customers will actively man -
age how much power they use and when they use 
it. The $7 million experiment, approved by the Indi -
ana Utility Regulatory Commission, will allow customers to see how much energy they 
consume on a near real-time basis. Their meters, which incorporate state-of-the-art 
data collection and communications technology, will transmit customer usage to AEP 
daily. Customers will be able to see how much power they used per hour the previous 
day by calling up their account information online. By providing customers with more 
frequent and accurate information, we believe they will make better energy choices. 
 A critical part of the pilot is the availability of time-of-day rates. Residential 
customers can remain on a fixed-rate plan of 6.75 cents per kilowatt hour, or switch 
to time-of-day pricing. Under time-of-day rates, the off-peak rate is 5.981 cents per 
kilowatt hour while the peak rate will be 17.637 cents per kilowatt hour. Peak hours 
are from 2 – 6 p.m. Monday through Friday from May through September.
 In addition to saving customers money, the pilot will test our ability to install 
and manage new equipment that will allow us to better control our distribution grid. 
Service interruptions, for example, can be reported automatically. Meters will no 
longer need to be read manually. Start and stop service requests can be handled 
more quickly and at lower cost. Outages generally will be restored faster.
 But there’s more. Up to 500 customers are being solicited to participate in a 
program that allows AEP to control the customer’s cooling system from 2  – 6 p.m. 
weekdays from May through September. AEP would have the ability to raise the 
customer’s thermostat in two-degree increments, up to four degrees a day, or 
cycle off the central cooling unit for up to one-half of every hour of a load manage -
ment event. In exchange, participating customers would receive $5 monthly credits 
toward their bill. We believe this will demonstrate our ability to reduce peak demand 
during heavy use periods, allowing us to defer new generation and distribution 
system upgrades.
 AEP will run the pilot for one year to determine the costs and benefits of de -
ploying this technology on a broader scale.expressed concern with this strategy even 
though they understand the circumstanc -
es that led to these decisions. 
 The company’s aging work force 
might also adversely affect reliability. 
While we hired approximately 575 line 
workers in the last five years to replace 
retiring employees, including distribution 
linemen, our new employees will not be 
as productive as the more experienced 
workers they are replacing until they gain 
more job experience. 
 Our goal for 2009, therefore, is to 
maintain our current reliability levels 
through more effective use of crews and 
equipment. We are planning process 
improvements such as how we locate  
and dispatch crews, as well as continuing 
our replacement program for porcelain 
cutouts with high failure rates in our 
eastern companies and using heavy-duty, 
tank-mounted lightning arresters on our 
new service transformers. 
gridSMARTSM
The answer to the aging infrastructure is 
to deploy 21st century smart grid tech -
nologies. AEP’s gridSMARTSM project will 
reduce energy losses in our own equip -
ment, lower operating costs, provide new 
services to customers, and allow them to 
better control energy usage and costs.
 A pilot program involving 10,000 
customers to test gridSMARTSM technol -
ogy in South Bend, Ind., is under way. Our 
goal is to install 5 million smart meters 
throughout our service territory by 2015, 
but to do so we must receive regulatory 
approval for cost recovery. In Texas, we 
are deploying 1 million smart meters 
during the next several years. Nationwide, 
smart grid technologies could directly 
create up to 280,000 jobs and even more 
54 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
Pilot participants can view usage 
on an AEP Web site.jobs indirectly. The transition to an ad -
vanced grid will enable new technologies 
such as plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, 
distributed renewable energy resources, 
smart appliances, and home automation 
software and hardware, according to a re -
port from the Gridwise Alliance, of which 
AEP is a member ( www.gridwise.org ).
ENERGY EFFICIENCY  
& DEMAND RESPONSE PROGRAMS
Energy cost increases during the last 
two years have put more attention than 
ever on energy efficiency and demand 
response programs. Studies increasingly 
indicate that the United States can meet a 
significant portion of its energy needs by 
adopting efficiency and demand response 
programs. Our own industry research 
organization, the Electric Power Research 
Institute (EPRI), has determined that 
energy efficiency programs can reduce 
the rate of growth in the use of electricity 
nationwide by 22 percent per year from 
2008 to 2030, a reduction in consumption 
of 236 billion kilowatt hours by 2030 from 
the base 2008 forecast.
 Two years ago, AEP set a goal to 
reduce demand by 1,000 MW by 2012. 
We have identified customer programs 
to achieve more than half — 561 MW 
— toward this goal. We will complete 
market potential studies in most of our 11 
states this year to identify other demand 
response and energy efficiency opportu -
nities. And, in response, we are setting a 
new goal to reduce energy consumption 
by 2,250,000 megawatt hours (MWh) by 
2012. This represents 1 percent of energy 
sales and is the equivalent of the electric -
ity needed to power 200,000 homes for 
a year. It is based on the EPRI study, but 
once we have all of our market potential studies completed, we will re-evaluate it. 
We also are making progress reducing  
our energy use within our own facilities.  
In 2008, we reduced consumption by  
4.2 percent over 2007.
THE RECESSION IS  
AFFECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
The economic crisis is seriously affecting 
our customers. As job losses increase, 
more of our customers are unable to pay 
their bills. Net charge offs, or the amount 
of revenues the company classifies as 
uncollectible, began to increase in the 
second half of 2008 after decreasing for 
five years. 
 We want to keep uncollectibles in 
check because when customers can’t or 
don’t pay, those costs are spread among 
the rest of the customer base. We had 
aggressively reduced uncollectibles from 
a high of 0.5 percent in 2003 to less than 
0.25 percent in the first half of 2008, but 
this has recently risen above 0.39 percent 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  55and is climbing. An increase in net charge 
offs, along with the average number of 
days that bills are outstanding, which also 
is increasing, are indicative of the weaken -
ing economy.
 We are better protected against large 
losses by having strengthened our poli -
cies regarding customer deposits. Also, 
federal funding of LIHEAP — the Low 
Income Home Energy Assistance Program 
— almost doubled for 2009 to $5.1 billion 
in recognition of the difficult economy. To 
help expedite disbursement of LIHEAP 
funds, AEP is developing a secure Web 
site for government agencies to make 
pledges on behalf of our customers.
IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE
We can improve our customers’ overall 
experience, operate more efficiently and 
reduce energy and paper use by increas -
ing the volume of online billing and other 
transactions. AEP mails about 53 million 
bills a year to customers. Converting 
these bills to electronic statements would 
save significant amounts of paper and 
trees in addition to the accompanying 
costs for printing and mailing of bills and 
allow us to use those resources to meet 
other needs. 
 As of December 2008, approximately 
261,000 residential customers received 
their bills electronically, and approxi-
mately 1.3 million paid their bills electroni -
cally. Our goal is to shift approximately 
1.5 million customers to receiving their 
bills electronically by 2013. Achieving this 
goal would yield a potential cost savings 
of approximately $3.9 million annually. 
SYSTEM SECURITY & COMPLIANCE
As the world moves further toward 
Internet-based transactions and comput -REALISTIC ACHIEVABLE ENERGY 
SAVINGS POTENTIAL
(percent of total load by sector)
 
0.8% 4.1% 
7.8% 
0.5% 5.7% 8.8% 
0.2% 4.4% 
7.6% 
 Residential Commercial Industrial
• 2010 • 2020 • 2 0 3 0  • 2010 • 2020 • 2 0 3 0
Source: Assessment of Achievable Potential from 
Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Programs 
in the U.S. (2010 – 2030) , Electric Power Research 
Institute, January 2009.CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY  — 2008      
 Overall Reliability Power Quality
Company Satisfaction Satisfaction Satisfaction 
Residential Customers    
Appalachian Power  86% 88% 84%
Kentucky Power 86% 87% 87%
Indiana Michigan Power  86% 89% 86%
AEP Ohio   86% 87% 86%
Public Service Company of Oklahoma   77% 82% 82%
Southwestern Electric Power Company  89% 91% 90%
AEP Texas   80% 85% 84%  
AEP System  84% 87% 85% 
Company Overall Reliability Power Quality 
Small Commercial Customers    
Appalachian Power  90% 91% 89%
Kentucky Power 93% 93% 91%
Indiana Michigan Power  92% 92% 87%
AEP Ohio   87% 90% 87%
Public Service Company of Oklahoma   89% 83% 83%
Southwestern Electric Power Company  92% 94% 92%
AEP Texas   86% 90% 86%  
AEP System   88% 90% 87% er-driven networks, computer security 
is becoming an increasingly important 
component of sustainability. We have 
rigorous cyber security measures in place 
at AEP. Among the risks to the company 
are harm to the power grid; theft of data, 
including employee or customer personal 
information; and the unauthorized use of 
our computer resources. 
 Network perimeter protection with 
firewalls, intrusion detection and preven -
tion systems and Internet content filtering 
provide an excellent first line of defense. 
We augment these with desktop and 
laptop computer versions of anti-virus and 
intrusion prevention. To better protect 
our business and personal information, we 
have implemented mobile computer data 
encryption and will complete an e-mail 
encryption project in 2009.
 Other projects such as Identity and 
Access Management address the need 
for centralized access controls and more 
efficient access management throughout 
the company. We continue to pursue new 
security technology solutions, design 
repeatable and sustainable business 
data protection processes and give our 
employees the knowledge and security 
awareness that is critical to maintaining 
network security.
 AEP has strong governance dedi -
cated to compliance, including the FERC-
approved reliability standards. Following 
the 2003 blackout, the U.S. Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 authorized creation of an 
Electric Reliability Organization under the 
FERC’s oversight. NERC became the Elec -
tric Reliability Organization in the United 
States and Canada and has focused 
efforts to establish uniform reliability stan -
dards for the bulk electric system across 
North America. In 2007, NERC delegated 
56 Energy Security, Reliability & Growthauthority for enforcement to eight regional 
groups. Compliance with these regula -
tions is overseen at the executive level.
 We continually conduct self-assess -
ments of activities supporting these reli -
ability standards and have self-reported 
a few incidents of noncompliance to the 
appropriate regional organization. As part 
of this self-reporting process, we have de -
veloped and put in place plans to correct 
the issues that were identified.  n
USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.ferc.gov • www.nerc.com
www.PickensPlan.com CHALLENGE 
A variety of factors such as aging infrastructure, 
terrain and weather, affect the reliability of our 
distribution system in varying degrees. Our ability 
to fund major improvements is limited without 
regulatory support.
We need an EHV transmission system that inte -
grates and interconnects all sources of electricity, 
including new renewable resources, as efficiently 
as possible, and that is regulated similarly to 
other forms of interstate commerce, ideally by 
the FERC.
Develop a diverse portfolio of energy sources to 
ensure that we are able to meet the demand for 
energy by our customers in the immediate future 
and beyond.
Providing customers with more tools to allow 
them to better manage their energy usage and 
demand can help delay or reduce the need for 
new power plants. Energy efficiency is an excel -
lent tool to help customers manage usage and 
keep bills steady. The challenge will be to obtain 
regulatory support to fund these programs.GOAL 
Improve the average number and duration 
of customer outages. 
Continue to explore possibilities for new EHV 
transmission projects.
Shape and advocate for policies that provide for 
an EHV transmission system that is regulated 
by the FERC.
Add 2,000 MW of renewable energy by the end 
of 2011.
Deploy 5 million smart meters by 2015, pending 
regulatory support, including 1 million meters 
in Texas.
Obtain regulatory support for gridSMARTSM 
initiative, including traditional energy efficiency 
and demand response programs, new digital grid 
and smart metering technology.2008 PROGRESS 
Developed strategies to improve deployment 
and staffing strategies of distribution personnel.
Conducted 25 siting meetings to seek public 
input for the PATH line in West Virginia. More than 
2,400 people attended.
Announced plans for EHV transmission projects 
that total 2,600 miles.
In February 2009, AEP endorsed the Pickens Plan 
to encourage development of wind-powered 
electricity and accompanying EHV transmission 
infrastructure. 
Through 2008, added 903 MW new wind power 
— more than 90 percent of goal. In March 2009, 
doubled renewable energy goal to 2,000 MW.
In 2008, generating capacity for coal reduced 
from 68 to 66 percent as other resources 
increased (gas, wind, etc.).
Initiated 10,000-meter pilot of gridSMARTSM tech -
nology in South Bend, Ind. Further deployment 
will depend on regulatory support.
Formed partnership with IBM for technology 
integration support.
For a state-by-state rundown of energy 
efficiency and demand response programs, visit 
www.AEP.com/cr .
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  57Challenges, Goals, Progress — Energy Security, Reliability & Growth“AEP displayed great strides in inviting a wide range of inter -
ested parties to participate in the stakeholder meetings. I feel that 
these meetings have the potential to provide a significant insight 
into the needs of the stakeholders. I trust that AEP will recognize 
that, while a significant environmental movement has always 
been in place, times have changed and many parties now demand 
that business create change. The stakeholder meeting clearly 
identified the need for big business to change how they operate 
their business models. ” 
Chris Bayne, electrical maintenance manager, Roanoke Cement Co.; 
AEP customer and AEP stakeholder
58 Stakeholder Engagement395
Number of consecutive quarterly dividends  
paid to shareholders 
8
Number of people physically displaced 
by new or expansion projects related to AEP’s 
generation and transmission operations
 30% 
Amount of corporate giving dedicated  
to environmental organizations
110
Permanent jobs created when the  
Turk ultra-supercritical plant is operational Stakeholder Engagement
Sustainability is not only about perfor -
mance, it also is about being transparent 
and accountable to those who have a 
stake in the activities of your organization. 
Our decision to be more transparent, to 
listen and to consider others’ viewpoints 
involved a significant culture change for 
us, which has helped to make us a better, 
stronger and more resilient company. Our 
stakeholder engagement process has 
influenced our thinking, altered business 
decisions and strengthened our daily 
operations. We are once again reporting 
on our work with stakeholders. This year, 
we agreed to publish an unedited letter 
from our Ceres stakeholder team. We 
appreciate the dialogue we have had with 
all of our stakeholders — we are a better 
company for it.
OUR DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 
We held 10 formal stakeholder meetings 
during the past year, using our 2007 and 
2008 Corporate Sustainability Reports or 
the development of this year’s report as 
a springboard for discussions. No subject 
was off-limits: we talked about the future 
of coal and mountaintop mining, climate 
change policy and energy efficiency, coal 
ash ponds, the impact of the recession 
on our company, and other issues. We 
worked with stakeholders not only on the 
national level but also within the com -
munities we serve to discuss regional 
and local issues of mutual concern. We 
included a more diverse range of custom -
ers, businesses, community organizations, 
environmental organizations, regulatory 
agencies and academic institutions than 
in past years. We also invited young pro -
fessionals and university students to hear 
their unique views and ideas.
 The discussions focused primarily on AEP’s material issues — work force, 
climate change and other environmental 
challenges, including the growing stress 
on water and water supply, and energy 
security and reliability. We talked beyond 
the report about our current programs 
and our vision for the future. For the first 
time, we held some of the meetings at 
AEP plants and facilities to give stake -
holders a closer view and understand -
ing of our business. These meetings 
included tours of our Northeastern Plant 
in Oklahoma and the Dolan Engineering 
Laboratories in Ohio. 
 Also for the first time, we conducted 
a survey of stakeholders who participated 
in our meetings to help us identify high-
priority issues and to understand their 
perceptions of AEP prior to and following 
the meetings. We worked with Sustain -
Ability, a London-based sustainability 
consulting firm, to create and compile 
survey results and to facilitate each meet -
ing with the highest regard for objectivity 
and neutrality. 
  Stakeholders generally gave us 
positive marks for our willingness to listen 
and to incorporate their feedback. Some 
stakeholders were positive about our 
leadership on issues such as energy policy 
and new technologies. 
 We were asked to describe with 
more specificity what we are doing to 
advance renewable energy, environ -
mental protection and energy efficiency. 
Some stakeholders believe we should be 
doing far more, particularly when it comes 
to energy efficiency. Most participants 
understood and accepted that coal will 
remain an important element of AEP’s 
fuel sources well into the future. How -
ever, most of our stakeholders generally 
believe that we should work harder to 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  59
ENGAGING WITH OUR INVESTORS 
As an investor-owned company, our 
shareholders expect us to increase the 
value of their investment. Their confidence 
in our ability to provide a reasonable and 
consistent rate of return is critical to our 
ability to pursue sustainability. Our chal -
lenge is that many investors and analysts 
are focused on quarterly earnings and 
not long-term performance related to 
sustainability. Analysts are beginning to 
pay more attention to sustainability issues, 
but they are not yet factoring them into 
their recommendations with any regularity, 
unlike socially responsible investors (SRIs). 
We are working on a research project with 
other companies to better integrate sus -
tainability with investor expectations.
 Our Investor Relations (IR) team is 
charged with regularly talking with poten-
tial and current investors about our 
sustainability-related strategies and 
actions. We continue to press our sustain -
ability agenda with mainstream investors 
and have begun to increase outreach with 
many SRIs.  
 Our IR team participated in 24 con -
ferences and in-person forums, hosted 
17 investor visits to Columbus, and met 
face-to-face with approximately 500 inves-tors in five countries in 2008. These 
meetings focused on concerns about leg -
islative and regulatory uncertainties in our 
states, the impact of the credit crunch and 
banking crisis on our ability to conduct 
business, and the anticipated opportuni -
ties, challenges and financial implications 
associated with forthcoming environmen -
tal policy changes around climate change. 
ENGAGING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES
Employee Volunteerism
In 2008, our employees donated nearly 
92,000 hours of volunteer service. We 
support these activities with grants for the 
non-profit organizations or schools where 
our employees volunteer through our 
“AEP Connects” program. These grants 
totaled $122,250 in 2008. Our employees’ 
contribution represents a direct economic 
value of more than $1.7 million (using the 
Independent Sector estimated value of 
volunteer time of $19.50 per hour) and an 
indirect contribution of much more. 
Disaster Relief 
In addition to serving local non-profit 
organizations, many AEP employees 
respond voluntarily to local community 
disasters such as ice storms, floods, hurri -
canes, tornados or other events. AEP Ohio 
partnered with the American Red Cross of 
Greater Columbus in 2008 to support its 
“Ready When the Time Comes” program 
that maintains a network of well-trained 
volunteers who can mobilize quickly in 
response to a disaster. More than 
100 employees have undergone training.
 To assist our own employees who 
have been adversely affected by a disas -
ter, we support an AEP Emergency Disas -
ter Relief Fund that grants up to $3,000 to 
each employee or retiree to provide food, 
60 Stakeholder Engagementdecrease the percentage of coal that 
comprises our fuel mix, eliminate use of 
mountaintop-mined coal, and increase 
renewable energy as a percentage of  
our fuel mix. 
 Stakeholders unanimously urged us 
to do a better job educating the general 
public, regulators and politicians about 
the value and real cost of electricity. They 
also asked us to be an industry leader in 
addressing issues such as mountaintop 
coal mining. 
 We are integrating structured stake-
holder engagement into the operation of 
our business units. For example, South -
western Electric Power Company hosted 
a meeting that modeled our approach to 
stakeholder engagement to discuss the 
company’s integrated resource plan for 
its Arkansas customers. Members of the 
Arkansas Public Service Commission, the 
Arkansas Energy Office and the Attor -
ney General’s office participated as well 
as independent power producers and 
renewable energy project developers. 
East Texas employees annually collect Christmas 
trees and use them to restore fish habitat in 
local lakes.Stakeholders visit AEP’s Dolan Engineering 
Laboratories in Groveport, Ohio.Stakeholders appreciate that AEP had its senior executives meet 
extensively with diverse constituencies to engage in an open 
and candid dialogue on the company’s efforts to address key 
issues such as climate change, energy efficiency, coal supply and 
water use. Stakeholders also acknowledge the company’s overall 
responsiveness to the feedback and recommendations provided 
by the group.
BUSINESS STRATEGY
Stakeholders acknowledge the constraints posed by the current 
economic downturn on AEP’s business and encourage the com -
pany to continue to strengthen its commitment to sustainability 
as a part of its business planning and performance. The com -
pany’s business model and operating practices must adapt to the 
market and regulatory changes already happening in the utility 
industry. How will AEP’s plans for continued reliance on coal af -
fect the company in an increasingly carbon constrained economy, 
including risks, opportunities and adjustments? Stakeholders 
recommend that AEP outline a bold business strategy that 
responds to these changing times with aggressive programs on 
energy efficiency, renewable energy and distributed generation.
GOVERNANCE & ACCOUNTABILITY
AEP has built a clear structure for governing sustainability 
through its planning and decision-making processes. How will 
proposed national policies that impose a cost on carbon impact 
business decision making at all levels within the company? 
Going forward, AEP should publicly disclose more information 
(specifically quantitative analysis) about the financial impacts 
associated with key sustainability risks, including climate change, as these are materially relevant to the company’s
financial performance.
CLIMATE CHANGE 
Climate science and the projected economic costs of inaction 
clearly indicate that there is a need for immediate, bold steps to 
address climate change. Because AEP is the largest CO 2 emitter 
in the United States, many stakeholders view climate change 
as the most significant challenge that the company should ad -
dress. Stakeholders acknowledge AEP’s resolve to work towards 
overcoming differences and identifying commonalities with 
the environmental community on climate policy, and advocate 
rapid action in this regard. Some stakeholders suggest that the 
company consider options to align with U.S. Climate Action 
Partnership (USCAP). Given the recent change in U.S. politi -
cal leadership, federal climate policy may include a provision to 
auction a significant portion of emission allowances. AEP should 
disclose how this would impact its business, including custom -
ers and shareholders. AEP should also outline a set of conditions 
that specifically ties free emissions allocations to investments for 
climate mitigation. While stakeholders acknowledge the need 
for investment in transmission systems for enhanced reliability 
and efficiency, a cost on carbon may be needed to ensure that 
the investments support the increased transmission of renewable 
energy. Many stakeholders appreciate AEP’s willingness to de -
velop and rapidly deploy advanced technology, including carbon 
capture and storage (CCS). The company could clarify that some 
forms of this technology (for example, CO 2 capture with gasifi -
cation, CO 2 storage in oil and gas formations) are developed and 
commercial. However, other stakeholders stress the challenges 
associated with the scaled deployment of CCS, including cost 
and infrastructure, and encourage the company to invest aggres -
sively in resources beyond coal. The benefits and challenges of 
these technology options should be discussed in the report. 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Energy efficiency and conservation are cost effective strategies to 
help address climate change and have the potential to create jobs 
and reduce energy bills during these difficult economic times. 
Stakeholders recommend that AEP take a leadership position  
on this issue, including setting strong companywide targets, 
proposing far-reaching programs, engaging and educating cus -
tomers to reduce energy consumption, and proactively support -
ing strong energy efficiency policy at the federal and state levels. A Letter from the Ceres Stakeholder Team
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  61Background : American Electric Power (AEP) asked Ceres to lead 
a process to obtain multi-stakeholder feedback on the company’s 
sustainability plans, performance and disclosure, based on the 
company’s 2009 Corporate Sustainability Report. Ceres convened 
a group, including shareholders and representatives from labor, 
environmental and social NGOs. As a part of this process, the group 
met with the company twice (on January 21 and March 2, 2009) and 
once independently to have a robust discussion about AEP’s overall 
sustainability approach and key issues. This statement represents 
the highlights of the stakeholder feedback provided as a part of this 
process, and is not a consensus-based statement.The group appreciates that AEP has set an energy consumption 
reduction target, following stakeholder feedback. However, this 
target should be more aggressive to match or exceed standards 
in place in the states in which AEP operates and to align with 
federal proposals on this issue. Stakeholders recognize that there 
are some implementation hurdles to energy efficiency at the 
consumer level. Also, actions are constrained by state-level 
regulatory policies. These barriers, however, are starting to come 
down in states in which AEP operates. Some stakeholders are 
interested in working with the company to advocate for appro -
priate financial incentives for energy efficiency at the state level 
based on cost-recovery, performance-based earnings, and being 
kept whole for fixed costs.
COAL
AEP’s generation is largely coal-based and some stakeholders are 
concerned about the company’s plans to build new coal plants. 
Others note the importance of projects that address the impacts 
of coal generation using advanced technologies. Fuel-based 
supply chain issues are a critical component of AEP’s overall 
sustainability footprint. While the group commends the com -
pany’s commitment to develop a sustainability scorecard for 
its coal suppliers following stakeholder feedback on this issue, 
stakeholders strongly feel that this process should drive AEP 
to phase out the use of coal derived from mountaintop min -
ing, which has significant impacts on land, water, biodiversity 
and communities. Many stakeholders look forward to providing 
input on the scope of the process, indicators and implementa-
tion plan. 
WATER
Electricity generation requires access to large quantities of water, 
and some of the technology alternatives that AEP is consider -
ing, including nuclear power and CCS, are particularly water 
intensive. Stakeholders applaud the company for proactively 
working on a strategy to identify and address some of the risks 
posed by this issue. This strategy should consider water impacts 
when making decisions on issues such as technology, siting and 
fuel sources.
OTHER ISSUES
The aging work force issue continues to be a concern for stake -
holders, who recommend that the company move forward 
with programs to maintain a trained and skilled work force. Stakeholders applaud the company’s continued emphasis on 
safety, including contractor safety. The group also appreciates 
AEP’s efforts to integrate sustainability in its supply chain, 
and looks forward to data on the impacts of the process.
DISCLOSURE
AEP’s sustainability reports, which include candid discussion 
of several challenging issues, have evolved over the past few 
years and have clearly been influenced by the company’s several 
stakeholder engagement processes. AEP’s commitment to pro -
vide semiannual updates of its performance would demonstrate 
a best practice in the industry. The company should also work to 
educate the investment community about sustainability issues, 
by raising it in quarterly earnings calls, annual meetings and 
continuing to discuss the business impacts of sustainability 
issues in financial filings. 
PARTICIPATING STAKEHOLDERS
Please note that the stakeholders agreed to participate in this 
process as individuals and experts, rather than as representatives 
of their respective organizations, and this statement is not an 
endorsement of the company or its operations. The group did 
not participate in formal verification or assurance processes 
regarding the accuracy and completeness of information in this 
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report. 
Don Kirshbaum, Connecticut State Treasurer’s Office
Andrew Brengle, KLD Research & Analytics
Julie Fox Gorte, Pax World Management Corporation
Mark Brownstein, Environmental Defense Fund
Kurt Waltzer, Clean Air Task Force
Nolan Moser, Ohio Environmental Council   
Mary Ann Hitt, Sierra Club
Brad Crabtree, Great Plains Institute
Rebecca Stanfield, Natural Resources Defense Council
Michael Webber, University of Texas — Austin
Leslie Lowe, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility
William Somplatsky-Jarman, Presbyterian Church
Jim Hunter, IBEW International
Dan Bakal, Ceres
Dan Mullen, Ceres
Andrea Moffat, Ceres
Veena Ramani, Ceres
62 A Letter from the Ceres Stakeholder Team2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  63Web sites as a marketing tool. AEP Texas 
continued to facilitate and fund Economic 
Development Summits to bring elected 
officials and key community stakeholders 
together with state and federal agencies. 
Many of the communities attending these 
events have gone on to receive thousands 
of state and federal dollars as grants or 
low-interest loans. AEP also became a ma -
jor sponsor of the International Economic 
Development Council’s Climate Prosperity 
Handbook  that is designed to help com -
munities pursue sustainable development 
and respond to climate change. 
CORPORATE GIVING 
As the communities we serve struggled to 
meet growing demand for social services  
in 2008, we understandably saw an 
increase in requests for charitable gifts. 
Recognizing the increased importance of 
our support, we kept philanthropic fund -
ing levels constant despite a decreased 
corporate budget. AEP’s charitable giv -
ing in 2008 totaled nearly $23.6 million, 
including $11.9 million in corporate philan -
thropy and $11.7 million in combined giv -
ing to 75 organizations by the American 
Electric Power Foundation. 
STAYING CONNECTED TO EMPLOYEES 
Employee engagement is important to 
AEP in good times and in bad. Our em -
ployees are our most important resource 
and our best, most passionate ambassa -
dors. We are using technology more stra -
tegically and effectively to communicate 
and stay connected with them. We host 
six internal blogs that allow employees to 
read and respond to thoughts and opin -
ions about significant issues by company 
leaders, including those of AEP Chairman 
Michael Morris and other AEP company Safety & Health 5% Environment 30%  
United Way 6% 
Hunger & 
Housing 
11%   
 
  
  
 
 
 
Education Community 
20%  28% GIVING BY AREA OF FOCUS — 2008
TOTAL PHILANTHROPIC GIVING  
State 2008
Arkansas  ....................................  $333,922
Indiana  .....................................  $1,375,892
Kentucky ....................................  $311,648
Louisiana  ...................................  $487,884
Michigan  ....................................  $608,933
Ohio  ......................................  $14,280,517
Oklahoma  ...............................  $1,020,588
Tennessee  ...................................  $69,295
Texas  ......................................  $1,796,040
Virginia  .......................................  $727,4 42
West Virginia  ...........................  $1,310,754
*Other  .....................................  $1,276,984
Totals  ....................................  $23,599,899
*Giving to organizations outside AEP’s service  
area or those that benefit multiple statesshelter and other basic needs. In 2008, 
AEP employees generously gave approxi -
mately $140,000 through payroll deduc -
tions and special giving to this fund, which 
is administered by the Salvation Army. 
CREATING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
AEP has a significant impact on the 
economic vitality of the communities we 
serve — from providing electric service 
to retaining and creating jobs to paying 
millions of dollars in federal, state and 
local taxes. Our impact is magnified by 
our economic development teams that 
partner with local, regional and state 
organizations to recruit and retain local 
businesses. The teams help to simplify the 
business site selection process by coor -
dinating and providing information that 
businesses need about electricity costs, 
service availability and local infrastruc -
ture issues. In 2008, we contributed $1.2 
million in economic development grants 
and contributions and assisted more than 
360 organizations. In recognition of these 
efforts, AEP was named one of the top 
utilities in the nation in economic devel -
opment by Site Selection  magazine.
 Some of our operating companies 
provide grants to local and regional 
economic development organizations. 
AEP Ohio’s Economic Grant Assistance 
Program provides financial grants to proj -
ects that retain and create manufacturing 
investment and jobs. During 2008, the 
program provided $59,000 to 20 orga -
nizations, which in turn will support the 
creation of an estimated 3,200 local jobs. 
 Other major economic development 
projects in 2008 included the develop -
ment of a handbook by the Public Service 
Company of Oklahoma to assist communi -
ties with creating economic development presidents. In early 2009, we began a 
sustainability blog, too. We also produced 
33 live webcasts with senior leaders to 
update employees about earnings, major 
public policy issues and other topics. 
 In 2008, our intranet site, “AEP 
Now,” launched new collaborative and 
interactive features, including enhanced  
news stories to which employees can
immediately submit reactions. This inter -
activity not only has enriched the content 64 Stakeholder Engagementof stories, but also has reinforced a shift in  
our culture to be more inclusive of diverse 
views and perspectives. Employees visited 
our intranet site 9.5 million times in 2008, 
about 12 percent more visits than in 2007. 
ENGAGING POLICY LEADERS 
As a highly regulated business, it is vital 
that we remain in close contact with pub -
lic policy leaders at the local, state and 
federal levels. Our engagement with leg -
islators, regulators and advocates is even 
more important during difficult economic 
times because they are under more pres -
sure to address rates and other issues that 
are of concern to working families and 
businesses. Read more about how we are 
engaging policy leaders and the issues we 
are addressing in the Public Policy section 
of this report.
REACHING OUT TO CUSTOMERS 
We strive to be readily accessible when 
customers need us to answer questions, 
respond to outages or provide service 
assistance. In 2008, AEP’s call centers 
received more than 18 million customer 
calls — a 5 percent increase over the total 
number received in 2007. We attribute this 
increase to more hurricanes and ice storms and an increase in credit-related calls due 
to the recession. In addition to these 18 
million calls, 750,000 online self-service 
transactions were completed on our 
company Web sites — double the amount 
completed online in 2007. Those who did 
call in waited an average of 47 seconds 
to speak to an AEP employee. Accord -
ing to our surveys, customer satisfaction 
improved across the AEP system, in all 
customer segments, from 83.5 percent in 
2007 to 84.6 percent in 2008, putting us in 
the top quartile for performance bench -
marks nationally. 
 In January 2009, JD Power and Asso -
ciates’ Electric Utility Business Customer 
Satisfaction Study named Appalachian 
Power the third-highest ranking utility in 
the eastern United States for customer 
satisfaction among business customers. 
The company scored high for its proactive 
communications with customers; other 
measurements included power quality and 
reliability, billing and payment, corporate 
citizenship, price and customer service.
 AEP recognizes the tremendous 
burden the recession is having on our 
customers’ ability to pay for basic needs, 
including electricity. In 2008, we had a  
7 percent increase in our delinquent resi -
dential customer account balances and  
a more than 6 percent increase in delin -AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO HELP CUSTOMERS PAY THEIR ELECTRIC BILLS    
Company Government Programs Private Programs Total Funds 
Appalachian Power  $13,777,521 $248,452 $14,025,973
Kentucky Power  $2,172,576 —  $2,172,576
Indiana Michigan Power  $6,629,281 $133,574 $6,762,855
AEP Ohio   $14,327,569 —   $14, 327, 569
Public Service Company of Oklahoma   $3,938,175  $1,915,586 $5,853,761
Southwestern Electric Power Company  $1,726,667 $324,598 $2,051,265
Totals   $42,571,789 $2,622,210 $45,193,999
quent nonresidential account balances. 
This reflects the financial strain customers 
are experiencing. We understand these 
hardships and recognize our responsibil -
ity to work one-on-one with customers to 
provide a range of payment options and 
payment assistance.
 AEP maintains relationships with 
all federally funded Low Income Home 
Energy Assistance Programs (LIHEAP) to 
assist eligible low-income and other vul -
nerable customers in paying heating and 
cooling bills. We work to make sure that 
LIHEAP assistance dollars are credited to 
customers’ accounts on a timely basis and 
provide information on our company Web 
sites about payment assistance, including 
a link to LIHEAP. Some of our companies 
also have company-sponsored “fuel 
funds” that are generally funded through 
a combination of company and customer 
contributions and provide low-income 
payment assistance. In 2008, we contrib -
uted nearly $300,000 and received in 
excess of $45 million from various govern -
ment and private agencies for residential 
customer bill payment assistance, 8.6 per-  
cent more than in 2007.  n“One of the biggest failures 
of companies and people is not 
listening to others. We cannot 
be sustainable as a company 
if we are convinced that only 
our way is the correct way.” 
 
Dennis Welch, executive vice president, 
Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities
USEFUL WEB LINKS:
www.ceres.org • www.jdpower.com 
www.liveunited.orgCHALLENGE 
Engage our stakeholders regularly to build 
relationships in the communities and states where 
we operate. We need to be more than a good 
neighbor; we need to be actively involved with all 
of our stakeholders.
Without continued employee involvement in the 
community, AEP’s message may not be heard and 
relationships would not be as strong.
Communities suffer when the economy causes 
corporate giving to be scaled back.
Continue to grow support for United Way and 
other forms of giving, even in economic down -
turns when support is needed most.
Increase energy and environmental knowledge 
of the public, teachers and children in AEP states 
through educational programs. Achieve the same 
goal through customer communications.
Foster regular, open and inclusive communica -
tions with employees.GOAL  
A fully developed stakeholder outreach plan, in 
partnership with business units, that is integrated 
with existing community outreach activities and 
creates shared value of sustainable development 
objectives. 
Hold regular stakeholder briefings with environ -
mental, social and community-based NGOs. 
Integrate an inclusive stakeholder process  
with development of annual corporate sustain -
ability report.
Engage investment community in sustainability 
issues.
Encourage and support employee community 
involvement; continue $150 volunteer grant award 
opportunities.
Continue philanthropy and corporate giving, 
even in economic downturns when the support 
is needed most. Our support is critical to having 
successful communities and improving quality 
of life.
Continue partnership with IBEW for United Way 
campaign and other community service initiatives.
Increase awareness and understanding of issues 
such as electricity prices, energy efficiency and 
anticipated carbon regulations.
Ensure employees remain informed in a timely 
manner about company issues.
Provide opportunities to engage, learn  
and network.2008 PROGRESS 
SWEPCO held a stakeholder engagement meeting 
to receive guidance for its integrated resource plan.
Conducted CEO “Future of Energy” University 
Listening Tour at six college campuses across the 
United States; reached out to Net Impact at The 
Ohio State University and Tulsa Young Professionals.  
Worked collaboratively to address NGO concerns 
related to an energy efficiency collaborative.
Held 10 stakeholder meetings, a conference call 
briefing and several other individual meetings 
with stakeholders throughout the year. 
Integrated a stakeholder survey and facility tours 
in stakeholder meetings. 
In 2008, 815 grants of $150 each were made 
on behalf of active and retired employees who 
collectively performed nearly 92,000 hours of 
volunteer service, an economic value of more than 
$1.7 million.
$11.9 million donated through corporate giving 
in 2008.
Contributed $2.87 million in support of colleges 
and universities. This included matching dollar-
for-dollar gifts of more than 760 active and retired 
employees to 300 institutions of higher learning 
and related foundations.
AEP employees gave approximately $140,000 
to the AEP Emergency Disaster Relief Fund for 
employees, retirees and others.
The AEP Foundation donated $11.7 million to  
75 organizations in 2008.
In 2008, employees contributed $2.34 million to 
United Way; AEP added $1.17 million.
Started an education series on “Energy,  
Environment and You” through customer news-
letters on topics such as energy efficiency,  
carbon capture and storage, paperless billing  
and hybrid vehicles. 
In 2008, 1,186 schools, reaching more than 
360,000 students, taught electrical safety using 
AEP’s Louie the Lightning Bug theater.
Created and implemented plan for greater aware -
ness and understanding of sustainability business 
strategy using Internet, direct mail, videos and 
webcasts.
Held first systemwide Environment, Safety & 
Health Leadership Meeting.
Six internal blogs launched, including a CEO blog 
and a sustainability blog.
2009 Corporate Sustainability Report  65Challenges, Goals, Progress — Stakeholder Engagement66 GRI Table of ContentsGRI Table of Contents / Key Indicators
PROFILE
Strategy & Analysis
1.1 Statement from CEO  ..........................  2 – 3
1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ................  6 
Organizational Profile
2.1 Organization ................................  Cover
2.2 Brands ................................  Inside cover  ...CW
2.3 Operational structure ....................  Inside cover  ...CW
2.4 Location  ..............................  Inside cover
2.5 Countries of operations  ..................  Inside cover
2.6 Nature of ownership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
2.7 Markets served .........................  Inside cover
2.8 Scale of organization  ....................  Inside cover
2.9 Signi ficant changes ...............................  8  ...CW
2.10 Awards received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
Report Parameters
3.1 Reporting period  ................................  7
3.2 Date of previous report  ...........................  7
3.3 Reporting cycle ..................................  7
3.4 Contact person ..................................  8
3.5 Process for de fining report content ...............  6 – 7
3.6 Boundary of the report .........................  7 – 8
3.7 Speci fic limitations on the boundary of the report . . . . . . . . . . . CW
3.8 Reporting on other entities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
3.9 Bases of calculations ..............................  8
3.10 Explanation of any restatement .....................  8  ...CW
3.11 Signi ficant changes from previous report .............  8
GRI CONTENT INDEX
3.12 Standard disclosures table ....................  66 – 68
3.13 Accuracy and completeness of report ................  8
GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT
4.1 Governance structure .............................  9  ...CW
4.2 Highest governance body  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.3 Independence of the Executive Board  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.4 Making recommendations to the Board  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.5 Linkage between performance and 
 Board compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.6 Processes to ensure con flicts of interest are avoided . . . . . . . . . CW
4.7 Process for determining the quali fications of 
 the Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.8 Corporate mission and values  ......................  6  ...CW
4.9 Board-level processes for identifying and
 managing risks and opportunities ...... Inside cover, 6 – 9
4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s performance . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.11 How the precautionary approach is addressed  by the organization ............................. 2 – 5
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, 
 and social charters  ..........................  47 – 48  ...CW
4.13 Memberships in associations ..................  47 – 48  ...CW
4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  .. 59 – 64
4.15 Identi fication and selection of stakeholders ........  6 – 7
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  ....  6 – 7, 59 – 64
4.17 Use of stakeholder engagement  ........... 6 – 7, 59 – 64
ECONOMIC
Disclosure on Management Approach ..............  2 – 5, 8 – 9  ...CW
EC1 Direct economic value  ...................  Inside cover  ...CW
EC2 Financial implications of climate change .........  41 – 48
EC3 Defined bene fit plan coverage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
EC4 Financial assistance received from government . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage  . . . . . . . .  CW
EC6 Locally based suppliers spending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
EC7 Hiring from local community  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
EC8 Public benefit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
EC9 Indirect economic benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  CW
ENVIRONMENT
Disclosure on Management Approach ............  4 – 5, 11 – 13  ...CW
Materials
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  ........  Inside cover  ...CW
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 
 recycled input materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
Energy
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  . . . . . . . CW
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source  . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and  
 efficiency improvements  .........................  55
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable  
 energy based products and services ... 35 – 37, 43 – 44, 55
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption  
 and reductions achieved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
Water
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ................ 14 – 15  ...CW
EN9 Water sources signi ficantly affected by  
 withdrawal of water . .......................... 14 – 15  ...CW
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 
 and reused  ................................. 14 – 15  ...CW
Biodiversity
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent   
 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
 value outside protected areas ..................... 17  ...CW
EN12 Impacts on biodiversity  .......................... 17  ...CWKey:
CSR 2009 = Report Page Number 
CW = Corporate Web Site 
EU = Electric Utility Sector Supplement 
  CSR 2009 CW  CSR 2009 CW  CSR 2009 CW  CSR 2009 CW   CSR 2009 CW  CSR 2009 CW
Electric Utility  
Sector Supplement Index
PROFILE
Organizational Proﬁle
EU1 Installed capacity   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU2 Number of accounts  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU3 Transmission and Distribution mileage  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU4 CO2 permits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
ECONOMICS
EU5 Reliability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51 – 56   . . .CW
EU6 Demand-side programs  . . . . . . . . . .  36 – 37, 43 – 44, 54 – 55   . . .CW
EU7 R&D  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51 – 56
EU8 Nuclear decommissioning   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17   . . .CW
EU9 Planned capacity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51 – 53
EU10 Estimated capacity  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU11 Demand-side savings  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU12 Average efficiency   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU13 Transmission and distribution efficiency  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
ENVIRONMENTAL
EN1-Commentary
 Materials by weight or volume  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15   . . .CW
EN8-Commentary
 Total water withdrawal by source  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14 – 15   . . .CW
EN12-Commentary
 Biodiversity activities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17   . . .CW
EU14 Biodiversity replacement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17   . . .CW
EN14-Commentary
 Biodiversity strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17   . . .CW
EN18-Commentary
 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction initiatives  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EN20-Commentary
 Air emissions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EN21-Commentary
 Water discharge   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14 – 17   . . .CW
EN22-Commentary
 Waste type & disposal method   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 – 17
SOCIAL
EU15 Work force retention  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26 – 29   . . .CW
LA1-Commentary
 Total work force   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  CW
EU16 Subcontracted work force   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
LA7-Commentary  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW 
EU17 Contractor health and safety training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25HUMAN RIGHTS
HR5-Commentary — Freedom of association   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SOCIETY
SO1-Commentary — Community impact programs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU18 Stakeholder involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59 – 64
EU 19 Displacement of people  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU20 Management  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU21 Displaced people  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU22 Electricity services programs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU23 Practices addressing barriers to services   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
EU24 Public injuries & fatalities  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU25 Unserved population   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU26 Residential disconnections  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EU27 Power outage frequency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53   . . .CW
EU28 Average power outage duration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53   . . .CW
EU29 Average plant availability  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CWEN13 Habitats protected or restored  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17   . . .CW
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans  
 for managing impacts on biodiversity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17   . . .CW
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national  
 conservation list species with habitats in areas  
 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 
 gas emissions by weight  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Inside cover   . . .CW
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
 by weight  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
 reductions achieved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41 – 48   . . .CW
EN19 Greenhouse gas emissions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Inside cover   . . .CW
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signi ficant air emissions    Inside cover  . . .CW
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination  . . 14 – 15   . . .CW
EN22 Waste volume by type and disposal method  .  . . . . . . . . .  15   . . .CW
EN23 Total number and volume of signi ficant spills  . . . . . . . . .  11
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or  
 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms  
 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
EN25 Water bodies and related habitats signi ficantly  
 affected by discharges of water and runoff  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products  
 and services, and extent of impact mitigation   . . . .  11 – 18
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging  
 materials that are reclaimed by category   . . . . . . . . . . . .  15   . . .CW
EN28 Fines for non-compliance with legal  
 environmental regulations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
EN29 Signi ficant environmental impacts of transporting  
 products, goods, materials and work force  . . . . . . . . . .  48
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures  
 and investments by type   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11   . . .CW
LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK
Disclosure on Management Approach    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21 – 23   . . .CW
LA1 Total work force   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Inside cover   . . .CW
LA2 Employee turnover  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
LA3 Full-time, temporary or part-time employee benefits   .  .  . .  .  .  .  . CW
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective  
 bargaining agreements  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
LA5 Minimum notice regarding operational changes   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
LA6 Percentage of work force represented in  
 health and safety committees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26   . . .CWLA7 Rates of injury and absenteeism   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22 – 23
LA8 Serious diseases programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26   . . .CW
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements   . .  .  .  .  . CW
LA10 Average hours of training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26 – 29   . . .CW
LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning programs   .  . 26 – 29   . . .CW
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews  .  .  .  .  . CW
LA13 Composition of governance bodies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29   . . .CW
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women   . . . . . . . . . .  28 – 29
HUMAN RIGHTS
Disclosure on Management Approach   . . . . . . . . . .  21 – 23, 63 – 64   . . .CW
HR1 Human rights clauses in investment agreements   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
HR2 Human rights screening for contractors   . . . . . . . . . . . .  30   . . .CW
HR3 Human rights policies, procedures and training  . . . . . .  30   . . .CW
HR4 Discrimination incidents and actions taken  .   . . . . . .  28 – 29   . . .CW
HR5 Freedom of association   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
HR6 Child labor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
HR7 Compulsory labor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
HR8 Security personnel trained in human rights   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples’ rights  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SOCIETY
Disclosure on Management Approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  60 – 63   . . .CW
SO1 Community impact programs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SO2 Business units analyzed for corruption   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SO5 Public policy positions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33 – 38   . . .CW
SO6 Contributions to political parties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33   . . .CW
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations   . . . 11
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Disclosure on Management Approach   . . . . . . . . . . . .  8 – 9, 11 – 12
PR1 Life cycle stages of products and services  . . .11 – 12, 55 – 56
PR2 Number of non-compliance incidents  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
PR3 Product and service information   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PR4 Number of non-compliance labeling incidents  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PR5 Customer satisfaction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56   . . .CW
PR6 Programs related to marketing communications   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PR7 Number of non-compliance marketing incidents  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PR8 Substantiated breaches of customer privacy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . CW
PR9 Fines for use of products and services 
 non-compliance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11Advanced Coal Technologies: Includes 
supercritical, ultra-supercritical, circulating 
fluidized bed, carbon capture and storage  
and integrated gasification combined cycle 
technologies.
Ash:  Impurities consisting of silica, iron, 
alumina, and other noncombustible matter 
that are contained in coal. Ash increases the 
weight of coal, adds to the cost of handling, 
and can affect its burning characteristics.
Baseload Capacity:  The generating equip -
ment normally operated to serve loads on an 
around-the-clock basis.
Capacity:  The amount of electric power 
delivered or required for which a generator, 
turbine, transformer, transmission circuit, 
station or system is rated by the manufacturer. 
Cap-and-Trade:  A market-based system of 
limiting emissions in which a limited number 
of emissions permits are issued in the aggre-
gate (cap); these permits are then freely 
exchanged in markets (trade). 
Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS):  The 
capture, compression, transport and storage 
of CO 2 emissions.
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2): A colorless, odorless, 
non-poisonous gas that is a normal part of 
Earth’s atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is a prod -
uct of fossil fuel combustion as well as other 
processes. It is considered a greenhouse gas 
because it traps heat radiated by the earth 
into the atmosphere.
Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX):  Currently 
North America’s only legally binding rules-
based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
allowance trading system, and the world’s 
only global system for emissions trading 
based on all six greenhouses gases. Members 
make voluntary commitments to meet annual 
GHG emission reduction targets; those who 
reduce below the target have surplus allow -
ances to sell or bank; those who emit above 
the targets comply by purchasing CCX Carbon 
Financial Instruments contracts. AEP is a 
founding member of CCX.
Climate Change:  Changes in climate that 
depart from normal variability, representing 
significant changes in averages or extremes. 
Congestion:  A condition that occurs when 
insufficient transfer capacity is available to implement all of the preferred schedules for 
electricity transmission simultaneously.
Demand:  Rate at which electric energy is de -
livered to or by a system or part of a system, 
generally expressed in kilowatts or mega -
watts, at a given instant or averaged over any 
designated period of time. 
Demand Response (DR):  The planning, 
implementation and monitoring of utility 
activities designed to encourage consumers 
to modify their patterns of electricity usage. 
Emissions:  Anthropogenic releases of 
gases to the atmosphere. In the context of 
global climate change, they consist of green -
house gases.
Energy Efficiency:  Refers to programs that 
are aimed at reducing the energy used by 
specific end-use devices and systems, typi -
cally without affecting the services provided. 
These programs reduce overall electricity con -
sumption (reported in megawatt hours), often 
without explicit consideration for the timing 
of program-induced savings. Such savings are 
generally achieved by substituting technically 
more advanced equipment to produce the 
same level of end-use services (e.g., lighting, 
heating, motor drive) with less electricity. 
Examples include high-efficiency appliances, 
efficient lighting programs, high-efficiency 
heating, ventilating and air conditioning 
(HVAC) systems or control modifications, effi -
cient building design, advanced electric motor 
drives and heat recovery systems.
Extra-high Voltage (EHV):  The electric  
utility industry generally considers EHV to  
be any voltage of 345 kV or higher.
Fossil Fuels:  Hydrocarbon fuels derived 
from fossils: specifically coal, petroleum and 
natural gas. 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG): Collective term 
for gases such as carbon dioxide that trap 
heat in the atmosphere and contribute to 
climate change. 
Grid:  An interconnected network of electric 
transmission lines and related facilities.
Independent System Operator:  An inde -
pendent, federally regulated entity that 
coordinates regional transmission in a non-
discriminatory manner and ensures the safety 
and reliability of the electric system.Load: An end-use device or customer that 
receives power from the electric system. Load 
should not be confused with demand, which 
is the measure of power that a load receives 
or requires. 
Plant Efficiency: The percentage of total 
energy content of a power plant’s fuel that 
is converted into electricity. The remaining 
energy is lost to the environment as heat.
Portfolio Standards: Guidelines or require -
ments that total electricity supply include one 
or more set minimum for particular sources, 
such as renewable energy. 
Rate-making Authority:  A utility commis -
sion’s legal authority to fix, modify, approve 
or disapprove rates, as determined by the 
powers given to the commission by a state or 
federal legislature.
Reliability:  The degree of performance of 
the elements of the bulk electric system that 
results in electricity being delivered to cus -
tomers within accepted standards and in the 
amount desired. Reliability may be measured 
by the frequency, duration and magnitude of 
adverse effects on the electric supply. Electric 
system reliability can be addressed by consid -
ering two basic and functional aspects of the 
electric system — adequacy and security. 
Renewable Energy Resources: Energy 
resources that are naturally replenishing but 
flow-limited. They are virtually inexhaustible 
in duration but limited in the amount of 
energy that is available per unit of time. 
Renewable energy resources include: bio -
mass, hydro, geothermal, solar, wind, ocean 
thermal, wave action and tidal action. 
Transmission System:  An interconnected 
group of electric transmission lines and asso-
ciated equipment for moving or transferring 
electric energy in bulk between points of 
supply and points at which it is transformed 
for delivery over the distribution system 
lines to consumers, or is delivered to other 
electric systems. 
Wind power plant: A group of wind turbines 
interconnected to a common utility system 
through a system of transformers, distribution 
lines and (usually) one substation. Glossary of TermsAmerican Electric Power
1 Riverside Plaza
Columbus, OH 43215
614-716-1000
www.AEP .com