SERVICE  
ETHOSCUSTOMERS   
& PARTNERS  COMMUNITIES ENVIR ONMENT PEOPLETHE  
SERVICE  
EFFECT
American Express Company 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
2016–2017HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
06 Intr oduction
07 The S ervice Effect
08 Identifying and eng aging with our stakeholders  
09 Identifying k ey environmental, social and governmental  
(ESG) issues
 
13 O ur CSR governance structure  
OUR SERVICE ETHOS
15 Introduction
16 Busine ss ethics 
20 Bo ard of Directors
21 Risk manag ement and security
22 A dvocacy and membership of key organizations
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
48 Introduction 
49 Charitable giving
50 C ommunity service
54 Leadership 
56 His toric preservation
SERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT
58 Introduction 
59 R educing our carbon footprint
60 In vesting in clean power and green data centers
61 Sus taining a safe, healthy and efficient workplace
63 E nabling customers to reduce their environmental impact
64 P artnering with our employees
65 Managing our en vironmental performance
66 E ndnotes
67 A ssurance statement
70 GRI C ontent Index
SERVING OUR PEOPLE
24 Introduction
25 In vesting in diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities  
28 L earning and development
29 V aluing and supporting our people
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS 
AND PARTNERS
34 Introduction
36 Meeting the e volving needs of our customers
41 Building a s afe and secure network
42 E mpowering entrepreneurs 
45 Supporting w omen-owned business
46 Supplier div ersity and responsible sourcing03 CE O Letter  
04 About American Express     
05 About This Report  
 T
ABLE OF CONTENTS
2At American Express, service is our north star. 
Since our freight-forwarding days in 1850, we’ve earned a reputation as a company 
people can trust to do the right thing and stand behind our promises. 
T oday, we see service through many lenses. These points of view include putting our 
customers at the center of everything we do. Offering unique products, services and experiences that deliver real value. Helping businesses grow and enabling commerce. Promoting a company culture that fosters inclusion, innovation and engagement. Upholding the highest standards of integrity. Safeguarding our customers’ privacy and data. Giving back to the communities in which we live and work. Helping preserve the treasures of the past so that future generations can enjoy them. 
I’m pleased to share with you our 2016-2017 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Report and this update on what we’ve accomplished over the past year. It describes  
how service has shaped our efforts and the strides we’ve made over the last year to honor and strengthen our commitments to all stakeholders. For example, we  
•
 W
ere rated as one of Ponemon’s Most T rusted Companies for Privacy  
for the past 10 years, and No. 1 in financial services in 2017 . 
•
 E
xpanded paid parental leave to 20 weeks for all U.S.-based regular  
full-time and part-time salaried employees – both mothers and fathers. 
•
 C
elebrated Small Business Saturday’s seventh year, a day we created  
to support local businesses that helps create jobs, boost the economy  
and preserve neighborhoods across the country. 
•
 R
eached several long-term philanthropic milestones, including  
granting nearly $60 million to train more than 50,000 social purpose  
and nonprofit leaders since 2008.
•
 E
xceeded our goal of reducing absolute greenhouse gas emissions by  
10 percent globally (compared to 2011 baseline), by reducing our carbon  
footprint by more than 30 percent during the last five-year period. 
We operate in a dynamic, fast-changing world. We know it is critical to be open to  
change and embrace new ways of thinking. While we are proud of what we’ve 
accomplished against our CSR goals, we know there is more work to be done. We  
will continue to look for ways to reimagine, reinvent and raise the bar – all while remaining true to the core values that have always sustained us. 
Sincerely,
“We will continue  
to look for ways  
to reimagine, 
reinvent and raise 
the bar – all while 
remaining true 
to the core values 
that have always 
sustained us. ”
CEO LETTER 
3Company profile
DIVERSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
We are a services company with a diverse product set and a large, global customer base.  
The products, services, programs and tools we offer help enrich lives, grow businesses, and  
drive commerce. They include:
•
 Char
ge card, credit card, and other payment and financing products
•
 Net
work services
•
 Mer
chant acquisition and processing, servicing and settlement, and point-of-sale 
marketing, information products and services for merchants
•
 Other f
ee services, including fraud prevention services and the design and operation  
of customer loyalty programs
•
 E
xpense management products and services 
•
 T
ravel-related services
•
 St
ored value/prepaid products
$1
  Trillion
      WORLDWIDE           
    
BILLED BUSINESS $158.9
  Billion
      TOTAL ASSETS $5.4
  Billion
      NET INCOME $32.1
  Billion
      ANNUAL REVENUE 110M
CARDS IN FORCE
#85FORTUNE  
500 RANKING#11FORTUNE  
MOST ADMIRED2016 FACTSABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS
NYC
HEADQUARTERS130
COUNTRIES & TERRITORIES150
PARTNERSEMPLOYEES56K
4This report covers calendar year 2016 
and provides qualitative and quantitative information on our approach to managing our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues in 2016. Several initiatives or targets that were launched beginning of 2017 are included in the report since they may be relevant and provide more up-to-date information for our stakeholders.
When we use the terms “American 
Express, ” the “company, ” “we, ” “us” or  
“our” in this report, we mean American Express Company and its subsidiaries,  
on a consolidated basis, unless we state  
or the context implies otherwise.
Reporting guidelines  
and content
For the 2015 reporting year, we conducted 
a priority assessment in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines to identify the significant Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues for American Express and our key stakeholders. The results of this assessment are described in this report and informed the development and content of this report together with the GRI’s G4 Core reporting guidelines leading to the structure of the report around the following services:
Our service ethosServing our peopleServing our customers and partnersServing our communitiesServing our environment
A GRI G4 Index showing the indicators that have been reported on can be found in the Appendix of this report. We report on ESG issues annually on the American Express Corporate Social Responsibility website . Additional 
information can be found through submissions to the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and in our annual, quarterly and current reports and other information on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the American Express Investor Relations website. 
Y ou may also request a copy of these 
documents at no cost, by writing us at  
the following address:
American Express Company
200 Vesey StreetNew Y ork, New Y ork 10285Attention: Secretary
This report contains forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Y ou can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “believe, ” “expect, ” “anticipate, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “aim, ” “will, ” “may, ” “should, ” “could, ” “would, ” “likely, ” “estimate, ” “predict, ” “potential, ” “continue” or other similar expressions. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including those contained in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Y ou are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 
This report includes trademarks, such as 
American Express®, which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are the property of American Express Company or its subsidiaries. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and trade names referred to in this report may appear without the ® or TM symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right of the applicable licensor to these trademarks and trade names.
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
(BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by American Express for the calendar year 2016. The Verification Statement and the scope of work is included on pages 67–69.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
5Since 2004, we have been a  
constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by  the global index provider  FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating  strong ESG practicesAt American Express, our approach to CSR is a  
natural extension of a brand that stands for trust, security and service.
We aim to create value – whether social, environmental  
or economic – across each of our key stakeholder groups. Our commitment extends from creating innovative 
products to protecting Card Members’ privacy and the security of their data. From promoting the growth of small businesses to developing diverse leaders. From meeting our carbon and energy targets to building a strong company culture and strengthening the communities in which we operate—and much more.
This service ethos inspires a culture of high-performing 
employees, engaged customers, satisfied stakeholders and partnerships with other responsible businesses. Our actions help us contribute to the sustainability of the communities we serve and an environment that is favorable for doing business. HOW WE 
APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(CSR)
06 Introduction
07 The S ervice Effect
08 Identifying and eng aging with  
 out s
takeholders
09 Identifying k ey environmental,  
 s
ocial and governmental  
 (E
SG) issues
13 O ur CSR governance structure
6CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
CREATING  
AND  
DELIVERING  
VALUE
OUR
SERVICE ETHOS
A resilient, ethical  
and successful company that fulfills  its service mission.SERVING   
OUR PEOPLE
High-performing employees who  are empowered to make a difference.SERVING   
OUR CUSTOMERS   
AND PARTNERS
Satisfied customers who reward us with their trust and loyalty, and partners who share our vision for responsible business.SERVING   
OUR COMMUNITIES
Communities with longevity, strengthened  through service.SERVING   
OUR ENVIRONMENT
Doing our part  to sustain the  world’s resources.The “Service Effect” is shorthand 
for the impact we aim to have in our communities, and the positive link  
we see between CSR performance  
and business performance. We  
believe the Service Effect creates  
value for our stakeholders, including  
our shareholders. THE SERVICE EFFECT
7CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Our strategy begins by identifying our key stakeholders,  
then engaging with them to understand the ESG issues that 
are important to them and the impact those issues have on our business.  We have identified eight key stakeholder groups. These stakeholder groups were identified based on their impact on our business activities and our established processes for engaging with them on a regular basis. Continued engagement with these stakeholders helps ensure that we are meeting expectations and advancing our efforts to operate responsibly. 
STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE
SHAREHOLDERS
AND SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS (SRIS)We provide the investment community with information about the company’s strategies, objectives and 
performance, and we engage with our owners to understand their views.  
Copies of the company’s Annual Report, Proxy Statement and press releases, as well as information on financial 
results and products and services, can be found on the American Express Investor Relations website.
EMPLOYEES Our chief resource is our people. They are the faces and voices of our brand. We keep employees informed about company news, priorities, performance and business strategies through a variety of channels, including digital and face-to-face communications. Leaders also collect regular feedback through the company’s annual employee survey, The Pulse; regular town hall meetings; employee networks; and our Amex Ethics Hotline. We incorporate feedback received from employees into our decision-making process.
CUSTOMERS:  
CARD MEMBERS, 
CONSUMERS AND MERCHANTSAs a global leader in customer service, we strive to understand our customers, treat them with respect, and 
go the extra mile to help them. We have direct relationships with millions of Card Member, businesses and merchants, actively working to engage with them through superior customer service, direct-to-customer channels and social media. Our commitment to customer service has also earned us many honors worldwide.
GOVERNMENT AND 
REGULATORSWe advocate for public policy issues that are significant to our business and our ability to serve our customers. 
We provide education and context to key decision-makers, including legislators, government officials, consumer advocacy group leaders, business partners and trade associations.
SUPPLIERS We develop and support best practices in global supply management to promote inclusion and ensure the integrity of our third-party relationships. 
COMMUNITY AND 
NON GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONSWe mobilize thousands of employee volunteers through our Serve2Gether program. We also offer incentives for 
our employees to support their favorite nonprofits through our Give2Gether and gift-matching programs. We support and collaborate with nonprofits that preserve and sustain unique historic places for future generations. We also help to develop the non-profit and social purpose leaders of tomorrow and encourage community service through grants, conferences and meetings.
SUSTAINABILITY 
RESEARCH FIRMSWe respond to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and other ESG surveys from rating firms including 
Sustainalytics, EcoVadis and MSCI.
OTHER FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONSWe engage through industry groups, roundtables, conferences and benchmarking activities to advance  
our own CSR program and to work to address CSR issues that affect the financial sector. We also collaborate  in other forums where appropriate – for example, we share knowledge of online threats to our industry in cybersecurity forums.IDENTIFYING AND ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
8CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Responsible 
SourcingStakeholder  
Engagement
ESG  Integration  Business 
EthicsRegulatory ComplianceInformation  
Security & Privacy
Customer  
Service & Relationship
T alent Attraction & Retention
Diversity & Inclusion Equal Opportunities
Environmental & Social Product InnovationStrategic  
Philanthropy Employee Volunteerism
Energy Use & GHG emissions
Physical Climate Change Risks
CURRENT OR POTENTIAL INFLUENCE ON AMERICAN EXPRESSIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERSFinancial 
InclusionOUR CUSTOMERS &  PARTNERSOUR SERVICE ETHOS
OUR PEOPLE  
OUR COMMUNITIES
OUR ENVIRONMENTWe developed an initial list of ESG 
issues based on global reporting guidelines, sector benchmarking, relevant regulations, criteria from various indices and rankings, and other sources. We consulted with a number of external and internal stakeholders – including Corporate Social Responsibility experts and our senior executives - and prioritized the issues, mapping them onto a matrix. We used the results of our priority assessment to guide our CSR disclosure. The five categories within the matrix correspond to the Spheres of Service (our company, our people, our customers and partners, our community, our environment). 
Responsible 
Lending & MarketingFor the 2015 reporting year, we conducted a priority assessment in line with  
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines to identify the significant  
ESG issues for American Express and our key stakeholders. The stages of our  
process were as follows: 
During the development of the 2016–2017 CSR Report, we consulted with  
internal stakeholders and conducted a sector benchmark to confirm  
that the results of the priority assessment were still an accurate reflection  
of significant ESG issues for the company and our key stakeholders. AMERICAN EXPRESS ESG PRIORITY MATRIXIDENTIFYING KEY ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNMENTAL (ESG) ISSUES
1 2 3
9CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Regulatory Compliance
Our programs in place to ensure 
we are complying with applicable laws and regulations within the countries and regions in which we operate.Business Ethics
Our values, principles, standards and norms, as well as programs in place to provide advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and reporting mechanisms for incidents of non-compliance.
ESG Integration
Our strategy for how environmental, social and governance issues are integrated into business operations and decision making within our organization.Information Security  
and Privacy
Our efforts to decrease the risk of security breaches and fraud incidents concerning our customers’ data and information provided to us, as well as mechanisms for customers  
to contact us to report this  
loss of information.All of our employees received Enterprise Essential Training to ensure an understanding of the important policies, laws and regulations that govern our industry, guide our company, and protect our employees, customers, and brand. Modules include trainings on our Code of Conduct, information security, anti-discrimination and anti-money laundering.  
We introduced the Amex Ethics 
Hotline, an independent, confidential and anonymous resource in May 2017 . This online and phone-based tool is available anytime  in more than 200 languages to American Express employees, contractors, vendors, suppliers and others to raise concerns about potential ethical or compliance matters.
OUR SERVICE  
ETHOSMaintain the  
highest standards of 
ethics and integrityKEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
ESG ISSUESOur commitments and 2016 highlights
Below is a summary of the ESG issues aligned to our  
Spheres of Service, as well as a series of updates on our 
current performance against the commitment within each sphere. Full details of our approach, activities and performance for each sphere can be found in the dedicated sections of this report.2016 HIGHLIGHTS
10CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Responsible Lending  
and Marketing
Our programs and policies in  
place to ensure of fairness  
in our customer practices, as  
well as efforts to provide  
financial education and insights 
on the products and services available to them. 
Financial Inclusion
Our strategy and efforts to  
engage and educate the underbanked community, as  
well as the next generation  
of Card Members in  
responsible management of personal finances. Environmental and Social 
Product Innovation
Products and services that are  
designed to have positive 
environmental and/or social impact, specifically as they  
relate to enabling the digitalization of our service and better customer data security.Diversity, Inclusion and 
Equal Opportunities
Our efforts to ensure that all 
employee categories (including governance bodies) are composed adequately in  
terms of gender, age and minority group, and that the issue of gender pay equity is being addressed.
Responsible Sourcing
Our programs and policies in place to regularly assess  
suppliers for environmental and social risks present in their products and supply chains.Customer Service  
and Relationship
Our strategy and programs in place to ensure best-in-class customer service, as well as results of customer satisfaction surveys and/or outreach mechanisms, and customer service awards received.Talent Attraction  
and Retention
Our employee benefits, such as parental leave, continuing education and development  
opportunities, among others.
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS 
AND PARTNERS
SERVING  
OUR PEOPLE
KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTSKEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
ESG ISSUESESG ISSUES
85 percent of our 
employees who responded to our annual survey said they would recommend our company as a great place  
to work.
T otal spending among U.S. 
consumers reached an estimated $15.4 billion at independent retailers and restaurants on Small Business Saturday.
1We scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, based on our policies and practices that support lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) inclusion.
From 2010 to 2016, U.S. Card Members donated over $84 million through our Members Give
SM 
program by donating dollars on their American Express Cards and redeeming Membership Rewards points to benefit charitable causes.
Of the paper used in  
our U.S. direct marketing 
efforts in 2016,  
97 percent was certified  
as being from sustainably managed forests.Foster a diverse  
and inclusive culture
Meet the evolving 
needs of our  
customer base
Support  
small businessesMake our products and 
services better for society and the environment96 percent of employees 
had access to at least one Healthy Living program or service (up from 90 percent in 2015).
We announced an 
expanded gender-neutral 
paid parental leave to 20 weeks for U.S.-based regular full-time and part-time employees as of January 1, 2017 .
More than 10,000 online 
and face-to-face training activities were available  
to employees.Support our employees’ 
professional and personal goals
We were rated as one of 
Ponemon’s Most Trusted 
Companies for Privacy for the past 10 years.
Customer satisfaction has 
increased 24 percent since 2011 based on Card Member feedback.
We launched the fifth annual 
Pride campaign to celebrate LGBTQ Card Members, merchants, employees and  
local communities.
11CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Energy Use and  
GHG Emissions
Our greenhouse (GHG) 
emissions, and efforts to reduce these, as well as to increase fuel efficiency, renewable energy adoption, and green building certification (e.g. LEED) on the assets under operational control.Stakeholder Engagement
Our strategy to regularly engage both internal and external stakeholder groups to understand the issues of concern as they relate to ESG issues and our business.
Physical Climate  
Change Risks
Our programs and policies in place to address the physical risks to organizational assets (e.g. real property) from the effects of climate change.Strategic Philanthropy
Our strategy in terms of  
the grants and donations we make to charitable and  
nonprofit organizations.
Employee Volunteerism
Our programs that seek to motivate and enable our employees to serve community needs through volunteerism.
SERVING OUR  
ENVIRONMENT
SERVING OUR  
COMMUNITY
KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTSKEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
ESG ISSUESESG ISSUES
Our grants supported 
more than 100 nonprofits that engaged six million volunteers in more than 27 million hours of service to serve the needs of local communities.Contributed $36 million  
with over 400 grants and 
support for over 6,000 
organizations through employee gift matching.Our grants helped train more than 20,000 nonprofit and social sector leaders  
through online and  
in-person trainings.
Our grants helped 
preserve 47 historic sites in 11 countries, including the U.S.,  
U.K.,Argentina, Japan, Mexico, Canada, Singapore, Spain,  
Nepal, Italy and China.
Engage citizen 
volunteersStrengthen the 
communities in which we live and workEmpower  
emerging nonprofit  
and social leaders
Promote stewardship 
of historic places
We exceeded our 2016 
goal, reducing our carbon 
footprint by more than 30 percent since the 2011 baseline year.
We reduced our energy 
consumption by 24 percent 
through energy efficiency projects and real estate space optimization compared to 2011.
Over 50 percent of our global 
real estate portfolio was green-building certified.
2
We purchased 150,000 MWH of renewable energy certificates (RECs), resulting in 85 percent carbon-free 
electricity for our U.S. building operations, including our major data center facilities and our New Y ork City-based headquarters.More than 10,000 employees participated in our Earth Month activities.
80 percent of our global 
real estate footprint participated in Earth Hour.
We provided over $2.7 
million in support for environment andwildlife through Gift Matching  
and Serve2Gether  
grant programs.Reduce our 
environmental footprint Engage employees in 
sustainability
12CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Additional information on Corporate Governance at American Express can be 
found in the Service ethos section, 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and 2017 Proxy Report.Our executive management holds ultimate responsibility for our CSR progress and success; these leaders review and evaluate key performance indicators and long-term goals related to ESG in their respective business units.At the Board of Directors level,  
the Public Responsibility Committee reviews our CSR program, monitors progress against our goals and provides guidance on our efforts. 
Day to day, our CSR team works with colleagues throughout American Express to shape our efforts and monitor progress on key ESG issues.
OUR CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
1315 Introduction
16 Busine ss ethics
20 Bo ard of Directors
21 Risk manag ement and security
22 A dvocacy and membership of  
 k
ey organizationsA resilient, ethical and 
successful company that fulfills its service missionOUR  
SERVICE ETHOSCSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
OUR  
SERVICE ETHOS
2016 KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
Our vision is to be the world’s most respected 
service brand. Our customers expect exceptional service every day. We aim to see the world through their eyes, and exceed their expectations – always finding new ways to enrich their lives, make their businesses more successful, and help them achieve their dreams. 
We have a broad, diverse and loyal customer base – spanning 
consumers and businesses of all sizes; partners who issue  
cards on our network and who work with us to create  
special products and services; and merchants who welcome  
our Card Members.
American Express is the world’s largest card issuer by  
purchase volume – we process millions of transactions, driving 
more than $1 trillion in commerce annually. We have more than 56,000 global employees striving to make each customer interaction a positive, secure and convenient experience. 
We hold ourselves to the highest standards of ethics and  
integrity – and have built corporate citizenship into the heart  
of our company. Through our business activities, customer relationships  
and philanthropic efforts, we put the power of service into  
action daily. Introduction
All of our employees received 
Enterprise Essential Training to  
ensure an understanding of the  
important policies, laws and  
regulations that govern our industry,  
guide our company, and protect our employees, customers, and brand. Modules include trainings on our  
Code of Conduct, information  
security, anti-discrimination and  
 anti-money laundering.  Maintain the highest standards  
of ethics and integrity
We introduced the Amex Ethics 
Hotline, an independent, confidential and anonymous resource in May 2017 . This online and phone-based tool is available anytime  in more than 200 languages to American Express employees, contractors, vendors, suppliers and others to raise concerns about potential ethical  
or compliance matters.
15CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
BUSINESS ETHICS
BLUE BOX VALUESThroughout our history, we have 
reinvented ourselves through innovation, but we have never strayed from the core values established by our founders: trust, service, security. 
At the heart of our culture is what we 
call the “Blue Box” values – a set of eight guiding principles that every employee pledges to embrace and work by each day. Our Blue Box Values reflect who we are and what we stand for. 
Our Code of Conduct (the Code) trains 
our employees on their responsibilities regarding a range of key issues and business practices, including: anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel expenses, identifying and 
CUSTOMER COMMITMENT
We put our customers at the center of 
everything we do, and treat them the way we would want to be treated. We’re in the business of winning the hearts and minds of our customers. Our success depends on looking at the world from their viewpoint so we can understand their current – and future – needs. When we put customers first, we ensure American Express continues to be an important part of their lives. 
QUALITY
We strive to deliver best-in-class products and services that our customers love. There’s a common thread woven through the fabric of the products and services we offer – our focus on creating a superior customer experience. It starts with building the right products for the right audience, giving people more places to use those products, and surprising and delighting them along the way. 
INTEGRITY
We promise to always do right by our customers and company, and make good if we fall short. We embrace our roles as guardians of a brand built on treating customers right. That means earning our Card Members’ trust and loyalty every day. It means doing the right thing, even when it’s not the easy thing. It means being clear, credible and accountable, and never compromising on our standards.
TEAMWORK
We work together, across business and geographic boundaries, to help the company win. Our culture is all about relationships and teamwork. We share a passion to serve, a desire to make a difference, and a commitment to help each other put great ideas in motion. We keep our competitive edge by finding new and better ways to deliver value to our customers and drive business results – together.   
RESPECT FOR PEOPLE
We value diverse backgrounds and perspectives, celebrate differences and treat each other with respect. We want people to be their most authentic selves at work. We foster an inclusive environment that appreciates the richness and diversity of colleagues and ensures all voices are heard.
GOOD CITIZENSHIP
We know that giving back and doing good in our communities is good business. American Express has a rich legacy of serving the communities where we live and work. Every year, we participate in volunteer and fundraising events to support meaningful causes around the world. We are proud to show our American Express colors and be part of a company that cares.
A WILL TO WIN
We demonstrate a strong competitive spirit and passion for succeeding in the right way. A will-to-win mindset is about more than crossing the finish line – it’s about overcoming obstacles and learning lessons. It’s about embracing change and taking risks. This can-do spirit has defined our past, and it will drive our future.
PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY
We take responsibility for delivering results and learn from our mistakes. Winning requires leadership, and that begins with each of us taking personal accountability for achieving results –  
holding ourselves to the highest standards of ethics and honesty along the way. If  
we make a mistake, we own up to it, fix it  
and learn from it. That’s how we make sure our reputation for trust endures.Each employee is 
personally accountable  
for fulfilling our  
service mission.  
Our employees annually received 
Enterprise Essential T raining to  
ensure an understanding of the important policies, laws and regulations that govern our industry, guide our company and protect our employees, customers and brand. T rainings covers areas such as our company’s Code of Conduct, customer privacy and data security, anti-discrimination, fair lending and anti-money laundering.  preventing money laundering, conducting 
business with foreign governments and protecting customer privacy. Business units also maintain policies relevant to their specific function. Adherence to the Code is a condition of employment, and violations can result in termination. Each employee must review and sign a copy of the Code upon joining American Express and confirm receipt every year thereafter.
The Board of Directors is subject to a 
separate Code of Business Conduct. This Code is intended to focus each director on areas of conflicts of interest and other ethical issues and, provide mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical conduct, and help foster a culture of openness and accountability.
16CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
REPORTING CONCERNS
ISSUES RAISED
In 2016 more than 1,300 employees, contractors and vendors from 25 countries 
looked for guidance in resolving work-related issues. 
6%
Organizational 
Policies7%
Career 
Development
11%
Compensation & Benefits
10%
Control & Compliance
48%
Leadership– Respect/T reatment– Goals & Metrics– Performance Management5%
Peer & Colleague 
Relationships6%
Change 
Management7%
Safety, Health &  
Physical EnvironmentAmerican Express is committed to  
doing right by our employees. Acting  
with integrity and protecting our  
brand’s reputation is everyone’s 
responsibility. We want our employees to feel empowered and comfortable in bringing forward issues or concerns.
The Amex Ethics Hotline provides 
employees, contractors, vendors and suppliers an opportunity, without fear of retaliation, to report concerns regarding potential compliance or ethical matters. These matters may relate to American Express employees, leaders, and/or the principles in the company’s Code of Conduct, such as financial reporting and accounting; corruption, fraud or other criminal activity; and workplace conduct. The Hotline is hosted by an independent third party and reporters can choose to provide the information confidentially or anonymously (where allowed by local laws). Once submitted, all concerns are forwarded to specially trained individuals within American Express who will promptly review, and, if necessary, investigate the report.
The Amex Ethics Hotline makes it easier  
than ever to report concerns and include  
the following:•
 C
onfidentiality
•
 Anon
ymity (in the U.S. and nearly  
all other locations)•  S ecurity
•
 Neutr
ality
•
 P
rompt Attention
 
Plus new features that make reporting  
fast and convenient:
•
 R
eport online via any computer, tablet,  
or smartphone
•
 A
ccess online or via phone 24 hours  
a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year
•
 Spe
ak in your native language  
(call representatives speak a collective 
200+ languages)
17CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
BUSINESS ETHICS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Our policies hold us accountable to the highest legal, ethical 
and operational standards.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION As a global company, we are subject to anti-corruption and bribery laws. Bribery of any kind is  
prohibited. We also believe that our employees and the people or organizations acting on their behalf must engage in high standards of ethical and transparent business practices. 
We require all employees and third parties to complete anti-corruption and bribery training to  
ensure they are informed of all laws and regulations we must abide by and understand the  consequences of non-compliance. We hold employees accountable for completing the training by  tying it to annual compensation.
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING We ensure that our employees understand the actions that may be violations of anti-money laundering or terrorist financing laws. Potential violations are escalated to Compliance and/or Legal staff.We make every effort to combat money laundering by:  
•
 T
aking reasonable steps to determine the true identity of all customers who maintain accounts and/
or relationships with American Express.
•
 T
aking appropriate measures, such as ending relations with a customer, closing or freezing an 
account and/or filing a suspicious activity report when we have a reasonable suspicion that  
funds held in an account are from money laundering or other criminal activity, or are owned by  
a government-designated terrorist entity.
•
 C
omplying with all anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism laws and regulations, and  
fully cooperating with law enforcement and regulatory agencies. 
WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAMS It is our policy to closely scrutinize and respond to allegations from employees, suppliers, customers, merchants or contractors that the company is not meeting its legal or ethical obligations. 
More information can be found in the Reporting Concerns section.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Our marketing programs go through multiple layers of review to ensure that our customers are  
well-informed about our products and services. Learn more about this in the Serving Our Customers  and Partners section.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY American Express seeks to develop and retain a diverse workforce. Our company recognizes that a  
mix of backgrounds, opinions and talents enriches our company and helps all of us achieve success.  We are therefore committed to equal employment opportunity and fair treatment. 
We must make all employment decisions based on job-related qualifications and without regard to  
race, ethnicity, gender, gender identity, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship, age or any other legally protected status in each of the countries in which we operate. 
Any discriminatory treatment or harassment of employees or contractors that violates our  
company’s values or country laws will result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. 
18CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
PUBLIC POLICY  
ENGAGEMENT AND POLITICAL 
CONTRIBUTIONS (U.S.)American Express has a clear statement on engagement and political activity in the U.S.
 We believe that active engagement in the public policy arena is an important part of responsible corporate citizenship and is vital to the democratic process. Public policy issues are constantly being debated around the globe. The key players in those debates vary depending on the issue. For example, they can be members of a legislative body, executive branch officials or their staff, and regulatory authorities. As a large publicly traded company, the outcomes of these debates can impact our revenues, expenses, employee relations, taxation and many other aspects of our business. We identify in our Form 10-K and our Lobbying Disclosure Act filings the public policy issues that can significantly impact aspects of our business. In addition to the company’s advocacy efforts, American Express participates in the political process through the American Express Company Political Action Committee (AXP PAC) and through corporate political contributions in those jurisdictions where it is permissible to do so. American Express does not spend corporate funds directly on electioneering communications, and it publicly discloses as detailed below any contributions to another organization that are used in connection with a political campaign. Established more than 25 years ago, the AXP PAC is supported solely by voluntary contributions from American Express employees. AXP PAC is regulated by the Federal Election Commission (FEC). AXP PAC files regular reports with the FEC and the relevant state election commissions on its receipts and disbursements. Reports filed with the FEC are available online to the public.
American Express makes political contributions as permitted under federal, state and local laws, without 
regard for the private political preferences of the company’s executives, to help elect candidates whose views and positions are good for the company, our industry, and ultimately the free-market economy. Political contributions are made by the AXP PAC or by corporate funds, where permitted. AXP PAC contributions as well as corporate political contributions are made based on a variety of factors including:   •
 The c
andidate’s views on issues of importance to American Express 
•
 The c
andidate’s position on a committee with jurisdiction over policy issues  
important to American Express
•
 The c
andidate’s representation of a state or district where American Express  
has an employee presence; and, 
•
 The c
andidate’s elected leadership position. 
 AXP PAC does not contribute to presidential campaigns. 
Decisions regarding individual AXP PAC contributions are made principally by the company’s senior  
vice president, government affairs, under the oversight of the Board of Directors of AXP PAC.  Corporate political contributions are determined principally by the company’s vice president, state government affairs. 
The company reports regularly to the American Express Company Board of Directors’ Public 
Responsibility Committee (PRC) regarding its engagement in the public policy arena and its fundraising activities and political contributions.
HUMAN RIGHTS We respect and promote human rights and are committed to leadership in responsible workplace practices across the entire company and in all aspects of our business. Our Human Rights statement  and our Code of Conduct embodies our commitment to fair and equal treatment of all people.
CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct is available on the American Express website.
19CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD OF HIGHLIGHTSOur corporate governance framework is designed to support 
the Company’s brand attributes of trust, security and integrity, and to promote achievement of our financial targets through responsible development and execution of our corporate strategy.
The Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance 
Principles which, along with the charters of the Board Committees, the Code of Conduct for employees, and Code of Business Conduct for Directors, provide the framework for company governance. Key governance policies and processes also include our whistleblower policy, our comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management program, our commitment to transparent financial reporting and our systems of internal checks and balances. Comprehensive management policies, many of which are approved at the board level, guide the Company’s operations
Our Corporate Governance Principles address matters such 
as composition and size of the Board, director qualifications, independence of directors, director responsibilities, frequency  of Board meetings (including meetings to be held without  
the presence of management), the Board’s access to members  
of management and outside experts, share ownership guidelines  
for directors and ways for shareholders or others to communicate  
their concerns to the Board.
Additional information can be found in our Proxy Statement. 
As of March 2017 , our Board had the following characteristics:
4 / 14
MINORITIES2 / 14
RESIDENT OUTSIDE THE U.S.3 / 14
FEMALE13 / 14
INDEPENDENT
<1  1–3  4–5  7–10  10+ YEARS1 / 14
DIRECTORS2 / 14
DIRECTORS3 / 14
DIRECTORS3 / 14
DIRECTORS4 / 14
DIRECTORSNON-MANAGEMENT  
DIRECTORSAVERAGE  
DIRECTOR TENURE
7.5 YEARS
AVERAGE  
DIRECTOR AGE
64.2 YEARS
20CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
RISK MANAGEMENT AND SECURITY
Risk management governance
Our emphasis on risk management and governance structure – along with solid 
business practices – is how we keep our promise of security, integrity and trust to our customers and other stakeholders.
We use our comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, 
aggregate, monitor and manage risks. The program also defines our risk appetite, governance, culture and capabilities. The implementation and execution of the ERM program is led by our Chief Risk Officer. Risk management is overseen by our Board of Directors through three committees: the Risk Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and the Compensation and Benefits Committee. The committees, made up of independent directors, meet regularly in private sessions with our Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, the General Auditor and other senior management with regard to our processes.
Risk management and procedure
PRECAUTIONARY 
APPROACHWe seek to identify and respond to issues 
that could impact our business, our partners and our communities. Identifying risks, engaging with experts and implementing policies are a few of the ways we work to proactively manage risks.
POLICY REVIEW 
PROCESSWe conduct regular reviews of our policies 
with input from multiple governance bodies and our Board. We also review the effectiveness of our policies through assessments conducted by our risk management team. Our assessments are subject to audit as well as regulatory exams. 
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
CRISIS PREPAREDNESS PROGRAMWe maintain a Crisis Preparedness Program 
(CPP) that addresses the recovery of key business operations (and supporting technology) in the event of an unplanned business disruption. We provide our employees with CPP training and awareness and make sure all CPP plans are exercised and/or tested. We also routinely check that our key service providers comply with the program requirements. 
21CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY 
ADVOCACY AND MEMBERSHIP OF KEY ORGANIZATIONSWe value our customers’ trust in our 
ability to keep their data safe and secure. Analyzing the transaction data that is processed through our closed loop network enables us to create value for Card Members and build business for our merchant partners. 
Our Code of Conduct requires all 
employees and contractors to adhere to the strictest information security and privacy standards. 
T o address an ever-changing landscape, 
we have an Information Security Oversight team within the Global Risk Oversight organization that works closely with the Chief Information Security Officer and ensures an independent review and assessment of risk controls.The Information Security organization operates a series of functions that help predict, protect, detect, respond to and recover from cyberattacks. This includes developing solutions that protect our customers, employees and partners from increasingly complex attacks.
The Privacy organization focuses on 
handling customer and employee data in a manner consistent with our data protection principles, and manages our practices around the collection and handling of personal data, as well as notification, privacy choices, data quality, international data transfer and data access.
Systems and practices for protecting 
customer information are only as strong as the people who implement them. 
T raining and developing our employees – 
as well as offering best-in-class technology – is critical to mitigating risk. This includes educating employees to learn about risks inherent in the payment services industry, providing tools to analyze those risks and ensuring employees know where and how to escalate issues. All employees participate in mandatory information security and privacy training every year.  We also run simulations that test our employees’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity.
Our information security and privacy risk 
management programs are extensive. More detailed information about our Information Security and Privacy Risk Management Governance is available in 
our Proxy Statement and Annual Report.
As a leader in our industry, we play an active role in a number of organizations that share common business interests. We create long-term strategic relationships with these organizations in order to share resources, expertise and distribution networks that help us achieve mutual goals.
Below are some of the organizations of which we are a member or partner:
CORPORATE SOCIAL  
      RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
• A ssociation for a Better New Y ork
•
 Bett
er Business Bureau of Metropolitan 
New Y ork
•
 Busine
ss Civic Leadership Center 
•
 Busine
ss Council of New Y ork State
•
 Busine
ss for Social Responsibility 
•
 C
ommittee Encouraging  
Corporate Philanthropy
•
 The C
onference Board 
•
 C
ouncil on Foreign Relations
•
 C
ouncil on Foundations
•
 E
merging Practitioners in Philanthropy
•
 F
orum for the Future
•
 Gr
antmakers for Effective Organizations
•
 Independent S
ector
•
 Philanthr
opy New Y orkPUBLIC POLICY/ADVOCACY
• Americ an Bankers Association •
 A
ssociation of National Advertisers
•
 Calif
ornia Bankers Association 
•
 C
onsumer Bankers Association 
•
 Dir
ect Marketing Association
•
 Financial S
ervices Roundtable
•
 National A
ssociation of  
Convenience Stores
•
 P
artnership for New Y ork City
•
 The Busine
ss Roundtable 
•
 U
.S. Chamber of Commerce 
•
 U
.S. Chamber of Commerce Center for 
Capital Markets Competitiveness
•
 U
.S. T ravel AssociationHUMAN RESOURCES, RESEARCH  
      & LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
• Blue Cir cle Leadership•
 Cataly
st
•
 C
orporate Executive Board 
•
 C
ouncil of Urban Professionals
•
 C
enter for Advanced Human Resource 
Studies 
•
 C
enter for T alent Innovation 
•
 E
xecutive Leadership Council
•
 Manag
ement Leadership for T omorrow
•
 National 
Association for Black 
Accountants
•
 T
rueBlue Inclusion
2224 Introduction
25 In vesting in diversity, inclusion  
 and equal opportunitie
s
28 L earning and development
29 V aluing and supporting  
 our peopleHigh-performing  
employees who are empowered to make  a differenceSERVING  
OUR PEOPLECSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SERVING  
OUR PEOPLE
2016 KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
Great service starts with our employees. 
Our people are constantly looking for innovative ways to better serve our customers and communities. Their collective spirit, passion and drive inspire our company’s success and continuing reinvention. They are the faces and voices of our unique service brand. 
We aim to provide great service to our employees, too. We 
make it welcoming, purposeful and rewarding to be part of the American Express team. That means fostering a diverse and inclusive culture and enabling our employees to achieve their professional and personal goals.
Our high employee satisfaction ratings and employer of choice 
awards show that we are making a positive impact for our people. When we serve employees well, we strengthen their ability to serve all of our stakeholders. Introduction
85 percent of our employees who 
responded to our annual survey said they would recommend our company  
as a great place to work.Foster a diverse and  
inclusive culture
96 percent of employees have  
access to at least one Healthy Living program or service (up from 90 percent in 2015).
We announced an expanded gender-
neutral paid parental leave to   
20 weeks for U.S.-based regular full-time and part-time employees as of January 1, 2017 . Birthing mothers are eligible to receive an additional six to eight weeks  
of paid leave, if medically necessary.
More than 10,000 online and  
face-to-face training activities were 
available to employees.We scored 100 percent on the  
Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index, based on our policies  
and practices that support lesbian,  
gay, bisexual, transgender and queer  
(LGBTQ) inclusion.
Support our employees’  
professional and personal goals
24CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
INVESTING IN DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
AMERICAN EXPRESS – UNITED STATES WORKFORCE DIVERSITYWe began to formalize our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion three decades ago with the official launch of our first of many employee networks, the Black Employee Network. In addition, we have a long history of advocating for equality, diversity and inclusion in all areas of our business.
Our goal is to create an employee base that is as diverse as the 
customers and communities we serve. Through the diverse insights and experiences of our employees, we can better serve our customers.
Our global diversity and inclusion strategy
We aspire to develop a diverse talent pool and to foster an inclusive workplace culture where differences are valued and expressed freely – and all our employees have the support  
they need to take risks, learn and collaborate.  Over the years, we also introduced a Diversity Council, diversity awareness training and the inclusion of diversity goals in our  
lines of business scorecards. T oday, we continue to evolve and grow our diversity and inclusion programs and initiatives.
When we recruit and develop talent at all levels, we seek 
passionate, driven people from all walks of life, and hold senior executives accountable for ensuring diversity. 
* Professionals category includes non-managerial employees such as analysts, designers, engineers, etc. ** All Others category includes office and clerical roles, sales support, service workers, etc. Senior Level Exec- & Mgrs.
Mid Level Exec & Mgrs.Professionals*All Others**Total U.S. Employees76%63%54%52%57%24%37%46%48%43%30%54%43%72%56%U.S EMPLOYEES
(2016)TOTAL 
NON-MINORITYTOTAL MINORITY
TOTAL WOMEN
25CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
PAY EQUITY: A FUNDAMENTAL EXPECTATION
DEVELOPING WOMEN LEADERSAt American Express, pay equity is central to our mission to 
attract and retain the best talent. 
Our Pay Equity Guiding Principles help to ensure we compensate 
employees equitably and free of any unlawful bias:
We’re proud of our progress toward creating a more  
gender-balanced organization. Women represent more than 50 percent of our employees worldwide and 30 percent  
of our most senior executives. 
We target opportunities to engage and retain female employees, 
and we promote customized learning and engagement opportunities for women through both internal trainings and external programming. In addition, through our employee networks and global forums, we aim to drive stronger and more meaningful relationships for women in order to impact sponsorship, retention, and ultimately, the progression of women into leadership roles.We review and support pay equity through our compensation 
and annual pay review processes. We have conducted pay  
equity research to look closer at factors such as gender and race. The research findings have reinforced our confidence  
that our pay practices support pay equality.
At American Express, we are proud of our commitments to 
diversity and inclusion at all levels of our company.Pay for Role
We set pay guidelines for  
roles, independently of the 
people who perform them.Pay for Perfomance
We compensate employees 
based on performance and other business related criteria without regard to gender or any other unlawful factor. 
Pay Parity
We compensate employees doing the same job equitably* and free of any unlawful bias.
*All other factors being equal  
(e.g. role, skills, competencies  
and performance.)Pay Governance
We hold ourselves fully 
accountable to uphold a high 
standard on pay equity.
26CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Karen Penney, Vice 
President/General Manager, Commercial Payments and Small Business Services U.K.
Karen focuses on creating innovative 
and industry-leading payment solutions for large, mid-sized and small businesses across the U.K. Karen has worked for American Express since 2002, holding several senior positions, and has worked  
in the financial services sector for more than 25 years.“It is our goal at American Express to hire and retain the most talented individuals from all backgrounds. To that end, we continually work to create an environment where all employees have the opportunity to participate fully, grow professionally and develop their potential in meeting business objectives. I am a particularly passionate advocate for the role of women at all levels of business, and am proud to sponsor company initiatives to help  
women progress their careers at American Express. ”
OUR 
EMPLOYEE NETWORKSANA
BAANBENBlueENCHAIDAN GENAsian Employee Network
Black and Asian Employee NetworkBlack Employee NetworkVirtual Working Employee NetworkJewish Employee NetworkDisability Awareness Employee Network Families at American Express Employee NetworkGenerations Employee NetworkHOLA
PEACE
PRIDESALTVETWINWITHispanic Origin & Latin American 
Employee Network Muslim Employee Network LGBTQ Employee NetworkChristian Employee NetworkVeterans Employee NetworkWomen’s Interest Employee NetworkWomen in T echnologies Employee NetworkLGBTQ INCLUSION 
Since 2004, American Express has  
scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, based on our policies and practices that support lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) inclusion. We are also  a member of Open For Business, a coalition of global companies making the economic and business case for LGBTQ inclusion in companies around the world.
 
SPONSORSHIP OF EXTERNAL RESEARCH  
In 2015 and 2016, we sponsored six  research projects with the Center for  
T alent Innovation, to help advance  
women, including: Black Women Ready  
to Lead and T op Latino T alent in the U.S.  
REGIONAL INITIATIVES – CANADA  
For the past two years, we are proud to have 
been named one of Canada’s Best Diversity Employers, an honor we believe highlights our enduring commitment to a best-in-class work environment where differences are embraced.  “Women at Amex” in Canada, has focused our efforts towards creating a culture dedicated to gender diversity. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HIGHLIGHTS 
Our program and initiatives have resulted in increased employee engagement scores among our female employees. 
REACHING OUT TO WOMEN LEADERS  
IN MEXICO  
The “Reach Out” program aims to break  
down barriers to female advancement in Mexico. The program was created to  build a stronger pipeline of senior women  leaders and provides participants with mentors from international companies,  giving them external connections and a broader perspective to enrich their 
professional profile.PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION  
THROUGH EMPLOYEE NETWORKS 
Since 1987 , our employee networks have 
provided opportunities that support personal and professional development, skill building and career growth.
Completely employee-driven, they bring 
value to our company in many ways,  
from creating an inclusive workplace to driving product innovation. Employee networks encompass the full spectrum  
of diversity at American Express,  
including disability, ethnicity, faith,  
gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation and veteran status.
In 2016, with 16 networks and nearly 
100 chapters worldwide, our employee networks ran many career-focused  
events including panel discussions, speaker series, leadership spotlights, clinics, career fairs and virtual forums.
27CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Developing our people is a top priority 
at American Express. We offer a variety of ways to support our employees’ professional growth.  
Leaders double as mentors and colleagues act as partners, supporting each other throughout their careers. Employees are encouraged to expand their experiences and networks, and explore different lines of business through multiple approaches such as:  
•
 L
eadership programs
•
 P
ersonal development activities
•
 E
mployee networks
•
 C
ontinued education
We embrace a learning model of  
70-20-10, where employees learn  
70 percent of their knowledge through self-directed instruction and on-the-job 
Introducing the American  
Express Leadership Academy  
for employees
In May 2017 , we introduced the American Express Leadership Academy, a curated collection of the best tools, programs and processes in leadership development for all employees. As part of this initiative, we launched the American Express & Harvard Certificate in Leadership Excellence. This flagship program is a customized, best-in-class leadership development experience designed in partnership with Harvard. Through the program, participants will gain powerful insights and skills to take their leadership to the next level.experiences; 20 percent from others – such as mentoring, coaching and collaborative learning forums; and  
10 percent from formal, more traditional approaches, such as online courses  
and instructor-led training. 
This model is used to create a flexible 
learning experience that provides a variety of development opportunities. Participation rates show there is a high level of engagement across business lines and geographies.
Developing strong leaders
While today’s fast-paced work environment continues to speed ahead, one thing remains constant – the need for extraordinary leaders. Leadership is a key pillar of our collective and individual success stories at American Express. Our 
An Example of Regional 
Application: Developing  
Leaders in India
American Express in India has created 
two structured leadership development programs for high-potential employees: Learn, Empower & Develop Program (LeAD) and Leadership Enrichment & Accelerated Program (LeAP). The programs are designed to enhance knowledge and competencies required for the next role. The experiential learning approach to both programs includes simulation and video-based learning; group discussions; and  
leaders as teachers. Over the last five years, approximately 120 participants graduated from the program and are moving into roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company. Participants are two to three times more likely to be promoted within five years relative to their peers.LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENTleadership development programs are intended to help shape agile leaders who challenge the status quo, take informed risks, experiment with solutions to new and existing problems, and test new ideas.
We recruit and develop employees with 
specific leadership competencies in mind, including the ability to:  
•
 de
velop and leverage relationships;
•
 driv
e results;
•
 driv
e innovation and change;
•
 influenc
e peers and colleagues;
•
 c
ommunicate effectively; and
•
 f
ocus on customers and clients.  
10,000+
online and face-to-face  
training activities were available  
to employees in 2016.
77%
of first-time people leaders 
globally chose to participate in our “First-Things-First” leadership development program in 2016. 
28CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Exceptional service begins with great 
people, and we employ some of the best talent in our industry. Our employees relish the challenge of finding new solutions to meet our customers’ needs. They adapt, persist and champion innovation within their teams and across the organization.  
We strive to ensure our people feel valued, recognized and supported — and we continually measure our progress. Our consistently high employee satisfaction scores are a testament to the strength of our relationships. In 2016, 85 percent of our employees who responded to our annual survey said they would recommend our company as a great place to work.
Listening to our employees
Our annual employee survey, the Pulse, provides insights into employee satisfaction, leadership efficacy, learning opportunities and career development. The survey results help us improve the employee experience, our culture and business results. 
Even though participation in the survey is 
optional, employee completion rates are high. In 2016, 84 percent of our employees took the survey. One of our clear strengths is the employee/leader relationship, which has a direct impact on engagement and loyalty. Our employees give high marks for collaboration, motivation, strong leadership and inclusion. 
As we continue to address competitive and 
other challenges, it’s critical that we look for new and better ways to do things. For example, employees said we need to work more efficiently, increase collaboration and make decisions faster by bringing the right people to the table early on and empowering employees at all levels to voice their opinions and take action. Flexible working
Whether it’s a variable schedule or a virtual role, we believe it’s important to accommodate a range of work styles. Our flexible workspace, benefits and parental leave help us attract and retain the best people. We also support employees who want to volunteer for the causes they care about during work hours, as long as they receive approval from their manager.
All full-time and part-time U.S. employees 
who meet certain performance requirements can request a flexible work arrangement. Their leaders determine whether such an arrangement makes sense for the type of role and work style of the group. We provide formal channels to guide employees and leaders on decisions related to flextime, part-time, compressed work weeks, job sharing and remote work.
Working better by  
working smarter 
BlueWork, a program developed in 1998 
to redesign our office environments, has become the standard for our locations worldwide.
The guiding principles of BlueWork are:
CONNECTED  
BlueWork connects people in new ways, 
both in-person and virtually, to work together, build community and drive innovation.  
RESPONSIBLE  
BlueWork makes the most out of our investment in the workplace and reduces our environmental impact.
EFFECTIVE
BlueWork drives performance in the workplace with the right types of workspaces and technology to enable great work, attract top talent and drive success for American Express.
DYNAMIC
BlueWork supports a variety of activities, styles of working and team structures with flexible space that supports collaboration, heads-down work and everything in between.
The American Express 
Human Capital Scorecard
We have a robust program in 
place to assess and manage human capital priorities – identified as talent-related opportunities linked to business outcomes. Senior Human Resources leaders develop human capital priorities annually, and track progress quarterly against plans. These assessments inform annual goals that are assigned to senior leaders, and performance against these goals directly impacts compensation and  
year-end decisions. 
The American Express Human 
Capital Scorecard, which measures top company leaders against the organization’s workforce priorities, reports across two categories:
•
 T
alent Retention – Develop 
and retain an engaged, high-
performing workforce.
•
 Div
ersity & Inclusion – Build 
and maintain a diverse and inclusive workforce.VALUING AND SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE
29CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
We invest in our employees’ physical and mental well-
being through our award-winning corporate health and wellness initiative, Healthy Living, which provides supportive resources, enhanced access to care and incentives that foster a healthier lifestyle.
In the seven years since it launched, Healthy Living has made 
a measurable impact on employees’ lifestyles. Our research shows an increase in the employees who increased their physical activity with encouragement through a Healthy Living  
program, and a better understanding of the consequences of poor health and stress.
Our Healthy Minds program is a free, confidential counseling 
service that helps employees plan for life events, address personal issues, or simply manage everyday events that can affect their work, health and family. At select locations, many  
employees have year-round access to onsite Healthy Minds counselors, relaxation rooms, and yoga and meditation classes. 
Healthy Minds has won multiple awards. The program has 
received two major American Psychological Association  
awards: the inaugural national Organizational Excellence Award and the Phoenix Workplace Excellence Award. It has also won the Employee Assistance Society of North America Corporate Excellence award, the organization’s highest honor.SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES’ WELLBEING
52%
of our office space was part of BlueWork, as of December 31, 2016.95+
T elePresence Studios in more than 35 countries
3 
in 2016.43%
of U.S. employees had a flexible work arrangement in 2016.31%
of global employees had a flexible work arrangement in 2016.
21
on-site Healthy Living Wellness centers are open around the world.96%
(up from 90 percent in 2015) of employees had access to at least one Healthy Living program  
or service in 2016.96%+
of our population was covered by Healthy Minds in 25 countries  
in 2016.FLEXIBLE WORKING
HEALTHY LIVING PROGRAMS
30CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
When it comes to our employees’ wellbeing, supporting their 
families is a top priority. We offer support, resources and benefits to help employees manage their many roles inside and outside the office. 
Resources include:
GENDER-NEUTRAL PARENTAL LEAVE
In 2017 , we increased the parental leave period to 20 weeks in 
the United States. Both mothers and fathers will receive full base pay for 20 weeks, whether they are growing their family by pregnancy, adoption or surrogacy. In coordination with the extended parental leave policy, we also launched a Parent Concierge program where a dedicated representative helps  
the employee understand and navigate parental leave and the wide array of free resources and programs available to them.  
ADOPTION AND SURROGACY POLICY  
Employees who grow their family through adoption or surrogacy receive up to $35,000 per child, per event with a lifetime maximum of two events. Those who undergo reproductive treatments are eligible for up to $35,000 in medical assistance.
FAMILIES AT AMERICAN EXPRESS EMPLOYEE NETWORK
Launched in 2005, the network reaches more than 5,000 members across eight chapters and provides support for families that need help balancing personal and professional priorities.
BACK-UP CHILD CARE
Employees can access in-home or center-based child care throughout the U.S., U.K., France and Canada. For example, in the U.S., employees get 20 days of subsidized backup dependent care (in-home or through a child care center) per year. In France, employees can benefit from 30 days of nursery care for their children, up until they are three years old.HELPING OUR EMPLOYEES WITH FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES
SPECIAL FOCUS ON SPECIAL NEEDS  
In the U.S., we provide programs and resources for parents with special-needs children. We also partner with major organizations that help raise awareness for the special needs community.
Helping our employees achieve financial wellness 
Whether an employee is just starting to think about personal finances or is already financially savvy, our suite of Smart Saving services is there to help. Our global programs are geared to specific life stages, such as millennials, new families and parents planning for college.
In the U.S., Smart Saving includes our 401(k) program; financial 
planning coaching and workshops – including telephone-based   coaching at no cost to employees; deals and discounts to help employees save money on everyday expenses, such as commuting reimbursement; and on-demand access to financial education resources.
In 2016, we announced an expanded gender-
neutral paid parental leave to 20 weeks for U.S.-based regular full-time and part-time employees. This became effective January 1, 2017 . Birthing mothers are eligible to receive an additional six to eight weeks of paid leave, if medically necessary.
6%
(up from 5 percent) of total pay 
for the Retirement Savings Plan for U.S. employees in Company Match Contribution. This increase became effective January 1, 2017 .81%
of U.S. employees participated in our 401(k) program in 2016.3,000+
employees around the world completed a personalized financial wellness assessment in 2016. FINANCIAL WELLNESS HIGHLIGHTS
31CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
OUR 2016 TOP EMPLOYER AWARDSEmployee recognition  
and engagement
We recognize outstanding employee 
contributions large and small. Everyday employee recognition is especially important – it helps inspire our employees to continue to do great work.
Reward Blue 
Our global reward and recognition program recognizes colleagues for their achievements with monetary and non-monetary awards. Reward Blue builds a culture of appreciation by encouraging 
Our commitment to being an employer of choice continues to earn us industry awards and recognition. Here are some of the recognitions from 2016 that make  
us most proud: In 2016, 74 percent 
of our employees received recognition or appreciation through Reward Blue.
FORTUNE 100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR – RANKED #96
FORTUNE 50 BEST COMPANIES FOR DIVERSITY – RANKED #15BLACK ENTERPRISE: BEST COMPANIES FOR DIVERSITYWORKING MOTHER BEST COMPANIES FOR MULTICULTURAL WOMENWORKING MOTHER NAFE TOP 50 COMPANIES FOR EXECUTIVE WOMENANITA BORG INSTITUTE TOP COMPANIES FOR WOMEN TECHNOLOGISTSEQUAL OPPORTUNITY MAGAZINE TOP 50 EMPLOYERS – RANKED #8HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN: CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX, RATING AMERICAN WORKPLACES  
ON LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND TRANSGENDER EQUALITY (SCORE: 100 PERCENT)AON HEWITT: BEST EMPLOYER: HONG KONG, MALAYSIA, SINGAPORE, TAIWAN, THAILANDTHE SUNDAY TIMES: 25 BEST BIG COMPANIES TO WORK FOR (U.K.) – RANKED #5WORKING FAMILIES (U.K.): TOP 30 EMPLOYERSemployees to praise everyday efforts, 
reward exceptional results and celebrate important anniversaries. 
Serving together
Our employees are active members of their communities, and our flagship programs, Serve2Gether, Give2Gether and Green2Gether, are designed to foster a sense of shared purpose and provide our employees with an opportunity to  
give back.  Learn more in the Serving  
Our Community section.
32Satisfied customers who 
reward us with their trust and loyalty, and partners who share our vision  for responsible business
34 Introduction
36 Meeting the e volving needs of  
 our cus
tomers
41 Building a s afe and  
 s
ecure network
42 E mpowering entrepreneurs  
45 Supporting w omen-owned  
 
business
45 Supplier div ersity and   
 r
esponsible sourcingSERVING OUR 
CUSTOMERS  AND PARTNERSCSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SERVING OUR 
CUSTOMERS  AND PARTNERS
2016 KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
We’re in the business of winning the hearts and 
minds of our customers. Our success depends on looking at the world from their viewpoint  so we can understand their current – and  future – needs. When we put our customers first, we ensure our company continues to be  an important part of their lives.
We have a broad and diverse customer base that spans 
consumers at different stages of their lives; small and midsize companies, and large corporations; partners who issue cards on our network, and others who work with us to create special products and experiences; and the merchants who welcome  
our Card Members. 
We’re focused on using our relationships, technology and 
data to better serve our customers and increase commerce opportunities for our partners. Introduction
We were rated as one of Ponemon’s  
Most Trusted Companies for Privacy for 
the past 10 years.
From 2010 to 2016, U.S. Card Members 
donated over $84 million through our Members Give
SM program by donating 
dollars on their American Express Cards and redeeming Membership Rewards points to benefit charitable causes.Meet the evolving needs  
of our customer base
Make our products and  
services better for society  
and the environmentT otal spending among U.S. consumers 
reached an estimated $15.4 billion at independent retailers and restaurants  
on Small Business Saturday.
4Customer satisfaction has increased 24 percent since 2011 based on Card Member feedback.
Of the paper used in our U.S. direct 
marketing efforts in 2016, 97 percent was certified as being from sustainably managed forests.We launched the fifth annual Pride 
campaign to celebrate LGBTQ Card Members, merchants, employees and local communities.
Support small  
businesses  
34CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
CONSUMERS
Our Card Members come from many walks of life. Our 
research tells us they have some things in common: they tend to be optimists and are driven to succeed in their chosen path. We do our best to make it easier for them  to pay for all their purchases, reward them for their loyalty and help them to buy and travel with peace of mind.  We offer a range of credit cards, charge cards and other services to suit their needs. MERCHANTS
Millions of stores, restaurants, travel operators and other establishments welcome American Express cards around the world. We work to make sure their experience is as seamless as possible. And we help them grow their businesses by connecting them to our high-spending customers, and by providing marketing and other services.
PARTNERS
Airlines. Banks. Retailers. Entertainment venues. Hotels. Restaurants. Digital players. We have strategic partners in all kinds of fields helping us give our customers the rewards and experiences they care about. Partners help us give our customers more choices when it comes to spending with us.BUSINESS
We issued our first formal Corporate Card program in  1966. T oday, we are still the leader in the commercial payments space. We serve businesses of all sizes, from small, independently owned establishments to large,  global organizations— including more than 60 percent  of Fortune 500 companies internationally.
5
Our team of more 
than 25,000 service professionals is available to assist customers around the globe, and we’re investing in tools to create a seamless experience for customers who choose to connect with us digitally.Customer satisfaction has increased 24 percent since 2011 based on Card Member feedback.We also maintain and publish accessibility requirements to everyone who works with our websites and mobile apps.For our visually impaired Card Members, we have Braille and large-font printing for statements and year-end summaries. They can also ask our Customer Care staff to read correspondence and even billing statements  
to them.WHO WE SERVE
HOW WE SERVE
35CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
We aim to put our customers first in everything we do.  
We are committed to making things simple and easy for 
them – from owning and solving their issues, to serving them in a way that shows we understand and value them. This is how our service team of more than 25,000 professionals is helping us build on a 167-year legacy of superior customer service.  
Delivering service excellence with  
Relationship Care®
At American Express, we deliver a unique brand of service 
we call Relationship Care®: treating every interaction as an opportunity to deepen relationships. Everyone at American MEETING THE EVOLVING NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS 
A Closer Look Saves a Card 
Member in Trouble
 
When Swedish merchants called our 
fraud department to report suspicious activity by a Finnish Card Member, Fraud Protection Specialist Hanna reviewed the customer’s file and saw that the supposed “Card Member” had correctly answered security questions, used the right PIN and even answered the Card Member’s mobile phone when she called.
Something still didn’t sit right with Hanna. 
She had seen this type of fraud before, and because the card was being used outside of the Card Member’s home country, Hanna was worried for his safety. 
“ At the time, I was simply focusing on the 
task at hand, ” says Hanna. “I knew what I had to do and I didn’t let myself panic. ”
She alerted American Express Global 
Security and halted spending on the account. She then called the merchants where the card had recently been used  
and asked that they contact police if the same card holder returned.  Hanna’s intuition that this was not a standard case of stolen identity was spot on – the Card Member had been kidnapped in Finland by a gang of criminals, who had taken him by boat to Sweden, held him hostage and stolen his mobile phone, American Express Card, PIN and answers to his security questions.
The assailants soon returned to one of 
the merchants. Thanks to Hanna’s tip, the merchant knew to call the police, who apprehended the criminals.
says Hanna. In recognition of her 
commitment and performance, we chose her as one of the 34 Customer Service Award winners in 2016. 
“The most important 
thing is to always deliver 
extraordinary service, regardless of the situation”Express plays a role in delivering our world-class customer 
experience. But our front-line colleagues are the ones who bring our brand to life every day.
T o show our service team just how much we appreciate the 
care they provide, we have an internal Customer Service Award to celebrate the very best of the best. Each year, we recognize employees who provided a specific act of outstanding service in the past year and employees who have consistently delivered great customer care over time.
36CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
“I bring the American 
Express brand to life  
for our Card Members by treating them like  I would my friends and family. I always strive  to elevate their customer service experience by going out of my way  to acknowledge their tenure and resolve queries confidently  and quickly. ”
JAYLEEN, PLATINUM CUSTOMER 
CARE PROFESSIONAL We are proud of the service we deliver to our customers around the world, and the 
recognition we receive from industry experts validates our approach to caring for customers. In 2016, we received recognition from a number of organizations around the world based on our service ethic and commitment to customers. We received  
the highest ranking from J.D. Power in the Credit Card Satisfaction Study
SM in 
Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as the highest ranking in the J.D. Power Call Center Satisfaction Index Survey for Japan
SM.  Also, we were highlighted among 
the best U.S. service brands in the Customer Service Hall of Fame by Zogby and  
24/7 Wall Street, among other awards.
Connecting Card  
Members with causes  
they care about
In the early 1980s, we pioneered 
cause-related marketing campaigns. One of the most memorable campaigns from that era included an effort to restore the Statue of Liberty. By using American Express’ services, our Card Members across the U.S. helped raise over $1 million to restore a national treasure. Since then we have donated millions of dollars to causes that are important to Card Members, merchant partners and the general public. In 2010, to help our Card Members give back, we created GivingExpress®. Now known  
as Members Give
SM, the program 
connects our Card Members to causes they care about by simplifying charitable giving. Card Members can access more than one million worthy organizations online, making charitable giving easier than ever. 
From 2010 to 2016, U.S. Card 
Members donated over $84 million through our Members Give
SM 
program by donating dollars on their American Express Cards and redeeming Membership Rewards points to benefit charitable causes.OUR 2016 CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS
37CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
DEVELOPING MOBILE AND DIGITAL PLATFORMS 
Service and innovation are in our 
DNA. Throughout our 167-year history, we’ve constantly evolved to meet the changing needs and habits of our global customer base, from Card Members to merchants to partners. 
We’ve reinvented how we deliver an 
exceptional service experience to customers, when and where they need  
it, by leveraging our data, technology  
and expertise.From our mobile app and alerts to innovations like American Express Checkout, Pay with Points, American Express Bot and OptBlue, we have developed solutions that remove the friction from the overall commerce experience for both merchants and consumers, and do so in a safe and secure way. Our latest innovations include:
•
 Americ
an Express Digital Solutions 
is a suite of services that includes 
contactless payments; integration with mobile wallets including Apple Pay, Samsung Pay and Android Pay; tokenization and other services.
•
 Americ
an Express Express Checkout 
is a fast and secure way for American Express’ millions of U.S. Card Members to check out quickly and securely at participating online merchants by using their AmericanExpress.com account login.
•
 The 
American Express Bot for 
Facebook Messenger offers Card Members on the platform real-time notification and benefits reminders, as well as the ability to get on-demand answers to questions related to their American Express 
Customer Data Principle 
Our customers have the  
right to request their information 
maintained in our sytems, review it and make changes.account-powered artificial intelligence 
and servicing technology.
•
 P
ay with Points allows Card Members 
to use Membership Rewards for pay or purchases in part or in full, with Uber, among others, driving value for Card Members and helping our merchants attract more customers.
•
 The 
American Express Skill for  
Amazon Alexa brings select experiences of AmericanExpress.com and the American Express mobile app,  
such as checking account balance, reviewing charges and making a payment to Alexa, Amazon’s voice service, within devices like Amazon Echo and Echo Dot.  
T reating customers fairly 
We recognize that fairness must be the foundation of our customer relationships, and we keep it front and center when creating products and services. We  
are also committed to keeping our customers well-informed and confident  
in using our products. This means marketing our products in a way that is clear, transparent and informative.
38CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Our Consumer Practices Group helps us fulfill our 
commitment to fairness and transparency with a fair lending program that has clear policies and governance, monitoring and testing, and strong analytics. The group performs  
root-cause analysis of customer complaints mentioning or alleging discrimination; reviews marketing offers and collateral for potential discouragement or exclusion of a protected class; and conducts statistical analysis to  
ensure our marketing and credit decisions do not adversely impact protected classes in violation of fair lending laws. 
We are dedicated to high standards of fairness in our  
customer practices and have developed this Global Customer  
Practices Statement: 
“American Express believes that delivering products and services in a fair and transparent manner is critical to providing best-in-class customer service. As part of its fundamental commitment to meet customer credit needs throughout the world, American Express is dedicated to engaging in customer practices that embody transparency, truthfulness, fairness and a culture of non-discrimination throughout the credit lifecycle. The company manages and mitigates customer practices risk through dedicated resources and ongoing monitoring, testing and oversight. This also applies to third-party vendors and their subcontractors, also known as fourth-party vendors. ”
Our principles of responsible marketing include:
We want to help customers make 
informed choices, avoid financial pitfalls and follow good practices to improve their financial well-being. For more than 40 years, we have supported financial literacy programs in partnership with some of the world’s most respected organizations. These programs address the financial needs of young people, first-time credit users and experienced  
credit users who want to improve their financial management skills. 
In the United States, we provide 
customers with their FICO score and offer a number of educational tools on our Consumer Resources site as well as information, insights and tips about selecting and using credit cards.  
This information is available in English and Spanish.TRANSPARENCY
Marketing offers should be clear, simple and easy to understand.
Marketers should 
consider all reasonable interpretations from  
a customer’s or prospect’s point of view.ACCOUNTABILITY  
 
 
Marketers should think about how the offer will work: risks, controls and monitoring associated with the end-to-end execution, including fulfillment and servicing.
Marketing should 
create and retain documentation: process flows, control measures, monitoring and stakeholder approvals.RESPONSIBLE MARKETING AND FAIR LENDING
SUPPORTING FINANCIAL LITERACY
Italy: Education on the value  
of Money for Generation Z  
In November 2016, American 
Express in Italy sponsored the study Education to the value of money for Generation Z. Conducted by Doxa, an Italian-based research company, it examined young adults’ relationship with money. The results of the study revealed that financial literacy among young people in Italy is well below European standards. In cooperation with the Foundation for Financial Education and Savings, we carried out a financial education program in Italy for 150 students ages 14-19, which was delivered through a series of workshops and lectures with American Express financial experts.China: Helping students build 
a healthy financial future  
Since 2004, we have sponsored 
Junior Achievement China’s My Money Business, an in-class program that helps students ages 14-19 in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou learn how to manage their money  
and establish good fiscal habits.  
More than 1,600 American Express and community volunteers have  
been involved, reaching more than  
17 ,000 students. 
39CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
PROVIDING EDUCATIONAL  
OPPORTUNITIES
We were recognized for our support of  
a scholarship program for graduates  of the Horizonte Instruction and T raining Center, an alternative high school in Salt Lake City, who were accepted into Salt Lake Community College. The new scholarship program helps cover recipients’ college expenses. EXPANDING THE IMPACT OF  
OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
The Heroes Among Us program recognizes CRA-eligible nonprofit organizations and everyday people  
who serve their communities, advancing  
their mission by connecting them with  
a wider audience. During 2016, American Express recognized 17 nonprofits as strong community partners. Our employee nonprofit board members  
serve as presenters for the Heroes  
Among Us award and assist in the selection process for the honorees.
 We serve a wide range of customers and have innovated to provide products and services to meet new needs and preferences. Our reloadable prepaid products, Bluebird® and Serve®, offer alternatives to traditional banking in a way that we believe is convenient to financially underserved customers in the United States. These products allow customers to set up paycheck deposits, access bills online, put aside money for the future, send money to friends and family, and use tools  
to manage their money.
Revitalizing the neighborhoods of 
underserved areas is one of the many ways we serve communities. As a financial holding company, through our U.S. bank subsidiaries, we are evaluated on our performance under the federally mandated Community Reinvestment  Act (CRA). 
In 2016, our U.S. banks’ Center for 
Community Development underwrote $449.7 million in loans and investments, resulting in the creation of 2,456 units of affordable housing that build stronger and more inclusive cities. Our CRA investments are complemented by our community activities that impact almost 10,000 individuals and families in underserved communities by providing basic needs, supporting workforce development and enhancing financial literacy.OFFERING ALTERNATIVES TO TRADITIONAL BANKING
REVITALIZING NEIGHBORHOODS
INVESTING IN  
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
We received the Charles L. Edson Award 
from the Affordable Housing T ax Credit Coalition for our investment in Lamar Station Crossing, a community for low-income families in Lakewood, Colorado. This award is presented to the most outstanding Low Income Housing T ax Credit properties in seven categories. The Edson Awards bring together members of Congress and industry participants to celebrate developments at the forefront of creating strong, healthier communities in urban, suburban and rural areas nationwide.
40CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
We know that good service means 
maintaining consumer trust. We have  
a robust privacy program, with  
clear policies and governance, so  
our customers know they can trust how we collect, use and protect their personal information.
Investing in a rigorous  
privacy program
Our Global Privacy team helps us protect 
our customers’ data and develop practical ways for managing personal information. The team’s work includes:
PROCESSES AND TRAINING  
Our Data Protection and Privacy Principles guide how we collect, use and process our customers’ personal information. Additional privacy policies and controls help our employees safeguard information. These principles are reinforced through mandatory Privacy and Data Security training for employees.   
TECHNOLGY  
We have invested in technology that lets Card Members opt in or out of marketing communications and tell us the ways they’d prefer us to get in touch.  PRIVACY CENTER  
Available on AmericanExpress.com,  
our Privacy Center gives consumers in  
the United States information about our  
data protection and privacy principles  
and policies. 
This rigorous framework helps to 
ensure we comply with privacy laws and regulations and reflect consumers’ expectations for privacy.
Maintaining our closed  
loop network 
Our business model means we maintain 
direct relationships with both Card Members and merchants. We operate a closed loop network that provides us with information on transactions from both the Card Member and the merchant perspective. This gives us the ability to provide customized marketing to merchants and special offers to Card Members with best-in-class risk management. 
Investing in fraud prevention  
– preserving trust with machine learning techniques
Our state-of-the-art monitoring tools, 
controls and policies help detect and prevent fraud in our operations around the world. Our data scientists analyze all the data within our closed loop network to identify suspicious account activity and deploy valuable protections to our customers, such as fraud alerts, often in real time. 
T o combat the increasing sophistication 
and scale of fraud attacks, we use advanced, machine learning algorithms to evaluate thousands of data points to make fraud risk decisions on every American Express transaction anywhere in the world within milliseconds. This helps to interrupt fraudulent spending,  in turn reducing chargebacks to merchants and providing peace of mind to our Card Members, which is core to maintaining an outstanding service experience. Machine learning models allow us to delve much deeper in understanding the unique patterns of our customers and of fraudulent episodes. These models have made it significantly easier to detect counterfeit and online fraud while minimizing disruption of our customers’ genuine spending. We have also partnered with merchants to develop advanced techniques for detecting compromised Card Member account information and have deployed advanced authentication solutions to detect identity theft. 
As a result, we have achieved the lowest 
fraud rates in the industry for many years, helping us protect our Card Members and merchants and delivering on our brand promise of trust, security and service.
Maintaining secure connections
Over the years, we have been investing in and promoting the use of more secure connections across whichever payment channel our Card Members select, such as phone, in-store, online and mobile wallets.  Examples include:
INAUTH
T o extend our multilayered strategy for fighting fraud, in December 2016, we acquired InAuth, Inc., a leading provider of mobile device authentication and intelligence solutions. InAuth’s technology reduces risk and helps identify potential fraud utilizing its authentication capabilities across mobile devices.
The acquisition complements and 
enhances our comprehensive data analytics and fraud prevention capabilities.BUILDING A SAFE AND SECURE NETWORK
We have been rated as 
one of Ponemon’s Most Trusted Companies for Privacy for the past 10 years, and number one in financial services in 2017 .
41CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SAFEKEY
We have offered SafeKey internationally 
for several years and in 2016, we made it available to our merchants and partners in the U.S. SafeKey is an authentication tool that adds an extra layer of security when a Card Member shops online at a participating merchant. SafeKey uses the global industry standard, 3-D Secure, to validate the Card Member’s identity. 
EMW
EMV chip card technology enhances the security of payment transactions by leveraging dynamic information generated via a chip embedded in a payment card. We have seen steady adoption of EMV by our U.S. merchants. As of the end of 2016, more than half of our “Card Present” charge volume was from chip card transactions occurring at EMV-enabled merchants. We expect that percentage to continue to increase as more merchants upgrade their point-of-sale systems.
In 2016, we took other steps to help our 
U.S. merchants limit their fraud costs as they upgrade their POS systems. We eliminated counterfeit fraud chargebacks for transactions under $25, and limited  
 the number of counterfeit fraud chargebacks per card account. In addition, we extended the effective  
date of our EMV Fraud Liability Shift for our U.S. fuel merchants by three years,  
to October 2020.
Additionally, we disclose information 
on customer fraud costs and credit write-offs in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, available on the SEC’s website and ir.americanexpress.com.
EMPOWERING ENTREPRENEURS
Supporting small business growth
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing character to neighborhoods, as well as jobs and investment. We have been dedicated  
to serving small businesses for more than  
25 years, and when we help businesses reach their potential we can make a positive impact  
on their communities. 
For example, our American Express OPEN 
Charge and Credit Cards help small businesses grow by allowing them to buy what they need, when they need it. We also offer a suite of programs and resources for small business owners, including online resources, live events and one-to-one business meetings. 
We have also made it easier for small merchants 
to accept American Express through OptBlue, a program we introduced in 2014 that enables eligible small merchants to have one servicing contact and receive one statement and settlement process for all the card brands they accept. Through OptBlue, third-party processors sign up eligible small merchants to accept American Express Cards, and they also determine the merchant’s rate for American Express Card acceptance. With 18 processors live on the OptBlue program in the U.S., it means eligible small merchants now have multiple rate options and can find a better rate that works  
for their business. 
42CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Enabling customers changing 
the world: Touch Bionics by Ossur – Ian Stevens is a passionate leader.
 
The CEO leads at Touch Bionics, a 
Scotland-based company that works to improve lives by manufacturing upper limb prosthetic devices.
“When someone has lost a limb, there 
are many things they are not able to do, ” says Ian. “They want to be able to tie their shoelaces, eat without assistance, pull their pants up … those basic things we take for granted. We try to bring back those functions of everyday living. ”
To support the firm’s success, Ian and 
his team have proudly carried American Express corporate card products since he took the helm in 2010.“Using American Express is very efficient and the billing cycle works well with our expense system, ” he says. “ All of these things just save time. ”
American Express is there for him on the 
road, too. “In order to do my job well, it’s important to know what’s happening within the company, hear from my wearers and technicians, what they like and don’t like, ” says Ian. “I like to try and get out and about as much as possible to get that information, and I use my American Express card for all my travel, to book flights and my hotel. ” 
American Express is an important part  
of Ian’s simple approach to travel: 
The Shop Small movement
Seven years ago, we started a grassroots initiative to help drive U.S. 
consumers to shop at small businesses and celebrate the uniqueness, charm and economic impact that small businesses bring to communities. Small Business Saturday is now a national holiday alongside Black Friday and Cyber Monday, as well as a successful global movement. Over the years, we have broadened the campaign to encourage millions of consumers to shop small  
on Small Business Saturday and throughout the holiday season.
Shop Small in the U.S.
In 2016, we conducted our largest and longest-running campaign yet to connect our Card Members with their favorite small businesses. The Shop Small® for 2X Rewards offer spanned more than 50 eligible U.S. Consumer and OPEN Small Business American Express Cards. T o begin earning rewards, Card Members enrolled an eligible American Express Card and shopped at qualifying small merchant locations and websites from October 17 through December 31, 2016.
As a result, shoppers supported their neighborhood businesses like never 
before. Seventy-two percent of U.S. consumers were aware of Small Business Saturday, and an estimated 112 million people took part in this growing  
holiday tradition by shopping small.
6Shop Small, Shop Proud  
 We launched our fifth annual Pride 
campaign to celebrate LGBTQ Card Members, merchants, employees and local communities. We supported local businesses in the U.S. during Pride, encouraging our Card Members to “Shop Small. Shop Proud. ” We teamed up with PAPER magazine to create a content series featuring notable LGBTQ individuals talking about their passions and some of their favorite local businesses. In addition, we hosted #ExpressLove events in select markets that brought together local merchants, prominent community members and influencers, while also giving each local nonprofit organization a platform to tell its story and empower consumers to share on social media  
how they “Express Love” every day.“I have my American 
Express card, I have my 
passport, I have about  40 bucks... I’m good. ”
43CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SHOP SMALL AROUND THE WORLD
“The American Express 
Love Local platform is a 
way for us to highlight  that diversity and encourage greater spending at these businesses, which play such a vital role in  our economy. ”
DESMOND LEUNG,  
VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL  
MANAGER OF GLOBAL MERCHANT  
SERVICES, GREATER CHINAAUSTRALIA  
In 2016, American Express engaged 
customers in Australia to support local small businesses annually during the months of May, September and November through the Shop Small program. The November program had particularly strong results. During the month, over one million American  
 Express Card Members were inspired to shop small, spending a total of AUD  
$603 million with American Express  
cards at small businesses. 
U.K.
As the founding sponsor and main supporter of Small Business Saturday, we have championed the day since its U.K. launch in 2013. The campaign has cross-party political support as well as backing from small business organizations, local authorities and community groups. Thousands of Card Members across the U.K. supported their local high streets by taking advantage of our Shop Small offer and were awarded with a £5 statement credit each time they spent £10 or more at a participating small business between December 3 and 18, 2016.
•
 An e
stimated £717 million was spent 
by consumers with small businesses 
across the U.K. on December 3,  
2016  – an increase of 15 percent from the prior year.
7
• R ecord-high awareness, with  
over 130,000 tweets sent on December 3, 2016, reaching more than 120 million people.
8
HONG KONG  
In 2016, we launched the month-long American Express Love Local campaign in Hong Kong – a demonstration of our continuous support of local merchants. From September 6 to October 5, eligible Card Members could earn a statement credit by shopping at any of more than 3,000 participating local restaurants and retailers. A series of social media initiatives was organized to promote the specialties of the local shops in town, including a launch event held at a participating merchant, photo campaigns as well as a guiding website to locate the relevant stores.“Hong Kong is an incredibly diverse city with a long heritage of local cuisine, products and services, ” said Desmond Leung, Vice President and General Manager of Global Merchant Services, Greater China, American Express International, Inc. 
44CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SUPPORTING WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES
The case for the value of women-
owned businesses is clear. As of 2016, there were an estimated 11.3 million women-owned businesses in the United States, generating nearly $1.6 trillion in revenues and employing nearly 9 million people. This means women are making a significant contribution to job creation and economic growth in America. 
CHALLENGE HER PROGRAM
In April 2013, Women Impacting Public Policy (WIPP), American Express OPEN and the U.S. Small Business Administration launched ChallengeHER, a national initiative to boost government contracting opportunities for women-owned small businesses. ChallengeHER delivers free workshops, mentoring and direct access to government buyers. Now entering its fifth year, ChallengeHER engaged more than 7 ,700 women entrepreneurs in 53 workshops across the country and facilitated more than 5,300 meetings between women small business owners and government officials.
GIVE ME 5 PROGRAM
WIPP and American Express OPEN are longtime champions of women entrepreneurs in the federal contracting space. T ogether, we created the Give Me 5 program to give women-owned small businesses access to knowledge and resources to help win federal contracts through regular webinars. In 2016, the U.S. Government achieved its goal of awarding 5 percent of its annual federal contracts to women-owned small businesses for the first time since the goal was set almost 20 years ago.
FIFTY FASTEST GROWING WOMEN  
OWNED/LED COMPANIES
In partnership with the Women Presidents’ Organization, we support the annual Fifty Fastest Growing Women-Owned /Led Companies ranking. T ogether, we are tapping into the experience and expertise of the Fifty Fastest honorees to help propel other women business leaders through their journeys of business expansion.THE IMPACT OF SMALL BUSINESS SATURDAY IN 2016
(increase from $95M  
in 2015), U.S. consumers shopped at independent businesses on Small Business Saturday in 2016, a 13 percent increase from the previous year.(according to the Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey) , 
total spending among U.S. consumers who were aware of Small Business Saturday reached $15.4 billion
8 at 
independent retailers and restaurants on the day.(up from 551 in 2015)  
city proclamations were issued by mayors and other elected officials in support of Small Business Saturday. More than 6,700 Neighborhood Champions rallied their communities, an increase of 63 percent from 2015.of U.S. consumers aware of the day.
$112M+UNITED STATES9
UNITED KINGDOM AUSTRALIA63% 72%
£717M+
was spent by consumers with small businesses across the U.K. on December 3, 2016 – an increase  
of 15 percent from 2015.
10AUD$603M
spent with American Express cards at small businesses and more than one million  
American Express Card Members shopped small in November.$15.4B 651
45CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Our suppliers are critical to our 
service mission. They enable us to progress, helping us to reach our larger sustainability goals, purchase responsibly and manage our expenses.
Diversity and inclusion in the 
supply chain
Winning strategies, products and services 
require diversity of thought, perspective and contribution. We stand behind this commitment to inclusion across our organization, including the third parties with which we do business.
As part of our Supply Chain Inclusion 
Initiative , we monitor our annual spend 
with suppliers that are certified business enterprises with protected-class owners and operators, including:
•
 Minorit
y Business Enterprises
•
 W
omen-Owned Business Enterprises
•
 Small Busine
ss Enterprises / 8(a) / 
HubZone firms
•
 L
esbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, and 
T ransgender firms
•
 Dis
advantaged or Disabled  
Business Enterprises
•
 V
eteran Business Enterprises  
Our inclusive supplier practices have 
been recognized by groups that promote supplier development and diversity:
•
 Ariz
ona Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce: Arizona Million Dollar 
Circle of Excellence
•
 Black E
nterprise magazine:  
40 Best Companies for Diversity
•
 Div
ersityInc magazine:  
T op 50 Companies for Diversity
•
 Div
ersityPlus magazine:  
Champion of Diversity
•
 Human Right
s Campaign Foundation: 
100 percent score on Corporate Equality Index•
 Hisp
anic Business magazine:  
T op 60 Companies for Diversity
•
 Latina St
yle magazine: 50 Best 
Companies for Latinas to Work For  
in the U.S.  
Responsible procurement
We take a comprehensive approach to managing third-party relationships throughout their entire lifecycle to ensure that we are complying with regulatory requirements. We have rigorous risk assessment and due diligence activities for any new, modified and renewed engagements that are considered high risk. Employees must also regularly evaluate third parties they work with to make sure they are meeting relationship, compliance and risk expectations.
We also regularly source environmentally 
preferable and socially responsible commodities and services from approved third-party vendors. Additional information about our environmentally preferable sourcing is in the Serving our Environment section.SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Providing small and 
medium-sized organizations with resources online
American Express® OPEN 
Forum helps small-business owners find insights, inspiration and connections to grow their 
businesses responsibly.
 
They’ll find articles, videos, guides 
to business growth, sustainability, and human capital management,  
and more.We support human rights 
in our supply chain and work with suppliers who share our values. 
All third parties – including 
suppliers – that provide goods or services to us are required to conduct business in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, in addition to adhering to our standards of integrity, transparency and ethics. We enforce this through our Shared Values  
documentation. 
Our Human Rights statement  
can be found here .
4648 Introduction
49 Charitable giving
50 C ommunity service
54 Leadership
56 His toric preservationCommunities with 
longevity, strengthened through serviceSERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIESCSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Contributed $36 million with over  
400 grants and support for over 6,000 organizations  
through employee gift matching.Strengthen the communities  
 in which we live and work2016 KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
2016 CONTRIBUTIONSSERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIES
We’re here to serve our customers and 
communities. That means helping in ways  that enable the communities in which we live and work to prosper and lending a hand  when it’s needed. 
We do this in three ways: empowering social-sector leaders 
to create sustainable change at a local level by providing leadership training; helping citizen volunteers improve their local communities; and preserving diverse, vibrant historic places.
By providing critical services that contribute to economic 
stability and mobility, the nonprofit sector plays a vital role in building a healthy society.  Through our philanthropic and civic participation, we serve and empower people and organizations addressing some of society’s most complex issues. Introduction
30%
Leadership
20%
Employee  
programs* 
*Includes Gift 
matching, Serve2Gether Grants, Employee Scholarships and Culture Card Programs
19%
Historic  
preservation31%
Community serviceOur grants supported more than 100 
nonprofits that engaged 6 million volunteers in more than 27 million hours of service to serve the needs  
of local communities.Engage citizen 
volunteers
Our grants helped train more  
than 20,000 nonprofit and social 
sector leaders through online and  
in-person trainings.Empower emerging nonprofit  
and social leaders
Our grants helped preserve 47 historic sites in 11 countries, including the U.S., U.K., Argentina, Japan, Mexico, Canada, Singapore, Spain, Nepal, Italy and China.Promote stewardship  
of historic places
48CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
CHARITABLE GIVING
Charitable giving is at the heart of 
American Express. 
In 1954, we created the American Express 
Foundation, a New Y ork-based nonprofit that supports charitable organizations. Since then, the Foundation has provided over half a billion dollars to thousands of causes around the world. 
We focus our charitable giving in  
three areas:
•
 C
ommunity Service: We enable 
charitable organizations to deliver 
mission-critical services by engaging community members and our employees as volunteers. We also  
fund immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts to help victims  
of natural disasters.
•
 L
eadership: We develop emerging 
nonprofit and social purpose sector leaders who address society’s  
most complex issues and strengthen local communities.
•
 His
toric Preservation: We support 
organizations and projects that preserve or help people rediscover major historic sites and monuments while bringing economic, cultural and social value to local communities.Celebrating 100 Y ears of  
U.S. National Parks
In 2015, through a $5 million grant, we launched a multi-year partnership with the Department of the Interior and National Park Service (NPS) to build volunteer coalitions to preserve and sustain public lands.  
We celebrated the NPS Centennial  
in 2016 by launching several  
initiatives encompassing activities 
across our three program areas: Leadership, Community Service and Historic Preservation.
A MILLION VOLUNTEERS FOR PARKS 
In partnership with the YMCA of the  
USA, we supported community coordinator positions in 51 U.S. cities to increase awareness, support and participation in outdoor programs to help engage 1.6 million volunteers on city, state and federal lands.  
FIND YOUR PARK
We became a premier partner of Find Y our Park, a public awareness and education movement spearheaded by the National Park Foundation to inspire people of all backgrounds to discover all that a park can be, share their experiences with each other, and support these treasured places and  
their unique programs as the NPS  
kicked off its second century.
VOTING TO PRESERVE PARKS
Created with the National T rust for Historic Preservation, Partners in Preservation is a community-based partnership to raise awareness of the importance of preserving historic places. In 2016, the program supported historic sites within national parks. More than one million votes were cast by the public to determine the final nine winning sites, each of which received a share of $2 million in grants to help fund their respective preservation projects.   
GAMING TO “SAVE THE PARK”
We partnered with Games for Change to launch “Save the Park. ” The mobile game challenges players to experience, in a virtual environment, the impact they can have on park conservation and stewardship. The American Express Foundation made a $1 donation to the National Park Foundation for each download of the game occurring on or before December 31, 2016, which totaled over $16,000. The donation supported conservation and stewardship work in national parks. 
ENGAGING VETERANS WITH  
TEAM RUBICON
We launched a two-year, $300,000  
grant to T eam Rubicon to engage its veteran volunteers in disaster mitigation and habitat improvement projects with the U.S. Department of the Interior  
(DOI) and its land management agencies. T eam Rubicon used the grant to deploy its member base of more than 300 volunteers to support the DOI in disaster mitigation. 
SPRING LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
The 2016 Spring Leadership Academy focused exclusively on training emerging leaders from park and conservation organizations from across the nation.  This week-long program, run by the Center for Creative Leadership, focused on helping the emerging leaders build the business and leadership skills needed to effectively run a successful nonprofit organization. Presentations and talks from established nonprofit leaders, expert leadership development trainers and American Express’  
most senior executives were given during the classes.  
49CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
COMMUNITY SERVICE2016 COMMUNITY  
SERVICE IMPACT
442K
youth mentored.
534
homes built or  
restored.
115M 
meals served.
848
parks and gardens  
restored.In 2016, our grants supported more 
than 100 nonprofits that engaged 6 million volunteers in more than 27 million hours of service to serve local communities. 
These volunteers improved their 
communities’ access to critical necessities such as food, shelter, green spaces and educational opportunities.Engaging community members 
as volunteers
Effective volunteer engagement by 
nonprofits can lead to better community solutions. It can also help organizations broaden their efforts, and grow their profiles and supporter base. Volunteering is also a great way for community members to use and develop their skills and leadership, build social networks and gain a sense of purpose and connection. 
We believe the most effective charitable 
organizations are those that have  
built volunteer engagement into their social impact model. Therefore, we support nonprofits that focus on deep, long-term volunteer engagement in addition to one-off volunteer events.
Disaster relief
Serving our customers in times of need is often a simple act, like replacing a lost card or rebooking travel arrangements. In times of disaster, our Global Service Network of customer care professionals also helps locate and assist stranded or displaced customers and businesses.In addition, we have incorporated disaster relief in our philanthropic activities. In 2016, we supported the disaster response efforts for five global disasters. For example:  
 Earthquakes in Ecuador and Japan:   
T o support disaster relief and rebuilding efforts in both locations, the American Express Foundation made a combined total of $100,000 in contributions to the Red Cross’s efforts in Ecuador and Give2Asia’s 2016 Japan Earthquake Fund. The Give2Asia grant represented a company contribution and a consolidated match of donations made by our employees in Japan.
Wildfire in Canada: We provided $50,000 
in disaster aid to support the Canadian American Red Cross’s efforts to provide care, support and security to communities affected by the Alberta wildfire. 
In addition to providing funds for disaster 
relief, we also work with partners to help disaster organizations recruit and engage disaster response volunteers.  
50CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
2GETHER:  
A PLATFORM FOR COLLABORATION AND SOCIAL IMPACT FOR OUR EMPLOYEES
Leveraging the passion and commitment of American Express employees is  
a key element of our CSR approach. We have created programs that engage our employees in causes that are important to them.
Whether they’re mentoring students, caring for the elderly, feeding the hungry,  
protecting the environment or using professional skills to help nonprofits succeed,  each year thousands of American Express employees give their time, talent and  donations to serve local communities.
Serve2Gether: Promoting and celebrating volunteerism 
Throughout the year, our employees participate in a range of company-sponsored volunteer activities, from youth mentoring to preparing and delivering meals.  
Employees are able to volunteer during work hours as long as managers approve.2GETHERSERVE
2GETHER
SERVE
2GETHER
CONSULTING
GREEN
2GETHERGIVE
2GETHER
SERVE
2GETHER
GRANTSDISASTER 
RELIEF
MENTORINGDAYS OF 
SERVICE
ENVIRONMENTDONATIONS PRO BONO
11% SKILLBASED
volunteer activities.12 
89% HANDS-ON
volunteer activities.1312 COUNTRIES
Argentina, Australia, Canada, 
China, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, U.K. and U.S. Good for Me. Good for  
My City Campaign
Earlier this year, we partnered 
with 19 New Y ork City businesses and New Y ork City Service to launch, Good for Me. Good for My City. The campaign brings schools, city agencies, community-based mentoring organizations and the business community together to establish mentoring programs in high schools. As part of the campaign, we have pledged to engage 2,000 of our NYC-based employees in volunteerism in 2017 , and 250 as mentors to high school students.
SERVE2GETHER 2016 IMPACT 
100K
volunteer hours resulting in 
$4 million donated in time and talent.
11
51CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
SERVE2GETHER 2016 HIGHTLIGHTS ACROSS THE GLOBE
Tai Po, Hong Kong
Over 100 employees sorted 
produce at a local food bank and made moon-cakes and gift packs at a neighborhood elderly center.Toronto, Canada
T wo hundred employees packed more than 1,000 care kits and assembled toys for partners including the SickKids Hospital Foundation, the Bello Project, Future Possibilities for Kids, and the Y ellow Brick House.
Tokyo, Japan
Five years after the great earthquake and tsunami, 80,000 people still live in temporary homes in T ohoku. T o brighten their holiday season, 50 employees created personalized Christmas gifts and cards for 50 families living in a temporary housing unit in Y amamoto-cho.Delhi & Gurgaon, India
Nearly 200 employees volunteered during 10 events featuring education and arts activities supporting 1,300 underserved youth, and serving nearly 500 elders with intellectual disabilities.
London, U.K.
100 employees attended one of 11 volunteer days to prepare meals for families in the Ronald McDonald House at Guy’s Hospital.  Another 100 employees collected and sorted coats at a local HandsOn London affiliate.
Rome, Italy
200 employees improved facilities at Filo Onlus, an organization that provides assistance to disabled persons, by revamping its playground and planting a vegetable garden. They also upgraded other local schoolyards and public parks.Kallang, Singapore
150 employees volunteered at a local senior center, celebrating the seniors’ birthdays and encouraging them to engage in daily exercise.Partnership spotlight:  
Points of Light
 
Points of Light (POL) is the largest organization in the world dedicated to volunteer service, mobilizing more than four million volunteers every year. To bring the power of people where it’s needed most, POL inspires people to become volunteers; increases the impact of volunteer service; equips volunteers to solve specific problems; and creates cultures that encourage volunteerism to support healthy communities in vibrant, participatory societies. 
We became a POL partner in 2010. 
Over the years, our efforts have united thousands of volunteers through programs such as Travel with Y our Mind (helping schools in underserved areas through travel- and multi-cultural-themed initiatives) and the American Express Leadership Academy (offering development training to emerging  social purpose leaders on an annual  
basis).  From 2013 to 2016, more than 5,000 American Express employees  
have provided over 21,000 hours of volunteer service through the program  
in seven countries.
52CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
GIVE2GETHER 2016 IMPACT SERVE2GETHER CONSULTING  
CHALLENGE 2016 IMPACT
3 COUNTRIES
Canada + USA + India.
4,800
charities supported  
in 2016.
$5.9M
donated by employees. 
$6M
matched by our company.
11K
volunteer hours.
$1.7M
in donated time and talent.14
7 COUNTRIES  We created pro bono programs as an 
effective tool to support nonprofits’ needs while driving employee development and engagement. We believe that volunteers who donate their professional skills to nonprofit organizations can derive a greater sense of purpose about their job and their employer, while developing their own career and skills. 
Serve2Gether Consulting+
In 2016, we launched Serve2Gether Consulting+, a collaborative effort with long-time partner the T aproot Foundation, an expert in delivering successful pro  
bono service engagements. 
Serve2Gether Consulting+ is an online 
platform for our U.S employees to help nonprofit partners improve their operations through digital pro bono consulting. With a commitment of a 
Gift Matching: Rewarding 
charitable donations
For more than 50 years, we’ve been 
matching employees’ and non-employee directors’ contributions to nonprofits up to a maximum of $8,000 a year. In 2016, we matched $6 million of contributions.
In 2016, the U.S. Give2Gether campaign 
continued to drive industry-leading participation with 79 percent of our  
U.S.employees making a donation. The campaign engaged hundreds of employees who organized charity events and developed creative promotions to rally support among their peers for  
the campaign. few hours per week over a four to six week period, and all done online, our employees can help build the capacity of organizations working to improve outcomes in education, health care, the arts and community development. 
2016 Serve2Gether  
Consulting Challenge
In its fifth year, the Serve2Gether 
Consulting Challenge provided opportunities for employees in seven countries to combine their commitment to community service with their business expertise over the course of a 10-week volunteering program. Through more than 11,000 hours, 229 employees used their expertise to help 55 nonprofit partners improve their branding and messaging, implement new digital media strategies, deepen engagement with donors and volunteers, and strengthen their operations.
Serve2Gether Grants: 
Rewarding volunteerism 
Through Serve2Gether Grants, we 
provide micro-grants of $500-$2,500 to organizations where employees volunteer 50 or more hours within a 12-month period. In 2016, the program awarded $257 ,500 in grants in recognition of nearly 9,000 hours of volunteer service recorded by over 1,360 employees.  
Green2Gether: Engaging 
employees in our environmental 
responsibility program 
The platform’s newest initiative seeks 
to engage employees in the company’s environmental responsibility program.  
For more information on Green2Gether,  
see the Serving Our Environment  
section of this report.SERVE2GETHER CONSULTING: PRO BONO VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS
OTHER EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMS
53CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
LEADERSHIP
2016 SOCIAL PURPOSE LEADERSHIP  
GRANT IMPACTGrowing our company’s leadership 
pipeline by attracting, developing and retaining top talent is a business imperative in which we invest heavily. This commitment to developing leaders extends beyond our company to the communities we serve. 
For nearly a decade, we have created and 
funded programs to help develop and retain emerging leaders working to solve the world’s biggest challenges. We know that supporting leaders through best-in-class management and leadership training and development is essential to strengthening the entire nonprofit sector.  
Since 2008, we have invested more than 
$60 million to develop more than 50,000 high-potential, emerging leaders in the nonprofit and social sector globally.  
T raining the leaders of  
tomorrow: The American Express Leadership Academy
Founded in 2008, the American Express 
Leadership Academy builds the personal, business and leadership skills of emerging nonprofit leaders and social entrepreneurs. 
We have trained world-class leaders who 
are focused on improving education, the arts, social services, health and the environment, among other areas.The program has grown from a single New  
Y ork-based program for 24 participants to an international movement, encompassing 11 Academy partners and 19 programs. T o date, we have hosted over 90 Leadership Academy programs across nine countries, training nearly 3,000 nonprofit and social sector leaders.  
 
Scaling our impact through  
digital learning
Recognizing the need to further scale our 
leadership programs, we continued our support for Leaderosity and +Acumen. 
+ACUMEN
+Acumen, a nonprofit that is changing the way the world tackles poverty, developed an online course platform and global learning community for social change leaders. Launched in 2013, +Acumen shares unique leadership tools and guidance on building social enterprises through its free and low-cost online courses that are globally accessible. +Acumen trained more than 10,000 leaders in 2016 and over 25,000 since  
it started in 2013.
PRESIDIO INSTITUTE
Leaderosity , launched in 2015 with the 
Presidio Institute, is an online leadership development platform for social purpose leaders. Courses are tailored to each participant’s preference and pace, with added peer-to-peer interactions challenging participants to be more adaptable and collaborative leaders. This networking aspect gives participants the opportunity to build lasting local, national and international relationships with a community of like-minded people. In 2016, Leaderosity trained nearly 800 leaders.
Since 2008, we have 
invested more than $60 million to develop more than 50,000 high-potential, emerging leaders in the nonprofit and social sector globally.
$10.1M 
TOTAL VALUE OF GRANTS9 
COUNTRIES
(U.S., U.K., India, Japan, 
Mexico, Canada, China, Senegal, Kenya).20K+ 
LEADERS TRAINED 
Leaders trained in  
person and on line  
through our partners.19 
ACADEMY PROGRAMS
American Express Leadership Academy programs with  
11 Academy partners.
54CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Continuing the leadership development journey 
through networking platforms
In addition to providing world-class training opportunities, 
American Express appreciates the value of relationships and the importance of maintaining ongoing contact with the emerging leaders that complete our programs. T o enable leaders to continue developing and building a strong network and telling their stories:
•
 W
e offer ongoing alumni engagement through the  
American Express Leadership Academy LinkedIn group.
•
 W
e produced our second annual American Express  
Leadership Academy Global Alumni Summit in 2016.
•
 W
e created Leaderstories.org, a storytelling platform for 
Academy participants and grantees. The platform features 
stories, key resources and insights on leadership from innovators and experts. The stories inspire, inform and connect emerging leaders across the nonprofit sector.  
 
Enabling nonprofits to maintain their own 
leadership development programs
We made nearly 100 grants to nonprofit organizations to create, 
develop, expand or maintain their own leadership development programs for high-potential, emerging leaders.  More than  
6,000 leaders were trained as a result of grants to organizations as diverse as Global Health Corps (New Y ork), Rainier Valley Corps (Seattle), Wildlife Conservation Society (New Y ork), Hispanics in Philanthropy (San Francisco), Management Leadership for T omorrow (Washington, DC) and the Chicago Foundation for Women (Chicago).American Express’ Annual Leadership 
Academy Alumni Summit 
In 2016, we hosted our second annual Leadership 
Academy Alumni Summit in New Y ork to celebrate the accomplishments of 50 program participants and provide them with two days of leadership development training, as well as an opportunity to network with Alumni from around the world. The Summit featured a variety  
of workshops and panel discussions.
Notably, Simeon Ogonda, founder and chairperson of 
Enterprise Education-4 Change, was recognized with the American Express Leadership Academy Award for his work promoting mentorship programs for college students and adapting technologies in rural areas of Kenya. His organization received a $25,000 grant from the American Express Foundation.
55CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Our roots in the travel industry have 
given us a deep respect for the cultural and economic value historic sites offer communities around the world. We are committed to promoting the stewardship of these sites to ensure that future generations can enjoy them.
We support projects that preserve or 
restore major historic sites in order to provide sustainable access and enjoyment for current and future audiences.  Projects include:
•
 R
estoring historic places to ensure 
ongoing public access and interaction 
with the sites.
•
 P
reserving historic places for future  
or innovative use.
•
 Sus
taining historic places by creating 
systems to manage increased visitor activities and environmental impacts.  
Preserving our collective past 
for future generations
We are the founding sponsor of World 
Monuments Watch (WMW), which draws attention to cultural heritage sites around the world threatened by neglect, vandalism, armed conflict, commercial development, natural disasters and climate change.
Our grants to the WMW, which total $17 .5 
million, have helped preserve 165 sites in 70 countries, ensuring their legacy and cultural significance for future generations. In 2016, we funded preservation work  at Char Narayan T emple (Nepal), the Arch  of Janus (Italy), Chapultepec Park (Mexico), Convents of Seville (Spain) and Moseley Road Baths (U.K.) through a $1 million grant.
Revitalizing cultural legacies
With a $5 million donation in 2011, we became an early supporter of the National Museum of African American History and Culture, which is part of the Smithsonian Institution and free to visitors. The donation was used to underwrite the cost of the Cultural Expressions Gallery, which explores the many great cultural contributions of African Americans in the realms of fashion, oratory, playwriting, science, philosophy and the broader humanities. The museum opened to the public in September 2016. 
Case Study:  
Bundh Rejuvenation Project
 
American Express provided funds to the 
Bundh Rejuvenation Project, a socially driven urban redevelopment project in Gurgaon, India, in which historic Bundhs (waterfront areas) are redeveloped to provide safe, accessible public space for all residents in the form of walkways and greenbelts along existing nullahs (open drains) or streambeds. Once completed by the Iamgurgaon organization, this will be the longest renewed urban greenbelt and walkway in India.  This one-of-a-kind project uses the city’s existing underutilized resources to provide freely accessible public space. It is the first open-space project in the country that has at the core of its design:
•
 S
ustainable mobility
•
 U
niversal accessibility
•
 En
vironmental and  
climate sensitivity
The new waterfront facility accommodates 
pedestrians, cyclists, wheelchairs and the visually impaired, allowing them to move easily through the city. 
$6.4M
TOTAL VALUE OF GRANTS
47 
HISTORIC SITES PRESERVED 
11  
COUNTRIES
(U.S., U.K., Argentina, Japan, 
Mexico, Canada, Singapore, Spain, Italy, Nepal and China)2016 HISTORIC PRESERVATION  
GRANT IMPACTSince 1974, American 
Express has contributed nearly $60 million to preserving more than 500 iconic historic sites including the T emple of Hercules in Rome and the Palace of Fine Art in Mexico City.
5658 Introduction
59 R educing our carbon footprint
60 In vesting in clean power and  
 gr
een data centers
61 Sus taining a safe, healthy and  
 efficient w
orkplace
63 E nabling customers to reduce  
 their en
vironmental impact
64 P artnering with our employees
65 Managing our en vironmental  
 
performanceDoing our part to sustain 
the world’s resourcesSERVING OUR 
ENVIRONMENTCSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
2016 AWARDSSERVING OUR 
ENVIRONMENT
Becoming the world’s most respected service 
brand means recognizing our responsibility to help preserve natural resources for future generations and limit the environmental impact of our business operations.  
We focus on three main action areas:
•
 Building a cle
an, efficient enterprise.
•
 E
nabling customers to reduce their impacts.
•
 E
ngaging employees to help us achieve  
their goals.Introduction
U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) RECOGNIZED 
AMERICAN EXPRESS AS A TOP USER OF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY  
SINCE 2014.
AMERICAN EXPRESS RANKED 63RD AMONG THE TOP U.S. GREEN 
COMPANIES IN THE 2016 NEWSWEEK GREEN RANKING. THIS IS AN IMPROVEMENT FROM 89TH IN 2015.We exceeded our 2016 goal, reducing  
our carbon footprint by more than  
30 percent since the 2011 baseline year.Reduce our environmental  
footprint 
More than 10,000 employees  
participated in our Earth  
Month activities.
80 percent of our global real estate 
footprint participated in Earth Hour.
We provided over $2.7 million in  
support for environment and  
wildlife through Gift Matching and 
Serve2Gether grant programs.We reduced our energy consumption 
by 24 percent through energy 
efficiency projects and real estate space optimization compared to 2011.
Over 50 percent of our global real estate 
portfolio was green-building certified.
15
We purchased 150,000 MWH of  
renewable energy certificates (RECs), resulting in 85 percent carbon-free electricity for our U.S. building  
operations, including our major data center facilities and our New Y ork  
City-based headquarters.
Engage our employees  
in sustainability2016 KEY COMMITMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS
58CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
We aim to minimize the effects our operations have on the 
environment and global climate change.
Reducing our carbon footprint has been part of our strategy 
for a decade. From 2007 to 2012, we reduced our global carbon emissions by 27 .5 percent. Building on this achievement, we committed to reducing our greenhouse gas GHG emissions by  
10 percent by the end of 2016 versus our 2011 baseline.
We are happy to report that we exceeded our 2016 goal, reducing 
our carbon footprint by more than 30 percent since 2011. 
This year, we have committed to achieving new science-based 
targets for absolute, aggregate reductions in GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2. We set these targets using the Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach
16, a scientifically-informed target-
setting method utilizing a scenario recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to avoid the most significant climate change impacts.
31%  
reduction of GHG emissions from 2011 baseline. 
85%  
reduction of GHG emissions from 2011 baseline.100%  
of electricity procured from renewable  
energy sources for our U.S. data centers and  
our global headquarters.
100%  
of electricity procured from renewable energy sources for our U.S. operations.24%  
reduction of our energy consumption, compared to 2011, through energy efficiency projects and real estate space optimization. 
100%  
of our employee business travel will be  
carbon neutral.150,000 MWH  
of renewable energy certificates (RECs) purchased. 
85%  
of electricity procured from renewable sources for our U.S. operations. OUR PROGRESS
OUR NEW SCIENCE-BASED TARGETSIN 2016:
BY 2020:
BY 2021:
BY 2040Continuing commitment to climate  
change mitigation
In 2015, we signed the American Business Act on 
Climate Pledge to show our support for a strong climate deal at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) meeting, COP21, in December 2015. COP21 resulted in the Paris Agreement, the world’s first globally binding treaty on climate change that took a strong step forward toward a low-carbon, sustainable future.
In the beginning of 2017 , we continued delivering 
on our commitment by setting new carbon reduction targets that are consistent with the recommendations of international climate scientists and in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
59CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
2016 CARBON FOOTPRINT BREAKDOWN17
INVESTING IN CLEAN POWER AND GREEN DATA CENTERS 2016 HIGHLIGHTSOur carbon footprint is calculated 
based on the guidelines set by the  
World Resources Institute GHG  
Protocol for measuring and reporting GHG emissions using operational control boundaries.
Our carbon footprint includes: the 
electricity we use to power our offices  
and data centers; the fuel we use for freight and employee business travel by air, rail and car; and the diesel and  
natural gas we burn to heat our facilities and power back-up generators. Refer to page 65 for a detailed overview of our environmental data.
Since 2007 , we have reported our 
carbon emissions through the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), a leading environmental disclosure and performance rating system.
•
 O
ur U.S. data centers offset 100 percent  
of their electricity consumption through the purchase of renewable energy certificates and generation of solar power on-site.
•
 O
ur U.S. data centers are certified for 
ISO 14001-2004 and ISO 9001-2008, employing best-in-class environmental and quality management systems.
•
 O
ur Information Processing Center in 
North Carolina is Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certified, with the facility design incorporating solar and thermal energy.
•
 O
ur Information Processing Center  
in Arizona is EPA Energy Star certified, consuming 35 percent less energy  
and generating 35 percent fewer carbon emissions than similar buildings in  
the U.S.Data centers are crucial to how we deliver the products and services our customers rely on. However, we know that the energy used for data storage has an impact on the planet. Housing thousands of servers and our data storage and networking equipment accounted for nearly 35 percent of our total energy use in 2016. 
As our business services expand, so 
will our need for data storage. We are finding ways to use energy as efficiently as possible. In 2016, we purchased over 150,000 kilowatt-hours of green power; much of this power came from the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs). We also used on-site solar panels to generate our own power.15%
Corporate 
vehicles 122,917  
METRIC TONS CO2e 
31%
Employee business 
travel (air, rail, car)
52%
Energy 
consumption2%
Fugitive HFC refrigerant
18
60CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
A safe, healthy and efficient work 
environment is vital for our employees  
and our business. We continually invest in the design and maintenance of our facilities. We strive to consciously  
design, build and operate facilities that consume fewer resources and emit lower levels of greenhouse gases, while improving indoor environmental quality and employee well-being.
Investing in energy efficiency19   
and green buildings
Optimizing energy use is essential as we continue our journey toward becoming a more sustainable workplace. In 2016, we invested over $2 million in an array of energy efficiency initiatives, such as an LED lighting retrofit of our entire New Y ork headquarters. We also continue to participate in demand management programs in partnership with local municipalities to reduce our energy load during peak energy events, helping  
to prevent brownouts and blackouts. These initiatives move us closer to our 2018 goal of 25 percent higher energy efficiency than in 2011.  
 In February 2017 , American Express opened the Sunrise Campus, our new state-of-the-art, eco-friendly regional headquarters in South Florida that brings together employees from across several lines of business. Made up of two, three-story office towers, the Sunrise Campus features open, collaborative work spaces, floor-to-ceiling windows for abundant natural light and four Atriums designed  
for formal and informal meet-ups. A  
green building, the thoughtfully designed facility aims to minimize energy consumption and maximizes natural daylight and water retention. 
Green buildings are defined as locations 
certified by a globally recognized environmental building organization (in our case, the U.S. Green Building Council) for exceptional design and management across parameters such as site selection, water usage, indoor environmental quality, energy efficiency, waste management and materials selection. In 2016, we added seven locations to the green building list, including offices in Argentina, Canada, China, India and Japan. Thanks to these initiatives, over 50 percent of our facility square footage is now certified under a green building standard, exceeding our 2018 goal by  
over 10 percent.  
Optimizing our spaces
Our flexible workspace program, BlueWork, promotes employees’ ability to work remotely and seeks to optimize the use of our real estate footprint. Giving employees the freedom to choose their daily workplace experience reduces the building resources, including waste generation, water usage and energy consumption. Employees are also supported by virtual workplace tools and technologies, and electronics that adhere to energy efficiency standards. BlueWork also utilizes sustainable furniture and construction materials through our LEED Certification Program and Design Guidelines. For more information on BlueWork, please see the Flexible Working section of this report within the Serving our People section. 
50%+ 
of our global real estate portfolio 
was green-building certified.SUSTAINING A SAFE, HEALTHY AND EFFICIENT WORKPLACE 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
13% 
reduction in office printed paper compared to 2015.
14%
reduction in waste generation compared to 2015.
10% 
water reduction compared  
to 2015.
43% 
of our waste was diverted  
from landfills through recycling or composting.
61CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Reducing waste, water  
and chemicals
Paper and decommissioned technology 
products are primary types of waste for financial services companies. T o manage our waste, we encourage employees to reduce the amount of paper they use and to recycle printed materials. 
We follow industry best practices for 
recycling our technology waste by using an ISO 14001 certified recycler that safely and responsibly recycles IT assets we no longer need worldwide.
Although water risk is generally not a 
significant issue for the company, we have also put water-reduction measures into action at key offices. We also prioritize the use of green cleaning products. Putting sustainability on the menu
In April 2016, we hosted our second American Express Food Services and 
Facilities Management are on a quest to “green” every American Express cafeteria in the U.S. The program focuses on reducing waste and offering our people healthier and more sustainable choices. Initiatives include:
•
 Offering loc
al, organic products.
•
 U
sing sustainable seafood from certified fisheries.
•
 Offering bulk c
ondiments instead of, or in addition to, portion packs.
•
 E
ncouraging the use of reusable dinnerware and mugs and using  
tree-free napkins.
•
 R
eplacing plastic water bottles with a water filtration system for  
our catering events, which diverts approximately 75,000 bottles from 
landfills and reduces costs by about 70 percent.
•
 Ins
talling aerobic food digesters to turn food waste into water (one  
machine can eliminate around 50 pounds of waste every hour, saving  
about 400 pounds of waste from being sent to landfills every day). 
Our New Y ork cafeteria received Green Restaurant Association certification in March 2017 , a recognition of efforts to reduce waste and serve food from sustainable sources.
62CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
97% 
of paper used in our U.S. direct-
marketing area is certified from sustainably managed forests.
47%
of Card Member statements  
are paperless.
88% 
of Card Member payments  
are electronic.202016 HIGHLIGHTS
Customers increasingly expect to 
see sustainable practices from the companies they do business with. That’s why our approach to managing our environmental impact extends to how our products and services are delivered to and used by our customers. 
We look at this through two lenses:
•
 W
e see the resource consumption and 
waste created by customers using our 
products as a shared responsibility. 
•
 W
e recognize that our customers 
increasingly expect us to support  
their efforts to reduce their environmental impacts as part of  
the service we deliver.  
We offer a variety of convenient, sustainable options to help customers reduce their personal environmental footprint, such as:
•
 O
nline alternatives to traditional  
paper-based documents.
•
 A
ccount information and documents 
stored virtually in data centers  
where 100 percent of the electricity  
is offset by renewable energy.  
We also encourage customers to  
choose paperless statements and 
electronic payment.
When it comes to sourcing, we prioritize 
environmentally friendly paper, electronics and other commodities,  
such as fiber. Right now, we work with suppliers to ensure fiber is sourced  
from well-managed forests.ENABLING CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Carbon Savings 
Assessment Manager (Carbon SAM) 
Carbon SAM allows organizations 
to measure air travel CO2e 
emissions at the touch of a button. The innovative system, which we provide to our new and existing Commercial Card customers in Europe, suggests a range of travel alternatives to reduce emissions. 
Designed for a host of 
stakeholders, from T ravel and Procurement Managers to Financial Officers, the reporting system measures the emissions on airlines by class of travel, route and time of travel.
63CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
Our current and prospective employees increasingly expect us to manage  
our impact on the environment. Our employees are critical to our environmental 
sustainability initiatives. We partner with them to make our facilities and communities more climate-friendly through every day work practices, volunteer-led Green T eams and environmental events such as Earth Month and Earth Hour.
Through our Green2Gether teams, employees design and lead environmental 
initiatives tailored to their workplaces and local communities. Events such as recycling drives, lectures and awareness campaigns give sustainability-minded employees the opportunity to enhance their professional and personal development while making a vital contribution to reducing our environmental footprint. 
Employee commuting
We offer an array of transportation services to get our employees to and from work, factoring in minimal environmental impact.  Many of our facilities are in cities with multiple modes of mass transit. For our rural and suburban locations, such as those  
in Phoenix, T oronto and Rome, shuttle and carpooling services are available as a  
cost-effective and sustainable alternative to personal vehicles.  With the proliferation of electric vehicles, car charging stations have been installed at our global headquarters in New Y ork. In India, our door-to-door transportation services support thousands of employees daily, and we have already started phasing out diesel-operated vehicles to stay ahead of the upcoming local air quality regulations.PARTNERING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES
10,000+
(increase from 4,000 in 2015) 
employees participated in our Earth Month activities. 
80%
of our global real estate  
portfolio participated in  
Earth Hour.
40K 
hours of service in green volounteer projects by 6,500 employees, families and friends. 
$2.7M+ 
in support for environment  
and wildlife through Gift Matching and Serve2Gether grant programs.ENGAGING EMPLOYEES IN 2016
Green2Gether
Launched in 2015, Green2Gether 
leverages the expertise and passion of our employees with  
the following objectives:
•
 T
o provide networking and 
development opportunities for 
purpose-driven employees.
•
 T
o empower employees to 
create a positive social and environmental impact in their personal lives and at work.
•
 T
o advocate for sustainable 
practices within our workplace and to become an employer  
of choice for tomorrow’s change-makers.
•
 T
o create a sustainable 
business innovation platform that improves our company’s bottom line and competitiveness.
64CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE21
UNIT222013 2014 2015 2016
EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT FTE 62,800 54,000 54,800 56,400
ANNUAL REVENUE $USD (MILLIONS) 32,870 34,188 32,818 32,119
BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE23FT2 9,209,766 9,668,145 9,109,237 8,885,680
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFIED SQUARE FOOTAGE24FT2 1,491,688 2,889,990 3,189,113 4,568,605
GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
SCOPE 1 (DIRECT)
STATIONARY COMBUSTION MTCO2E 8,924 7,6 67 4,657 4,069
MOBILE COMBUSTION MTCO2E 25,002 25,535 19,949 18,729
FUGITIVE MTCO2E 2,232 2,301 2,746 2,640
TOTAL SCOPE 1 MTCO2E 36,158 35,503 27 ,352 25,438
SCOPE 2 (INDIRECT)PURCHASED ELECTRICITY MTCO
2E 123,656 105,192 95,476 56,238
DISTRICT HEATING MTCO2E 2,001 1,991 2,160 1,706
DISTRICT COOLING MTCO2E 613 167 816 1,171
TOTAL SCOPE 225MTCO2E 126,270 107 ,350 98,452 59,115
SCOPE 3BUSINESS RENTAL CARS MTCO
2E 836 789 781 613
BUSINESS AIR TRAVEL MTCO2E 32,167 32,628 42,176 37,6 14
BUSINESS RAIL TRAVEL MTCO2E 170 170 134 138
TOTAL SCOPE 3 MTCO2E 33,173 33,587 43,092 38,364
TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS MTCO2E 195,601 176,440 168,895 122,917
CARBON REDUCTION OVER 2011 BASELINE26% 35
RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS (RECS)
RECS PURCHASED MWH 97 ,562 114,117 173,98027150,00028
GLOBAL ENERGY USAGE29
ELECTRICITY MWH 332,844 301,250 267 ,206 255,964
STEAM MWH 8,832 8,789 9,533 7 ,531
CHILLED WATER MWH 9,944 2,546 10,969 14,063
NATURAL GAS MWH 45,300 39,594 22,025 17 ,440
DIESEL MWH 2,822 1,940 2,626 3,588
GASOLINE MWH 74,310 70,937 60,367 54,456
JET FUEL MWH 25,116 30,684 21,850 22,658
TOTAL MWH 499,168 455,740 394,576 375,701
GLOBAL WATER USAGE30
WATER M331681,846 665,427 601,662
GLOBAL WASTE32
WASTE GENERATED MT314,961 3,839 3,300
WASTE RECYCLED MT311,818 1,485 1,409
PAPER USE
U.S. DIRECT MAIL LBS 98,095,369 131,545,596 110,922,327 109,037 ,128
% U.S. DIRECT MAIL FROM CERTIFIED FROM 
SUSTAINABLE SOURCES91% 91% 91% 97%
COPY PAPER PAGES PRINTED GLOBALLY 152,697 ,647 136,914,826 121,522,510 106,221,667
CDPCLIMATE CHANGE SURVEY SCORE 86C 95B B
31
ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATIONSENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATIONS 0 0 0 0
651, 4, 6, 9 The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted in 
the U.S. among a nationally representative sample of 2,180 males and females 
18 years of age or older. The sample was collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously on November 27 ,  
2016. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.1%, at the 95% level  
of confidence.
2, 15, 24 Green-building certified square footage is total square footage of leased 
or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot square footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental building rating system as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, BREEAM, NABERS, GreenMark and Energy Star).
3 T elePresence is a state-of-the-art video collaboration tool that offers a 
realistic “in-person” experience through full, high-definition video and audio.  
It allows individuals to engage and collaborate virtually anytime, anywhere  
and across multiple platforms. ”
5 As determined by an analysis conducted by American Express Global 
Corporate Payments using 2016 FORTUNE Global 500 statistics of Licensee’s customers. From FORTUNE, August © 2016 Time Inc. Used under license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, Licensee. Claim not confirmed by FORTUNE or Time Inc. FORTUNE and FORTUNE Global 500 are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are  
used under license.
7, 1 0  The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted in 
the U.K. among a nationally representative sample of 3,610 males and females 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously on December 3
rd,  
2016. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.2%, at the 95% level  
of confidence.
8 Small is Big, an independent company that runs Small Business Saturday in 
the UK, used T witter tracking from Union Metrics and tracked all engagement across the campaign, including the handle @smallbizsatuk the hashtag #smallbizsatuk and the Phrase Small business Saturday.
11, 14 According to T aproot Foundation, services donated by business 
professionals are valued at $150 per hour compared to $23.07 for more traditional volunteering which is the estimated value of volunteer time,  
as per the 2014 Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
12 Pro bono or skill-based volunteering/service: Employee volunteering that 
uses professional skills in service to a community partner. This can include, but is not limited to, the donation of services such as accounting, marketing, finance, graphic design and information technology.
13 Hands on volunteering (also known as traditional and extra hands 
volunteering): Employee volunteering that does not involve applying the employee’s workplace skills.
16 The Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach is based on the 2°C scenario 
included in the International Energy Agency’s 2014 Energy T echnology Perspectives report.
17 Based on Scope 2 GHG emissions calculated using the 2015 market-based 
carbon accounting methodology.
18 In their guidance, “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guidance Direct Fugitive 
Emissions from Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Fire Suppression, and Industrial Gases” , the EPA defines these fugitive emissions as those that “result from the direct release to the atmosphere of GHG compounds from various types of equipment and processes… that are common for organizations in many sectors: refrigeration and air conditioning systems, fire suppression systems, END NOTES
and the purchase and release of industrial gases. ” 
19 Energy efficiency is measured by the total kilowatt hours of energy consumed 
annually, reported in our annual Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory. For most of our buildings, we receive metered utility billing data. This data allows us to empirically calculate consumption over time. For locations for which we do not receive metered utility billing data, we estimate consumption. This estimate is based on our GHG Inventory’s standard Electricity Estimation and is in accordance with the GHG Protocol’s CBECS 2003, Midwest Office Factor.
20 Electronic” includes payments received via phone, online, Auto Pay, third 
party remits and wire transfers.
21 GHG emissions and other environmental information reported in this table 
represents data for entities under operational control of the Company.
22 FTE: Full-time Equivalent; ft2: Square Footage; MtCO2e: Metric T ons of 
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; MWh: Megawatt Hours; m3: Cubic Meters;  
Mt – Metric T ons; Lbs.: Pound Weight.
23 Building square footage includes all leased and owned facilities actively 
occupied by American Express, excluding parking lot square footage.  
25 Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market-based method outlined 
in the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, updated in 2015.
26 Reflects net carbon emissions reductions for scope 1, 2 and 3 (using the 
market-based Scope 2 method) against our 2011 baseline. In 2011, our total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions were 188,349 Mtco2.
27 78,980 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2015 scope 2 
market-based emissions resulting in 36,101 tCO2e emissions reduction. 
28 150,000 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2016 scope 2 
market-based emissions resulting in 35,430 tCO2e emission reduction. 
29 Energy usage based on combination of metered energy consumption billing 
data and estimated energy consumption data based on energy intensity per square footage standards outlined in the GHG Protocol, where metered data not currently obtainable.
30 Water usage reported only for facilities where metered data is obtainable.  
Currently no estimates are performed for other facilities.
31 Data not available for the periods indicated.
32 Waste/recycling generation reported only for facilities where waste/recycling 
hauling data is currently obtainable. Reported waste for 2016 represents about 50% of our ft2. Currently no estimates are performed for other facilities.
66Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  
Health, Safety and Environmental Services  
1665 Scenic Drive, Suite 200  
Costa Mesa, CA 92626  Main : (714) 431.4100 
Fax :   (714) 825.0685 
www.BureauVeritasHSE.com  
VERIFICATION STATEMENT
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. ( BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reported by American Express for the calendar year (CY) 2016. This Verifica tionStatement 
applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.
The determination of the GHG emissions isthe sole responsibility of American Express . BVNA’s sole responsibility 
was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying 
systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information.
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:
•Operational Control 
•Worldwide 
•Exclusions: None 
Emissions data verified:
American Express Entity Wide GHG Emissions for CY 2016
Scope 1 Emissions
25,438 metric tons (mt) of CO 2equivalent (CO 2e)
Scope 2 Emissions –Location Based
127,760 mtCO 2eScope 2 Emissions – Market Based
59,115 mtCO 2e
Scope 3 Emissions
Category 6 –Business Travel 38,364 mt CO 2e
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in most cases 
historical in nature.
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature.
Period covered by GHG emissions verification:
•Calendar Year 201 6 –January 1 to December 31, 201 6
67American Expre ss Page 2
March 31, 201 7
GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was c onducted: 
•World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol , Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 
and 2) andthe GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
•WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard.
GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the v erification: 
•ISO 14064- 3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions
Level of Assurance and Qualifications :
•Limited
•Materiality Threshold ±5%
•Qualifications: None
GHG Verification Methodology: 
•Interviews with relevant personnel of American Express and their consultant ;
•Review of documentary evidence produced by American Express ;
•Review of American Express data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, 
analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions at American Expr ess’s New York City 
headquarters office ;
•Audit of samples of data used by American Express to determine GHG emissions.
Assurance Opinion:
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions assertion shown 
above:
•is not materially correct ;
•is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and
•has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard .
It is our opinion that American Express hasestablished appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.
68American Expre ss Page 3
March 31, 201 7
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence
The Bureau Veritas Groupis an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, 
Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance 
services. 
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there 
has been no conflict of interest. 
The Bureau Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to -day business activities.
The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of The Bureau Veritas Group standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas 
emissions data. 
Attestation: 
David Reilly, Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer
Senior Project Manager Technical Director, Climate Change Services
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
Costa Mesa, California San Ramon, California
March 31, 201 7
This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express and is solely for the benefit of 
American Express in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the CDP 
in order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our 
part to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement. 
69CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
GRI CONTENT INDEX
The GRI G4 guidelines informed the development of the report. 
The table below shows where you can find the information required for each Standard Disclosure. While most information is found 
in this report, other primary sources include: our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2017 Proxy Statement, 2017 Carbon Disclosure Project submission and our corporate website.
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
STANDARD  
DISCLOSURESTANDARD  
DISCLOSURE TITLEREPORT SECTIONPAGE 
NO.
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1 CEO Letter CEO Letter 3
G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual report (pages 11–31), CDP Submission (CC5.1) –
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 Name of organization About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-5 Location of headquarters About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-6 Operating locations About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-7 Ownership and legal form Annual report (page 1) –
G4-8 Markets served About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-9 Scale of organization About American Express, Company Profile 4
G4-10 T otal number of employees by typeAbout American Express, Company Profile, Serving  
Our People, Investing in Diversity, Inclusion and  Equal Opportunities 4, 25
G4-13 Organizational changes within the reporting period Annual report (pages 1–2) –
G4-14 Precautionary principle Our Service Ethos, Risk Management and Security 21
G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiativesOur Service Ethos, Advocacy and Membership of  Key Organizations22
G4-16 Membership of associationsOur Service Ethos, Advocacy and Membership of  Key Organizations22
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 Entities included in financial statements Subsidiaries of the company –
G4-18 Defining report content About this Report 5
G4-19 List of material aspectsHow We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) Issues9
G4-20 Aspect boundary within organization for each material aspect About this Report 5
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 List of stakeholder groupsHow We Approach CSR, Identifying and Engaging With  
our Stakeholders8
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagementHow We Approach CSR, Identifying and Engaging With  our Stakeholders8
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28 Reporting period About this Report 5
G4-31 Contact person for question regarding the report About this Report 74
G4-33 Assurance Assurance Statement 67–69
GOVERNANCEG4-34
Governance structure of the organization How We Approach CSR, Our Service Ethos 13, 20
70CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
G4-35Process for delegating authority for sustainability topics from 
the board to senior executives and other employeesHow We Approach CSR 13
G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topics How We Approach CSR, CDP submission 13
G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees Proxy (page 10–21) –
G4-39 Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officer Proxy (page 15) –
G4-40Nomination and selection process for the board and its committeesAbout this Report, Proxy (page 10) –
G4-41 Board conflicts of interest Proxy (page 21) –
G4-42Highest governance body’s role in creating strategy related to economic, environmental and social impactsHow We Approach CSR
13
G4-43Measures taken to develop the highest governance body’s knowledge of economic, environmental and social topicsProxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 32) –
G4-45Identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunitiesCDP submission –
G4-46Highest governance body’s role in reviewing risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topicsProxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 32) –
G4-47Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
Proxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 32) –
G4-49Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest  governance bodyCode of Conduct (page 4) –
G4-50 Nature and total number of critical Our Service Ethos, Reporting Concerns 17
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the board Proxy (pages 42–76) –
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Proxy (pages 42–60) –
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56 Code of Conduct Our Service Ethos, Business Ethics 16
G4-57 Helplines or advice lines for employees Our Service Ethos, Reporting Concerns 17
G4-58Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior + Code of Conduct Our Service Ethos, Business Ethics, Reporting Concerns 16, 17
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORT SECTIONPAGE 
NO.
CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEG4-DMA
Disclosure on Management Approach Annual report (pages 76–133) –
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributedAbout American Express, Company Profile,  
Annual report (pages 76–133)4
G4-EC2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate changeCDP submission (CC5.1, CC6.1) –
ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMASignificant indirect economic impacts, including the 
extent of impactsServing Our Communities, Leadership 54
ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachServing Our Customers and Partners, Supplier Diversity 
and Responsible Sourcing46
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITYASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
G4-DMA
Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Risk Management and Security, 
Serving our Customers and Partners, Building a Safe and Secure Network21, 
41–42
71CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachServing Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending39
ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Serving Our Customers and Partners, How We Serve 35
ASPECT: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures, Serving Our Customers and Partners, Responsible Marketing and Fair Lending18–19, 
39
SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
ASPECT: EMPLOYMENTG4-DMA
Disclosure on Management Approach Serving Our People, Introduction 24
ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATIONG4-DMA
Disclosure on Management Approach Serving Our People, Introduction 24
GA-LA10Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
support the continued employabilityServing Our People, Providing Learning and Development 28
ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachServing Our People, Investing in Diversity, Inclusion and 
Equal Opportunities25
G4-LA12Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversityOur Service Ethos, Board of Directors, Serving  Our People, Investing in Diversity, Inclusion and  Equal Opportunities
25
ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Serving Our Customers and Partners 46
ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMSG4-DMA
Disclosure on Management Approach Our Service Ethos, Reporting Concerns 17
G4-LA16Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, 
and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.Our Service Ethos, Reporting Concerns 17
SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS
ASPECT: INVESTMENT
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies  
and Procedures18–19
ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies  
and Procedures18–19
SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY
ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies  
and Procedures18–19
G4-SO1Percentage of operations with implemented local  community engagement, impact assessments, and development programsServing Our Communities
48
G4-FS14Initiatives to Improve Access to Financial Services  forDisadvantaged PeopleServing Our Customers and Partners, Supporting  Financial Literacy
39
ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Serving Our Communities, Introduction 48
ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies  
and Procedures18–19
72CSR SERVICE ETHOS PEOPLE CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT GRI INDEX
ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures18–19
ASPECT: COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures18–19
ASPECT: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures18–19
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
ASPECT: MATERIALS
G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volumeServing our Environment, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
ASPECT: ENERGY
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachServing Our Environment, Introduction and Reducing  
Our Carbon Footprint58, 59
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organizationServing Our Environment, Managing Our  Environmental Performance65
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumptionServing Our Environment, Reducing Our Carbon Footprint and Managing Our Environmental Performance59, 65
ASPECT: EMISSIONS
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachServing Our Environment, Introduction and  
Reducing Our Carbon Footprint58, 59
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)Serving Our Environment, Introduction and  Reducing Our Carbon Footprint65
G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)Serving Our Environment, Introduction and  Reducing Our Carbon Footprint65
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)Serving Our Environment, Introduction and  Reducing Our Carbon Footprint65
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensityServing Our Environment, Introduction and  Reducing Our Carbon Footprint65
G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsServing Our Environment, Introduction and  Reducing Our Carbon Footprint65
ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
G4-EN23 T otal weight of waste by type and disposal methodServing Our Environment, Managing Our  
Environmental Performance65
ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach CDP submission –
ASPECT: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management ApproachOur Service Ethos, Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures18–19
G4-EN29Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsServing Our Environment, Managing Our  Environmental Performance
65
ASPECT: OVERALL
G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Serving Our Environment, Introduction 58
ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-EN34Number of grievances about environmental impacts 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsServing Our Environment, Managing Our  Environmental Performance
65
73Thank you for reading our 
2016–2017 CSR report.
 
We value feedback from our stakeholders.  
If you would like to get in touch, please email corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com
If you would like to stay up-to-date with our 
CSR activities, you can follow the blog posts  
of our Senior Vice President, Corporate  
Social Responsibility, Timothy J. McClimon.