2019
 Corporate Accountability Report
INNOVATING FOR A
BOUNDLESS ENERGY
BOUNDLESS ENERGY
FUTURE
FUTURE
Learn more
ENSURING A BRIGHTER, BOUNDLESS FUTURE
With more than a century of ingenuity and innovation, AEP is putting its experience to work, preparing for a future that we
are still imagining. As we shape the future with our customers, we are dedicated to safely delivering on our commitment to
an exceptional customer experience. This is an exciting time for our industry and our company; the pace of change is
exponentially accelerating. We are confident in AEP’s foundation for growth and we are learning to be more flexible in our
resolve to lead the way forward.
2019 CORPORATE
ACCOUNTABILITY
REPORT
Download Report
A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
“At AEP, we see a future full of opportunities for our customers, employees, investors, communities
and our company. To create this future, we must be increasingly innovative to create cutting-edge
solutions to complex problems. We must be agile and adaptable to leverage rapid, sometimes
unpredictable, changes in technology. And we must nurture a diverse, inclusive and engaged
workforce that is clearly focused on delivering 21st century customer service as we further electrify
our economy.”
Learn moreINNOVATING FOR
TOMORROW
Innovation has been part of the fabric
of AEP’s culture for more than a
century. We are committed to
continue providing our customers the
innovations that will power the 21
century.
Learn more
st
DIVERSITY &
INCLUSION
At AEP, we take deliberate actions
to create a work environment in which
employees are valued and the
diversity and richness of the
backgrounds and perspectives of our
people are embraced.
Learn more
CUSTOMER
COMMITMENT
We are committed to meeting the
demands of our customers by
investing in new technologies,
modernizing the grid, investing in
renewables and engaging with
customers in their channel of choice.
Learn more
AEP’S STRATEGIC VISION FOR A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE
We believe sustainable electricity is an essential tool for managing the company’s carbon emissions
and reducing the broader global carbon footprint. We are evaluating business risks and potential
new opportunities, from the boardroom to the customers’ side of the meter. AEP’s sustainability
goals reflects our strategy to transition to a cleaner energy economy and our commitment to
transparency as we move forward.
Learn moreABOUT AEP
ABOUT AEP
STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE
“Change has come. It is here, it is accelerating, and AEP is prepared to lead it. We see many challenges ahead, but also
significant opportunities as we work for a sustainable future. We’ve accomplished a great deal over the past decade, but
we must lead at an ever-quickening pace. Our strategy to be more innovative, more engaged and more customer-focused
is well underway and we will continue to execute it with discipline and conviction. Our 2023 strategy will stretch and push
us toward achieving our vision for the future.”
– Nicholas Akins, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
CHAIRMAN'S
MESSAGE
See message
2018 COMPANY OVERVIEWAEP’S STRATEGIC
PLAN
AEP’s strategy for growth and the
way we are advancing our business
model are changing as we plan for a
future that is evolving.
Learn more
REGULATORY AND
PUBLIC POLICY
AEP is committed to enhancing
regulatory models to give utilities the
ability to explore new and evolving
solutions that deliver the best value
for our customers.
Learn more
RISK MANAGEMENT
AEP has a robust risk management
process that helps us proactively
identify and mitigate potential risks to
our businesses and operating
companies.
Learn more
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to sustainability governance, but AEP believes it is
fundamental to building and strengthening sustained business value. Good governance ensures
transparency, fairness and accountability, and gives us a structured way to manage the challenges
of a changing society.
Learn more
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
At AEP, we see a future full of opportunities for our
customers, employees, investors, communities and our
company. To create this future, we must be increasingly
innovative to develop cutting-edge solutions to complex
problems. We must be agile and adaptable to leverage
rapid, sometimes unpredictable, changes in technology.
And we must nurture a diverse, inclusive and engaged
workforce that is clearly focused on delivering 21st century
customer service as we further electrify our economy.
We’re meeting these inter-connected challenges, by
partnering with start-up companies and working in global innovation hubs to incubate and test new, leading-edge
technologies and processes. We’re seeking collaborative opportunities to improve our operational efficiency, enhance
our ability to collect and analyze data, and deliver a superior customer experience.
Our stakeholders are critical to our success and we have engaged them on numerous issues, especially climate change.
For decades, we have listened to diverse viewpoints from customers, investors, the environmental community and others
about the potential impacts and magnitude of climate change, and about what we can, and should, do to set and meet
ambitious goals in a timely manner. We embraced their aspirations for a clean energy future and together set a realistic
path to achieve it.
We are making progress. We have retired approximately 7,800 MW of coal-fueled generation since 2011, increased the
size of our renewable portfolio, and helped our customers become more energy efficient. In 2018, we set new carbon
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE BROCHURE
Download PDFreduction goals – 60 percent by 2030 and 80 percent by
2050 (both from a 2000 baseline). At the end of 2018, our
carbon emissions were 59 percent lower than in 2000 –
exceeding targets set by the U.S. EPA’s Clean Power Plan
for the electric sector. As a result, we are accelerating our
2030 goal to 70 percent. We are also confident we will
exceed our 2050 goal and our aspiration is zero. We review
these targets annually in the context of where we see
regulations, policies and technology advancing and what we
believe we can achieve. Our ability to move technology
forward will only accelerate what we are able to do.
We’ve invested significantly to modernize the electricity grid,
making it more efficient, enabling the growth of distributed
energy production, and transforming it into the information
and clean energy platform we need to power the future.
We’re building a new talent pipeline and developing our current workforce for a digital future. This is critical as we shift
from being a generating resources-driven company to a people, data and technology-driven company. We’re talking to
our customers, understanding their needs and seeking new solutions for their benefit. And we are delivering value to our
shareholders while having positive impacts on the environment, our communities and society in general. I am confident we
are on the right path and excited about our future.
As we grow and invest in a smarter, cleaner energy system,
we continuously reward our shareholders. AEP has paid
quarterly dividends to our investors since 1910 and we are
proud of the consistency and quality of the earnings and
dividends we deliver. In 2018, we provided a total
shareholder return of 5.4 percent – exceeding the 4.2
percent total return for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index.
From April 2018 to April 2019, AEP has delivered a total
shareholder return of 25.4 percent. In addition to investing
capital, we closely manage our costs and expenditures,
using the savings to deliver additional benefits to our customers and investors.
As always, I am extremely proud and deeply appreciative of the employees of AEP who are paving the way for our future
success. They give generously, work tirelessly and provide the knowledge, experience and creativity that keep us moving
ahead. It is a privilege to lead and work beside them. Together, we are creating a clean, bright energy future for us all.
Achieving Zero Harm
Safety is our most important value – nothing we do is more
important than working to prevent harm to our employees,
contractors and the public. Our success as an organization
is based on working safely to ensure the well-being of all. 
At
the end of each workday, everyone must return to their loved
ones in the same condition as when they arrived at work. All
of us at AEP are personally committed to Zero Harm,
starting with me.
Zero Harm requires hard work, including knowledge,
determination, vigilance, patience, and a round- the-clock
effort to look out for ourselves and for each other. In an
instant, one error, one shortcut, can result in grave consequences.
In 2018, AEP employees and contractors worked 4.3 million more hours than in 2017 to serve our customers. 
At the same
time, our DART rate (Days Away, Restricted or Transfer) improved approximately 11 percent compared to the three-yearhistorical average. This is encouraging and demonstrates significant progress towards Zero Harm. But we must maintain
focus and resolve. We must believe that we can reach our goal and be relentless every minute of every day on every job.
Last year, more than 80 percent of all work locations across AEP achieved Zero Harm, which tells us three important
things: harm can be eliminated, we are working hard to prove it, and we still have a long way to go.
We know this all too well. I am deeply saddened to report that in 2018 an AEP employee was fatally injured on the job and,
in March 2019 another AEP employee lost his life in a job-related accident. Everyone at AEP feels these profound losses,
both personally and professionally. One of the best ways we can pay tribute to them and their families is to learn from
these events.
We held company-wide Safety Stand Downs to refocus on and reinforce our commitment to Zero Harm. We implemented
new life-saving rules; recorded more than 16,000 CORE visits (coaching through observation, recognition and
engagement) in 2018 to create meaningful interactions and reinforce positive safety behaviors; and logged more than
5,000 “Good Catches” from employees and contractors who found ways to prevent harm. And, through continuous
communications, we share information and best practices and recognize those who excel at achieving Zero Harm. We
are also piloting an assessment process to look more closely at our training and skills, and our critical safety measures
and protections. I can’t say this enough: 
our most important goal is to ensure that everyone goes home in the same
condition as when they came to work.
We’re also building stronger contractor and public safety programs to ensure that our safety expectations are clear and
are being met.
Creating A Culture of Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and inclusion are as important to our success as any strategic or operational action. We require a diverse,
inclusive workforce and a culture that values the differences among us. Our success lies in large part with our ability to
respect and embrace all people and divergent views that allow us to have a clearer view of obstacles and opportunities.
We’re all on the same team, striving for the same bright future, and when we appreciate and value our differences as well
as our similarities, that’s when we succeed as an entire company.
Diversity and inclusion are not checklists or slogans. Like safety, they require focused action and changes in how we think
and act. Diversity and inclusion improve morale and our ability to work as a team, they enhance our reputation and our
brand, they help drive innovation, help to engage the diverse communities we serve, and strengthen us as an organization
and as individuals. 
If we are not diverse and inclusive, we will be left behind.
In 2017 we established a Diversity and Inclusion Council to focus on our workforce, supply chain and community
engagement, and in 2018, we appointed a Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer. Together, they are helping us with this
business-critical mission. Our 2025 Diversity and Inclusion Roadmap, which includes accountability metrics and extensive
partnering with other committed organizations, will help us attract, develop and retain the strongest talent from an
increasingly diverse talent pool, while enhancing the engagement, knowledge and skills of our current employees. We also
plan to achieve gender and wage parity and break down barriers caused by unconscious biases. We are committed to
holding ourselves accountable for maintaining a supportive culture.
Creating gender parity in leadership roles is critical because of a strong correlation between success and diversity. In
collaboration with Paradigm for Parity®, a coalition of business leaders working to address gender inequality, we are
making progress toward gender parity at all levels of corporate leadership.
This commitment extends to our Board of Directors. The Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance has
committed to include in each director search qualified candidates who reflect diverse backgrounds, including diversity of
gender and race.
The Board regularly considers AEP’s strategy and the skills, experiences and qualifications that should be represented on
the Board to effectively oversee the company’s strategic direction. In 2019, we welcomed a new Board member with
digital/technology, marketing and IT skills. Her election increases the diversity of our 13-member Board to 31 percent.
We conducted a listening tour and survey in 2018 to determine what employees think about diversity and inclusion at
AEP. I am grateful to over 700 employees who participated – opening themselves up to share honest and importantVoice engagement channels will allow customers to access
information within their home energy management platform and
other AEP digital customer applications.
personal insights. They expressed a desire to learn more about why diversity is so important to our business and want
accountability, education and engagement from leadership.
As a new generation enters the workforce, we want the best and the brightest minds to join AEP. We are working to
understand their needs and desires and what the future of work holds for them to ensure that we attract and retain the top
talent to lead us forward. Diversity and inclusion are at the heart of that effort, and I am confident we will succeed.
Improving Customer Relationships
Our customers want and expect more from us today than reliable, on-demand energy. With expectations shaped by their
experiences with companies like Netflix, Google and Amazon, they are demanding personalized, on-line information and
services delivered instantly, with more choices, convenience and control. We are providing them with easier ways to
interact with us because their choices are critical to our future success.
For example, in 2018 we partnered with Google, Amazon
and Tendril (a home energy management technology
platform) to pilot a voice activated application on Google
Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa. Customers can now ask out
loud, “How much is my bill?” or “How can I save energy?”
and get immediate answers, day or night. We intend to
expand this service across all of our operating companies.
We also opened our Social Media Center in 2018, run jointly
by our communications and customer services
organizations, and available to customers seven days a
week.
To track our performance and hold ourselves accountable,
we developed a Customer Experience Dashboard that
provides us with information on customer satisfaction, ease
of doing business with us, and how customers are feeling
about the company. We can track “message sentiment”
data, determine the percentage of positive, negative and
neutral messages about AEP on social media, and work to improve those numbers. As a result, we are engaging
customers in ways that meet their specific needs.
We are also working to improve service to large customers who connect directly to our transmission grid. We are testing a
system in Oklahoma, for example, that leverages our smart meters to track and report momentary outages, or “blinks,” on
the system. These blinks can shut down production lines for large customers where equipment is hyper-sensitive to
momentary disruptions. We will soon have the intelligence we need to inform solutions to better serve our larger
customers’ needs.
Our 2023 strategy clearly identifies significant opportunities for advancing our vision and our entire company is working to
meet our customers’ needs. As our regulated utility companies continue to invest in distribution and transmission to
modernize the grid and develop capabilities to meet future customer expectations, we are also looking at new
opportunities to serve customers. AEP Energy and its unregulated subsidiaries are well-positioned to offer customer
solutions, including renewables, distributed generation and storage, and can deploy them within and beyond our
traditional service territory boundaries. This team effort allows us to provide customers with an array of solutions.
In April 2019, we completed the acquisition of Sempra Renewables, LLC, adding 724 MW to our renewable portfolio from
seven wind farms and one battery installation in seven states. This acquisition, and completion of the Santa Rita East
Wind Project currently under construction in Texas, will boost AEP’s total regulated and contracted renewable portfolio to
more than 5,000 MW.
Strong customer interest in renewable energy is also driving multiple efforts to increase our clean energy resources within
our regulated utilities. In 2019, Appalachian Power is seeking proposals to add up to 200 MW of solar energy projects in
Virginia to reduce customer costs and further diversify its electricity generation mix. Southwestern Electric Power
Company and Public Service Company of Oklahoma are both working to add new wind energy resources for theircustomers, too.
By modernizing the grid and diversifying resources, investing in innovation, piloting new technologies and engaging
customers in their channels of choice, we can deliver the excellent service our customers expect.
Innovating for a Clean Energy Future
A clean energy economy requires a combination of resources, innovation and technology. In fact, innovation and
technology are fast becoming an integrated resource that drives efficiencies and optimization of the electricity grid,
benefitting customers and the environment. Enabling a clean energy future also requires taking a hard look at how the
traditional regulated utility business model treats innovation, because business-as-usual is not a viable option.
As we advocate for changes that reward innovation in the energy industry, we’re pursuing innovation along a number of
parallel tracks. Our experience working with technology providers and start-ups tells us energy companies must be
involved in the early stages of innovation. We must demonstrate and validate new technologies at a large scale to
maximize benefits for all customers.
We are co-presenting an IllumiNation Energy Summit in
Columbus, Ohio, with Battelle, The Ohio State University
and other sponsors in May 2019. Established technology
providers, start-ups, regulators, legislators, environmental organizations, trade groups, academia and research
organizations will meet in an immersive technology forum to demonstrate and discuss the technology opportunities we
have before us. It also provides an opportunity to engage with policymakers on achieving a clean energy future.
We recently launched our IllumiNationLAB to help us identify promising entrepreneurs and early growth stage companies
in four areas: customer experience; grid optimization; efficiency, operations and maintenance; and electric mobility. Our
intent is to select promising tech startups to work with an AEP mentor to advance and shape their solutions. We will
provide resources and access to subject matter experts and to help start-ups develop products, platforms and processes
that we can validate and provide at scale. IllumiNationLAB is focused on renewable energy resources, smart connected
devices, customer engagement, predictive analytics and virtual assessments.
We’re also working with Free Electrons, a global technology accelerator for the energy industry, that gives us access to
hundreds of start-ups around the world. In 2018, we chartered an Enterprise Innovation and Technology team to establish
a new process to test ideas that deliver value to customers and deploy them, if validated. The team is actively seeking
partnerships and potential investors to enable us to bring new products to market.
Finally, we’ve created “Charge” – an AEP digital hub that incubates and develops new ideas and creative concepts in a
contained space – one that won’t affect day-to-day operations. Our new Chief Digital Officer leads this team with a five-
year roadmap to achieve our digital transformation. Each Charge project seeks improved customer or employee
experience, while creating financial value (reducing spend, creating efficiencies, or increasing revenue). Charge is a
microcosm of what we envision for all of AEP – thinking differently about how our company operates and how we interact
with our customers.
Our overall approach to innovation is to check and adjust as we learn. We are carefully managing our investment risk by
assessing each new technology to ensure it is something that provides value to customers, will be profitable, feasible and
that we clearly understand the resources needed to go to market. We take prudent risks, recognizing that there will be
challenges on the road to success, as we innovate to create a new, clean and secure energy future.
Protecting The Grid
Protecting the electric power grid is a major priority for our industry as the system is threatened by natural phenomena like
extreme weather or geomagnetic disturbances, or deliberate attacks from malicious hackers or nation-states. We invest
in protecting our system and participate in drills to test our defenses to help us prepare for and guard against a potentially
catastrophic event. We work in partnership with the federal government to anticipate and respond as effectively as
possible. We participate in the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council that focuses on threat information sharing and
coordination between industry and government, research and development and working across sectors, such as with theWe must understand emerging workforce requirements and
ensure that our employees and recruits are being trained and
educated to meet these needs.
oil and natural gas industries.
Through the years, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) has developed and enforced Critical
Infrastructure Protection (CIP) standards to protect the grid from cyber and physical attacks. These standards are
constantly evolving, requiring increased focus to ensure compliance. Consequently, in 2018, we strengthened our
governance and the central team devoted to ensuring our compliance with the NERC standards.
As we modernize the grid, making it smarter and more resilient, we are also upgrading the telecommunications network
which serves as the backbone of the grid, enabling the flow of information and data critically needed to operate the
system. This upgrade will enhance cybersecurity and improve reliability and resilience by providing real-time data on
equipment condition.
We also take measures to secure and protect employee and customer data. Our Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
protection program includes several measures such as blocking outbound emails containing unencrypted PII and a data
classification tool that prompts users to classify documents and data before sharing them. We also formed a data
governance program to improve how we manage data across the company. This program looks at privacy risks, customer
data monitoring and protection, and internal controls to prevent misuse of customer data.
Preparing Our Workforce
One of our biggest challenges is to ensure that our employees have the knowledge, skills and abilities we need, and they
need, to succeed today and in the years ahead. We must understand emerging workforce requirements and ensure that
our employees and recruits are being trained and educated to meet them, while strengthening the skills required for our
company today. We invest in education and collaborate with others to create the talent pipeline we need.
We partnered with the Business Roundtable (BRT), the Ohio
Business Roundtable and the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, as well as community colleges and
businesses across central Ohio in 2018 to host the BRT’s
Workforce Partnership Initiative (WPI). The WPI will develop
education and training opportunities to prepare students,
and current AEP employees, for the jobs of the future.
Our charitable foundation’s signature Credits Count
STEM education program helps high school students who
otherwise may not be able to afford a college education to
earn college credits toward STEM-related careers while still
in high school. The AEP Foundation has committed $14.2
million since we created this program in 2014.
We also launched Transmission University (TU) in 2018, a
pilot program to revolutionize learning within AEP. TU
provides transmission employees and contractors with self-
guided learning opportunities that empower them to take
control of their professional development.
We have several development programs across AEP to identify potential company leaders and provide them with skills
and experiences that put them on a path for future leadership roles. We partner with numerous colleges, universities and
technical schools across the country and we provide experiential learning through apprenticeships and co-ops. We
encourage our employees to be continuous learners and provide education assistance to support those efforts. We
proudly support and hire military veterans, who bring the technical skills and discipline we need.
A major generational shift is underway as Baby Boomers retire and Generation Z enters the workforce. More people are
working independently and remotely in jobs that didn’t exist even a decade ago, such as data analysts, cyber specialists,
and renewable energy experts. We are re-imagining many of our traditional job roles and reassessing how we will get our
work done in the future.
Workforce development is a critical concern. We must be agile and creative to attract and retain the best talent, including
SMThe road to electrification is complex and challenging, but the
long-term reward is significant for the environment, society and
business.
the potential for making advance job commitments to students who successfully complete programs in key areas such as
cyber security and data analytics. As technology rapidly changes, so must the knowledge, skills and capabilities of our
workforce.
Electrifying to Create Shared Value and a Cleaner Energy Future
The benefits of converting industrial equipment and processes to be powered by electricity, combined with cleaner energy
from the grid and better ways to store it, will lead us on a clear pathway to a low-carbon future and universal access to
clean energy. Electrification converts end-uses powered by fossil fuels, such as forklifts and other industrial applications,
to electricity.
As part of our beneficial electrification program, we
launched a new website in 2018,
www.energyconversionhub.com
, for commercial and
industrial companies. The site highlights the economic and
environmental benefits of using electricity to improve their
operations. For example, an online calculator shows the
cost and environmental benefits of operating gas or diesel-
fueled equipment versus electricity-powered equipment.
The electric vehicle (EV) revolution is accelerating. A 2018
study by the Edison Electric Institute estimates that EVs in
the U.S. will increase from 1 million on the road today, to
over 18 million by 2030. 
In our service territory more than
10,000 EVs were registered by the end of 2018. Replacing
an internal combustion engine vehicle with a similar EV can
reduce first year fuel costs by over 50 percent and tailpipe
emissions by about 40 percent. EVs are good for
consumers, the environment and the electric industry.
We are well-positioned to play a significant role in supporting EV market development. We are working to increase
adoption of EVs and provide charging options that optimize the use of the grid for the benefit of all customers.
To lead by example, we are increasing the proportion of electric cars in our fleet and installing workplace charging
infrastructure for employees. We have deployed over 100 EV charging ports at our facilities to date – one of the largest
workplace deployments in the U.S. – with plans to expand this number dramatically in coming years.
In 2018, AEP Ohio received regulatory approval for an EV incentive program that offers financial incentives for EV
charging stations in workplaces, multi-family housing units, low-income neighborhoods and government-owned properties.
Energy storage plays a vital role in the electrification of the economy and the transition to renewable energy. Batteries can
provide back-up power or power during peak demand times and can respond rapidly in order to balance load and
generation. They also help us to maintain a constant flow of energy when intermittent resources like wind and solar power
are not available or are not needed at the time of generation.
Our 4 MW energy storage system with Appalachian Power’s Buck and Byllesby hydroelectric power plants in Southwest
Virginia is one of the first integrated energy storage systems in the PJM transmission region, balancing load and
generation to maintain system stability and increase the integration of variable renewable resources. This demonstrates
the game-changing impact energy storage can have as the technology matures.
Creating a Brighter Energy Future – Together
Change has come. It is accelerating, and we stand ready to lead AEP into an innovative energy future that shines for us
all. We see many challenges ahead, but also significant opportunities as we work for a sustainable future. We’ve
accomplished a great deal over the past decade, but we must lead at an ever-quickening pace. Our strategy to be more
innovative, more engaged and more customer-focused is well underway and we will continue to execute it with disciplineand conviction. Our 2023 strategy will stretch and push us toward achieving our vision of powering a new and brighter
future for our customers and communities.
I am confident that we are well positioned, and on the right road for sustainable growth in the months and years ahead. We
have always led the way in our industry and we will continue to work on what matters most to our customers and our
communities.
I feel confident about the future whenever I am with our employees. They are the strength and spirit of American Electric
Power and I am so proud of what they are doing, and are preparing to do. As we work to create our future, I would like to
thank them and our customers for making us a stronger, better company.
I invite you to learn more about AEP in our 2019 Corporate Accountability Report.
Sincerely, 
Nicholas K. Akins
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
American Electric Power
STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE
The rapid changes transforming the energy industry, driven
by technological innovation and interconnectivity, are
altering the dynamics of how people interact with the power
grid. These changes are turning consumers into active, not
passive, participants. Every interaction our customers have
with us is compared to their experiences with companies in
other industries, which changes their expectations of AEP
and challenges us to redefine the relationship we have with
our customers. From decentralized power generation and
beneficial electrification to digitization and process
automation, disruptive innovation is reshaping our industry
and our company.
AEP’s strategy for growth and the way we are advancing
our business model are also changing as we plan for a
future that is evolving. Historically, our capital investments
focused primarily on large, centralized power stations,
building new capacity and applying new engineering
practices to comply with environmental regulations and
extend their life.
Today, our capital investment strategy spans the value
chain of generation, transmission and distribution spurring
innovation, with the customer at the center. Our focus is on
providing customer solutions through technology;
diversifying our resources for a cleaner, more balanced
portfolio; working with regulators to modernize the
regulatory compact to keep pace with the changing needs
of all our customers; and preparing for the future of work
and the new skills our workforce will need. At the same
time, we continue to reduce our environmental footprint,
remove risk from our business and deliver value to our
customers and shareholders.Between 2019 and 2023, AEP plans to invest $33 billion in
capital, with 75 percent of it targeted for transmission and
distribution.
Strong Financial Performance
AEP’s transformation is well underway and our track record
of consistent, quality earnings and dividends positions us for
a bright future. In 2018, AEP’s strong earnings performance
was driven by a robust economy, our continued focus on
investing in our system to enhance services for our
customers, managing our costs and favorable weather
throughout much of the year. In 2018, AEP announced plans
to increase capital investments in its regulated operations
over the next five years to provide more advanced, resilient
and cleaner energy solutions for customers. We also
committed to investing $2.2 billion in contracted renewables
through 2023.
Our projected operating earnings growth of five to seven
percent is predicated on our ability to continue efficiently
investing capital to modernize the grid. We have thousands
of smaller capital projects that are within our control to
execute as we replace aging infrastructure and transform
the grid to a platform of two-way flows of information and
energy. Our fundamentals for growth are strong, giving us
options about how we invest today and what we invest in for
the future.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet and credit profile is apriority. We regularly monitor a variety of metrics that help us to know when we will need to access the capital markets for
funding to support our capital investment program, which, in turn, allows us to grow earnings and provide reliable service
to our customers.
We are proud that we have paid a quarterly dividend to our shareholders since 1910. In 2018, AEP delivered a total
shareholder return of 5.4 percent, exceeding a 4.2 percent total return for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. In fact, over
the past five years, we’ve provided a total shareholder return of more than 92 percent. This outperformed the broader S&P
500 Index total return of 50 percent and 65 percent total return for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index.
Managing O&M (operations and maintenance) costs as capital investments increase is part of our culture at AEP.
Because we believe that every dollar counts, we are focused on managing costs to optimize our spending on the
customer experience and to deliver operational excellence. That includes our transition to a clean energy future and
ensuring that every customer has access to the resources and technologies the grid provides.
AEP’s 2023 Strategic Plan
AEP has laid a strong foundation for growth as we transform our company for operational excellence, financial strength
and workforce readiness. This will bring us closer to our customers, delivering reliable and affordable energy; providing
innovative and tailored solutions that improve their businesses and their lives; while maintaining universal access to the
grid. To achieve this, we need a culture of diversity and inclusion; relentless focus on controlling costs; continuous learning
to be the disruptor and adopter of new technologies; and process efficiencies to optimize technology, automation and
digitization. We must bring regulators and legislators along with us so we can secure supportive policies that allow us to
continue investing in the right assets and resources that improve the customer experience.
Today, AEP is financially strong and well-positioned for the future. As we are investing in our future, we have a lot of
options to maximize those investments. Our grid modernization investments are creating the platform to enable expansion
of distributed resources, more efficient use of energy, two-way flow of communication and power, and expanded
electrification. We are working to expand both our regulated and competitive renewable portfolio to deliver clean energy tocustomers within and outside of our traditional service territory.
Our investments in transmission are critical to enabling renewable resources to connect to the grid as well as improving
local and regional reliability for customers. It also makes economic development possible, which supports our mission of
building stronger communities. We are projected to invest about $3 billion per year through 2023 to strengthen and
modernize transmission.
We are strategically partnering with start-ups to pilot an array of technologies so that we can be the digital energy
company of the future. We want to be ready when new technologies are set to be mass-marketed, which means being an
early adopter. There’s risk in this approach – we know some technologies will fail – but it’s fundamental to delivering an
excellent customer experience.
To better support our innovation strategy we hired a Chief Digital Officer in 2018 who formed a new team, called Charge,
to incubate and develop new ideas, without disrupting day-to-day operations. The teams look for projects that will add
value for AEP and quickly discard those that won’t. This means the project must improve the customer or employee
experience while creating financial value, such as reducing spend, creating efficiencies or increasing revenue. This team
is charged with reimagining our business for the future.
We are also growing our competitive business. AEP Energy Partners has subsidiaries that are serving wholesale
markets, retail electric and gas customers across the country and providing tailored energy solutions to large commercial
and industrial customers. Our commitment to grow contracted renewables was bolstered in early 2019 with the acquisition
of Sempra Renewables LLC. When combined with the completion of the Santa Rita wind farm in San Angelo, Texas this
year, AEP’s total renewable capacity will increase to 16 percent from 4 percent in 2005.
Culture Makes It Happen
Without engaged employees, executing on our strategy would not be successful. To AEP, engagement means including
everyone, solving problems and working as a team. That is why we are transforming our culture to foster an environment
that welcomes and encourages diversity and inclusion, collaboration, openness and engagement. Our safety culture
continues to be a strength and core value for AEP. 
Learn more about culture at AEP
.SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
There is heightened demand for transparency and expectation that business leaders adopt holistic, long-term approaches
to managing environment, social and governance (ESG) performance. Companies are judged on performance and how
well they link tangibles (such as financial capital and physical assets) with intangibles (such as reputation, brand, customer
loyalty, risk management, trust and credibility) and show bottom-line benefits.
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to sustainability governance, but AEP believes it is fundamental to building and
strengthening sustained business value. Good governance ensures transparency, fairness and accountability, and gives
us a structured way to manage the challenges of a changing society.
Through AEP’s Enterprise Sustainability Council (ESC) – with oversight from executive management and the Committee
on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors – we have clear guidance on our ESG responsibilities
for sustainable business development. ESC members, who represent all aspects of AEP’s business, serve as strategic
ambassadors, providing guidance and support to ensure the success of AEP’s sustainable development strategy. They
do this by enabling cross-functional integration of sustainability across the enterprise.
The ESC is also responsible for monitoring the progress of AEP’s sustainability goals and the timely and accurate
production of AEP’s annual Corporate Accountability Report. In addition, the ESC helps increase internal and external
stakeholder awareness of the relevance and value of sustainability to AEP’s success. The ESC also provides a forum for
sharing work, best practices and ideas, and identifying trends and emerging issues that could impact AEP financially or
operationally.
Executive sponsors of the ESC include the Chairman, President and CEO; Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary; and Executive Vice President of External Affairs.
In addition to the ESC, the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors reviews the
Corporate Accountability Report annually and actively monitors AEP’s ESG performance. The Committee provides
feedback and develops the Board Statement supporting AEP’s commitment to sustainable business development and
performance accountability. The combined governance from the Board of Directors and the ESC helps us ensure our
disclosure undergoes a disciplined review and validation process.
While these issues are discussed by the Board of Directors throughout the year, we report to the Committee on our
sustainability-related activities at least twice per year. In addition, the Lead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors conducts
annual outreach to engage with investors on important ESG and governance matters.
AEP’s Enterprise Sustainability Council Representation
AEP Energy
Ethics & Compliance
Audit Services
Generation
Chief Customer Officer
Human Resources
Chief Digital Officer
Information Technology
Commercial Operations
Investor Relations
Continuous Improvement
Legal
Corporate Communications
NERC Reliability Assurance
Corporate Finance
Operating Company PresidentCorporate Planning & Budgeting
Public Policy
Customer Solutions & Policy
Real Estate & Workplace Services
Distribution Services
Regulatory Services
Economic & Business Development
Resource Planning
Enterprise Risk Management
Safety & Health
Enterprise Security
Supply Chain & Procurement
Environmental Services
Transmission
Learn more about AEP’s Corporate Governance
 and see our report: 
American Electric Power: Strategic Vision for a
Clean Energy Future
 for climate risk information.
REGULATORY AND PUBLIC POLICY
The energy industry is one of the most highly regulated sectors of the U.S. economy and is undergoing a major
transformation to modernize the grid – making it more reliable, resilient and customer friendly. As our industry evolves, we
will continue working with our regulators and legislators at the federal, state and local levels.
AEP operates in 11 states within a variety of jurisdictional regulatory frameworks. Those frameworks are primarily
governed by state legislatures that direct state regulatory commissions to achieve overarching policy goals. These
regulatory and legislative environments, in conjunction with federal regulation and legislation, define the parameters of
AEP’s business and planning models.
One aspect of fast change is the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Compliance Standards and
Requirements that require increased security and reliability of the bulk electric system. This means more frequent audits
focusing on documentation and evaluation of controls, and increased regulatory scrutiny and pressure. It also means the
potential for higher penalties and greater reputational risk for companies. In response to the constantly evolving nature of
NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) standards, we formed a separate governance structure and associated
teams devoted to NERC reliability assurance.
Our priority is to maintain and operate a safe and reliable grid that is resilient and adaptive. Our generation, transmission
and distribution system investments directly affect our customers and shareholders. These investments must coexist with
regulation and policy considerations, such as environmental rules and affordability. Regulatory frameworks must be
responsive to today’s technology and customer preference environment. As we transition to a clean energy future, we are
reshaping our asset base in a reliable and affordable manner for our customers while managing the financial risk for our
shareholders.
Regulatory Compact
The regulatory compact is a term used to describe traditional regulation of vertically integrated utilities. It is a regulatory
environment in which an energy company makes prudent investments to ensure safe and reliable electric service for all
customers. Under the regulatory compact, a utility has an obligation to provide service to all customers in a certain
territory. In exchange, government regulatory agencies allow the opportunity for the utility to earn a fair and reasonable
profit. The company applies to its state regulatory commission for cost recovery of its investments, and the commission
approves the expense with an opportunity to earn a fair rate of return on investment.
The majority of electric utilities operated in this way until the deregulation trends began in the 1990s. 
Now, states have
varying levels of competition where the generation and/or access to retail customers is competitive. However, even inthose states, the regulatory compact is still responsible for the regulation of the “wires.”
AEP embraces the regulatory compact, but we also see a need for more flexibility through alternative ratemaking models
to keep pace with advances in technology and ensure timely recovery of costs. This is imperative to meeting the changing
needs of our customers. For example, as more customers demand clean energy, we need support from state regulators
to enable investments in renewable resources.
Today’s technologies offer creative energy solutions that were not envisioned just a few years ago. To respond to these
technological advancements, we need regulatory models that give utilities the ability to explore new and evolving solutions
as they determine what delivers the best value for our customers today and in the future.
The classifications of generation, transmission and distribution should also be revisited, as those boundaries are
becoming blurred with the advent of new technologies and distributed resources. We also need to consider transition
issues as utilities move from central station generation to more distributed energy resources.
As we look at the regulatory future of our industry, we need the ability to offer customized goods and services to our
customers while maintaining system reliability and universal access to the grid. In 2018, we introduced several innovative
rate offerings to maximize value for our customers. For example, Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) introduced a flat rate bill
called EZ Bill for residential and small commercial customers in Indiana. The program, approved by state regulators,
allows I&M to offer individualized rates to customers who sign up.
This is an important option for customers who value the predictability and convenience of receiving a predetermined, fixed
monthly charge for their electric service. This makes budgeting and financial planning easier, especially for customers with
fixed or limited incomes. For customers who want to know what their electric bill will be in advance, the EZ Bill program
meets that need.
In Oklahoma, we introduced a pre-pay program, known as Power Pay, which functions similarly to a prepaid phone card.
This program offers customers of Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) a voluntary payment option, giving them
more control over when and how they pay for their electric service. Dozens of authorized payment kiosks are located
throughout PSO’s service territory, giving customers additional payment options. Power Pay also gives our customers
information about their usage and cost so they can make informed decisions. At the end of 2018, nearly 20,000
customers were taking advantage of this program.
In 2019, Appalachian Power received approval to establish a seasonal rate in West Virginia that would apply to electricity
sales above a specific threshold during winter months. With the seasonal rate structure, customers with higher winter
usage, such as those with electric heat, will see little or no increase, or even a decrease, in their bills.
These are some examples of alternative rate models that are needed today to meet the changing needs of customers.
Public Policy and Issue Management
Similar to other companies, AEP has a public policy strategy that seeks to inform decisions made by Congress, Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), state legislatures and
regulatory commissions, and Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs).
In 2017, AEP formed the Policy Advisory Team (PAT) to create a more efficient and consistent policy strategy across the
company. The team comprises senior executives across multiple business functions and departments, including some
who represent the company in Washington, D.C., and the state capitals in our service territory.
The PAT considers policy options on issues of relevance to the company and supports internal policy analysis and
debate. This approach ensures that AEP is speaking with one voice, and that all employees with external contacts are
clear on our policy positions and objectives. Since its inception, the PAT has considered roughly a dozen issues on which
we have developed positions.
In strategic discussions about how we can best align ourselves to maximize the customer benefits of new technologies,
we talk about “future-proofing” our company. To adapt to the changing energy landscape, we require a regulatory and
legislative framework that enables the flexibility to incorporate new technologies, including those we have not yet even
envisioned.Expanding Broadband
AEP is installing fiber cable as part of our grid modernization efforts, which provides a new opportunity to piggyback on
this installation to extend broadband service to unserved or underserved areas throughout our service territory. Fiber
cable provides the best technology to meet our needs for upgrading the grid: it is highly resistant to corrosion and is
critical to providing a modern communications infrastructure as the demand for two-way flows of data and power increase.
We believe broadband technology plays an important role in the economic development and sustainable quality of life of
rural and suburban America. We are exploring new options for the dual use of fiber for grid modernization and enabling
Internet Service Providers to make the final connection to areas that lack broadband coverage.
In 2018, Appalachian Power (APCo) completed a Broadband Feasibility Study as required by the Virginia Grid
Transformation and Security Act of 2018. The study found that several barriers prevent broadband from using distribution
and transmission infrastructure, including the ability to recover costs. 
The study also identified potential strategies to
support broadband development, including increasing the capacity of fiber that APCo would install to support its grid
modernization program. For projects already planned, it would require increasing the fiber capacity with the intent of
leasing the extra fiber strands to broadband service providers.
There are significant challenges including legislative restrictions in many states that prohibit us from recovering our
investments if we install additional fiber to support broadband expansion. We are working with legislators and regulators
in our states to gauge interest and explore options.
In a promising move, Virginia lawmakers took steps in March 2019 to address the geographic disparities in broadband
coverage. Lawmakers approved House Bill 2691, giving the state’s two largest electric utilities – including APCo – the
green light to create a pilot to expand “middle mile” broadband coverage. This is the infrastructure that connects the
networks and core routers on the internet to local service providers and consumers directly. Importantly, the bill allows the
companies to recover the cost of the pilot from ratepayers. The final connection, called the “last mile,” would be the
responsibility of third-party internet providers.
In addition to delivering modern-day technology to underserved areas, this is a potential new business opportunity for
AEP. Providing the means to extend high-speed internet to these areas also creates new opportunities for home-based
work and helps to power economic stability for customers and communities.
Existing and Emerging Models
Traditionally, distribution service has been totally within the purview of the local electric utility. This is true whether the retail
model in a state is regulated or competitive. It provides the utility with a direct customer relationship. AEP thinks that
relationship is invaluable for both assuring universal service and in optimizing service delivery; therefore, we want to do
everything we can to preserve it.
New models, however, have arisen. New York and California have led the way in creating energy market platforms at the
retail level very similar to regional wholesale markets. By doing so, these models allow entrants other than utilities to have
full retail access to the customer. This includes those areas that traditionally have been preserved for the distribution/wires
utility. It is clear that technology and potentially competitive opportunities for new entrants are challenging the existing
regulatory paradigm. As distributive, non-wires and behind-the-meter technologies evolve, so will competition where
appropriate. It is imperative, however, that the traditional utility not be precluded from participating in these new markets,
thereby ensuring that these technologies are available to all and are deployed in a manner consistent with customer
demands.
States within the AEP footprint are exploring other models, such as Ohio with its PowerForward Initiative. AEP believes
conversations between the utility and regulators early in the process, similar to those ongoing as part of PowerForward,
provide for an optimal model design to seamlessly enable these technologies to customers’ benefit.
Tax ReformThe Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) enacted in late 2017 reduced the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent,
effective in 2018, and resulted in ongoing rate reductions for customers. The tax bill also maintains the federal income tax
deduction for interest expense for regulated electric companies and preserves the federal income tax deduction for state
and local taxes, resulting in positive outcomes for both AEP and our customers. Additionally, AEP’s FERC jurisdictional
formula rates allow the benefits of tax reform to flow through efficiently to wholesale transmission and generation
customers.
Grid Reliability and Resilience - NERC Oversight
The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) develops and enforces the rules and standards that protect
the North American bulk power system. NERC Compliance Standards and Requirements are rapidly evolving, requiring
increased security and reliability of the grid. This means increased scrutiny of compliance efforts. In response, we are
changing our structure to align with our compliance requirements, ensuring the appropriate focus on the evolving
regulations.
The new structure comprises of three layers of governance with distinct responsibilities. The Reliability Compliance
Committee (RCC) includes AEP’s top executives who are accountable for establishing the vision, mission and culture
expectations of the program. Additional governance teams are all working toward a common goal of achieving
operational excellence in grid reliability and security.
In 2018, we established a multiyear strategic plan for NERC compliance operational excellence. This strategic plan is
being rolled out in 2019, and will focus our work on four areas: governance, program consistency, communication and
culture, and audit readiness.
Although the strategic plan will address all of the NERC standards, it will have a major focus on Critical Infrastructure
Protection (CIP) Standards. The CIP Standards are evolving at a faster rate and represent increased regulation to protect
against cyber threats. To date, new versions of the CIP Standards have significantly expanded the scope of cyber
systems associated with grid reliability.
Our goal is to improve our program and establish AEP as an industry leader in NERC reliability.
Lobbying and Political Contributions
The electric utility industry is undergoing a fundamental
transformation driven by a number of factors, including new
public policies. For the benefit of all stakeholders, we
actively participate in the political process and in lobbying activities at the national, state and local levels.
The investments needed to modernize the power grid are in the billions of dollars, and the stakes have never been higher.
To understand the policies and regulations that could affect our business, we participate in a number of organizations,
lobby on our customers’ behalf and contribute to political candidates, where allowed by law.
Each year, AEP publicly discloses 
lobbying activities
 and 
political contributions
. We also annually report on the portions of
membership dues paid to organizations such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Edison Electric Institute (EEI) that
go toward lobbying. We post our 
lobbying policy online
 and we discuss political contributions annually with AEP’s Board
of Directors’ Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
We have been asked by stakeholders why we belong to some organizations whose positions may conflict with AEP’s. In
general, we believe it is better to be at the table and engaged in the discussion whether or not we are in total agreement.
When we disagree, we voice our concerns and work to change the position. Sometimes we prevail, and sometimes we
do not, but we strive to reach an appropriate position based on the facts available. In addition, many of our customers
belong to these organizations, and this helps us better understand their concerns and needs.
We believe in transparency and active participation in public debate. Our experience is that open, candid discussion and
a good-faith attempt to reach common ground is the best way to do business.ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
At AEP, we are committed to health, safety, financial, operational and environmental compliance while holding ourselves
to a high standard of ethical conduct – always doing what is right.
AEP’s 
Principles of Business Conduct
 places responsibility
for acting legally and ethically with every individual – from the
Board of Directors and management to employees on the
front line. We want employees to speak up, ask questions and report potential violations without fear of retaliation. Our
culture supports the interests of both employees and AEP by maintaining a vigilant approach to practicing compliance
and acting with integrity. We will continue to build a reputation of trust by holding people accountable and taking
appropriate actions when necessary.
In 2018, we updated the Principles of Business Conduct to reflect our cultural transformation and to provide clear direction
on our expectations. For example, we enhanced the section on social media to remind employees that they represent the
company, even when off the job. We also added a section on our supplier diversity initiatives and highlighted the
importance of sustainability and protection of personally identifiable information (PII). We rolled out mandatory training on
the updated Principles to all employees. The training consists of evaluating several distinct scenarios in some of our
higher-risk areas such as conflicts of interest, appropriate use of company assets, fraud, management of PII, intellectual
property and insider information and trading.
The Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board oversees AEP’s Corporate Compliance Program
and receives regular reports from the Chief Compliance Officer.
Our Ethics & Compliance team (including our Chief Compliance Officer) met with employees across AEP in 2018 to raise
awareness of our programming and conduct comprehensive work group culture assessments.
Starting in 2019, all employees will be required annually to complete a conflict of interest disclosure as part of their
mandatory training. This new process of soliciting potential conflicts of interest will be centralized and documented
electronically, allowing our Ethics & Compliance department to review and clear (or flag) conflicts as needed. Our intent is
to share what we learn with employees and managers to continuously set clear expectations for ethical behavior.
AEP also offers a confidential 24/7 hotline that allows employees to report concerns anonymously or to seek guidance on
ethical, safety or compliance matters. Additionally, we created a quarterly “Ethics Hotspot” feature for managers and
supervisors to use while engaging employees on these issues. These “Hotspots” demonstrate what is acceptable or
unacceptable conduct and the associated consequences that come with it.
Our Ethics & Compliance team, with input from Human Resources and Legal, identified areas where we could improve
training. For example, we will begin rolling out a new Sexual Harassment Prevention Workshop for managers in 2019. We
want everyone who works for us to know that abuse of any kind is not only offensive but a violation of company policy and
won’t be tolerated. We are committed to providing a work environment that is free from intimidation and harassment.
As our business makes the transition to a clean energy future, we want to be more closely connected with our customers
and to be a good corporate citizen. It is important to us that our employees are engaged members of their communities
because they carry AEP’s reputation with them wherever they go. We strongly urge our employees to uphold our values
beyond the workplace by always acting with integrity.
ENTERPRISE SECURITY
Like all major infrastructure, the nation’s power grid is subject to an array of threats, from naturally caused phenomena
such as extreme weather to vandalism, terrorism and insider risks that jeopardize reliability, safety and data security. The
stakes are high; our response to an event affects our customers, our reputation and the reliability of the power grid.
Growing risk from third-party products and services has prompted new regulations to protect the grid’s resilience and
reliability. As threats become more sophisticated and massive breaches occur, it is a constant challenge to achieve theAEP’s Defense in Depth approach to cyber and physical security
allows us to deal with threats in real time. These strategies
include monitoring, alerting and emergency response; employee
education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal
activity reporting.
appropriate level of risk management. Our comprehensive
security strategy – known as “Defense in Depth” – assumes
a broader range of possibilities such as physical theft,
unauthorized access to data and incidental threats that do
not specifically target protected systems or assets.
We continue to incorporate cyber and physical security risks
into our enterprise risk management framework. This
provides a more comprehensive approach to understanding
these risks in relation to other enterprise risks. It also allows
us to make security decisions based on the level of risk, as
well as our priorities and resources.
In May 2018, AEP Ohio awarded The Ohio State University
a $250,000 grant to fund research on cyber-resilient power
grids. The research is being done through OSU’s Electric
Power Grid Research Group, which is focused on electric
power distribution networks to make electricity supply more
reliable, secure, energy efficient and environmentally
friendly.
Cyber & Physical Security
New threats and security risks to the electric power grid are constantly emerging as we continue to connect a greater
variety of web-connected devices, also referred to as the Internet of Things (IoT). This includes sensors, routers, drones
and smart devices that are essential to a modern grid, 24/7 business transactions and data transfers. New mobile apps
and services that we develop or buy for customers and our own increasing reliance on cloud-based programs increases
external connectivity to our network, creating new entry points for potential attackers and posing new challenges for grid
security. It is up to each utility to be prepared to contain and minimize the consequences of cyber and physical security
incidents.
We recognize that technology is rapidly changing and that we have to keep pace to stay relevant with customers,
modernize the grid and become more efficient in our work. But the fact remains that the growth of smart energy devices,
which are increasingly decentralized and interconnected, creates more entry points for threats to cause harm. Breaches
can come from anywhere, even a trusted contractor connecting to the AEP network. We’ve put a new security access
program in place to monitor and manage these connections while providing controlled access that allows us to get our
work done. And, we have a new procurement policy prohibiting the purchase of anything that requires connecting to the
network without first following steps to protect the system. We are proactively considering possible ways attackers could
breach our systems, and we are preparing for recovery if a breach occurs, through policies, procedures and technology,
as well as educating our workforce about the growing threat.
AEP learns from and takes actions based on real-world events that occur. Our Defense in Depth approach to cyber and
physical security allows us to deal with threats in real time. These strategies include monitoring, alerting and emergency
response; employee education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal activity reporting. We also maintain
critical partnerships with the public sector, peers and other industries. Through rapid notification and response when
attacks and disasters are underway, we can reduce the impacts of cyberattacks and avoid or mitigate the damage before
the full effect of the threat is realized.
In 2018, AEP established a working group to vet IoT technology to further strengthen our defenses against cyber risks. Our
goal is to align business units with consistent processes and policies to ensure security across the enterprise.
The AEP Foundation awarded Louisiana Tech University a $1 million grant in 2018 to support a new cyber and academic
center in Bossier City, La. The new Academic Success Center located inside Bossier Parish Community College STEM
Building in the National Cyber Research Park will enable enhanced educational services, provide cyber education and
research, support economic development and engage in workforce development activities. This investment will help to
increase opportunities for students to pursue cyber careers and strengthen the future workforce in this high demand field.Drones have great potential to improve efficiency and safety but can also pose physical and cyber risk. 
AEP is seeking to
develop consistent processes and policies for drone usage. 
In 2018, AEP developed a new Drone Governance Team to
identify and implement recommendations that enhance the coordination of AEP’s drone operations.
Security Policy Management
The cyber and physical security of the bulk electric system (BES) is regulated by the federal government through the North
American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards. We are
routinely audited for compliance with federal standards in both cyber and physical security. In addition, the Board of
Directors’ Audit Committee reviews our cyber and physical security efforts, which also are reviewed annually with the full
Board.
To ensure our security controls are comprehensive, effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements, we have
established a robust, collaborative security policy management program that aligns with the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Our resulting policies and standards are jointly developed with AEP’s
business areas, through the Enterprise Security Advisory Council, to maximize adoption and implementation of standard
controls, thereby reducing security risk to AEP.
We classify all BES facilities based on their criticality to determine the level of physical security needed. This approach
allows us to design security controls for new infrastructure from the start, building the costs into capital projects as needed.
It also allows us to be more proactive with new and existing infrastructure while balancing risks with mitigation solutions.
Security Training
Our most important partner in protecting AEP’s cyber and physical security is our people. AEP’s Security Awareness
program reduces risk by promoting security best practices and providing awareness education to our employees and
contractors. The success of our program depends on constant communication and reinforcement. Our goal is to protect
AEP’s assets and information, enable the business to work securely and efficiently, and educate employees and
contractors about their responsibility to keep AEP secure.
We provide annual training on enterprise security, including regulatory compliance. We use web-based training programs,
newsletters, articles, security alerts and road shows to engage employees and contractors. In 2018, we also conducted
phishing email tests and shared security trends and initiatives with employees and contractors. Our training covers a wide
variety of topics such as policies and standards, domestic violence, workplace aggression, personally identifiable
information (PII), password protection, phishing and active shooter situations. We focus on current security topics, such as
techniques for identifying phishing emails, classifying data and protecting personal devices against new vulnerabilities.
Our Security Ambassadors help educate project teams and business units on the risks introduced by new initiatives and
help them identify ways to reduce risk.
Physical threats to our electric infrastructure could target our people, office buildings and substations. Our priorities for
physical security are workplace aggression, threats and attacks by customers against employees, attacks on substations,
and vandalism/copper theft. We address these priorities through training, access control at our facilities and the use of
technology where appropriate. Learn more about our 
employee training for workplace aggression
.
Supply Chain Security
In 2018, we initiated a two-year project to assess the security risks posed by third party vendors. By evaluating their
security controls through a series of questionnaires and on-site assessments, we seek to mitigate AEP’s exposure to
excessive risk. We’ve also added a new set of security requirements to all primary contracts.
In addition, FERC has approved new mandatory reliability standards to protect the BES from cybersecurity risks in the
supply chain. The new and revised standards take effect in June 2020. We have already begun the process of gathering
information and planning for compliance. Our plan is to achieve full compliance when the rules take effect.As technology evolves, more and more devices are participating in cloud computing. While the cloud opens new
opportunities, we must mitigate the additional cybersecurity risks that come with it. We recognize the role of cloud
technology, and we continually work with cloud vendors to secure the solutions they provide that connect to our systems.
As this area evolves, we’ll continue to identify and assess risks as we invest in our technology infrastructure.
ENTERPRISE RISK & RESILIENCY
AEP’s Enterprise Risk & Resiliency team works with business units and operating companies to proactively identify and
mitigate risks, and to respond to and recover from disruptive events. With the collaboration between the Enterprise and
Operational Risk teams, the Enterprise Business Continuity Resilience (EBCR) team and the Crisis Response team,
AEP is able to see the full picture of a hazardous or threat event.
The team is continuously looking for strategic, financial, operational and regulatory risks across the enterprise, and
working with the business units and operating companies to apply our risk management framework. This is the process
we use to identify risks, assess the risks and controls, plan mitigation strategies and monitor risks. This process informs
and prioritizes asset replacement strategies and enables us to make risk-based investment management decisions.
AEP’s EBCR team provides support to the business units and operating companies for planning, preparation and related
activities. This support ensures our organization’s critical business functions and core assets – our people, equipment,
technology, facilities and vendors – will either continue to operate in the event of an emergency, or be recovered to
operational status within a defined timeframe.
Business continuity planning prepares the enterprise when an event happens that disrupts our operations. The threat of a
cyber or physical attack or workplace-related incident is a risk for AEP, as are many other events that could interruptbusiness operations in one or all of our facilities.
In 2018, our Cyber Attack Resiliency Program focused on protecting AEP’s data from a data destruction event, created
operational strategies to sustain the business through an extended business disruption and tested the response and
recovery through an enterprise tabletop exercise.
In addition, in 2018, construction began on AEP’s backup data center. This data center will replace our current disaster
recovery center. The 10,000-square-foot space is expected to be fully operational by 2020 and will serve as the backup
data center for disaster recovery while providing flexibility for business-critical applications and greater resiliency. AEP’s
Crisis Response team drives emergency management planning and preparedness that provides a coordinated and
standardized approach to responding to emergencies. This team is responsible for maintaining and exercising AEP’s
enterprise-wide emergency oversight structure, which includes roles and responsibilities for all levels of leadership and
each specific response plan.
Significant environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, including climate change impacts, are identified and
assessed, and mitigation plans are developed through AEP’s enterprise risk management process. In 2019, we identified
ESG and wildfires as additional risks we are monitoring.
As we have seen through recent events in California, wildfires can represent a serious risk to the electric grid and
surrounding areas. AEP has evaluated and will continue to evaluate as part of its ongoing enterprise risk management
function the risk of wildfires to its system. To the extent that significant risks are identified, the company will appropriately
assess and mitigate these risks as it does other enterprise level risks. In addition, the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) has
launched a new CEO-led task force to address the growing threat of wildfires to the power sector, and AEP is
participating in this ongoing effort.
We have an obligation to maintain reliable service while keeping our customers and our employees safe. We test our
plans to continuously improve our ability to effectively respond and recover in the event of an emergency.
Data Privacy and Protection
AEP collects a significant amount of personal data from customers, employees and business partners. When they share
information with us, we have a responsibility to protect it. AEP’s Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Data Protection
Program seeks to protect and secure the personal data we maintain.
For example, outbound emails containing PII are encrypted or blocked if they are not. We also ask PII owners to confirm
they need the data and that it is properly protected. We also use a Personal Data Portal that allows PII to be securely
transferred into AEP when new contractors come onboard, including information that was historically transmitted via email
or telephone.
Another way we are protecting the data we collect is to classify it based on its sensitivity. In early 2019, we deployed a
data classification tool to make it easier for employees to properly classify data before sharing it. This helps us to
strengthen our data protection program and is a part of our ongoing efforts to build an industry-leading cyber security
program.
AEP continues to advance our data loss prevention program, bolstered significantly by the new data classification tool.
We are expanding our focus to prevent the unsecured transmission of other sensitive information, the loss of which can
have significant regulatory compliance ramifications. Alerts generated from the data loss prevention tools result in
comprehensive response and correction measures, and generate prompts to employees informing them of the
appropriate methods of securely transferring sensitive information to external parties.
We are organizing a formal, enterprise-wide data privacy program to weave together our privacy risks, customer data
monitoring and protection, and controls to prevent the unauthorized loss or misuse of customer data. While we have had
customer data privacy disciplines within the company for years, they have been isolated within each operating company
and business unit without a methodology to ensure that privacy practices are not only effective but also consistent across
our business and evaluated regularly for improvement opportunities.
To support this, we formed a data governance program focused on defining and sustaining the trustworthiness and
“fitness-for-purpose” of data. In the first year of operation, we created governing bodies in three lines of business that are
accountable for decision making, priority setting and resource allocation. In addition, data governance and data
stewardship roles and activities were formalized through policies, standards, and the addition of tools and technologiesfor data quality assessment and management. Through this program, we will better understand where data is located and
develop methodologies to improve how we manage data across the enterprise.SUSTAINABILITY AT
SUSTAINABILITY AT
AEP
AEP
In 2018, AEP was added to the Nasdaq CRD Global
Sustainability Index, one of the leading Global Sustainability
Indexes.
AEP'S STRATEGY FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure that the
production and delivery of energy enables positive social
and economic change for our customers, employees and
communities as we collaboratively shape our future. This is
grounded by our culture of safety, continuous improvement
and customer focus. We commit to aggressively support
economic development, develop innovative solutions,
champion education and make smart infrastructure
investments that power our communities and improve lives.
Learn more
OUR COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our engagement efforts are integral to the success of our strategy for a clean energy future.
Through our commitment to transparency, engagement, candor and honesty we have seen
relationships with our stakeholders transform and become more collaborative. We believe strong
relationships create better partnerships to address issues that can influence or shape our business
future.
Learn more
SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS
In 2018, AEP publicly announced our
Corporate Sustainability Goals in
parallel with our carbon reduction
goals. View the progress made
toward our goals.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The 2019 Corporate Accountability
Report marks AEP’s 13th year of
reporting on our environmental, social
and economic performance.
Download a PDF version of this
report.
PERFORMANCE
SUMMARY
AEP is committed to reporting on our
sustainability performance. View
AEP’s 2018 environmental, social
and economic performance.Learn more
Learn more
Learn more
DISCLOSURE & TRANSPARENCY
Our investors, business partners, suppliers, capital providers, customers and employees
increasingly want to know about the direct impacts AEP’s business has on broader environmental,
social and governance (ESG) issues. Because sustainability encompasses a wide range of ESG
actions and issues, our integrated reporting is one way we demonstrate the connections between
financial and nonfinancial performance, as well as our commitment to transparency.
Learn more
AEP's Sustainability Strategy
In 2018, AEP developed a Corporate Sustainability Strategy that is aligned with AEP’s 2023 Strategy. The purpose of
this strategy is to guide our efforts over the next three to five years as we look to drive customer value, boost employee
engagement, drive innovation, encourage agility, inform our future strategy and manage risks while enhancing our brand
and reputation.
Our Sustainability Strategy has three main focus areas:
Engagement:
 Engage diverse stakeholders who are material to our business, involving internal
business units as appropraite, in order to manage risk and capture emerging opportunities.
Transparency:
 Proactively share data and information about AEP's goals, performance and
strategy to demonstrate that we are listening and responding to stakeholder concerns, needs and
aspirations.
Integration:
 Integrate sustainability into strategy, governance, and operations in order to drive
shared value for our business and society.
For more information about our sustainability strategy, please read AEP’s Corporate Sustainability Strategic Plan.
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
Reporting on AEP’s non-financial performance is as important as reporting on our financial performance. Our investors,
business partners, suppliers, capital providers, customers and employees increasingly want to know about the direct
impacts of AEP’s businesses, as well as broader environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues and trends. As
stakeholders demand deeper levels of transparency, the evolution of corporate sustainability disclosure and reporting has
become more detailed and complex. Because sustainability encompasses a wide range of ESG actions and issues, our
integrated reporting is one way we demonstrate the connections between financial and nonfinancial performance, as well
as our commitment to transparency. AEP has been reporting in this way for more than a decade.
AEP has a robust process for determining material
sustainability issues and disclosure. This process ensures
we are listening to our stakeholders and addressing issues
that are most relevant for our business, as well as choosing the best approach for what we report. AEP defines material
sustainability issues as those that reflect our most relevant economic, environmental and social impacts and contributionsbecause they can:
1
. 
have a significant impact on the company’s finances and/or operations;
2
. 
have or may have significant impact on the environment or society now or in the future; and/or
3
. 
substantially influence the assessments, decisions and actions of our stakeholders.
In 2017, we leveraged Datamaran’s Materiality Analysis tool – a business intelligence tool that uses big data and artificial
intelligence to conduct real-time materiality assessments. This tool enabled us to identify and prioritize the ESG impacts,
risks and opportunities most important to internal and external stakeholders by analyzing a universe of sources such as
corporate reports, global regulations and initiatives, social media and online news. Internal and external stakeholders then
completed a survey to validate the universe of issues.
Through the materiality assessment, our internal stakeholders identified Workforce Safety & Health, Data/Cyber Security
and a Clean Energy Transition strategy as most important, while external stakeholders see Energy Efficiency, Stakeholder
Dialogue & Engagement and Climate Change Strategy as most material. Important to all stakeholders is our commitment
to addressing climate change and executing a strategy to transform our business for a clean energy future. We continue to
view these topics as material in 2019, and we are making progress on their associated goals and strategies linked to
operations and financial performance measurement.
We also take an industry view of priority issues through the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), with which we
participated in publishing its second report on 
Priority Sustainability Issues for the North American Electric Power Industry
in 2017.
AEP’s Priority Sustainability Issues
Sustainability Pillar
Issues
Environmental
Air Emissions
Clean Energy Transition
Energy Efficiency 
Energy Reliability and Resilience
Environmental Performance
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Sustainable Procurement Practices
Waste
Water
Social
Employee Safety and Health
Engagement and Collaboration
Job Satisfaction
Public Safety and Health
Economic
Community Support and Economic Development
Economic Viability of Electric Utilities
Energy Reliability
Energy Affordability
Skilled Workforce Availability
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Now, more than ever, our stakeholders want a voice in determining the future of energy and our company. These
stakeholders include our employees, our customers, our investors and the communities in which we operate. We also
engage “shapeholders” – those who don’t have a direct stake in our success, but exert significant influence over ourbusiness. These include industry groups, policymakers, consumer advocates, professional associations, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), thought leaders, utility peers, and the media.
When we talk to our stakeholders about sustainable electricity, they ask us about resource diversity, advanced
technologies that enable energy efficiency, distributed resources, and regulations and public policies that could affect
future operations or investments. They also want to know our plan for smart, modern infrastructure that informs and
empowers customers and creates a more resilient and robust system. Across the board, the question we are asked most
frequently is whether we are sufficiently prepared for the transition to a cleaner energy economy.
Strategic Priorities for Sustainable Engagement
Our Purpose:
Inspire and engage our stakeholders to co-create a sustainable energy future and make a positive difference.
Customers
Improve our ability to partner with sustainability-oriented customers to meet their needs, prevent
disintermediation and promote regulatory and policy changes that support a cleaner energy future.
Employees
Engage and empower our people to lead the future of sustainability at AEP to attract and retain the
best talent and succeed in our transformation journey.
Investors
Leverage sustainability to position AEP as an attractive investment, and prevent divestment.
NGOs
Strengthen NGO-AEP relationships and continue to raise awareness internally about NGO activities
to capitalize on collaboration opportunities.
Communities
Strengthen our brand and stakeholder relationships locally to build support for infrastructure
investments and new programs and services.
Policymakers
Proactively engage policymakers to enable our clean energy strategy.
Customers
AEP’s customer-centric culture includes a commitment to better anticipating and serving their needs. By engaging with
our customers, we can identify energy solutions that help them save money, use energy more efficiently, and achieve their
own energy and sustainability goals. Customers are also an important voice to bring into the conversation with
policymakers, as we design and seek approval for investments to realize a cleaner energy future and advance innovation
and technology.
In May 2018, we convened a customer meeting featuring a two-way dialogue about potential solutions to enhance the
customer experience. We not only strengthened our relationships with customers, but also learned about the issues they
care about most. Additionally, we met with customers at the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance and through our work with
the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Clean Power Council. These interactions focused on opportunities for co-creating
solutions to meet customers’ business needs. Many customers share AEP’s vision for a clean energy future and have
goals for carbon reduction and renewable energy, and they are looking to us to help them meet their goals.
To deliver solutions that meet customers’ needs, we are leveraging both our regulated and competitive businesses. We
bring our whole team to the table, recognizing that being flexible can mean the difference between a satisfied customer
and a missed opportunity. This gives us greater flexibility to deliver on customer expectations. For example, several large
customers contacted AEP after hearing of our new carbon reduction goals. They wanted to learn more about potential
opportunities to work together since they have similar goals.
In addition, we are actively engaged with the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) Customer Solutions Advisory Group, which
meets with large customers regularly to understand their concerns and issues and collaborate on solutions. The group ismade up of EEI utility members and large commercial and industrial customers. One pain point identified through both the
EEI group and the Clean Power Council is the need for timely greenhouse gas emissions data to help customers more
accurately calculate their carbon footprint. EEI and WRI have teamed up to develop a template for providing customers
this data, which will be piloted in 2019. AEP is also working to make it easier for customers to gain access to more timely
information.
Communities
From hosting open houses and gathering public input about new transmission projects to developing a resource plan that
meets a community’s energy and capacity needs, AEP is committed to being open, accessible, honest and responsive.
To us, it’s all about relationships. Community and landowner involvement is very important to AEP where significant
investment in critical electric infrastructure is vital to the communities we serve.
AEP Transmission’s project outreach team uses open
house events, interactive project websites, visual simulation,
fact sheets, direct mail and other proactive tools to gather
input and work with stakeholders. This proactive approach
promotes transparency and two-way communication,
ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and gives
directly impacted property owners and communities a voice
throughout the process. In 2018, project outreach specialists
supported 514 projects across AEP’s system and hosted
32 community open house events. We engaged one-on-one
with landowners to acquire more than 5,300 easements for
transmission rights-of-way, which translates into more than
80,000 interactions with directly-involved property owners.
In late 2018, Indiana Michigan Power Company (I&M) collaborated with the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana, on the Spy Run
Extended project to restore and enhance a transmission right-of-way that passes through a city park and along a
greenway trail. This project was the final piece of the Powering Up Central project, one of five Powering Up Indiana
projects to replace aging transmission infrastructure and improve reliability for customers. Thanks to a partnership
between I&M and the City of Fort Wayne, we created environmentally balanced habitats in an important recreation area of
the community.
Appalachian Power hosted five open houses to meet customers where they live and listen to their concerns and
questions. About 350 customers in Logan, Beckley and Elkview, W.Va., Grundy, Va., and Kingsport, Tenn., took
advantage of the meetings, where our employees provided information on a range of issues, including electric bills,
service reliability and energy efficiency.
Investors
The universe of environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings and rankings continued to expand in 2018, as did the
demand for ESG-related information. Climate change, governance, risk and strategy continue to be the main focus;
however, increasingly, investors are looking more closely at companies’ social performance to see how they are
delivering profits while making a positive contribution to society. Many institutional investors issued clear intentions to
consider ESG performance in their investment decisions, demonstrating the drive for more robust disclosure and
engagement.
In response to this growing interest, we’ve sharpened our focus on ESG and responded to 10 ESG investor-focused
surveys in 2018. In addition to the surveys, AEP published a 
2018 Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future
 report,
which is solely devoted to addressing climate-related risk management, scenario analysis and governance, as well as
opportunities and challenges. This report provides significant additional disclosure on how AEP is managing its transition
to a clean energy/low carbon future, as well as setting new mid- and long-term goals for carbon emission reductions.
Part of this engagement included a productive year-end meeting with a group of investors that was led by our CEO andLead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors. During our meeting we shared our progress toward a clean energy future. The
discussion was open and candid, and we agreed to continue the dialogue. We remain committed to engaging with AEP’s
ESG-focused investors and other interested stakeholders to understand what they expect from AEP and to inform them of
our progress as we execute our strategy.
As part of its oversight role, the Board monitors climate risks and reviews opportunities that may be realized with climate
change and other issues, including technology changes, renewable energy and energy efficiency. As AEP continues to
transition its business, the Board works with senior management to adjust plans as needed to respond to rapid change in
the industry, including technology and public policy. Management identifies and incorporates significant ESG issues,
including climate change impacts, into the business strategy. We believe our ESG performance is linked to our ability to
create long-term value for our shareholders.
In recognition of AEP’s overall financial and nonfinancial
performance and commitment to ESG, in 2018, AEP was
added to the Nasdaq CRD Global Sustainability Index, one
of the leading Global Sustainability Indexes. The Index
measures the performance of 400 public companies
executing a business strategy for shared value focused on
long-term value creation, financial returns, environmental
performance and positive societal impact.
AEP is also highly engaged within our industry through the
Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) ESG/Sustainability reporting
effort. AEP is a member of the EEI committee that created a
template to provide electric industry investors with more
uniform and consistent quantitative and qualitative ESG and
sustainability-related metrics. This was done in collaboration with institutional investors and ESG research organizations
who specialize in asset management, ESG/sustainability, investment banking, and buy-side and sell-side research. We
piloted the report in 2017 and issued the first formal report in 2018. We intend to publish this report annually. In addition,
the EEI ESG Committee meets twice per year with investors to check and adjust the template, ensuring it remains
relevant in today’s rapidly changing ESG landscape.
Non-Governmental Organizations
Our engagement efforts are integral to the success of our strategy for a clean energy future. For more than a decade, we
have been engaging with various non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including environmental organizations.
Through our commitment to transparency, engagement, candor and honesty we have seen these relationships transform
from adversarial at times to complementary and collaborative. We believe strong relationships with NGOs create better
partnerships to address issues that can influence or shape our business future.
Throughout 2018, AEP engaged with numerous NGOs to seek their feedback and educate them on several important
sustainability issues. We asked them for input as we developed a new stakeholder engagement strategy, and they
acknowledged the value of having access to AEP leaders and commended our commitment to engagement and
transparency. AEP’s sponsorship of the Electric Power Research Institute’s Electrification Conference enabled several
NGOs to attend and learn about the technologies, challenges and opportunities of electrification. Additionally, Ceres,
Sierra Club, Environmental Defense Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and Clean Air Task Force
members joined AEP executives and several large customers for an in-person meeting at the conference. We also held
meetings in Columbus, Ohio, with NRDC and The Nature Conservancy. In addition, we communicated with NGOs about
key events, leadership changes and updates on our clean energy strategy as they occurred.
Clean Power Council
The World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Clean Power Council (CPC) is a two-year collaboration composed of U.S. electric
utilities and major commercial and industrial customers from the technology, manufacturing, automotive, retail and
hospitality sectors. The CPC is committed to the rapid deployment of low-carbon energy supply and increased use ofbeneficial electrification through innovative and mutually beneficial utility sector solutions. The main work streams for the
group are to address customers’ needs for GHG data as well as fleet electrification opportunities. In early 2019, WRI/CPC
joined with the EEI Customers Solutions Advisory Group to address the GHG need. For more information on the CPC,
please 
visit the WRI website
.
AEP'S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
In 2018, AEP publicly announced our Corporate
Sustainability Goals in parallel with our carbon reduction
goals. Our sustainability goals are guided by AEP’s
Strategic Framework for Sustainable Development, which
provides context for our core business and a roadmap to
implement throughout our value chain. We support our goals
with metrics and methodologies to measure performance
against our business plan and across our operations.
AEP employee teams developed the goals to ensure we
effectively assess and communicate the return on
investment (ROI) and shared value we create for AEP and all our stakeholders. We mapped our sustainability goals to the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to further demonstrate how we create shared value for our
business and society. In 2020, we will begin to report on the connections between AEP’s performance and the SDGs.
Specific to our carbon reduction goals, AEP has a target to reduce carbon dioxide emissions (CO
) from our generating
facilities by 70 percent by 2030 and by 80 percent by 2050 (from a 2000 baseline). To meet these targets, we are
investing in cleaner energy such as wind and solar and advancing technologies to enable a smarter, more efficient power
grid. We are leveraging our scale, experience and partnerships to help find new ways to better serve our customers. And
we are taking part in initiatives such as the Free Electrons global energy accelerator and IlluminationLAB, which both help
AEP identify innovative ideas from startup companies around the world on technologies that add value for customers.
For more information on our carbon reduction goals, please 
see Carbon & Climate
.
Corporate Sustainability Goals
AEP’s Strategic Framework for Sustainable Development
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure that the production and delivery of energy enables positive social and
economic change for our customers, employees and communities as we collaboratively shape our future. This is
grounded by our culture of safety, continuous improvement and customer focus. We commit to aggressively support
economic development, develop innovative solutions, champion education and make smart infrastructure investments that
power our communities and improve lives. AEP is leading by example by setting strategic performance targets and goals,
and we are guided by these key principles:
Be a catalyst for change
Advance environmental stewardship
Help to build strong local communities
Develop a brighter energy future
2019 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
UPDATE
Download Report
2STATEMENT OF AEP’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports from management about the company’s sustainability initiatives
and financial reporting, policy matters, and social and economic performance. These issues are the subject of active
discussion at Board meetings and Board committee meetings.
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s sustainability initiatives to the
Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance (the Committee). This report provides a comprehensive
account of AEP’s performance, integrating financial with sustainability reporting. Stakeholders have expressed approval
and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting, and the Committee fully
supports this approach.
Throughout the year, the Committee and company management review and discuss AEP’s sustainability initiatives in the
context of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues impacting the company. Our ability to create long-term
value for our shareholders is linked to our ESG performance. This comprehensive report reflects our commitment to
transparency on these issues.
The 2019 Corporate Accountability Report provides robust disclosure about AEP’s 2018 performance as well as a
forward look of the company’s 2023 strategy. This report describes AEP’s ongoing transition to a clean energy future,
including progress toward achieving carbon dioxide emissions reduction goals. It also outlines how the company is driving
innovation to deliver on its customer promise, improving efficiencies for operational excellence, and preparing our
workforce for the future.
The Committee believes this document provides a clear presentation of the company’s strategy and of its ESG
performance. The Board has emphasized that management will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the
company’s strategic plan, including its ability to respond to changing circumstances.
Thomas E. Hoaglin
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors and Chairman of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
May 2019
2019 AUDIT STATEMENT
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of select company performance statements within the 2019 AEP
Corporate Accountability Report that were deemed to have reputational, financial, or compliance aspects. Financial
information was reconciled with AEP's audited financial statements and other sources as deemed appropriate. Non-
financial statements were substantiated with applicable source data. Forward-looking information was verified as
consistent with other public information disclosed by AEP.
Based upon our limited review, we believe the performance information contained within the Report is appropriately
stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and nonfinancial information were reasonable.
Andrew Reis
Vice President Audit Services
May 3, 2019Customer Emissions Report
In this summary, we provide the AEP system-wide and operating company specific greenhouse gas emission rates which
can be used to calculate emissions associated with customer’s 2017 and 2018 energy use.
Supplemental GHG Emissions Data
View Report
EEI ESG/Sustainability Reports
AEP participates in an EEI-led stakeholder working group composed of electric companies and financial industry
specialists in asset management, ESG/sustainability, investment banking, and buy-side and sell-side analysts to develop
industry-focused and investor-driven ESG/sustainability reporting practices. The effort encourages voluntary reporting of
ESG/sustainability information in both quantitative and qualitative formats and is the first and only industry-focused and
investor-driven ESG reporting framework.
The EEI ESG/Sustainability Report template provides information in a measurable and consistent format for investors and
customers to accurately assess long-term ESG/sustainability progress. Within the quantitative section, companies report
sector-specific information, including data on a company’s portfolio, emissions, capital expenditures and resources. The
use of these universal metrics provides comparable data. The qualitative section provides an opportunity for companies
to share additional information and context about their ESG/sustainability governance and strategy.
AEP’s 2018 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report highlights the company’s emission reductions and clean energy strategy,
which is focused on modernizing the power grid, expanding renewable energy resources and delivering cost-effective,
reliable energy to its customers.
AEP’s 2019 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP’s 2018 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP’s 2017 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
GRI Reports
AEP’s 2019 Corporate Accountability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The
GRI Standards provide a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for
sustainability reporting. We are also using the Electric Utility Sector Supplement for reporting on industry-specific
information.
AEP's 2019 GRI Report
AEP's 2018 GRI ReportAEP's 2017 GRI Report
AEP's 2016 GRI Report
AEP's 2015 GRI Report
CDP Reports
AEP’s commitment to transparency includes responding annually to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
surveys on carbon, water and supply chain. We have been reporting to CDP for almost a decade on the carbon survey
and have participated in the water survey since it began. These surveys are important to our stakeholders, particularly
investors.
CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure,
disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. To ensure easy access to our responses for our
stakeholders, we are providing a three-year archive of our CDP reports.
2019:
CDP Climate Report – AEP’s 2019 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Report – AEP’s 2019 Response
 (PDF)
2018:
Carbon Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2018 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2018 Response
 (PDF)
2017:
Carbon Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear,
accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. AEP's Performance Summary and Sustainability
Goals section of this report, reflects our commitment to
transparency by proactively sharing data and information
about our sustainability goals, strategy and environmental,
social and economic performance. This demonstrates that
we are listening to our stakeholders and addressing issues
that are most relevant for our business.
Environmental Performance
Emissions
 
2016
2017
2018
2019 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
UPDATE
Download ReportCO
 (Metric Tons)
93,460,481
72,344,128
68,732,609
Mercury (lbs)
675
432
417
SO
 (US Tons)
99,443
75,677
68,646
NO
 (US Tons)
65,118
52,490
49,915
Waste
 
2016
2017
2018
Total Coal Combustion Products Generated (Tons)
8,660,027
6,240,397
4,846,451
Total Coal Combustion Products Diverted from Landfill (Tons)
2,866,085
2,556,315
3,730,803
Water
 
2016
2017
2018
Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons per day)
197.88
157.61
132.10
Freshwater Withdrawal (Million Gallons per day)
4,970.00
4,914.53
4,172.84
Energy Efficiency
 
2016
2017
2018
Incremental Annual Electricity Savings (MWh)
1,055,046
1,032,000
1,022,257
Avoided CO
 Emissions (Metric Tons)
 -
886,000
525,189
Social Performance
Safety & Health
2
2
x
2 
2016
2017
2018
Employee and Contractor Days Away, Restricted or Job Transfer Cases (DART rate)
0.542
0.507
0.446
Employee Fatalities
4
2
1
Public Fatalities
11
5
6
Leadership Diversity
 
2016
2017
2018
Total Number of Employees
17,701
17,666
17,582
Total Number on Board of Directors/Trustees
12
12
12
Total Women on Board of Directors/Trustees
3
3
3
Total Minorities on Board of Directors/Trustees
2
2
2
Economic Performance
Economic Impact
 
2016
2017
2018
Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)
$4,934 Million
$6,045 Million
$5,964 Million
Economic Development Contributions
$6,800,000
$621,000
$1,323,038
Jobs Supported by AEP's Economic and Business Development Efforts
18,000
18,000
14,700
Wages, Incentives and Fringe Benefits
$2.3 Billion
$2.3 Billion
$2.3 Billion
Charitable Giving
$20.9 Million
$16.8 Million
$25.5 MillionLocal Taxes
$750 Million
$817 Million
$827 Million
State Taxes
$349 Million
$353 Million
$339 Million
Federal Taxes
$141 Million
$198 Million
$80 Million
Supply Chain
 
2016
2017
2018
Total Supplier Spend
$6.2 Billion
$7 Billion
$6.9 Billion
Local Based Supplier Spend
$3 Billion
$3.1 Billion
$3.4 Billion
Small Business Spend
-
-
$971 Million
Diverse Supplier Spend
-
-
$365 MillionENVIRONMENT &
ENVIRONMENT &
CARBON
CARBON
CLIMATE CHANGE
For more than a decade, AEP has engaged various stakeholders on the impacts, risks and opportunities associated with
climate change. Today, AEP’s transition to a clean energy economy is making good progress as the path forward begins
to come into sharper focus. We are achieving carbon dioxide (CO
) emissions reductions on pace with our goals for 2030
and 2050. In 2018, AEP’s CO
 emissions were approximately 59 percent lower from a 2000 baseline.
Learn more
2
2
MANAGING CLIMATE RISK
In our 
Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future
 report we outlined our risk management process,
which includes executive management and board oversight for climate risk. We agree that climate
change is a significant issue facing AEP and other companies, and it is one of many material issues
for which we manage and plan. We have a robust enterprise risk management process to do this.
Learn more
WATER
Water is an increasingly important
sustainability issue for society and
our company. We have a
responsibility to manage this
resource to mitigate our impacts and
reduce consumption where we can.
Learn more
WASTE
AEP remains committed to diverting
waste from landfills through beneficial
reuse or recycling to minimize our
environmental impacts.
Learn more
CONSERVATION
As stewards of the ecological
richness of our geographies, we
remain committed to protecting the
habitats in which we live and operate
by taking the necessary steps to
ensure wildlife protection.
Learn moreENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Our commitment to operational excellence includes complying with all applicable environmental
regulations and being good stewards of natural resources. To help us achieve the level of
excellence we strive for, we push ourselves toward prevention, accountability, engagement and
continuous improvement.
Learn more
CLIMATE CHANGE
For more than a decade, AEP has engaged various stakeholders on the impacts, risks and opportunities associated with
climate change. Today, AEP’s transition to a clean energy economy is making great progress as the path forward begins
to come into sharper focus. We are reducing carbon dioxide (CO
) emissions at a faster pace than our 2030 goal
anticipated and remain on track for at least an 80 percent reduction in 2050, from a 2000 baseline.
In 2018, AEP’s CO2 emissions were approximately 59
percent lower from a 2000 baseline, compared with a 2030
goal to reduce emissions 60 percent. We will likely exceed
our goal a decade ahead of schedule because carbon emission reductions are occurring at a faster pace than
anticipated. As a result, we committed to our stakeholders that we would revisit this goal in 2019. Consequently, we are
raising our 2030 goal to 70 percent from a 2000 baseline.
A number of factors give us confidence in our ability to achieve this new level of carbon emission reductions:
AEP’s integrated plans propose to add more than 8,600 MW of new wind and solar generation and more than
1,600 MW of new natural gas generation to its regulated resource portfolio by 2030
The recent retirements of two coal-fueled units in Ohio
Plans to retire two additional coal units in Ohio and Texas in 2020
Plans to retire two coal units in Oklahoma and Indiana later next decade
Increasing levels of energy efficiency throughout the economy
Greater penetration of distributed resources
Operational efficiencies
Technology advancements
Regarding our 2050 goal, we are now confident that we will exceed our 80 percent targeted reduction and, furthermore,
our aspiration is zero emissions. Simply put, carbon emissions are an unwanted by-product of providing our customers
the energy they need and we will continue to look for ways to reduce emissions. While other utilities have set zero or net-
zero carbon goals, before taking that step, we need greater clarity of the path to zero between 2030 and 2050. There
remain large uncertainties in technology and the cost associated with such emission reductions. 
We are continuously
evaluating technologies and resources needed to reliably and cost-effectively serve our customers. As we manage this
transition, we will continue to go at an appropriate pace while engaging our regulators to ensure our actions are in the
public interest.
We have been consistently candid about this. We are confident that additional reductions in emissions are probable, as
the electric power grid becomes a more efficient optimizer of all resources and advanced technologies. We remain
committed to our current decarbonization path, and we will continue to review these targets annually as we view them as a
work in progress. Through this report, stakeholders can follow our progress.
Managing Climate Risk
In our 2018 report, “
American Electric Power: Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future
,” we outlined our risk
management process, which includes executive management and board oversight for climate risk. We agree that climate
change is a significant issue facing AEP and other companies, and it is one of many material issues for which we
2manage and plan. We have a robust enterprise risk management process to do this, and in 2019, climate change was
formally added to AEP’s enterprise risk “watch” list.
As part of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, particularly investors, we often get asked about climate risk and
oversight. AEP’s 2018 clean energy report has helped guide stakeholders on our overall process, but subsequent
conversations have identified additional opportunities for disclosure. For instance, we have received questions about
AEP’s board expertise in climate change.
Our board is elected based on providing a diverse mix of viewpoints, skills and experiences relevant to managing a large
corporation. Relevant experience to the board in addressing climate impacts comes from managing long-term changes in
investment strategy, operations and technology use, in which our board has considerable expertise.
The Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance receives updates at every regular meeting about AEP’s
environmental performance. In addition, the Board’s Policy Committee (which comprises the entire Board) invites
speakers to share varying viewpoints on a wide variety of topics. In 2019, the Board heard from an outside climate
change expert.
Each year, the board’s lead director conducts outreach to AEP’s largest institutional investors. In 2018, about a dozen
shareholders requested meetings. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, including climate risk, were
discussed with nearly all of them.
At AEP, employee incentive compensation is tied to our environmental performance and our clean energy transition. For
example, 9 percent of annual incentive compensation is tied to performance related to investing in infrastructure for the
benefits of our customers, including transmission investments and increasing renewables in our portfolio.
We have new renewable options we are pursuing in 2019, including wind projects with Public Service Company of
Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company and solar projects in AEP Ohio and Appalachian Power. In
addition, we are investing $2.2 billion in contracted renewables by 2023, which was accelerated in 2019 with the
acquisition of Sempra Renewables.
Significant environmental, social, and governance issues, including climate change impacts are identified and assessed,
and mitigation plans are developed through AEP’s enterprise risk management process.
Climate Opportunities
While climate change is often framed as a risk for electric utilities, there are distinct opportunities provided by the potential
pathways for carbon reductions. Many sectors of the economy face potentially higher costs to achieve emissions
reductions. Electrification can provide a pathway for carbon reductions that is more cost-effective and achieves the
significant emission reductions our customers and society want.Beneficial electrification allows AEP to invest capital in assets to serve the incremental load on the system. This
investment provides a return for AEP shareholders while giving customers access to environmentally beneficial
technology, as well as clean sources of energy. Additionally, when customer usage grows, we can spread the cost of fixed
investments over a broader base of customers. This helps reduce customer charges per kilowatt-hour (kWh), providing an
economic benefit to all customers.
Electric transportation is the biggest opportunity for electrification. Today, transportation is the largest contributor to U.S.
carbon emissions. However, transportation is becoming increasingly electrified as more consumers purchase electric
vehicles (EVs), helping to reduce CO
 emissions from this sector. AEP will continue to support electric vehicle adoption
through investments in charging infrastructure, offering charging options that lower customer costs and optimize the
efficiency of the grid, as well as advocating for sensible public policy in this space. We have deployed a network of vehicle
charging stations at our own facilities, and our network now represents one of the few large corporate workplace EV
infrastructure deployments in the U.S. AEP has also been 
marketing other electrification opportunities
, with the potential to
make emission reductions in other sectors.
Opportunities to invest in low-emission technologies and earn a return on equity for our shareholders is another potential
avenue of growth as we address climate risk. Renewable technologies such as wind and solar are especially attractive to
investors and customers because they are mainly capital investments. Most of the cost of electricity is tied to the capital
investment, which provides universal access to clean energy for all customers while enhancing earning opportunity for
shareholders. For example, coal and natural gas plants have fuel costs that are passed through to customers. Investing in
renewables benefits customers in that they become insulated from unpredictable fuel costs over time because there is no
direct fuel cost associated with renewables. This has a positive impact on customers in the form of more stable bills.
Scenario Analysis
Stakeholders are increasingly asking companies to analyze potential risks associated with climate change consistent with
international goals to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (and potentially 1.5 degrees Celsius). AEP has also
received requests to conduct scenario analyses consistent with these global targets. This is a complex process,
especially when there are so many differing recommendations, methodologies and tools for doing it. In 2018, AEP joined
a research study with the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to better understand current scientific knowledge of
climate policy scenario analysis and how it might apply to our own analysis.
The 
EPRI study
 evaluated the relationship between global temperature goals and a company to identify pathways for
reducing emissions. The findings provided clarity of the fact that this is a process laden with many different pathways to
choose from. AEP has not conducted a 2-degree analysis because we believe the uncertainties – from new and unknown
technologies and other externalities – are so significant that they would make AEP’s analysis of many of the proposed
recommendations misguided. It would also undermine our credibility and be costly for customers and shareholders if the
wrong pathway were to be unknowingly chosen.
AEP is a large and diversified energy provider that faces a multitude of potential challenges, risks and opportunities that
could have implications on our business model. Our current business model includes electric distribution, transmission
and generation. Generation has increasingly become a smaller share of our capital investment and asset base over time
due to unit retirements and asset divestitures. Therefore, modeling scenarios relating solely to climate policy objectives
(and the associated effect on generation choices) do little to inform our overall business strategy.
Changes in regulation, technology, economic growth and customer preferences have been present throughout AEP’s
history and will continue to provide uncertainty in business planning and strategy going forward. To explore different
outcomes, AEP does review and test planning assumptions through the use of informative scenarios that encompass all
relevant factors that may influence our operations in the future, including technology, public policy, regulation, market shifts
and customer preferences.
AEP’s generation portfolio is modeled through the Integrated Resource Planning (IRP) process, which looks at portfolios
of energy and capacity that can be used to serve customer demands in the future. These are evaluated under a range of
assumptions, most notably changes in potential carbon regulation and fuel costs. The current IRPs show an increased
reliance on renewable energy and decreased reliance on coal. While we did not conduct a specific 2-degree analysis,
these plans led AEP to establish a 2050 goal for carbon reduction, which we believe is consistent with plausible emission
pathways toward achieving a 2-degree climate future.
2Environmental Public Policy and Regulation
Several significant developments occurred in 2018 relating to carbon regulation of the electric sector. In August 2018, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule to replace the Clean
Power Plan with new emission guidelines for regulating CO
 from existing sources. ACE would establish a framework for
states to adopt standards of performance for utility boilers based on heat rate improvements for those boilers. In
December 2018, the EPA filed a proposed rule revising the standards for new sources and determined that partial carbon
capture and storage is not the best system of emissions reduction because it is not available throughout the U.S. and is
not cost-effective.
We actively monitor these rulemakings and generally support both rules, as we believe they are more consistent with the
language of the Clean Air Act than what was proposed in previous rulemakings. As the rules are both still in the proposal
stage, it is unclear what the final rules may dictate or what may be the ultimate impact on AEP, its emissions or customer
costs.
AEP believes that the existing Clean Air Act is an ineffective vehicle to regulate carbon emissions. We have long
maintained an economy-wide legislative approach to address carbon is the preferred route for climate action. A
legislative approach would allow for proper consideration of costs, benefits, rate of emissions reductions, incentives for
technology development and all associated economic impacts with input from all stakeholders. With a new Congress in
2019, a variety of legislative solutions are likely to be discussed and debated, including, but not limited to, renewable
mandates and carbon taxes. AEP will remain engaged in the climate policy debate to address the interests of customers,
investors and policymakers.
2
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Our commitment to operational excellence includes complying with all applicable environmental regulations and being
good stewards of natural resources. To help us achieve the level of excellence we strive for, we push ourselves toward
prevention, accountability, engagement and continuous improvement.
The primary federal statutes we are subject to include the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, Endangered Species Act and Safe Drinking Water Act. 
Environmental regulations developed under these
laws are periodically revised and it is critical that we stay current with changes to them to ensure we remain in compliance.
While some regulations have an unclear path forward, there are many others that we must comply with and new ones thatOne way we check on our own compliance is through internal
audits which provide additional focus on controlling risks and
providing assurance.
are still being finalized.
As the scope and stringency of environmental regulations
evolve, we are faced with technical, operational and
financial challenges that are common for our industry. These
challenges include uncertainties with timing, scope and
magnitude of future environmental regulations, which
influences our decisions to upgrade or retire generating
units. They also impact the planning process for new
generation and transmission projects across our industry.
Our facilities are subject to a variety of environmental,
regulatory and permitting requirements at the federal, state
and local levels with which we must comply. Our goal is zero
– zero violations of environmental regulations or laws and
zero enforcement actions. We are subject to routine
environmental inspections of our facilities through scheduled
and unannounced visits. During these visits, regulators
inspect physical facilities and monitor our compliance with regulatory requirements, permit limits and record-keeping
obligations.
Whenever agencies identify concerns, we work with them to address those issues in a timely fashion. This could include
identifying and implementing any corrective measures that may be needed to mitigate future risks.
REGULATIONS UPDATE
Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS)
The final MATS Rule became effective on April 16, 2012, and required compliance by April 16, 2015. This rule currently
regulates emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) from coal- and oil-fired electric generating units through emission
rate limits. The rule has been subject to both judicial and regulatory review since it was finalized; AEP has been complying
with the rule for several years. One of the key questions raised in the review process is how compliance costs are factored
into the need for the rule.
In December 2018, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released a proposed finding that the costs of
reducing HAP emissions to the level in the current rule exceed the benefits of those emission reductions. The EPA also
determined that there are no significant changes in control technologies and that the remaining risks associated with HAP
emissions do not justify any more stringent standards. However, the agency also proposed that it would not remove the
source category or alter MATS and no further reductions are necessary. AEP is generally supportive of these proposed
findings as our units are in compliance and we made significant investments in emission controls to achieve compliance.
Effluent Limitation Guidelines
In November 2015, the U.S. EPA issued a final rule revising effluent limitation guidelines for electricity generating
facilities. The rule establishes limits on flue gas desulfurization (FGD) wastewater, fly ash and bottom ash transport water
and flue gas mercury control wastewater, to be imposed as soon as possible after November 2018 and no later than
December 2023. The rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and in March 2017 by industry
associations, including groups AEP is part of, who filed petitions for reconsideration of the rule with EPA. The agency
granted those petitions and is actively working on revisions to the requirements for FGD wastewater and bottom ash
transport water.
In the interim, a final rule revising the compliance deadlines for FGD wastewater and bottom ash transport water to be no
earlier than 2020 was issued in September 2017. A draft rule regarding FGD wastewater and bottom ash transport water
is anticipated by May or June 2019, with a final rule to be issued by December 2019. We have actively engaged with the
EPA during this rulemaking to ensure the agency has the best technical and cost information as it makes decisions on
possible changes.Waters of the United States
In December 2018, the EPA and U.S. Army Corp of Engineers released a proposed rule revising the definition of “Waters
of the United States” (WOTUS), which would replace the previously revised definition finalized in a 2015 rule. The term
WOTUS is used in a number of environmental regulations to determine when certain federally mandated permits or
activities involving waterbodies are required. 
Examples that are commonly applicable to AEP’s facilities and projects are:
Wastewater and/or stormwater discharge permits that are required under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program,
A permit and any associated mitigation as required from the Corps of Engineers for impacts to wetlands and other
waterbodies; and
When an oil spill prevention plan is required to be written and implemented under the federal spill prevention
program.
The delineation of jurisdiction between federal and state responsibilities in maintaining the integrity of waterbodies is a
core issue in this rulemaking. The outcome of this rulemaking will directly affect the level of permitting required for AEP
projects.
Our responsibility to environmental compliance will continue for requirements that remain effective at AEP-owned
properties where generating units have been retired. This includes many existing state environmental requirements, in
particular those related to the management of water and coal-combustion byproducts. We continue to work closely with
regulators and our local communities as we move through the decommissioning process.
We actively participate in the development of regulations at the federal, state and local levels to ensure that new
requirements are achievable, based on sound science, consistent with statutory authority and balanced with other
rulemakings. New requirements should also consider the cost of compliance for customers and allow sufficient time for
compliance. For full disclosure on other regulations affecting AEP, please 
read our 10-K
.
CHECKS AND BALANCES
One way we check on our own compliance is through internal audits. Audits provide additional focus on controlling risks
and providing assurance that robust compliance processes are developed and implemented system-wide. In 2018, we
conducted internal audits of environmental programs at 49 locations.
Environmental audits reveal areas where performance related to regulatory requirements and company policies may be
improved, such as recordkeeping details, inspection criteria, training topics and equipment configuration. Auditors also
work to recognize practices that go beyond requirements to bring about robust and sustained compliance. Although
reports are site-specific, results – including best practices – are aggregated and shared systemwide to improve
performance throughout AEP.
DRIVING CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
AEP’s Generation business unit has long used metrics to encourage self-reporting of events and to improve
environmental performance. An Environmental Performance Index (EPI) was established to set annual goals related to
opacity, water discharge permits and oil and chemical spills at our generating facilities. In the past, the EPI tracked only
events where we had immediate and significant control. Our incentive compensation within the Generation group is also
tied to EPI performance.
In 2017, we expanded the EPI to include all reported events specific to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit expectations and spill events. By expanding the focus to all events, we are increasing awareness on
prevention, which encourages sharing as we learn and drives us to be more proactive in protecting the environment.
We set annual targets focusing on continuous improvement as we strive for zero enforcement actions and zero events. In
addition, AEP’s Generation organization instituted an Environmental Good Catch program, similar in manner to our safety
and health Good Catch program. “Good Catch” is an observation or recognition of a condition that could lead to a
reportable environmental event and the subsequent actions taken by employees to correct the situation to prevent the
event from occurring. This demonstrates AEP’s commitment to an engaging and accountable culture – using knowledge-
sharing and lessons learned to prevent future non-compliance events.Environmental compliance is a high priority for the lifecycle of every project we undertake. In our Transmission business,
where a great deal of construction work is taking place, project teams must complete a mandatory environmental
compliance training program. Our environmental specialists and engineers also provide support to ensure we achieve full
compliance with environmental permit requirements. This is important to us as we invest approximately $3 billion annually
to modernize transmission infrastructure across the country.
EMISSIONS
AEP has made, and continues to make, significant long-term investments in environmental controls to reduce the impact
of how we generate electricity. Between 2000 and 2018, AEP invested approximately $9 billion in environmental controls
that are primarily related to the Clean Air Act and have significantly reduced emissions. Since 1990, AEP reduced its
annual emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO
) and nitrogen oxide (NO
) by approximately 96 percent and 92 percent,
respectively. Since 2001, AEP reduced its annual mercury emissions by approximately 95 percent.
In 2018, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission approved Indiana Michigan Power Company’s (I&M) plan to install
selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology on the second of two units at the Rockport Plant. The $274 million SCR
project will reduce nitrogen oxides (NO
), adding another form of clean-coal technology to the plant. The SCR project
follows the installation of Dry Sorbent injection technology, which was added to both Rockport units to reduce sulfur
dioxide (SO
) emissions. The project is scheduled to go into service in the spring of 2020.
Additional information about mercury is located within the 
Toxics Release Inventory program
. Read more information
about 
carbon emissions
.
2
x
x
2NEW SOURCE REVIEW
In 2007, AEP signed a court-approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. In 2013, a modification to the
decree was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. The modification
lowered a systemwide SO
 emission cap for AEP plants that becomes increasingly stringent through 2029.
We report annually on our compliance with the consent decree requirements. The reports are available here:
2018 NSR Annual Report
2017 NSR Annual Report
2016 NSR Annual Report
2015 NSR Annual Report
2014 NSR Annual Report
2013 NSR Annual Report
2
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water quality, availability, use and management are increasingly important sustainability issues for society and our
company. We are continuing to take steps to reduce our water consumption, improve water quality and address water
availability issues as we comply with current regulations and prepare for new ones.
Water is essential for the production of electricity. Currently, 91 percent of power generated by AEP requires water. Water
is used in the steam electric process to cool equipment, scrub flue gas and transport combustion byproducts – and
hydroelectric power is completely derived from the energy of flowing water. The water we use is generally returned to its
original water source. Water consumption occurs when some of the water is lost to evaporation or to a water-consumptive
process, such as flue gas scrubbing. Our captive barge fleet operates on several rivers and relies on consistent water
levels to maintain operations, delivering fuel and other supplies to our generating facilities. Our coal and natural gas
supply chains also rely on water to mine the coal and extract the natural gas.
As much as we need access to water, we also have a responsibility to manage this resource to minimize potential
impacts and to reduce consumption. As AEP continues to diversify its generating portfolio and retire coal generation
capacity, our water use will continue to decrease, and we have already significantly reduced our water footprint through
plant retirements.
Since 2013, we have reduced our water use from 7,349 million gallons/day (MGD) to 4,173 MGD – a reduction of nearly
43 percent. During that same time period, we have reduced our water consumption by almost 58 percent from 315 MGDto 132 MGD.
We participate in collaborative industry research to find new
ways to reduce the use and consumption of water by power
plants. In 2019, AEP received two Electric Power Research
Institute (EPRI) Technology Transfer Awards, which were the
result of research projects involving our western fleet. The
first was the study of three AEP power plants and the use of
alternative water supplies and transfers between water
basins. The study provided understanding of the drivers for,
and implications of, using alternative water sources. For
example, the use of reclaimed municipal wastewater for the
Comanche Plant in Oklahoma resulted in cost savings for
Public Service Company of Oklahoma customers and
revenue for the City of Lawton, while eliminating our need for
fresh water.
The second award recognized the application of case study
research at our John W. Turk, Jr., Plant in Arkansas. The
plant normally uses water from the Little River, a tributary of
the Red River, which is a source of high dissolved solids
that has affected plant operations. For example, during 2018, the Red River was flowing at a higher-than-normal level near
the plant while the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was attempting to perform repairs on the nearby Lake Millwood spillway
upstream of Turk’s intake.
The Corps’ activity allowed poor-quality water to approach the Turk Plant’s water intake system. The case study looked at
on-site alternatives (adding pond storage capacity) and a watershed-based solution. The results found that by working
with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to optimize water releases from the nearby reservoir, AEP could address the
plant’s water needs and provide a net benefit of $5 million through avoided generation curtailments or the need to build
additional water storage capacity.
We are also working with EPRI to test the application of a water footprint tool. A water “footprint” is the amount of water
used in the production of the goods or services by a business – for example, the amount of water needed to make a pair
of jeans or to produce a kilowatt of electricity. This analysis will help us better understand how we use water resources,
which will support better water management, reporting, benchmarking and disclosure activities at AEP’s generation
facilities.
Water Use Reporting
Because we place a high value on the importance of transparency, AEP extensively reports on our usage and
management of water throughout our system in different forums. We do this through both required reporting, such as the
U.S. Energy Information Administration, and through voluntary reporting efforts. For example, we participate annually in the
CDP Water Survey
. The 2018 questionnaire was issued on behalf of 655 investors representing $87 trillion in assets who
seek business-critical information about water consumption and water use strategy and planning. In addition, AEP
provides extensive water data in our 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report
.
As part of our disclosure, we report if our ability to generate electricity has been compromised by inadequate water
(droughts or poor quality) or too much water (floods). For example, in 2018, a 500-year flood event occurred at our Indiana
Michigan (I&M) hydroelectric projects on the St. Joseph River in Michigan. In some of these areas, the St. Joseph River
crested at levels two feet higher than the prior record. The flood impacted our ability to generate electricity and disrupted
distribution service to the flooded areas. In response, we created detailed standard work procedures to address the
changes we need to make in our work during times of high-water events. This includes operating spillway gates at certain
plants or electrically disconnecting the hydro projects. We also purchased additional equipment to use during flood events
and created a staffing plan to enable 24/7 coverage at the plants during emergency events.
Water Management in High-Risk Areas
AEP operates several power plants in areas that necessitate the careful use of water. Since 1999, the Texas Commissionon Environmental Control has mandated that all Texas water rights holders implement a water conservation plan. Each
entity is required to have voluntary, site-specific five-year and ten-year water conservation goals that must be updated
every five years. Annual updates must be filed with the Texas Water Development Board. We have comprehensive water
conservation plans in place for the Oklaunion, Pirkey, Welsh, Wilkes and Knox Lee Power Plants. In 2017, the plants
conserved an estimated 1,700 million gallons through these plans, demonstrating their effectiveness.
We also have a Drought Contingency Plan in place for the Knox Lee Plant, and we have to comply with Drought
Contingency Plans for three water providers we secure water from to operate the plant. These plans are based on the
storage volume of area reservoirs. We work with water providers to ensure the plans call for reasonable actions.
AEP is also participating with other water users during water supply planning efforts. Texas is divided into 16 regional
water planning groups that are charged with developing cost-effective solutions to ensure adequate water supply for all
users in their regions. The regional water plans are incorporated into the state water plan, which is updated every five
years. By frequently planning for future water supplies, the state is able to plan for and finance water supply projects that
are needed by communities, big and small.
Watershed Protection
Water is important to power production, but it’s also essential for agriculture, drinking water and economic growth. In
addition to planning for water needs, the states of Texas and Arkansas have initiatives to protect watersheds, in which
AEP participates. For example, AEP Texas participates in a state-mandated effort to quantify necessary environmental
flows for streams and rivers. Environmental flows are the properties of water flow that strengthen or support aquatic
ecosystems and human livelihood.
In addition, AEP participates in voluntary efforts to protect the watershed of Caddo Lake, a Ramsar Convention
designated wetland area. The Caddo Lake Ramsar wetlands is one of only 26 such sites in the United States and were
the 13th site to gain this designation. In Arkansas, AEP is actively involved in the Illinois River Watershed Partnership,
including planting trees to stabilize riverbanks.
WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING
We manage many types of waste resulting from the process of providing electricity, operating office buildings, and
repairing and replacing equipment. We continue to reduce and divert waste from landfills through beneficial reuse or
recycling to minimize our environmental impacts caused by waste.
The amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-containing equipment used across the company continues to decline.
PCBs, which are known to have adverse health effects, have not been used in new electrical equipment in the U.S. since
1979 but are present in some of our older transformers and other pieces of electric equipment. We removed and recycled
approximately 46,500 pieces of electrical equipment in 2018, of which 1,400 contained PCBs at regulated levels.
While we had approximately 1,200 transmission and distribution equipment oil spills in 2018, only two of the spills
contained greater than 500 parts per million (ppm) PCBs. Most spills are caused by severe weather and public vehicle
accidents that damage the equipment. Regardless of the cause, we respond immediately to each spill to clean up the
materials released, notify regulatory agencies where required, and restore areas to pre-spill conditions.
During 2018, the waste we recycled included approximately 382,000 pounds of paper and mixed office waste, 50.5
million pounds of scrap metal, 40,200 pounds of light bulbs, 216,000 pounds of batteries, and more than 234,000 pounds
of electronic equipment, such as computers and phones. We also recycled nearly 400,500 gallons of used oil. These
numbers are not all-inclusive but are considered a good representation of waste management across AEP and show
progress in reducing waste.
AEP reports through the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) program, part of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-
Know Act (EPCRA). EPCRA requires companies with 10 or more employees, in certain industries, to collect and publicly
disclose information about how they manufacture, process or use any of nearly 650 chemicals on a special list developed
by the U.S. EPA. Read more on our 
TRI website
.Coal Combustion Residuals
Coal ash disposal and handling came to the forefront nearly a decade ago and has since been subjected to a new federal
rule covering the handling, disposal and storage of coal combustion residuals (CCR). Coal ash is AEP’s single largest
waste stream.
CCRs are the solid material left over after coal is burned to generate electricity. For decades, many state environmental
agencies regulated landfills and surface impoundments where CCRs are placed. In 2015, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) established minimum federal rules for storage and disposal of these materials. These minimum
requirements were designed to be self-implementing and enforced by the public.
In March 2018, EPA proposed revisions to the CCR rule in order to address provisions of the April 2015 final rule that
were remanded back to EPA and to provide states with approved CCR permit programs the ability to set certain
alternative performance standards. EPA has indicated its intent to complete additional rulemaking by the end of 2019.
CCR Rule Implementation
AEP remains committed to handling coal ash disposal in a
way that puts safety first while protecting the environment,
minimizing impacts to the communities near our facilities
and managing our customers’ costs.
AEP is in the midst of a multiyear plan to address the
company’s use of coal ash disposal areas. Currently, AEP
has responsibility for 31 CCR ponds and landfills that fall
under the CCR Rule. We have posted a large number of
documents, including structural stability assessments, initial
closure plans and inspection reports on our public website.
We have also posted on our website all monitoring data and
reports required by this program, including groundwater
monitoring reports, and location restrictions for all ponds
and landfills covered by the CCR Rule.
In February 2019, we reported statistical data related to
potential groundwater contamination for four of our power plants. Outreach was conducted with the surrounding
communities as well as around another nine plants with regulated CCR units. In addition to informing the nearby residents,
we offered to test the wells of neighbors who wished to have that peace of mind. We will continue to engage with our
neighbors on these issues, sharing information on an ongoing basis and conducting public meetings to discuss
management of our facilities. All of our reports and required documentation are available online at our dedicated 
CCR
Rule Compliance site
.
Beneficial Reuse
CCRs have long been used in concrete, wallboard and a wide variety of construction materials. While this benefits other
industries, it also provides a source of financial and environmental benefits to AEP. In February 2014, the EPA completed
a risk evaluation of the beneficial uses of coal fly ash in concrete and flue gas desulfurization (FGD) material and gypsum
in wallboard, and its conclusions support these beneficial uses. Coal ash and other residual products from AEP’s
generating facilities are used in the production of concrete and wallboard, as structural fill or soil additives, as abrasives
or road treatment materials and for other beneficial uses. By diverting the coal ash to beneficial uses, we are reducing the
need for waste disposal sites.
In 2018, AEP generated more than 4.8 million tons of CCRs and was able to beneficially use more than 1.8 million tons, or
nearly 38 percent of the total produced. Beneficial use of CCRs (considered to be products if they are beneficially used)
avoided more than $28 million in disposal costs in 2018 and generated more than $11 million in revenues.NUCLEAR WASTE MANAGEMENT
The U.S. Department of Energy oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has charged fees to
plant owners for this disposal. However, the government stopped developing the Yucca Mountain storage facility in
Nevada, leaving generators with no place for permanent disposal.
Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we face a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel. We
need a national solution for the long-term disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which should be part of a national energy plan.
The uncertainty associated with long-term storage places the burden of interim storage on each nuclear facility. AEP is
addressing this issue through dry cask storage on the assumption that a workable off-site solution will not exist before the
current operating licenses for both Cook units expire in 2034 and 2037.
In 2012, AEP’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman, Michigan, began a program of loading spent nuclear fuel into
dry casks. The latest loading campaign took place in 2018, bringing the total to 44 dry casks that have been loaded into
storage. The casks are designed to withstand tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, sabotage, missiles, aircraft and
temperature extremes. They are licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and meet all applicable security,
environmental and radiological requirements.
The current cask storage facility is designed to store 94 casks for a total of 3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This
would support the operation of both units through the current operating license dates of 2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit
2. The pad could be expanded to facilitate removal of all fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel pool and full
decommissioning of both units.
Nuclear plant operators are required to maintain a plant decommissioning trust fund to safely decommission and
decontaminate the plant upon closure. At the end of 2018, the trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately
$2.2 billion.
On July 17, 2018, AEP completed the sale of a portion of its
ReCreation Lands in southeastern Ohio to the State of Ohio,
creating a new state park named in honor of Jesse Owens.
WILDLIFE PROTECTION
Many of AEP’s business decisions involve finding the right
balance between environmental protection and economics.
Compromises are often necessary, yet it can be difficult to
please all stakeholders involved. AEP is not immune to
these issues and always strives to balance the needs of our
stakeholders with the need to protect the environment and
keep the lights on.
In 2018, AEP authored a chapter in the book, “Sustainable
Electricity II: A Conversation on Tradeoffs,” that examines
how some of those tradeoffs have played out for AEP over
time. The book describes the many challenges we are faced
with while managing a 60,000-acre tract of land in
Southeastern Ohio and how we achieved a balance
between the needs of the local community and of other
stakeholders. The book also includes case studies of how
AEP resolves some of the toughest choices facing electric
power companies today.
As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure across our service territory, such as transmission or renewable
generation facilities, we are mindful of the potential impacts we may have on wildlife. This includes species protected
under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act.
As careful stewards of the ecological richness of our geographies, we take the necessary steps to ensure wildlife
protection. We remain committed to protecting the habitats in which we live and operate.Avian Protection
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and others have worked
together to understand why and how birds collide with or are electrocuted by power lines.
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company-specific Avian Protection Plans to mitigate the risks
associated with bird interactions with electric facilities. We completed our Plan in 2013, and we continue implementing it
today. The plan’s purpose is to reduce the incidences of bird electrocutions and collisions with AEP’s equipment, and to
reduce the frequency of bird-caused outages.
We take avian protection into account when we design and engineer new facilities. When birds interact with electrical
equipment and cause outages, it impacts service to our customers. For example, the design of the BOLD® transmission
line is shorter in stature than traditional transmission lines and structures. Benefits of this design include reduced nesting
because of the curved arm, and reductions in both collisions and electrocutions, which are less likely with shorter
transmission towers.
AEP manages interactions between birds and power lines through a system-wide program across our 11-state service
territory, where a wide variety of bird species can be found. Currently, AEP’s primary challenge is on larger species that
are more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on poles, or to collide with towers and lines.
The Plan has several key components:
Employee training and compliance
 – We educate our employees and provide training on compliance with all
federal and state laws. Our goal is to be proactive in preventing bird collisions and electrocutions.
Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures
 – We have a process to incorporate bird
safety into the design of new lines and facilities.
Nest management and avian enhancement options
 – We apply bird-safety tactics such as installing a
dedicated de-energized pole for bird nesting or bird diverters to keep them away from wires.
Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies
 – We continue to improve our monitoring and
reporting capabilities to allow us to be more proactive.
Public education
 – We promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation and work cooperatively with
federal and state agencies and nonprofit organizations.
Avian Conservation Efforts
In April 2018, Indiana Michigan Power Company (I&M) transmission crews worked with local conservationists to protect a
nesting Red-tailed hawk that was located within a construction zone. One of the nesting platforms that we installed in
various locations was occupied by Red-tailed hawks. To avoid disturbing the birds, which are protected under the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, our crews stopped all work within the vicinity of the platform so we could inspect the nest and
determine next steps. For the transmission project to continue, we had to move the platform and the nest, which contained
eggs.
We secured a State Migratory Bird Permit and contacted Soarin’ Hawk Raptor Rehabilitation Center, a nonprofit raptor
foundation from Fort Wayne, Indiana, to help us move the platform without impacting the nest. Once the platform and nest
were moved, we kept an eye on it. In time, the eggs hatched and the mating pair are still using the nesting platform.
Habitat Conservation Plans
AEP’s infrastructure modernization program requires balancing business needs with environmental protection. With the
magnitude of our construction activities, it is inevitable that we will come in contact with, or potentially have an impact on, a
range of species. One way we are addressing this is by working with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) to
establish Habitat Conservation Plans (HCP).
In 2018, the USFWS finalized its environmental review and issued a permit to AEP related to the American burying beetle
(ABB). This beetle is listed as endangered, and the permit and associated HCP gives us a mechanism to comply with theEndangered Species Act (ESA). The permit covers portions of Arkansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas – where AEP
currently has operations or the potential for future development.
The cooperative stewardship effort with the USFWS helps AEP continue operating efficiently and provide safe, reliable
electricity to our customers while assisting in the conservation of the ABB and its habitat through mitigation and
minimization measures. The program aims to conserve and recover the endangered species.
We also continued development of a 30-year, system-wide multispecies HCP. Development of the HCP began in 2016
and covers several species potentially affected by our transmission construction activities. During 2018, we continued to
refine the list of species covered by the plan, which currently includes five bat species, four bird species, the eastern
massasauga rattlesnake and the rusty-patched bumble bee.
We are also working closely with wildlife protection agencies in each of our states to ensure the HCP will be consistent
with their goals and regulations. Administered by the USFWS, the HCP will enable transmission construction activities
with potential impacts to endangered species to proceed without agency consultation on a project-by-project basis. The
plan will cover construction activities in all 11 states in which we currently operate.
This HCP is important because it will not only protect the covered species but also generate cost and time savings for our
customers and AEP. Portions of the draft HCP are currently under review by USFWS, and we have initiated the required
third-party review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). In 2019, we anticipate having a complete HCP
ready for public review.
Monarch Butterfly Conservation Plan
In August 2014, the USFWS received a petition to list the
monarch butterfly under the Endangered Species Act (ESA)
due to its notable decline in recent years. In December
2014, the agency made an initial finding that a status review
was appropriate and it is currently gathering information to
determine whether the monarch needs protection under the
ESA, with a listing decision anticipated June 2019.
During the summer, monarchs can be found throughout the
United States, particularly in areas where milkweed, their
host plant, is available. Each year, monarchs undertake a
multi-generational migration of thousands of miles to and
from overwintering and breeding areas. These areas
significantly overlap AEP’s generation and transmission
network.
An ESA listing for the butterfly could affect our ability to build new or replace old infrastructure as well as impact vegetation
maintenance activities. We are well-positioned to participate in an effort to manage habitat within our right-of-way (ROW)
corridors to help the butterfly and avoid an endangered species listing.
As a result, we have joined a conservation initiative with the USFWS to develop a Candidate Conservation Agreement
with Assurances (CCAA). A CCAA is a formal agreement between the USFWS and one or more parties to address the
conservation needs of a candidate species before the species becomes listed as endangered or threatened. Property
managers voluntarily commit to conservation actions that will help stabilize or restore the species and avoid a listing. The
University of Illinois-Chicago is coordinating the development of the collaborative monarch CCAA, which includes AEP as
well as other power companies, oil and gas companies and state departments of transportation.
CONSERVATION AND STEWARDSHIP
We value and practice environmental stewardship and conservation across our service territory. Whether throughreclaiming former industrial land for outdoor recreation areas such as nature trails and campsites, to integrating
conservation measures into new and rebuilt transmission lines, AEP takes steps to preserve our natural ecosystem,
especially as we grow our business.
In 2018, the Generation organization included in its business plan a commitment to executing at least 25 targeted
environmental stewardship activities over a five-year period. Work is underway to determine how these goals can be
achieved.
Flint Creek Eagle Watch
Southwestern Electric Power Company’s (SWEPCO) Flint
Creek Power Plant in northwest Arkansas has been home
to the Eagle Watch Nature Trail for almost 20 years.
SWEPCO Lake, the coal-fueled power plant’s reservoir,
attracts wintering American bald eagles, making it a perfect
place for bird watching. The 65-acre area opened to the
public in 1999, and includes a trail and pavilions to provide
a safe place from which to view visiting the bald eagles and
other species.
In 2018, plant staff and volunteers built a new walkway to a
viewing pavilion that extends out over a marshy section of
the lake frequented by eagles and many other birds and
wildlife. Groups, such as the Northwest Arkansas Audubon
Society, visit the site to view birds and other wildlife along
the quarter-mile walking trail. Current and retired plant
employees lead field trips and coordinate many other activities at the site.
Flint Creek was awarded Conservation Certification by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) in 2018, in recognition of the
plant’s commitment to environmental stewardship. We received the certification for habitat enhancement programs,
including tall grass prairie restoration, nesting boxes, pollinator garden landscapes and other bird habitat improvements.
Flint Creek has held certification under the WHC’s Corporate Lands for Learning and Wildlife at Work programs since
2004 and 2005, respectively, and since 2016 when the two programs were combined into the Conservation Certification.
From Mine to State Park
Beginning in 1947, surface mining operations helped convert millions of tons of coal into electric power for Ohio
customers. When the mining stopped in the early 2000s, AEP began efforts to reclaim the land for public use. On July 17,
2018, AEP completed the sale of a portion of the land to create a new state park named in honor of Jesse Owens, turning
it over to the State of Ohio.
At more than 13,000 acres, the Jesse Owens State Park and Wildlife Area is poised to become one of the state’s largest
parks once future sales are complete, attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors each year for fishing, canoeing, hiking,
camping and other outdoor activities.
The transfer of land to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR) was part of our ReCreation Land program,
which seeks to ecologically reclaim Ohio land that was once surface-mined for coal. Throughout the history of this
program, AEP has planted over 63 million trees, created 380 campsites and established 350 lakes and ponds stocked
for fishing. As of February 2017, 58,800 acres have been reclaimed in Ohio through the program.
In 2018, we received an Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) Energy and Environment Sector Technology Transfer
Award for our work in assessing the remaining property acreage set aside for the Jesse Owens State Park and Wildlife
Area. Moving forward, we will apply the results of this work to estimate the potential value of remaining ReCreation Land
property and to make decisions regarding the divestment of the property for future environmental mitigations and eco-
asset transactions.Pollinator Week
During Pollinator Week (June 18-24), AEP joined other power companies across the country to raise awareness about
the crucial role of pollinators in flower and plant fertilization, and about our efforts to facilitate pollinator population growth
through vegetation management. We highlighted Pollinator Week through social and internal media and provided
anecdotes, photos and information on how AEP supports pollinators throughout our 11-state service territory. In addition
to social media posts, numerous photographs were displayed on the large interactive video screens in in our
headquarters lobby in Columbus, Ohio. We will continue to participate in this effort in 2019.
Right-of-Way Conservation
AEP partners with a number of communities and nonprofit organizations for voluntary initiatives and projects that benefit
pollinators and other wildlife. As part of these ongoing efforts, we partner with EPRI to create pollinator initiatives and
right-of-way (ROW) vegetation management studies. One such initiative created a biodiverse prairie habitat on a
transmission ROW near Newark, Ohio, in partnership with the nonprofit Dawes Arboretum. As part of this effort, we
planted native prairie species in six test plots along the ROW, which includes forest and farmland habitat. In the first year
of monitoring, researchers documented rich biodiversity: nine bee species, 21 bird species and nine butterfly species.
Over the next few years, researchers will continue monitoring the site’s habitat quality, erosion control and tree growth.
ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND HEALTH PHILOSOPHY
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony
with environmental protection.
ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect people and the
environment by committing to:
M
aintain compliance with all applicable Environment, Safety and Health (ES&H) requirements while pursuing the
spirit of ES&H stewardship.
E
nsure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into their
business functions.
S
upport continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention.
H
azard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety improvement.ENERGY &
ENERGY &
TECHNOLOGY
TECHNOLOGY
INNOVATING FOR A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE
“A clean energy future requires a combination of resources, innovation and technology. It also requires a hard look at how
the traditional regulated utility business model treats innovation, because business-as-usual is not a viable option. We are
thus advocating for changes that reward innovation in the energy industry while pursuing innovation along a number of
parallel tracks.”
–Nick Akins, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
SUSTAINABLE ELECTRICITY
Today's age of technology, innovation and disruption is transforming the electric industry. We have
to be agile, innovative and more efficient to respond to this rapidly changing environment, stay
relevant to our customers and be competitive in new markets. We see sustainable electricity as
being cleaner, more technologically advanced, cost-effective and efficient.
Learn more
TECHNOLOGY &
INNOVATION
Innovation has been fundamental to
AEP’s growth and development
throughout our history. We are
harnessing new, digital technologies
to create a smart, distributed grid.
Learn more
GRID MODERNIZATION
Today, customers expect their
electric service to be more flexible,
efficient and reliable. In response, we
are modernizing and strengthening
the grid to meet their needs today
and in the future.
Learn more
BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION
We envision a future where beneficial
electrification creates new
opportunities for growth, fewer CO
emissions, greater mobility, and
optimization of the grid for all
resources and technologies.
Learn more
2
ACCESS TO CLEAN ENERGY
As technology advances, we envision universal solar or wind projects that incorporate low-cost andreliable energy storage. We are working with some of our large customers on this type of approach
because it can provide a dual benefit of clean energy and resilience for the customer and the grid.
As we do this, we are protecting the universal access to the grid that we believe all customers
deserve.
Learn more
SUSTAINABLE ELECTRICITY
Today’s age of technology, innovation and disruption is transforming the electric industry. A changing fuel mix, falling
power prices, increasing demand for renewables, the surge of distributed energy resources, higher customer
expectations, and a deeper focus on cybersecurity and grid resilience are the catalysts for change. We have to be agile,
innovative and more efficient to lead in this rapidly changing environment, stay relevant to our customers and be
competitive in new markets. We see sustainable electricity as being cleaner, more technologically advanced, cost-
effective and efficient.
We are diversifying our resource mix to serve our customers’ needs, with an eye to the future of an electrified economy –
the use of electricity to power not only buildings but also transportation systems and industrial processes. We must
manage the transition carefully to protect the reliability and resilience of the power grid. At the same time, we envision a
future where beneficial electrification across industry sectors creates new opportunities for growth, fewer CO
 emissions
economy-wide, greater transportation mobility, and optimization of the grid for all resources and technologies.
When we think about sustainable electricity, we look across the value chain to include fuel resources as well as
transmission and distribution, energy efficiency, advanced technologies such as battery storage, distributed resources
and data analytics. These give us the information we need to proactively operate and maintain the grid more efficiently.
That’s what our “all of the above” strategy is all about. At the center of this is our commitment to deliver an exceptional
customer experience.
Our first obligation is to serve our customers with safe, reliable, reasonably priced and increasingly cleaner electricity and
to maintain the reliability and resilience of the power grid. AEP’s current business strategy and resource plans reflect a
comprehensive and diverse approach to meeting those needs efficiently and cost-effectively. Our plan includes:
Near-term investments in renewable energy within and outside of our service territory
Technology deployment
Modernization of the grid to optimize all resources and technologies with significant investments in our transmission
and distribution systems
Increased use of low-carbon-emitting generation resources, such as natural gas
Advancement of our integrated resource plans with regulators
Energy efficiency and savings through technology, energy management and conservation programs on both sides of
the meter
Demand response programs
Increased integration of distributed resources, including community and large-scale renewables
Optimization of our existing generating fleet
Support for advancing low-carbon fossil technologies
We have already made significant progress in reducing our carbon emissions from our early commitment as a founding
member of the Chicago Climate Exchange. In 2018, AEP’s CO
 emissions were approximately 59 percent lower from a
2000 baseline, compared with a 2030 goal to reduce emissions 60 percent. We will likely exceed our goal a decade
ahead of schedule because carbon emission reductions are occurring at a faster pace than anticipated. As a result, we
committed to our stakeholders that we would revisit this goal in 2019. Consequently, we are raising our 2030 goal to 70
percent from a 2000 baseline. Regarding our 2050 goal, we are now confident that we will exceed our 80 percent
targeted reduction and, furthermore, our aspiration is zero emissions.
These goals reflect our current business strategy but will challenge us as our operating environment evolves. A
2
2combination of factors gives us confidence in our ability to achieve these reductions, including an aging coal fleet, our
growing investments in clean energy and the potential of new and emerging technologies to make the power system more
efficient, more decentralized, fully integrated and digitized. Read more about this in 
Carbon & Climate
.
RESOURCE PLANNING & DIVERSITY
As a regulated utility, we must provide our customers with reliable energy at all times. To meet this demand in a cost-
effective manner, we use a long-term approach to resource planning. We determine our energy and capacity needs well
into the future so we may find the best mix of energy resources at reasonable costs to our customers. Achieving this
proper energy mix requires a balance of both renewable energy sources – such as solar, wind and hydro – and 24/7
sources such as natural gas, nuclear and coal.
Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) provide a snapshot of a potential future generating mix, based on today’s assumptions.
An IRP is not a commitment to a specific course of action, as the future is uncertain and decisions relating to AEP’s
generation resources are subject to regulatory approval. Rather, it is a roadmap that shows the amount, timing, cost and
type of potential future resource additions to meet customers’ future energy needs at a reasonable cost.
Our publicly filed IRP’s use a planning horizon of 10 to 20 years. They demonstrate how we will meet customer demands
for reliable and affordable energy and allow us to estimate future emissions from our generation resources. The potential
for carbon regulation has been part of our IRP process for many years and provides an important market signal when we
are determining resource needs and costs.
To develop our IRPs, we systematically evaluate and balance multiple issues, including the increasingly complex existing
and pending environmental regulations, technology advancements, changes in pricing fundamentals, load growth
forecasts, energy efficiency advancements, growth in customer-adopted distributed resources and other complexities.
Additionally, many IRP processes include stakeholder outreach.
“The Stakeholder Committee of the Southwestern Electric Power Company’s (SWEPCO) 2018
Integrated Resource Planning process would like to commend the company on an excellently
prepared IRP and a thoroughly collaborative process. The Arkansas Public Service
Commission (PSC) IRP Guidelines underscore the importance of a robust stakeholder
engagement process, and SWEPCO has exceeded those Guidelines. Even when SWEPCO
and the Stakeholder Committee disagreed, SWEPCO still performed additional analysis at the
request of the Stakeholder Committee and provided rationale.”
Once an IRP is developed, it is filed with the state regulatory commission. In some states, the commission will approve the
IRP, determining that the plan is reasonable and in the public interest for its intended purpose.New IRPs filed by SWEPCO and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) call for significant additions of renewable
energy. If approved, these additions would result in significant customer savings of fuel costs.
Read about the details of these and other projects in our 
Regulated Renewables
 discussion.
AEP Operating Company by State
Case Number/Docket
Southwestern Electric Power Company – Louisiana
SWEPCO LA I-33013
SWEPCO’s LA DRAFT 2019 IRP
Southwestern Electric Power Company – Arkansas
SWEPCO AR Doc.07-011-U
Public Service Company of Oklahoma - Oklahoma
Docketless Case
Kentucky Power Company 2016 IRP - Kentucky
Case NO. 2016-00413
Appalachian Power Company – Virginia
Case NO. PUE-2016-00050
Appalachian Power Company – West Virginia
Case 15-2003-E-IRP
Wheeling Power Company – West Virginia
Case 15-2004-E-IRP
Indiana Michigan Power - Indiana
Docketless Case
RENEWABLES
According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration
(EIA), roughly 36 percent of new generation sources brought
online in the U.S. in 2018 were renewables. This marks the
first time since 2013 that renewables accounted for a
minority of new generation capacity in the U.S. Despite this
recent slowdown, renewable energy sources are becoming
further integrated into the national energy mix as technology
advances and customer demand for clean power increases.Transmission is important to connecting renewables to the grid. Electric Transmission Texas (ETT), a joint venture
between AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy, is interconnecting renewable generation in Texas at an impressive rate.
For example, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) issued a final order in September 2018 approving the Foard
City Wind Project in less than four months. The new 345 kV transmission line in Foard County, Texas, will interconnect the
350 MW Foard City Wind Farm facilities to the grid. The project is expected to be placed in-service in May 2019.
As renewable energy becomes a larger part of AEP’s clean
energy future, we asked a sampling of our customers about
their preferences. Prior to announcing two new solar
projects totaling 400 MW in Ohio, AEP Ohio commissioned
a study to better understand customers’ attitudes and
expectations for renewable energy. Navigant Consulting
found a strong majority of customers believe it is important
we make greater use of renewable energy, supporting our
IRPs and energy strategy. Our new sustainability goal is to
increase regulated renewable energy on our system by
approximately 8,000 MW (per our integrated resource plans
and pending regulatory approval) by 2030 and continue to
expand competitive, contracted renewables. 
However, AEP
needs support from state regulators to be able to invest in
clean energy resources within our regulated utilities.
In September 2018, AEP Ohio filed a plan with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) to support the
development of 400 MW of solar power in the state’s Highland County as part of a 2016 commitment to develop 900 MW
of renewable resources in the state. This filing represents the single largest clean energy commitment in Ohio history and
would more than double the state’s renewable generation capacity. If approved, the projects would add 4,000 construction
jobs and 150 permanent jobs, add approximately $24 million in new state tax revenue, and save customers an estimated
$200 million over the 20-year life of the project compared with other sources for electricity.
AEP Ohio currently receives renewable generation service
from the Wyandot Solar Farm near Upper Sandusky, Ohio;
Fowler Ridge in Benton County, Indiana, and Timber Road
in Paulding County, Ohio. Wyandot produces 10 MW of
energy, and Fowler Ridge and Timber Road each produce
about 100 MW.
As technology advances, we envision universal solar or wind
projects that incorporate low-cost energy storage to
minimize or smooth intermittency on the grid and increase
reliability. We are working with some of our large customers
on this type of approach because it can provide a dual
benefit of clean energy and resilience for the customer and
the grid. As we do this, we are protecting the universal access to the grid that we believe all customers deserve.Regulated Renewables
We continued efforts to expand our regulated renewable portfolio across our service territory. Based on current resource
plans, up to 3,766 MW of solar energy and 5,050 MW of wind energy additions are projected to come online between
2020 and 2030.
Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) are currently
evaluating proposals for new wind energy projects expected to be operational by the end of 2021. SWEPCO is seeking to
add up to 1,200 MW of wind energy, and PSO is seeking up to 1,000 MW of added wind capacity. These new projects
will comprise multiple smaller-scale installations, each with at least 100 MW in capacity.
Projects must qualify for at least 80 percent of the federal Production Tax Credit, and those that are selected will be
reviewed by the appropriate state and federal regulatory commissions. SWEPCO and PSO anticipate filing for regulatory
approval in the third quarter of 2019. The new projects will add to SWEPCO’s 469 MW of existing wind energy through
power purchase agreements with facilities in Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas, and PSO’s 1,137 MW of existing wind
energy in Oklahoma.
In November 2018, Appalachian Power (APCo) began seeking proposals to acquire up to 200 MW of new solar energy
projects in Virginia. This is in response to the Virginia Senate’s passage of Bill 966, requiring APCo to build or acquire
new solar generation before 2028.
In early 2019, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (SCC) approved APCo’s proposal to provide its customers
with the opportunity to purchase 100 percent renewable energy at a modest premium. The renewable energy will come
from APCo’s existing or planned renewable resources. Participants who use 1,000 kWh of energy per month will pay an
additional $4.25 per month.
Meanwhile, Kentucky Power issued a request for proposals (RFP) in 2018 to add up to 20 MW of solar energy to meet
growing customer interest in renewables. The project will be located within Kentucky Power’s service territory and is
expected to be operational by the end of 2021.In 2018, AEP Renewables formed a joint partnership to re-power
roughly 350 MW at two previously wholly-owned Texas wind
farms, Desert Sky and Trent Mesa.
+ click to enlarge
Contracted Renewables
As we balance our resource portfolio mix with renewables,
we are looking beyond our traditional service territory for
investments. We offer low cost of capital and energy project
expertise to potential partners, creating attractive solutions
to energy customers. This is especially appealing to
companies, universities and municipalities that often have
their own renewable energy goals.
Between 2019 and 2023, we plan to invest $2.2 billion in
contracted renewables to provide the energy solutions our
customers desire. In April 2019, we acquired Sempra
Renewables LLC and its 724 MW of operating wind
generation and battery storage assets. This accelerates our
contracted renewable strategy and expands our total
renewable portfolio to 16 percent of our 2019 generating
capacity mix, making AEP the seventh 
largest utility owner
of competitive wind projects in the U.S.
The deal includes seven operating wind farms in Colorado,
Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania, and all have long-term power purchase agreements in
place for 100 percent of the energy produced. In addition, AEP Renewables signed a separate agreement to purchase a
75 percent stake (227 MW) in the Santa Rita East Wind Project currently under construction near San Angelo, Texas.
In 2018, AEP Renewables formed a joint partnership to re-power roughly 350 MW at two previously wholly-owned Texas
wind farms, Desert Sky and Trent Mesa. The project re-powered and/or replaced 207 aging wind turbines with new
equipment, resulting in a 20 percent increase in annual energy production. AEP Renewables owns 79.9 percent of the
project, or 261 MW.
Today, AEP Renewables portfolio includes 351 MW of wind and solar. With the acquisition of Sempra Renewables and
the mid-2019 completion of the Santa Rita wind farm, the portfolio will grow to 1,302 MW of renewable generation.
OnSite Partners
OnSite Partners is another AEP competitive business
offering energy solutions for customers to reduce emissions
or lower their cost and energy profile. OnSite Partners’
portfolio of distributed energy solutions currently includes 56
projects across 15 states, with a total investment of $335
million. The projects use a variety of technologies, such as
behind-the-meter solar, community solar, substations,
batteries and a fuel cell. OnSite Partners currently has
approximately 85 MW of installed direct current solar
capacity and approximately 57 MW under construction.
OnSite Partners also has an active joint venture in New
Mexico with PNM Resources to invest in renewable
generation for customers and other public power entities.
The project has a total of 21 MW of direct current solar sites
in operation and another 67 MW of solar under construction.
Traditional ProgramsOver the years, AEP has provided a broad array of traditional energy efficiency and demand response programs for
customers. We have excelled in meeting the requirements and expectations of legislators and regulators, worked
cooperatively with a variety of interested stakeholders, and delivered exceptional results for our customers and
environmental benefits.
The same objectives of these traditional programs remain as relevant today as they’ve always been – helping customers
save money, reducing environmental impacts, and optimizing the use of the grid. Only now, there are boundless new
technologies and customer engagement options in how we manage energy. Electric vehicles, voice-enabled home energy
management apps, and high-tech industrial technologies are just a few of the many ways we can work with our customers
to achieve even better results.
Energy Efficiency Programs
We view energy efficiency as a readily deployable,
competitively priced and clean energy resource that
provides many benefits to our customers and the
environment. Today, AEP offers customers more than 120
programs across nearly all of our 11-state service territory.
In 2018, AEP’s energy efficiency programs were credited
with more than 1 million megawatt hours (MWh) of energy
reduction and more than 270 megawatts (MW) of demand
reduction.
For the period 2008 through 2018, these programs have
cumulatively reduced annual consumption by over 8 million
MWh and peak demand by approximately 2,555 MW.
In 2018, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced its annual ENERGY STAR® awards for businesses and
organizations that have made outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through superior energy efficiency
achievements. AEP Ohio was recognized as ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence winner.
Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) was recognized as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for its
program in Arkansas. Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) received the ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year –
Energy Efficiency Program Delivery award.
In 2019, the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE) recognized SWEPCO for having one of the
nation’s outstanding energy efficiency programs. In a national review, ACEEE selected SWEPCO’s Arkansas Home
Performance with ENERGY STAR program to receive an Exemplary Program Award based on its effectiveness and
innovation in helping residential customers achieve greater levels of energy efficiency.
The AEP Ohio Energy Efficiency Marketplace is a one-stop shop for our customers to save energy, money and time. The
marketplace analyzes data on more than 50,000 energy-efficient products, such as appliances, televisions, smart
thermostats and water heaters. Customers can go online and find prices, consumer ratings, energy efficiency ratings and
product details in one convenient spot to help them find the most efficient products at the lowest prices.
Appalachian Power’s new TakeCharge energy efficiency programs in Virginia and West Virginia give customers more
options for taking control of their energy use, costs and bills. In addition to the portfolio of programs the company has
offered in both states, it recently received approval for two new programs in Virginia. The Bring Your Own Thermostat
program allows residential customers with qualifying smart thermostats to earn incentives for allowing APCo to adjust their
central air conditioning by a few degrees during peak summer demand periods. And the Small Business Direct Install
Program helps small businesses with no-cost energy-saving upgrades, such as LED bulbs, showerheads, faucet aerators
and more.
We have also taken measures to reduce energy consumption in AEP’s office buildings and service centers. We reduced
our kilowatt-hour (kWh) usage, when normalized for weather, by 27 percent in 2018, compared to the 2007 baseline, in
nearly 280 buildings. The dollar savings from the reduced energy consumption was approximately $6 million in cost
savings in 2018. We achieved these energy consumption reductions mostly through equipment investments, such as new
lighting, heating and cooling systems, along with employee education.AEP recently received LEED certification for our transmission service center in Oklahoma and two service centers in
Indiana, bringing the total number of AEP LEED-certified facilities to nine.
Demand Response
AEP’s demand response programs support the power grid by helping to reduce load in periods of peak demand, such as
during heat waves and cold spells. Some programs include special rate structures that encourage our customers to
reduce their energy consumption during these peak demand periods. For some customers, we have contracts that allow
us to “interrupt” their power consumption during peak times in exchange for reduced rates.
Peak demand is the amount of power used at times of maximum power usage, and varies across our service territory. For
example, Appalachian Power Company’s system peak generally occurs on winter weekday mornings, when electric
heating and appliance usage are happening at the same time that commercial equipment and industrial machinery are
ramping up for the workday. Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s system, on the other hand, typically peaks in the
afternoon of a summer weekday, as people get home from work or school and increase their use of air conditioners and
fans while the demand from commercial and industrial customers remains high.
Historically, as peak demand grows with the economy and population, new capacity would ultimately be needed. Today,
AEP can reduce the need for building new power plants through the use of our demand response programs that are
managed on the grid.
Challenges
The successes of our energy efficiency and demand response programs in recent years has reduced overall electricity
usage and demand requirements across the power grid. A significant amount of this improvement has come from
programs such as our efficient lighting upgrades. In the past, we could provide incentives for our customers to upgrade
their lighting from incandescent bulbs to compact fluorescent or LEDs. The cost of this incentive was fairly low, and the
decrease in energy use was significant, resulting in a very cost-effective efficiency program. However, as lighting and
other appliance standards increase, these low-cost options are dwindling.
The next generation of energy efficiency options includes relatively expensive and more involved customer decisions, such
as improving home insulation or upgrading HVAC equipment. The incentives required to achieve these types of energy
efficiency reductions are much higher, making them relatively less cost-effective. Even though AEP provides incentives to
our customers for these upgrades, they are often prohibitively expensive for many of our customers.
AEP shares the concern that some legislators and regulators have expressed regarding the impact of increased rates
resulting from these programs, especially among our low- and moderate-income customers. We have seen this concern
raised by policymakers in several states across our service territory. For example, Kentucky regulators ordered Kentucky
Power to suspend most of its energy efficiency programs in 2018 to address cost impacts to customers.Demand Management
Home Energy Management
Our customers have access to an ever-increasing number of choices for home energy management, and they expect a
personalized experience with their products and services. To be their preferred choice, we have to provide our customers
with the relevant energy insights and tailored solutions they need to understand and control their energy use and bills. And
we have to do it in a manner that is consistent with their lifestyle while simultaneously managing the system for the benefit
of all customers.
Customer surveys show AEP’s residential customers want more timely and detailed information about their energy usage
to manage their bills and reduce costs, with 58 percent saying they want personalized energy guidance from us. As 39
percent of customers already own a smart thermostat, we have an opportunity to add value by using the smart hardware
already installed in our customers’ homes.
Home Energy Management (HEM) is a suite of integrated solutions from AEP that gives us the foundation to do all of
these things. In 2018, personalized HEM information was available to customers in AEP Ohio, Public Service Company of
Oklahoma (PSO) and Indiana Michigan Power (I&M).
IM Home, Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) Company’s innovative home energy management program, allows our
customers to use a mobile app and a Wi-Fi-enabled thermostat to control their energy use at any time. The program can
automatically pick the best time to cool the home, using the least amount of energy, according to the customer’s comfort
preferences. The smart thermostat program gives customers year-round energy savings.
A feature of this program was the release in 2018 of our HEM voice-assisted app that works with Google Assistant and
Amazon’s Alexa platforms. Through the app, customers can use voice commands to access their account or energy use
information using either platform. The program is currently available only to I&M customers, but we are considering
expansion across our service territory. Learn more in 
Customer Channels
.
Residential customers of AEP Ohio who have smart meters can participate in a home energy management program that
allows them to manage their energy use in real time. Through the It’s Your Power
 program, customers can download an
app that allows them to automate and control smart devices as well as receive real-time updates on the energy their home
is using. Other benefits of the program include the ability to remotely adjust their thermostat, set a budget goal for
electricity usage and pay their bill online.Beneficial Electrification
Electrification of end-use technologies in industry, buildings and the transportation sector, combined with cleaner
electricity from the grid, creates a clear pathway for a low-carbon future and universal access to clean energy. The road to
electrification is complex and challenging, but the long-term reward is significant for the environment, society and
business.
Electrification technologies, such as electric vehicles (EVs) require effective planning to ensure the technology and
infrastructure are in place to meet our customers’ needs. We must also have the right policies and regulations in place to
support them. We are working with technology and research partners, customers, policymakers and other stakeholders to
understand the implications and opportunities of large-scale electrification as we transform to a digital economy. This
engagement will allow us to identify and support these technologies, maximize customer benefits and ensure development
of policies and regulations that help our customers and communities.
New Opportunities
In 2018, AEP launched a new 
energyconversionhub.com
 website as part of our new beneficial electrification program for
commercial and industrial (C&I) customers. The intent is to highlight the economic and environmental benefits of using
electricity to improve their operations. The website provides easy access to a portal of useful information on:
Infrared (IR) curing and drying
 – IR is commonly used to dry textiles and paper products, heat metals and plastics,
and dry and cure paint. Electrifying this process is more energy efficient and flexible in terms of achieving the desired
heating intensity compared with using natural gas.
Pipeline compression
 – Compressor stations for natural gas pipelines serve as a type of engine that compresses
gas (increases its pressure) to provide the energy needed to move the gas through the pipeline. Electrification of
compressors can improve efficiency and operations, as well as reduce air emissions.
Induction surface treatment
 – Induction hardening uses electromagnetic fields to induce electric currents into metal,
rapidly heating the steel and then rapidly cooling (quenching) it to increase hardness and durability. The power and
frequency of the electromagnetic fields can be adjusted to regulate the depth and temperature of surface heating.
Underlying metal layers remain unaffected.
Forklifts
 – While forklifts have historically used internal combustion engines and fossil fuels, electric technology
advancements allow users to achieve substantial benefits. In addition to being more energy efficient, they are better for the
environment, allow service in challenging enclosed spaces and reduce noise while increasing safety.
Electric Transportation
The electric mobility revolution continues to accelerate throughout the world and in our service territory. Electric vehicle
(EV) adoption provides substantial environmental and economic benefits for society. It will also have substantial impacts
on many major industries, including the electric utility industry.
According to a 2018 study by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), there are more than 1 million EVs on the road today.
Another million EVs are expected over the next three years, and by 2030, the total number of EVs will climb above 18
million in the U.S. AEP is working to help customers and communities achieve the benefits and rewards of electric
transportation by improving customer awareness of and education about EVs, supporting EV charging options where we
park, and helping to mature transportation corridors to enable long-distance electric travel for all drivers. We are seeing
greater adoption: at the end of 2018, there were more than 10,000 registered EVs and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles
(PHEVs) across our service territory, with nearly half of those in Ohio.
We are also providing tools and guidance to our customers on how to better manage their fleet. These analytical tools
show that replacing a vehicle with a similar EV that is on the market can provide a 50 percent reduction in first-year fuel
cost, as well as a 40 percent reduction in first-year tailpipe emissions. When fleet managers understand these benefits
specific to their needs, they are empowered to make decisions to adopt EVs that benefit their business, customers and
communities.We are working today to identify and deploy technologies,
solutions and programs to address the challenges and
opportunities that EVs will present. Our objective is to
increase adoption of electric transportation in our service
territory and provide charging options that optimize the use
of the grid for the benefit of all customers. This will require
leading by example with our own fleet transformation,
customer outreach and education; managing charging to
optimally integrate EVs with the grid; increasing public
infrastructure; and engaging with our legislative and
regulatory stakeholders to get the rules right.
We believe we are well-positioned to play an important role
in supporting EV market development. We are actively
working with policymakers and customers to develop and
implement incentive programs to help jump-start and
support adoption of EVs in our service territories.
2018 EV Accomplishments:
In 2018, AEP began expanding the use of EVs throughout
our own company, including integration of EVs into our fleet
of work vehicles. We have a program in place to prioritize
EV charging stations, with approximately 100 ports installed
across our facilities and plans to install more. This
workplace EV charging system received an Electric Power
Research Institute (EPRI) Technology Transfer Award in
2018, demonstrating its applicability across our industry.
In April 2018, AEP Ohio received regulatory approval to
implement an EV charging station incentive program. The program offers incentives for up to 375 charging stations at
government-owned properties, workplaces, multifamily housing units and in low-income neighborhoods. In 2018, 54
projects were approved through this program, representing 136 Level 2 charging ports and nine DC Fast Charging
Stations. Read more in 
Smart Columbus
.
As we optimize our existing grid assets, we are offering customers options and rates that encourage the efficient use of
the grid. Our goal is to simplify charge-at-home options and enable our customers to charge their EVs in an affordable
way. For example, having a special rate for night-time charging would make it more cost-effective for customers to
recharge their EVs later at night to save money. It would also help us better manage the demand on the grid to ensure
reliability.
Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) received approval to update its EV tariff to improve home charging options and make it
easier for customers to gain access to EV infrastructure. This type of policy change is what’s needed to enable quicker
adoption of EVs and the supporting infrastructure.
Following a legal settlement between Volkswagen and the federal government over violations of the Clean Air Act,
Volkswagen agreed to provide $2.7 billion to the states for environmental mitigation projects. AEP continues to advocate
for using these funds to support EV charging infrastructure.
Technology Transfer Award
An AEP team received a Technology Transfer Award from EPRI in 2019, recognizing the team’s use of standards and
methodologies created by EPRI to figure out how to deploy a network of vehicle charging stations at a workplace in an
economical and scalable way. Access to charging at work can be an important enabling factor in wider adoption and
leverages one of the longest vehicle idle time applications, second only to residential charging. The team led the
installation of EV charging infrastructure at AEP’s corporate headquarters, which is one of the largest workplace
installations in the country, proving a pathway for reducing the cost of incremental port additions and slashing the installedcost by over 70 percent compared to traditional approaches.
TRADITIONAL GENERATION
Coal Fleet Optimization
At the end of 2018, coal represented 47 percent of AEP’s
generating capacity, compared with 70 percent in 2005.
While coal is a smaller portion of our fuel portfolio today than
in the past, it will continue to remain an important resource
for the foreseeable future. Coal helps provide us with the
flexibility necessary to manage the intermittent nature of
renewable and distributed energy resources and maintain
grid reliability.
AEP has retired approximately 7,800 MW of coal-fueled generating capacity since 2011. Our remaining coal units will
continue to provide critical 24/7 energy and other services to the grid to ensure reliable, uninterrupted electricity for our
customers. These facilities are equipped with environmental controls to assure compliance with current regulations. We
make investments as needed to comply with environmental regulations that keep our fossil-fueled generating capacity
available to serve customers. These environmental upgrades will continue through 2025.
In 2018, we announced the retirement of two more coal generation facilities. AEP Generation Resources will close
Conesville Units 5 and 6 with a total generating capacity of 820 MW (AEP’s ownership) – in May 2019 and will close the
651 MW-Unit 4 in May 2020. We also announced the closure of our 460 MW (AEP’s ownership) Oklaunion Plant in
Oklahoma. The Oklaunion Plant, co-owned by AEP Texas and Public Service Company of Oklahoma, will retire in 2020.
Our use of coal generating facilities changes in response to changing market conditions. Factors such as fluctuating
natural gas prices and seasonal capacity needs dictate when coal units are used to serve customer demand. Today, we
manage the remaining coal fleet to reduce the need for capital investment over time, allowing us to optimize the operation
of the units, as well as investment and depreciation rates. This approach delivers value to both our customers and
shareholders. By 2030, more than half of AEP’s coal units will be within 10 years of reaching the end of their 60-year
typical useful lifespan.
Although we have no plans to build another coal plant, we continue to monitor the development of new technologies,
including carbon capture and storage. Should any of these technologies be demonstrated commercially to improve the
scalability and cost-competitiveness of low-carbon fossil-fueled power generation in the future, we would want to have
those technology options available for consideration.To support development, demonstration and deployment of these technologies, the industry - along with the Electric
Power Research Institute, the U.S. Department of Energy, technology suppliers and academia is working to develop
state-of-the-art processes, equipment and components, new metal alloys, alternative materials and advanced
manufacturing techniques, all of which could have beneficial impact on the industry.
Learn more about 
AEP’s strategic vision for reducing carbon emissions
.
Natural Gas
In 2018, natural gas accounted for approximately 28 percent of AEP’s generating capacity. According to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration (EIA), natural gas has surpassed coal as the main fuel for electricity generation and will
continue to grow its share of power production through 2050. AEP’s consumption of natural gas to generate electricity by
our regulated utilities in 2018 was up by 29 percent from 2017, largely due to lower natural gas prices and increased
demand for electricity. As natural gas becomes an increasingly important 24/7 resource for the future, price, availability
and security of supply become higher priorities.
Natural gas is a fundamental part of our portfolio as we seek
to diversify our resources while maintaining 24/7 reliability
and resilience of the power grid. As wind and solar capacity
increases, we need a back-up source of power to ensure
the grid operates uninterrupted when other resources are
unavailable. Natural gas provides the flexibility renewables
need due to their intermittency.
Natural gas emits approximately 50 percent less carbon
dioxide compared with coal when burned to generate electricity. High-efficiency combined-cycle natural gas plants can
also be built and operated with fewer environmental control systems than a coal-fueled plant. Since 2005, AEP has added
over 3,000 MW of natural gas generating capacity to our portfolio, and we anticipate continued growth. At the same time,
we are looking for new technologies that are more efficient and have the flexibility needed to meet changing customer
needs.
Reliability of supply is vital to reliability of the grid, which is why we remain concerned that an overreliance on natural gas
for power generation comes with great risk to the grid and our customers. 
Assuming favorable foreign markets, as the
U.S. continues to export more natural gas, we expect prices to increase in the long term. If our industry becomes overly
dependent on natural gas generation, our customers will be more exposed to the potential volatility and price increases in
the natural gas market.
Because natural gas facilities rely on a constant supply of fuel to operate, it is critical that we maintain a steady flow of
natural gas to our generation plants at all times. This is why several of our natural gas plants are connected to two
pipelines or have alternative fuel capabilities. Another challenge we face is limited and aging natural gas infrastructure,
which limits our ability to receive natural gas to meet demand at all times. We continue to work with regulators to help
manage this risk and gain more certainty and flexibility when procuring and scheduling natural gas delivery for our units.
We remain concerned that the majority of current natural gas security issues (cyber and physical) are addressed through
voluntary guidelines. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorized the creation of an audited self-regulatory “electric reliability
organization” that spanned North America, with FERC oversight in the United States. The legislation made compliance
with reliability standards both mandatory and enforceable. In July 2006 FERC certified NERC as the electric reliability
organization for the United States. While NERC takes its security responsibilities very seriously, it does not currently have
jurisdiction over the natural gas industry. As the electric industry becomes ever more reliant on the natural gas industry, the
disparity in regulation is of growing concern.
Carbon Capture and Storage for Natural Gas
To date, the vast majority of the work on carbon capture and storage (CCS) has been performed on coal-fired generation.
However, since AEP completed the Mountaineer CCS validation project in 2010, the development of the technology has
slowed significantly. In that time, there have only been two commercial scale demonstrations of CCS technology. This slow
pace of development can largely be attributed to the high cost of CCS; technical and financial risks associated withAEP has 933 MW of hydro and pumped storage on its system,
serving customers in five states.
capture, storage and enhanced oil recovery; and the lack of regulatory compliance mandates for CO
 reductions. We will
continue to monitor CCS technology development.
Nuclear & Hydro
Carbon-free electricity has been part of AEP’s generating
portfolio for decades. Customers across our service territory
continue to benefit from our operation of nuclear and
hydroelectric generation.
Nuclear energy is one of the most reliable carbon-free
sources of electricity. The Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in
Bridgman, Michigan, can provide 2,278 MW of electricity
when operating at full power. The plant’s two units are
located along Lake Michigan’s eastern shore, producing
electricity to serve our customers in Michigan and Indiana.
Cook’s two units were originally designed for a 40-year life,
but in 2005 the licenses were extended by 20 years to 2034
for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2. In 2018, Unit 1 surpassed four
years of continuous service (excluding time to refuel, which
occurs every 18 months), an industry leading
accomplishment.
We are undergoing a Life Cycle Management (LCM) project to replace key components and extend the useful life of the
Cook facility. We are starting to upgrade the electronic systems throughout the plant, including the reactor protection
systems.
The Cook Plant is part of an industrywide, multi-year strategy to transform the industry and ensure the plant’s long-term
viability. The strategy, called Delivering the Nuclear Promise, identifies efficiency measures; adopts best practices; and
applies new technology solutions that improve operations, reduce costs and drive regulatory and market change to ensure
nuclear energy facilities are fully recognized for their value and don’t succumb to premature reactor retirements.
Another clean energy resource serving our customers for more than a century is hydroelectric power. AEP has 933 MW of
hydro and pumped storage on its system, serving customers in five states.
The Byllesby hydro plant, owned and operated by Appalachian Power, was inducted into the Hydro Hall of Fame in 2018.
To be eligible, plants must be in continuous operation for more than a century. The 19 MW plant on the New River in
southwestern Virginia began operation in 1912.
2
GRID RELIABILITY & RESILIENCE
Maintaining the approximately 260,000 miles in our transmission and distribution network comes with an array of
challenges even as we upgrade our infrastructure to meet modern-day needs. These challenges include the age of our
infrastructure, the threat of external interruptions, the transformation of our generation fleet, the difficulty of siting new
facilities, new and future environmental regulations and the magnitude of investments needed.
As we modernize the grid, we are designing in practices, materials and standards for ensuring long-term reliability and
security of the system. However, we can’t prevent all power outages, so our response to them, when they do occur, is
critical for our customers and our reputation.
Severe weather, vegetation that comes in contact with our electric facilities and the collision of vehicles with power poles
are major causes of power outages. In fact, distracted driving is fast becoming a leading cause of crashes with poles in
parts of our service territory. The terrain in our service territory is also a factor. For example, in West Virginia and
Kentucky, where it is mountainous and our facilities are difficult to reach, outages are more likely to be caused byvegetation and harder to restore because of the location of equipment.
In response, we are investing in infrastructure and using technology and data analytics to predict, prevent, and mitigate
service disruptions and better communicate with our customers. We are installing new equipment and facilities that
support and integrate renewable and distributed energy resources, and using analytics and other tools to monitor and
predict events. These efforts make our system more resilient and agile by allowing us to be proactive with maintenance of
the system. We are also providing better information to our customers about their energy usage, outages and other
issues. Through these efforts, we can ensure our ability to provide our customers with the energy they need, when they
need it.
Grid Reliability Modeling
In 2018, AEP Transmission hosted the Power System Modeling Conference, a two-day event sponsored by the North
American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), the North American Transmission Forum (NATF) and the Electric
Power Research Institute (EPRI). Experts from AEP joined about 150 others from around the industry to cover a wide
range of topics related to modeling energy reliability and resilience, including energy storage systems, real-time grid
assessments and the impacts of distributed energy resources on the power system.
This type of modeling uses real-world information, such as the physical characteristics of equipment deployed in the field,
to help system planners and operators predict what could happen on the system during certain conditions and events. This
modeling is particularly important due to the growth of distributed energy resources on our system, such as wind and solar,
and the evolution of technologies such as energy storage.
RELIABILITY INVESTMENTS
The Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) in which AEP operates often determine upgrades to the transmission
grid to address region-wide reliability, market efficiency and public policy needs. RTOs will then assign these projects to
transmission owners such as AEP to build the lines and facilities.
We plan to invest $24.9 billion between 2019 and 2023 on
transmission and distribution infrastructure to strengthen and
modernize our network to address critical system reliability
risks and protect the grid from physical and cyber threats.
AEP will direct a large portion of this investment to improve
local reliability issues, many of which are the result of our
aging system. In 2018, AEP invested roughly $4.5 billion in
these infrastructure improvements.
The primary direct benefit that customers receive from these
investments is improved reliability and resiliency. To ensure
every dollar we invest counts, we conducted a system-wide
audit to identify our least reliable facilities and equipment at the greatest risk of failure and scheduled these for expedited
upgrade or replacement. Based on a sampling of 14 completed transmission line rebuild projects, customer outage
duration was decreased by 97 percent from pre-investment levels.
A more robust transmission grid also supports economic and job growth. According to an AEP-commissioned study,
between 2017 and 2019, our planned $9 billion transmission investment will produce an estimated $12.7 billion in
economic activity and support roughly 34,000 jobs. In addition, the new transmission developments will provide more than
$600 million in additional state and local tax revenues.
In the same study on the direct and indirect impact of our transmission investments, we applied this historical
effectiveness to a sample of 62 transmission local reliability upgrades targeted for completion in the 2012–2019 capital
budget. The report concludes these investments will yield an estimated customer outage reduction benefit of
approximately $75 million per year and a net present value of $1.4 billion of benefits over the lifetime of the investments.
AEP Texas submitted two major 345-kV double-circuit transmission lines for approval to the Public Utility Commission of
Texas (PUCT) in October 2018. The new transmission lines are the Bakersfield to Solstice Project and the Sand Lake toSolstice Project in Pecos, Reeves and Ward counties. The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) recommended
both projects as critical to the reliability of the region’s transmission system, and we expect a decision to be made on the
proposed projects in 2019. If approved, the projects are scheduled to be in-service by December 2020.
In 2018, AEP Transmission became a member of the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) RTO, bringing
to four the number of RTOs within which AEP has assets. A project mandated by MISO in northern Indiana was the $347
million Greentown-to-Reynolds Project, which went into service in 2018. The project was built by Northern Indiana Public
Service Company (NIPSCO) and Pioneer Transmission, a joint venture between AEP Transmission and Duke Energy.
The 70-mile line links Greentown Station with NIPCSO’s Reynolds Station. The new line improves reliability in that region
and assures access to regional sources of competitively priced power. The Greentown-Reynolds line is the first phase of
Pioneer Transmission’s 290-mile plan to connect the Greentown Station to AEP’s Rockport Station, east of Evansville,
Indiana.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) is upgrading the electric transmission grid in McCurtain and Choctaw
counties in southeast Oklahoma. The Hugo – Fort Towson – Valliant Transmission Line Rebuild Project upgrades the
existing transmission infrastructure to provide a reliable flow of electricity to our customers. The project provides additional
electric capacity to better serve local customers and accommodate future growth. The estimated investment on this
project is $27 million.
AEP Ohio has more than 30 transmission projects in process to enhance reliability, replace or rebuild aging infrastructure
and accommodate future growth across the state. For example, about 13 miles of 69 kV transmission lines between
Flushing and Smyrna Stations in Belmont and Harrison counties in Ohio is being rebuilt. In the Findlay area, AEP Ohio is
rebuilding approximately 30 miles of 34.5 kV transmission line to 69 kV. This Findlay area improvement project is an
example of infrastructure that has reached an age where it needs to be replaced to improve reliability in that region.
Competitive Transmission
Transource® is a partnership between American Electric Power (AEP) and Great Plains Energy (GPE) focused on the
development and investment in competitive electric transmission projects across the U.S. Transource is a member of
three regional transmission organizations - the PJM Interconnection, the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO)
and the Southwest Power Pool (SPP) - which together serve all or part of 28 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the
province of Manitoba in Canada.
The Transource West Virginia Clendenin-Walton Area Improvements transmission line project is located in an area north
of Clendenin, West Virginia. This project was identified in PJM’s 2014 Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (RTEP) as
key to ensuring continued reliable electric service in Kanawha and Roane counties in West Virginia. The project provides
an interconnection with First Energy and brings a second 138kV power source into the Clendenin area. The project is
scheduled to go in service by June 2019.
Transource is also developing the Independence Energy Connection (IEC), a new project to increase consumer access to
more affordable power in the PJM region, including Pennsylvania and Maryland. The project will be built in two segments,
with approximately 45 miles of transmission line in Pennsylvania and Maryland. The project also includes construction of
two new substations in Pennsylvania and upgrades to two existing substations in Maryland.
The need for this project stemmed from transmission congestion impacting the delivery of electricity into the region.
Following a competitive bidding process, PJM awarded construction of the project to Transource in August 2016. These
new lines and substations are due to go in-service in November 2020.
Electric Transmission Texas (ETT), a joint venture between AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company, is piloting an
initiative to expedite the ability to interconnect generation with the transmission grid. In September 2018, the Public Utility
Commission of Texas (PUCT) issued a final order approving a new transmission line to serve the Foard City Wind Project
in Foard County, Texas. Without the new line, the wind farm could not connect to the grid. ETT’s new approximately 2.7
mile 345-kV line will provide the interconnection needed and is expected to be placed in service in May 2019.
MANAGING AN AGING INFRASTRUCTURE
At AEP, we constantly evaluate the performance and condition of the grid. We prioritize investments by identifying the
aging facilities that have historically caused customer outages and using analytics to help us predict where failures willMaking investments to upgrade and replace our aging
transmission and distribution grid is essential to maintaining the
highest levels of reliability and resiliency.
occur in the future. Making the investments necessary to upgrade and replace our aging transmission and distribution grid
is essential to maintaining the highest levels of reliability and resiliency.
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) estimates that at least 30
percent of the U.S. transmission system is at or near the end
of its useful life. AEP is a part of this aging system; we own
and operate the largest transmission network in America,
with approximately 40,000 miles of transmission lines
spanning across 11 states. The average age of these lines
is 47 years. In addition, the average age of our transformers
is 34 years. As a result, replacement parts for certain pieces
of equipment are no longer available. This poses a
substantial challenge to keeping our system in working
order. While AEP has always invested in our transmission
system, at this time, there is significant focus on renewing
aging transmission infrastructure which is why we are
currently investing billions of dollars to modernize the power
grid, make it more resilient and increase customer value.
AEP’s distribution system is no exception. The average age
of our distribution poles is 32 years, with an expected life of
45 years. Throughout AEP’s service territory, there are more than 86,000 miles of small conductors that are at least 40
years old.
As we rely on a system that is at or near the end of its useful life, we become more susceptible to experiencing more
frequent and prolonged power outages from equipment failure. In addition, older transmission and distribution equipment
is not compatible with newer grid technology, such as digital meters and sensors, which poses an increasing challenge to
grid modernization efforts.
Some recent examples of our progress in replacing our aging infrastructure include:
In Shreveport, Louisiana, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) is investing $9 million to replace a
three-mile stretch of 69 kV transmission line and 60-year-old wooden poles and upgrade two substations. The
installations will improve reliability of the local grid, and the project is scheduled to go into service in 2019.
AEP Ohio is rebuilding approximately 55 miles of a 138-kV system built in 1954 in Athens and Hocking counties,
Ohio. The $62 million project is expected to go online in mid-2019.
In southern West Virginia, Appalachian Power is investing approximately $100 million to make significant upgrades
to the existing transmission system. The two-phase project will strengthen the grid in Boone and Kanawha counties
by replacing aging equipment with modern technology. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2020.
With more than 210,000 wooden power poles to maintain, a Kentucky Power initiative targeted poles that are 50
years or older to be treated, reinforced or replaced. Treated and reinforced poles are less likely to topple during
storms and can last as many as 20 additional years, reducing replacement costs.
We rely on having instantly available accurate data to manage and operate the electric power grid. The two systems
integral to operating and managing the grid are the Energy Management System (EMS) and the Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. These are critically important because of the wide range of age, health and
complexities of the network that makes up the North American Transmission Systems (Eastern Interconnect, Western
Interconnect and Texas Interconnect). To help us gain greater visibility of all elements of the grid we have been increasing
the scale of these systems to gain more real-time monitoring and assessments. During the last three years, AEP has
added up to 130,000 points per year to the SCADA system and up to 5,000 nodes to the EMS system. These
enhancements help us detect equipment failures as well as gain advance notice of potential trouble spots before they can
affect customers. The investments we are making to enhance these systems also strengthen the resilience of the grid.
ASSET HEALTH CENTER
The Asset Health Center (AHC) exemplifies our early adoption of digital technology to reduce failures, increase safety,
improve grid reliability and reduce risks through proactive operational and predictive awareness. Since 2012, the AEPTransmission System and Asset Monitoring teams have installed and managed real-time performance monitors that give
us an opportunity to prevent transformer failures, saving the company up to $36 million.
There are two main components to the AHC – an analytical software platform with algorithms that provide health indices,
risks of failure and actionable notifications; and a fleet-wide installation of asset monitoring devices that provide instant
data through a robust communication infrastructure, allowing us to monitor the system in real-time.
In 2018, AEP Transmission deployed monitoring on 70 additional Extra High Voltage (EHV) transformers and reactors.
This brings the total to more than 360 EHV transformers and reactors that are now monitored in real-time through the
AHC. We also created and piloted a new standard for circuit breaker monitoring.
The information we receive from the AHC is an input into our Reliability Assessment Tool so we can make more informed
decisions about asset renewals for maintenance or replacement. This increased awareness helps us reduce risk by
identifying safety issues in real-time and informs our capital investment strategy. In addition, we are using predictive
algorithms and the data collected from sensors to see if we can anticipate equipment failures even sooner.
DISTRIBUTED ENERGY RESOURCES
Integrating distributed energy resources (DERs) into the grid presents both challenges and opportunities for the electric
power industry. This requires changing the traditional business models, forming strategic partnerships and regulatory
reform – all while maintaining the reliability and security of the grid.
DERs have the potential to provide society with increased energy reliability and security while also reducing our reliance
on traditional large, centralized generating stations. DERs include rooftop solar panels, wind turbines, home energy
management systems and battery storage systems. As these decentralized, local sources of energy generation become
more widespread, AEP continues to ensure the infrastructure exists to integrate these resources safely and efficiently.
These smaller power sources can work together – such as advanced renewable technology, small natural gas-fueled
engines, turbines and fuel cells – to meet energy and demand. Widespread deployment of DERs requires planning and
coordination to integrate them with the rest of the power grid. These are often deployed as demand-side installations by
our commercial customers and can potentially provide benefits for the grid and customers.
AEP is investing in a company that has developed an advanced natural gas-fueled distributed generation solution for
customers and communities. The gas-fired linear generator developed by EtaGen is highly efficient and is low-
maintenance because it has so few moving parts. These are the types of technologies we are seeking to complement and
support the grid.
As power from more and more alternative energy sources enters the grid, we face some significant challenges, such as
maintaining grid reliability when voltage levels vary. This includes balancing the load when excess power is generated and
flows back through the grid from DERs. We need to understand and plan for these dramatic changes so we can integrate
them into our planning and future operation of the grid.
Many of our large commercial and industrial (C&I) customers have been early adopters of local generation. These users
want more control over their systems, as well as lower costs and increased reliability of the power that drives their
businesses and keeps them competitive. As the economics of DERs, such as private solar, continues to improve, C&I
customers are increasing their adoption rate.
Examples of local generation systems in use by residential, commercial and industrial customers
Residential sector
Commercial and Industrial Sector
Solar photovoltaic panels
Solar photovoltaic panels
Small wind turbines
Wind
Natural gas fuel cells
Natural gas or biogas fuel cellsAs we modernize the grid, we are designing in practices,
materials and standards for ensuring long-term reliability and
security of the system. 
Emergency backup generators
Reciprocating internal combustion engines, including back-up
generators
Combined heat and power systems
Net Energy Metering
As DERs continue to increase in use, the debate over the continued need for and structure of net energy metering (NEM)
rules continues in both regulatory and legislative arenas across the country. Under traditional NEM, customers are
credited for any excess electricity they generate from DERs and sell back to the grid.
The number of NEM customers in AEP’s footprint is relatively modest, but growing. At the end of 2018, 5,369 net metering
installations with a capacity of approximately 103 MW were on the grid in our service territory. Most of these are private
solar generators who have rooftop solar installations.
In the past few years, policymakers across the country have started evaluating NEM. So far, 17 states have moved to
reduce the compensation given to private solar customers on the grounds that the policy is inefficient and/or unfair. This
includes several states in our service territory.
We believe the policies around NEM should ensure that customers pay equitably for the electric services they use and do
not shift their costs to others, thus ensuring that all customers pay a just and reasonable rate. We continue to review
compensation policies and mechanisms in other states to learn what would work best for our operations and our
customers.
DERs and Grid Reliability
DERs may be changing the way we view the electric power
system, but they won’t change our need for a resilient,
reliable system that provides customers with the energy and
capacity they need every day. All customers – including
those with installed private generation – will require
supplemental power from the grid at times, such as when
weather conditions prevent solar and wind farms from
producing sufficient energy or during scheduled
maintenance of private generation sources. DERs also
need the grid to accept excess electricity when they produce
more energy than they need, in addition to providing voltage
control, frequency support and other services that are
essential to reliability and living in a connected society.
As DERs become more common, the demand for traditional
generation will decrease. At the same time, we will continue
to rely upon 24/7 capacity from reliable resources such as
natural gas as a cost-effective way to meet demand and
maintain the reliability of the grid. AEP continues to invest in our transmission and distribution systems to prepare the grid
to integrate with a multitude of DERs.Outages and equipment failures related to overgrown and/or
fallen vegetation – trees and other vegetation – are among the
biggest challenges to AEP’s service reliability.
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT
Outages and equipment failures related to overgrown and/or fallen vegetation – trees and other vegetation – are among
the biggest challenges to AEP’s service reliability. To meet AEP’s standards for transmission and distribution system
reliability, we must manage vegetation in, and along, our rights-of-way (ROW). We manage vegetation growth immediately
surrounding our power lines with a combination of performance-based (such as targeting low-performing circuits) and
cycle-based (regularly scheduled) maintenance strategies.
Executing an effective tree-trimming cycle across our
service area is a significant expense that has a direct effect
on service reliability and customer satisfaction. During the
past five years, AEP has spent more than $1.78 billion on
vegetation management, including $388 million in 2018. We
carefully manage our programs to ensure they are cost-
effective; we do this by using a variety of tools and
techniques to manage vegetation. But challenging terrain in
parts of our service territory can often limit the options we
can use. For example, in the mountains of West Virginia,
Appalachian Power (APCo) regularly uses helicopters for
aerial inspections, herbicide applications and tree trimming.
In these rugged, undeveloped areas, the use of helicopters
reduces impacts to the local environment by eliminating the
need to build access roads to each structure. It is also a
safer alternative than having workers hike through thick
forests and climb steep terrain with chainsaws, tree climbing
equipment, and backpack spray units loaded with herbicide.
Our operating companies continue to work with state regulatory commissions for approval to implement more aggressive
and proactive cycle-based vegetation management programs. Such management cycles have already been established
in Ohio, Oklahoma and Kentucky. In West Virginia, where vegetation growing into and trees falling onto power lines are
major causes of outages, 2018 marked the fourth year of a program to aggressively clear all distribution circuits end-to-
end to establish a formal vegetation management cycle.In 2019, Kentucky Power’s five-year trimming cycle began across its entire service area. The increased trimming efforts
we’ve used to prepare for this new cyclic program have resulted in significant reductions in tree-caused outages. Since
2010, Kentucky Power has cleared nearly 10,000 miles of overhead lines in its service territory, reducing outages caused
by trees inside the ROW by over 70 percent.
Falling trees and limbs from outside the traditional ROW are increasingly a major threat to reliability. When a heavy tree or
tree limb hits a power line, the poles and wires are often broken, extending the time it takes to restore service to
customers. In 2018, falling trees accounted for approximately 24 percent of the total AEP customer minutes of interruption,
and, over the past five years, we have seen the number of these outages caused by trees outside of the ROW increase by
29 percent across our system. The largest increases in outages due to this are in APCo and AEP Ohio, with 72 percent
and 80 percent increases, respectively. Ash trees are a prevalent species in eastern forests and infestations of the
emerald ash borer insects that kill these trees are primary contributors to downed trees and outages.
In 2018, AEP spent approximately $103 million on proactive tree removals – including approximately $11 million to widen
“up-the-hill” ROWs in targeted areas above our transmission lines in the mountains of West Virginia and Kentucky.
With the increase in outages caused by trees outside of the ROW and with sensitivity toward the customer experience,
AEP Ohio conducted a yearlong review of its forestry program which resulted in several changes to our vegetation
management approach. In addition, we are using historical data to help us more methodically maintain at-risk circuits.
We have also stepped up our community outreach to alert residents of upcoming tree maintenance and hazard-tree work
that is scheduled in their neighborhood. Our intent is to keep customers more informed about the work we are doing and
what they should expect during these projects.
RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE
The electric power grid is essential to the economic vitality and well-being of society. It is our top-priority to provide
customers with a safe, reliable, secure and resilient power grid to meet their energy needs at all times. We are dedicated
to meeting this standard and continuously improving upon it.
Despite our excellent service record and our continuous efforts to improve reliability, there are times when our
performance does not meet our customers’ needs or expectations. Equipment failure from aging grid components, falling
trees and tree limbs, and damage from severe weather cause outages that, depending on the severity, can have negative
impacts on our customers.
We rely on three key metrics to measure the reliability of our
system.
The 
System Average Interruption Duration Index
(SAIDI) represents how many minutes the average
customer experiences an interruption in electric
service in a given year. During 2018, the AEP System
SAIDI was 256.6 minutes, excluding major events, a
19% percent increase from 2017. The growth of
vegetation contributed to about 38 percent of SAIDI
results, and equipment failure accounted for about 22
percent of SAIDI.
The 
System Average Interruption Frequency
Index
 (SAIFI) represents the number of interruptions experienced by customers in a year. During 2018, the system’s
SAIFI was 1.531, a 10 percent increase from 2017. Vegetation and Distribution Line equipment failures were also
the major contributors to SAIFI performance.
The 
Customer Average Interruption Duration Index
 (CAIDI) represents the average length of time it takes to
restore service when an outage occurs. AEP’s 2018 CAIDI was 167.7 minutes, an 8 percent degradation from
2017.
The deterioration of performance in 2018 was due to a combination of many factors, most notably a higher frequency of
storms, an increasing number of vehicle accidents that damaged equipment and trees outside of rights-of-way (ROW)
falling into our equipment.When an outage occurs, the first thing a customer wants to know is when the power will be restored to their home or
business. One of AEP’s primary concerns during these events is to quickly establish and share with customers a global
estimated time of restoration (ETR). Providing an accurate ETR – and restoring power within that timeframe – is crucial to
maintaining high customer satisfaction. Because it is such an effective and important tool for keeping our customers
informed, we are continually looking for new ways to share and improve the accuracy of the ETR.
AEP provides customers with an array of tools to make it easy to report service interruptions and track their ETR.
Customers who sign up to receive service alerts can receive timely information about their ETR by text message or email.
More than 2 million customers have already enrolled in AEP’s mobile alerts. In addition, the mobile app is particularly
useful during outages as it allows customers to use their smart-phones to instantly report and monitor our restoration
progress. Read more about this in the customer experience section of this report.
AEP also provides public access to mobile-friendly, online interactive maps that provide detailed information about power
outages. These maps are easily accessible on the AEP website and mobile app and provide all interested stakeholders
with greater transparency regarding outages. Users can search for details and updates by street, city, ZIP code or county
to track AEP’s restoration progress, without the need to log into a customer account.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s Distribution Automation Circuit Reconfiguration Program allows circuits to “self-
heal” to the extent that is practical in the event of a power outage. This technology is currently on 45 circuits including
locations where customers have expressed a need for continuous power.
We are currently working on the development of a storm prediction model in partnership with major universities. In addition
to enhancing our ability to predict and prepare ourselves when severe weather is imminent, the prediction tool will also
alert our customers to help them prepare for potential power outages that could impact them as a result of severe weather.
This is an example of enhancing the customer experience by providing value-added information they can use.
Momentary Average Interruption Frequency Index
We expect momentary outages will become a more significant concern for our customers as consumers use more
electronics. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission now requires electric utilities to start reporting a Momentary Average
Interruption Frequency Index (MAIFI) to the extent possible. Due to the nature of this metric, gathering the data necessary
to track and report MAIFI was not possible before we implemented smart metering.
In 2018, PSO partnered with GridCure, a third party data company, to develop a “blink module.” The technology uses
Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) data to target potential power quality issues on the distribution system before they
become a problem for customers. This will allow us to pinpoint areas where problems occur and take proactive corrective
action. The technology will be released in 2019.
GRID RESILIENCE
Resilience is our ability to maintain optimal grid performance and recover quickly from system disruptions. Many external
factors influence how AEP addresses the resilience of the grid, including severe weather, cyberattacks, terrorism, theft,
electromagnetic impulses, vandalism and supply chain disruptions.
Making the grid more resilient goes hand-in-hand with grid modernization. Today, we are using technology to help us find,
fix and restore service faster. For example, we are putting sensors on power lines and circuits that can quickly tell us
where a system fault has occurred so we can dispatch crews to make repairs. Without the sensors, our crews would first
have to find the problem before they could make repairs. These initiatives have the support of state utility commissions
because these types of activities improve system reliability and satisfaction for all customers.
Grid “hardening” refers to the ability of the grid to withstand and recover from abnormalities and external forces. Actions
that we take to harden the grid include replacing infrastructure when needed or before assets fail in severe weather. Grid
hardening incorporates higher-strength line designs, effective tree trimming and vegetation management and strategic
system reinforcements (e.g., storm guys) to assure a reliable delivery of energy to customers.
Building out our fiber communication systems and cybersecurity protections allows us to manage the system remotely. We
are implementing several telecommunications projects that will modernize the grid and improve the speed and efficiencyWeather remains one of the greatest threats to the electric
power grid, and the impacts caused by significant storms can be
long-lasting and widespread.
by which AEP can relay and respond to information in the
field. We have also invested significantly to modernize our
underground networks on our distribution system to give us
real-time visibility to how the system is working.
Severe Weather
Weather remains one of the greatest threats to the electric
power grid, and the impacts caused by significant storms
can be long-lasting and widespread. In 2017, AEP Texas
experienced its strongest storm in 44 years when Hurricane
Harvey hit the southeastern Texas coast, knocking out
power to approximately 220,000 customers. While power
was restored to all remaining customers following the storm,
the work of repairing transmission lines and poles,
substations and service centers continues today.
As part of these restoration efforts, AEP Texas is executing
a long-term plan to enhance the resiliency of the system against future severe weather events. This includes using stronger
transmission poles and shorter line spans between towers.
In 2018, we completed an expedited rebuild project near Aransas Pass, Texas, to replace a 69 kV transmission line
knocked out during Hurricane Harvey. The new line spans an eight-mile section between substations in Aransas Pass and
Mustang Island and will serve to strengthen the local power grid.
During the course of one week in April 2018, five tornados touched down in the state of Ohio, including an EF-1 tornado
that caused significant damage in Grove City. The storm knocked down 32 wooden poles and cut power to 8,500 people.
In the immediate aftermath of the tornado and before our crews began restoring power, they safely rescued nearly a dozen
people trapped in their cars under downed power lines. We were able to restore power to nearly all customers within a
few hours thanks to creative solutions to route power around the damaged areas and minimize the disruption to our
customers. As a result of that storm, we replaced 24 wooden transmission structures with new steel poles.
The electric utility industry has a longstanding mutual aid agreement that provides support – people and equipment – to
utilities in the wake of a natural disaster. AEP has helped other utilities in states across the U.S., and we have also
received help when we needed it. The original agreement did not provide for mutual aid to utilities off the mainland, so
when Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico in 2017, the industry worked with Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and the island’s
utility to extend the agreement to Puerto Rico.
Recovery efforts in Puerto Rico continued well into 2018, during which time AEP deployed 157 employees, including
incident command teams and frontline workers, in support of the mission. In total, nearly 60 electric companies and public
power utilities sent more than 3,000 employees, plus equipment and/or materials to Puerto Rico. Eleven months after
Hurricane Maria struck the island, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) announced that power had been
restored to its customers, ending the longest blackout in U.S. history.
Each year, EEI recognizes member companies who show outstanding efforts to restore service to areas following severe
weather or other natural disasters. In 2018, EEI presented AEP with the 2018 Emergency Assistance Award for Puerto
Rico Power Restoration. This award was also given to each AEP operating company and AEP Transmission for their
support in the emergency power restoration mission after Hurricane Maria.
Grid Assurance
While the nation has improved its ability to respond to major grid disasters and power outages that frequently result from
catastrophes, there are increasing threats – including more frequent and extreme weather events and physical, cyber or
electromagnetic attacks – which present new challenges for protecting and recovering quickly from a catastrophic power
outage. Maintaining an adequate inventory of vital equipment needed to replace critical infrastructure in the case of such
an event is one challenge to improving grid resiliency.
Transmission components are expensive and often difficult to transport over long distances, and the manufacturing
process itself is complex, with many components being hand-assembled at the factory. This dramatically increases leadtime in ordering new equipment, and it is not uncommon to wait 18 months for delivery of some components. As a result, it
is expensive for individual companies to purchase and keep a large quantity of spare transmission equipment on standby.
For this reason, in 2018, AEP joined seven other major utility companies in becoming founding subscribers of Grid
Assurance, LLC.
Grid Assurance was designed to help restore power more quickly following a high-impact, low-frequency event by
providing subscribers a cost-effective method of meeting the collective resilience needs of the transmission grid. The new
company houses and maintains long-lead-time critical transmission equipment, such as transformers, in secure storage
facilities throughout the country. Grid Assurance also offers pre-planned transportation and logistics support for equipment
delivery. As a subscriber, AEP has faster access to both the equipment and logistical support necessary for quickly
deploying equipment to an affected location following a catastrophic event.
We strive to find the right mix of projects and technologies that
modernize and optimize the grid while maintaining affordability for
our customers.
GRID MODERNIZATION
Today, customers expect their electric service to be more flexible, efficient and reliable. As we modernize and strengthen
the system to meet their needs today and in the future, we are creating a smarter and more sophisticated system that
provides universal access to cleaner, cost-effective power and tailored energy solutions.
Each of our operating companies varies its speed and level
of investment in grid modernization based on customers’
needs and regulatory support. We strive to find the right mix
of projects and technologies that modernize and optimize
the grid while maintaining affordability for our customers.
Having the right public policies and regulations in place
directly impacts our ability to meet customers’ expectations.
In Ohio, state regulators convened a grid modernization
initiative, called PowerForward, which explored how the
distribution system can be improved through innovation to
better the lives of Ohioans. The result was a comprehensive
roadmap, which AEP provided input for, that lays out a path
for supporting innovation to enhance the customer
experience. PowerForward Roadmap envisions the
distribution grid as a secure and open access platform that
allows for customer applications to interface seamlessly with
it. The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio also identified
advanced meters as a core component of this platform.
In 2018, the Commonwealth of Virginia adopted a new energy plan designed to “promote the transition to a more flexible,
resilient, affordable and environmentally responsible energy system.” The Grid Transformation and Security Act (Senate
Bill 966) outlined recommendations for the electric sector as well as the shifts anticipated in the transportation sector that
will impact the electric sector. Virginia’s new energy plan for the Commonwealth includes:
5,000 MW of utility-owned and utility-operated wind and solar
500 MW of rooftop solar resources less than 1 MW of which are in the public interest
$1.1 billion investment in energy efficiency programs by investor-owned utilities
Cost recovery structures for projects that modernize the grid and support the integration of distributed energy
resources
The initiatives in Ohio and Virginia are examples of the types of public policies that are needed to support the growth of a
modern grid. 
Read more about this in Public Policy
.
SMART METERING
Automated Metering Infrastructure (AMI), or smart metering, is a foundational technology of the modern power grid that
enables other technologies and grid modernization efforts. With AMI meters, customers have access to both historical andAMI, or smart metering, is a foundational technology of the
modern power grid that enables other technologies and grid
modernization efforts.
real-time usage data, giving them more control over their energy consumption and helping them identify ways to save
money through more efficient energy use.
As early as 2008, AEP’s operating companies began
installing AMI meters and their supporting infrastructure
across our footprint. As of January 1, 2019, we have
deployed nearly 2.6 million AMI meters, with 537,000 more
planned over the next several years. Our long-term goal is to
achieve full installation across our entire customer base, as
AMI becomes the industry-standard metering technology
and replaces older equipment.
AMI continuously captures a massive amount of data across
many metrics, including energy usage, voltage and
temperature. These data points enable a wide range of
customer engagement programs, as well as other service
enhancements. These include:
Reduce the number of estimated bills
Quickly initiate service and reconnect customers
Identify, communicate and restore customer outages
more quickly
Educate customers about their energy habits by sharing usage data through web portals and mobile applications to
allow more customer control over their energy use
Empower customers to manage their specific energy usage through energy efficiency and/or other approaches
Proactively identify and address customer theft of service
The data that AMI meters collect also helps us operate the grid more efficiently as local generation, such as rooftop solar
integration, increases.
ENERGY STORAGE
As we introduce more renewable generation, such as wind and solar power into our energy mix, the need to invest in
energy storage grows. Energy storage helps us maintain a constant flow of power when intermittent resources such as
wind and solar are not available.
Storage technology supports local reliability and demand response for our customers and is integrated into our
distribution and resource planning processes. For example, batteries are a relatively flexible solution that can be
mobilized and relocated to meet changing demand in the system. Today, we are also exploring new ways of combining
energy storage with renewable generation to support the grid.
The system provides one of the first energy storage systems in the PJM transmission region to support frequency
regulation.
The concept of energy storage is not new, but the need for reliable, cost-effective solutions has never been more critical.
We are exploring new ways of using different types of energy storage to manage demand and support a more agile grid.
Today, as the energy landscape transitions to more distributed and intermittent energy resources, we need to expand our
ability to store energy to maintain grid reliability.
Another type of storage – pumped storage – has been serving customers of Appalachian Power since the mid-1960s.
APCo’s Smith Mountain Pumped Storage Project can generate 585 MW of electricity for up to 11 hours or can be used
for short periods of time to meet peak energy needs.
Applications of Distributed Energy Storage
Reliability improvements
 - AEP has more than a decade of experience with battery storage, which
can provide back-up power in case of an outage. During that time we installed three 2-MW NaS(sodium sulfur) batteries in Appalachian Power, Ohio Power and Indiana Michigan Power. Each
battery is capable of providing back-up power for more than seven hours when loss of power from the
substation occurs.
Frequency regulation
 - Batteries have the ability to rapidly respond to balance load and generation
in real time on the grid. Regional transmission organizations (RTOs) are recognizing the need for
greater amounts of frequency regulation to maintain system stability with the increased integration of
variable generation resources.
Firming of renewables
 - Wind and solar often do not generate energy when and where it is needed
most. Deploying batteries to combine with wind and/or solar energy can allow for better use and
management of variable renewable energy sources.
Peak shaving
 - Batteries can provide power during peak demand times to meet customer demand
while alleviating strain on the power grid.
Power quality
 - Batteries are capable of conditioning the flow of power so it can be used to protect
sensitive electronic equipment.
New energy storage projects will allow solar power to extend operation past sunset and into evening peak demand
periods. We continue to explore new opportunities to leverage the unique aspects of energy storage resources for
expanded use in transmission, distribution and wholesale applications. Policymaking on these issues is extremely
important to our ability to enable new technology and deploy it on the transmission and distribution grid.
MODERNIZING DISTRIBUTION
As we incorporate more smart technologies, the distribution grid becomes more complex and an increasingly important
resource. We use advanced planning tools to help us better understand how changing energy resources will impact our
distribution system. We are also coordinating with transmission planning to understand how the changes in distribution
affect the transmission grid.
Replacing our aging infrastructure to provide higher levels of
reliability and grid resilience is just one piece of the puzzle.
Our modernization efforts also include increasing substation
and circuit capacity to prepare for increased use of
Distributed Energy Resources (DERs), such as photovoltaic
solar, fossil fuel generation and energy storage. We are also
physically relocating and strengthening circuits to make
them less vulnerable to weather-related damage and to
reduce the time it takes to make repairs. In some areas, we
relocate overhead facilities underground to improve local
reliability. As electric vehicles become more common, our
modernization efforts are critical to managing the increased
loads from electric vehicle charging across the grid.
In remote areas historically prone to outages, we are
working to provide power redundancy in the form of back-up
energy sources such as new circuits, circuit ties and substations. Depending on local site conditions, we also consider
DERs to provide enhanced grid reliability and resilience.
In 2018, AEP Ohio continued installation of distribution automation circuit reconfiguration (DACR) in our systems. DACR
automatically detects outages and reconfigures an affected circuit to isolate the problem, quickly restoring service to other
parts of the circuit. Using this “self-healing” technology, we can strategically reroute electricity, reducing the number of
customers affected during an outage while AEP crews make repairs to the damaged circuit(s). AEP Ohio is in the midst
of installing DACR on 250 distribution circuits serving more than 330,000 customers. When the project is completed in
2023, we estimate that the added DACR will reduce SAIFI by nearly 16 percent.
We are seeing results from the investments we’ve already made. For example, in April 2018, an equipment issue led to a
power outage affecting 6,000 customers in northeast Columbus, Ohio. DACR restored power to every single customer inOur Smart Grid Command Center offers 24/7 service monitoring
for our entire network communications between AMI, DACR,
VVO/CVR and underground network vaults.
just 100 seconds. Without DACR, this type of outage would typically last approximately 83 minutes.
Another technology being implemented through AEP Ohio’s gridSMARTSM program is Volt/VAR Optimization (VVO). In
some areas, the technology is also known as Conservation Voltage Reduction (CVR). This technology automatically
controls voltage levels on distribution circuits to more closely match the voltages demanded by our customers. Using
VVO/CVR helps both the distribution system and our customers achieve greater energy efficiency while ensuring the
same customer experience. In addition, the technology helps the power grid balance DER hosting capacity, improving
grid adaptability. We plan to install VVO on 1,600 distribution circuits serving nearly 110,000 customers.
In 2018, PSO expanded its CVR program and began implementing new technology using data from its automated
metering infrastructure (AMI) to better determine problems that may affect power quality for customers. PSO installed this
technology on an additional 14 circuits in 2018. Currently, 52 PSO circuits are equipped with this technology.
Successful implementation of technologies such as DACR and VVO must be rigorously tested to ensure a seamless and
reliable experience for our customers. Field testing new equipment can be a time-consuming and labor-intensive process,
which can lead to delays in bringing these smart grid technologies online. In 2018, AEP Ohio opened a commissioning
lab at our Operations Center in Groveport, Ohio. The new lab can complete critical diagnostic tests remotely with fewer
employees than traditional on-site testing. This new testing process is a much safer and more efficient way for us to meet
our smart grid goals.
Smart Grid Command Center
Network disruptions do not always happen during normal
business hours. For this reason, our experts must be
available quickly to identify and resolve issues whenever
they occur. Our Smart Grid Command Center in Gahanna,
Ohio, now offers 24/7 service monitoring for our entire
network communications between AMI, DACR, VVO/CVR
and underground network vaults. The Command Center
team also supports the smart meters being installed
throughout our Ohio operations.
What does this mean for our customers? More reliable
service through faster identification and resolution of issues.
If a router fails on a utility pole in Texas, the first to know
about it will be our Smart Grid Command Center, more than
1,300 miles away. The Command Center will identify the
problem and resolve it remotely, if possible, or dispatch a
local work crew to the site to make the repair.
Underground Network Monitoring
At year-end 2018, we completed our multi-year, $84 million initiative across six operating companies to modernize and
reinforce AEP’s 14 underground electrical networks. This Underground Network (UGN) monitoring project is changing the
way we collect, communicate and use information and data to support the Operations, Engineering and Planning functions
of the operating companies’ critical UGN systems.
The UGN project gives us the capability to monitor the networks in real time using fiber optics and cutting-edge sensor
technology to capture data in five-second intervals. This gives us a real-time view of the distribution underground network.
Our future success as an energy company depends on this capability as the distribution system becomes a more diverse,
flexible system, allowing all resources to connect and manage demand at the same time.
With sensors and state-of-the-art telecom technology, we have a view of the underground system that we’ve never had
before, allowing us to proactively manage the system. The insights we get from monitoring the system in real-time will also
give underground network line crews more information about the facilities before they enter and as they prepare to
perform their work, making it a safer work environment. Having this data will also support our ability to predict and prevent
failures and fulfill other needs.Our transmission modernization investments are providing
significant financial benefits for our customers, as well as
operational improvements for how we manage the grid.
MODERNIZING TRANSMISSION
AEP continues to make significant investments to modernize the transmission grid, replace aging facilities, target poorly
performing assets such as outdated substations and utility poles, and improve grid security. Investing in these updates
helps reduce our future costs to maintain the electric power system and ensures the continued reliability of the power grid
for our customers. A large portion of AEP’s investment is focused on replacing or upgrading facilities that have been
identified as underperforming or obsolete. These aging facilities require more frequent and costly maintenance.
Replacing them not only reduces the cost of maintenance but it also improves efficiency and reliability performance. In
addition, AEP is investing in projects that enhance grid security and modernize the telecommunications network that
supports the electric system. These improvements help us locate, diagnose and respond more quickly when reliability
issues occur.
Our transmission modernization investments are providing
significant financial benefits for our customers, as well as
operational improvements for how we manage the grid. We
studied a sample of 84 transmission modernization projects
and found that line losses decreased by an average of 55
percent after the projects. Reducing these transmission
losses means that AEP needs to produce or purchase less
power, which directly reduces the cost of serving our retail
customers. The total estimated savings are forecasted to be
$108 million over the lifetime of these investments. In
addition to these energy savings are potential avoided
capacity cost savings. We would expect to see similar
savings from other grid investment projects. Economic and
Business Development
In addition to modernizing the hardware, we are
modernizing the fiber-optic telecommunications system that
is the backbone of the transmission grid. In 2017, we began
an initiative to address several key issues, including:
bandwidth demands;
reliability and resiliency of our network;
data connectivity to substations; and
asset renewal.
The $480 million Telecom Transmission Modernization Program will continue through 2021. Our initial focus has been to
upgrade major backbone routes and expand telecom networks to our substations. Through 2018, we have installed 1,260
miles of fiber optic cable, with another 3,300 miles currently in-process through 2020.
Demonstrated Performance Benefits of Investments in
Transmission
Tangible Reliability Improvements
A sample of line rebuild projects shows a projected 47% reduction in total transmission-related power
outages
Efficient Solutions
Recently completed projects have shown to be 97% effective in cutting the duration of customer
outages
New transmission lines are 55% more energy efficient than those being replaced
Resilient New Infrastructure
Modern engineering standards ensure public safety and protect against severe weather, terrorism
and other threatsBOLD is an example of groundbreaking innovation designed to
improve reliability, grid resilience and services for customers.
New fiber-optic communications networks expand system automation capabilities and enhance
cybersecurity
BOLD® Advantages
When it comes to electric infrastructure, size and aesthetics
matter to the public. That’s where AEP’s new Breakthrough
Overhead Line Design® (BOLD®) technology comes in.
BOLD features lower, more aesthetically pleasing tower
profiles and provides increased capacity within the same
right-of-way. This makes it an attractive design option in
dense areas and a conscientious response to public
objections to taller and more conspicuous traditional towers.
In addition, the single-pole design reduces or eliminates
avian nesting, potentially reducing outages caused by birds.
The deployment of BOLD continues to grow throughout our
service territories.
We completed Phase 1 of a rebuild of the Roanoke-Marion
transmission line to replace aging infrastructure with more
than 200 new towers southwest of Fort Wayne, Indiana. This
project was the first to deploy a double-circuit 138 kV BOLD
line design. Though completion is scheduled for December 2019, parts of the line rebuild have already been energized.
In addition to BOLD projects in Indiana, we broke ground on a BOLD line near New Albany, Ohio in November 2018. We
selected BOLD for this location due to the new power requirements in the area and limited rights-of-way. The small
footprint of BOLD and its shorter towers will allow more power to pass through an existing right-of-way that traverses
soccer fields and communal parks and will be nearly the same height as the existing lower-capacity lines. Additional
BOLD projects are in the planning stages.
BOLD is an example of groundbreaking innovation designed to improve reliability, grid resilience and services for
customers. It also provides important environmental benefits, including fewer line losses and avian interactions, as well as
lowering the electromagnetic field (EMF) levels. We are now marketing BOLD technology to other utilities around the
world. In 2018, we licensed four engineering firms to promote and use BOLD technology for their clients. We are proud of
our employees who helped make this innovative design a reality and who continue to lead the way as we prepare our
company – and the industry – for the future.
MODERNIZING TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Although we are an energy company, not a single part of our jobs can happen without a robust telecommunications
network operating behind the scenes. Our ability to capture and communicate the vast amounts of data coming through
our smart grid is essential to every single one of our business activities – and our data needs are growing every day. Our
telecommunications system is a complex and integrated complement of technologies, devices, equipment, facilities,
networks and applications that make it possible to communicate effectively with customers and deliver high standards of
customer service.
Having the proper infrastructure in place to support our evolving telecommunication needs to meet both current and future
operational demands is imperative. Much like the aging grid, our telecommunications system is undergoing a significant
transformation.
AEP operates one of the largest private fiber optics network of any energy company in the U.S. From collecting and
transmitting outage updates to customers via our mobile apps to downloading real-time grid data in the field, this network
supports everything we do. We are expanding the network to meet the data needs of an increasingly digital smart grid, our
operations and our customers’ needs.Having the proper infrastructure in place to support our evolving
telecommunication needs to meet both current and future
operational demands is imperative.
This is a 10-year, $1.5 billion initiative ($480 million
approved so far), and we are in the third year of modernizing
a system that serves as the backbone of the power grid and
our business operations. Key benefits of these investments
will be the creation of system redundancies to ensure
reliability of the grid and reduce our reliance on third parties
to maintain the infrastructure we rely upon so heavily.
The capital investment plan includes running new fiber along
portions of AEP’s 40,000 circuit miles of transmission lines,
a new 800-megahertz (MHz) radio system that is critical to
communicating with crews in the field, upgrading network
systems on dozens of facilities, improved cybersecurity
protections and additions of system redundancies that allow
rerouting of data during outages to keep the system running.
As the use of online videos increase, we need more
bandwidth to support this business need. One example is
the increased use of drone technology for maintenance and assessment of storm damage. Without a strong
telecommunications network, the videos from those drones would not be available or would take a long time to download,
making it inefficient. Read more about using AEP’s fiber network to expand broadband.
TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION
Innovation has been fundamental to AEP’s growth and
development throughout our history. We understand the
continually increasing demands of modern society will
require smart, integrated, and sustainable infrastructure and
technology solutions. That is why, as one of the largest
energy companies in the U.S., we work each day to identify
innovative solutions that meet the rapidly evolving needs of
our customers. This means staying ahead of the curve with
advanced energy infrastructure, piloting new technologies
and preparing for advancements in transportation and other
major catalysts for economic growth – before they become
commonplace.
In 2018, we took bold steps to create new avenues for
corporate-wide innovation. From generation to transmission
to distribution, we are employing the power of data analytics
to better understand our infrastructure and our customers. We are harnessing new, digital technologies – such as smart
metering and sensors, mobile applications and process automation – to create a smart, distributed grid. We are
partnering with our communities and entrepreneurial businesses and using next-generation tools, including virtual and
augmented reality, autonomous vehicles, robots and more, to propel our services and solutions forward.
We believe AEP is well-positioned to leverage our scale, industry experience and skilled workforce to achieve our goal of
being the energy company of the future. In many ways, we are still at the beginning of this journey, and we know it will take
time – but we remain committed to providing our customers the innovations that will power the 21st century.
DATA ANALYTICS
Technology advancements in analytics are making things possible today that were unimaginable not so long ago. At AEP,
we are using these advancements to help position ourselves as the energy company of the future.
We are advancing the use of data and analytics to solve problems, optimize processes and discover new businessopportunities. For example, we completed a strategic segmentation of our residential customers to help us better
understand what they need and expect of AEP. This gives us important information as we design new programs and
services.
Within grid operations, several initiatives have been completed that provide monitoring, prediction and optimization
capabilities that we didn’t have before. These efforts enable increased safety, reliability and customer value.
Examples of data and advanced analytics initiatives:
Microgrid analytics leverages internal and external data to optimize the siting of distribution microgrid/distributed
energy resources. This reduces the amount of time needed to conduct site research and provides innovative
partnership opportunities with the Enterprise Innovation and Charge organizations.
In 2018, we developed an analytics tool to automatically generate a list of transmission meter points requiring
investigation. It is critical that meters are accurate to ensure more accurate bills for customers.
In 2018, we continued the development of a new tool to help automate the classification of some network faults on
the grid. Where there’s an outage on the transmission grid, our dispatchers are expected to make a determination
of what caused it. The classification of network faults can be a time-consuming process that in some cases requires
a physical inspection to confirm the problem before repairs can be made. This tool allows us to target our outage
response more accurately, saving time and money and enhancing the customer experience.
In 2017, a data analytics team was established to support both distribution- and customer-related needs. On the
customer side, the focus was on customer segmentation and propensity modeling to help identify potential new
service offerings. For distribution, the focus is on improving operational efficiencies and driving more informed
business decisions.
We are planning to build our text analytics capabilities to automate document searches in our system. For example,
our Enterprise Risk Management group is examining how to automate the review of current and historical damage
or insurance claims. The result will be faster claim resolution for customers at a reduced operational cost for AEP.
To learn more about process automation, visit 
The Future of Work
. As we continue to learn and advance in this space, we
are beginning to focus on cognitive analytics to enable us to make recommendations to our customers based on their
interactions with us. Currently, our customer interactions are largely transactional, such as paying a bill or turning power on
and off. Having this new functionality will give us more information to better serve our customers, based on their usage and
interests.
BECOMING DIGITAL
Across society, consumers are increasingly integrating mobile digital technology into their daily lives, from online
shopping and operating their home security systems to remotely turning lights on and off and adjusting thermostats. At
AEP, we are integrating digital into the way we organize, behave and operate to remain competitive, better serve our
customers and create sustainable value. This agile operating model gives us a place to test insights and develop valuable
products, services and solutions quickly for customers and become more efficient ourselves.
We envision a future where the power grid is fully digital. From a diverse and decentralized network of distributed energy
resources (DERs) equipped with advanced monitoring and controls and a self-healing grid, we empower our customers to
understand and manage their energy use from their mobile device. Through these advancements, we are reinventing what
it means to be an energy company.
As we continue our digital transformation, we are creating opportunities for employees to stay curious and test new ideas.
We are encouraging a collaborative mindset that sparks creativity and innovation – staying true to our heritage of
innovation. We developed new work spaces that are more conducive to creating, innovating and developing new ideas.
This also gives us the freedom to develop those that show promise with an avenue to fast-track them to market when
ready or move on when they don’t. We are also giving employees tools such as mobile apps, augmented and virtual reality
environments, and automated controls and sensors that provide real-time data to improve network operations, resilience
and safety.
Digital transformation is a massive undertaking, and we have a five-year roadmap to align our actions around a new
organizational and governance structure and strategic workforce plan. Our employees must be agile, willing to challenge
the status quo to test new ideas and insights and able to accept failure as part of success. In preparation, we areundertaking strategic workforce planning as we create the future of work – what the work will be and which skills are
needed to be successful.
What Digital Can Do
Becoming digital will change how we work, as well as alter the processes we use to get the work done. We are using
integrated digital solutions throughout the company and using technology to make these solutions effective across our
footprint, so our jobs can truly become more efficient and measurable and skills are transferrable.
AEP Charge
In 2018, AEP created Charge, a new team who represent all functions across AEP and who will manage transformative
innovation projects focused upon delivering incremental value to our customers and employees. Charge works closely
with our IT, Innovation, Continuous Improvement and Customer Experience teams. Charge is led by our Chief Digital
Officer, a new role formed in 2018.
The Charge team engages the business at large, prioritizes opportunities against an established framework and rapidly
creates technologies for immediate consideration and implementation at a proof of concept scale. Upon successful rollout
and realization of benefits, Charge partners with IT to scale the solution for broader consumption.
In early 2019, Charge moved into a new development factory space in an up-and-coming technology center in Columbus,
Ohio, to foster an environment of innovation, a departure from the traditional corporate workplace. The organization is sub-
divided into pods consisting of four to six technologists who work on specific new ideas in rapid succession.
Charge’s goal is to achieve $200 million in savings for AEP over the next five years. The team has already delivered the
first big innovation to improve the customer experience – a Claim Submission Portal that went live in early 2019. The new
portal allows customers to quickly and easily file claims digitally with AEP online. It eliminates the need for call centers to
handle claims, freeing them up to focus more on servicing other customer needs.
In 2019, Charge will continually seek to develop internally generated intellectual property and to build partnerships in the
Columbus, Ohio, area to potentially co-author offerings. We are also investigating ways of sharing solutions we develop
with others in our industry.
IllumiNation Energy Summit & LAB
On May 15-16, 2019, AEP will co-present the IllumiNation Energy Summit with The Ohio State University, Battelle
Memorial Research Institute and Smart Columbus. The Summit is designed to ignite conversations that reimagine the
future of energy and how we can collaborate with our various stakeholders to make it happen. The Summit will feature
panel discussions, immersive technology experiences and thought-provoking discussions with policymakers, technology
companies, customers and other stakeholders.
In early 2019, AEP launched IlluminationLAB, a strategic
initiative designed to identify innovative technology solutions
that will drive improved performance and enhance customer
experiences in the energy industry. IlluminationLAB will help AEP find promising new technologies and innovative ideas
focused in four areas – customer experience; grid optimization; efficiency, operations and maintenance; and electric
mobility/electrification. We partnered with innovation specialist L Marks to help identify promising entrepreneurs and early
growth stage companies in the energy sector to apply. If selected to participate, each tech start-up will work directly with
an AEP mentor and industry experts for 10 weeks to help advance and shape its idea or technology. The start-up will be
given access to working space, potential funding and the chance to develop products, platforms and processes that will
help AEP expand its technology-driven offerings and processes. In addition, the start-ups will have the opportunity to
further develop their companies alongside leading subject matter experts in the energy sector.
Enterprise Innovation
At AEP, innovation has been part of the fabric of our culture for more than a century. Today, our sights are set on the next100 years. In 2018, we formed an Enterprise Innovation and Technology team to establish an experimentation process to
bring forward ideas that deliver value to customers, test them and, if validated, deploy them. Our strategy is to bring
technical and business insights to AEP while seeking partnerships and potential investors to bring new products and
services to market.
The speed of innovation is measured in two ways, the rate that learnings are translated into new value and the speed in
which that value is delivered to customers. The faster the velocity of learnings the more cost-effective and likely a new
value will be discovered and delivered to customers. AEP’s innovation company, Kyte Works, was created to give us the
ability to validate an insight or concept in the same way a start-up company would.
For example, we developed a pilot process to validate microgrid and distributed energy technologies using a shared
value business model. The shared value model produces benefits for the grid and society while addressing specific
customer needs. We interviewed customers and employees who work with customers to gain insights. We will use what
we learned to develop a value proposition and present a valid business case for the expanded use of microgrids and
distributed resources.
We focused on commercial and industrial customers who might be willing to pay for the specific benefits offered by these
technologies. For many large industrial and commercial customers, energy is a major factor in their success.
Our plan to develop microgrids as part of AEP Ohio’s Smart City initiative is an example of creating shared value. The
planned microgrids, which received regulatory support in 2018, would be designed to maintain power in areas where
critical public service facilities, such as police and fire stations, medical facilities and emergency shelters are located.
This also provides a measure of resilience for the local communities.
In 2017, AEP Transmission piloted the use of a remote-controlled robot for inspecting the internal components of power
transformers using a decommissioned 1950s-era transformer. Today, our Generation team also uses autonomous
underwater vehicles, known as remotely operated vehicles (ROVs), to conduct inspections of submerged equipment.
Crews use ROVs to inspect intake screens, storage tank liners and other submerged facilities at our dams and power
plants. Using ROVs instead of human divers, saves time and money, and avoids the safety hazards associated with
working in confined, submerged spaces. We are also conducting similar robotic inspections at our coal-fired plants,
achieving similar cost and safety benefits.
Spark Tank Challenge
As technologies advance at an unprecedented pace, our customers expect us to develop innovative solutions and
technology to move us into the future. In 2017, we launched our first enterprise wide Spark Tank Challenge, challenging
our employees to collaborate, amplify and pitch their innovative ideas as products or services that customers will want
today or in the future. Our intent is to convert viable ideas into revenue streams for AEP that bring value to those we serve.
The ideas were evaluated by AEP’s Innovation Council before being presented to a panel of internal and external judges.
A handful of ideas made it to the last round; some were reserved for future development; and others offered continuous
improvement value. We invited employees to participate in another innovation challenge in 2019, called Spark Tank 2.0.
AEP’s Enterprise Innovation Council (functions represented)
Transmission
Strategy & Innovation
Chief Customer Officer
Enterprise Innovation & Technology
Charge
Regulatory Affairs
NERC Reliability Assurance
Strategic Investment
External Affairs
Utilities
Chief Information Officer
Regulated Generation DevelopmentCorporate International Affairs
Distribution Asset Management
Advanced Transmission Studies & Technology
Customer Solutions & Policy
Innovation & Technology
Smart City
AEP continues to play an important role as a Foundational Partner in the Smart Columbus initiative that began in 2016
when the City of Columbus, Ohio – home to AEP’s corporate headquarters – won the U.S. Department of Transportation’s
(DOT) $40 million Smart City Challenge. Columbus was awarded an additional $10 million for the initiative from the Paul
G. Allen Vulcan Foundation. Smart Columbus is executing on its vision to reinvent mobility, improve people’s quality of life,
drive local economic growth, improve access to jobs and job opportunities, foster a sustainable community and become a
world-class logistics center.
As a partner, AEP supports and contributes to the Smart
Columbus priorities where we can have the greatest impact.
Our initiatives include modernizing the transportation
network with incentives to increase the number of electric
vehicle charging stations and reducing carbon emissions in
the electric power sector through energy efficiency and grid
modernization.
This includes making strategic investments in a seven-
county region in central Ohio to establish the smart grid as
the platform for a clean energy future. While the partnership
is focused on central Ohio, the lessons we learn will benefit
all of AEP. In 2018, we continued implementing several
smart technologies to modernize the grid, including:
Deploying smart meters throughout Columbus and
across Ohio. Since 2017, we have installed over
700,000 smart meters in Columbus and across the
state, and our goal is to install more than 900,000
smart meters. In a filing with state regulators, we are
seeking approval to complete installation of smart
meters for all of our remaining Ohio customers. This
will enable real-time data collection, such as meter
readings and power outages.
Leveraging distribution automation circuit
reconfiguration (DACR), which detects outages and
reroutes energy to quickly restore service.
Deploying Volt/VAR Optimization, which enhances our ability to monitor and control voltage across the system.
Providing customers with real-time information on their energy usage through a mobile app, which gives customers
greater control over their energy use.
Read more about these technologies in Grid Modernization
.
As part of this initiative, AEP Ohio helps drive consumer adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) by removing barriers and
investing in and supporting the deployment of EV station infrastructure. In 2018, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO) approved AEP Ohio’s Electric Security Plan (ESP), supporting expanded access to EV charging infrastructure
and authorizing up to $10 million for incentives to support it.
In August 2018, AEP Ohio launched its Electric Vehicle Charging Station Incentive Program for business customers. This
enables the installation of hardware and networking for 300 Level 2 and 75 direct current fast charging stations throughout
Columbus and our Ohio service territory. This is a critical step toward enabling faster adoption of EVs.To ensure underserved communities also benefit from having access to this technology, we will locate a minimum of 30
Level 2 chargers and eight fast chargers in low-income areas in our service territory, as required in our ESP agreement.
Since 2016, AEP has invested approximately $12 million in fleet electrification. We are also pursuing a plan to invest
approximately $175 million to improve energy efficiency, advance clean energy and energy storage, and usher along the
electrification of transportation systems throughout the state.
AEP Ohio also received approval for renewable generation and reliability improvements to the distribution system. Up to
$10.5 million was approved for demonstration microgrid projects targeting nonprofit, public-serving AEP Ohio customers,
such as fire and police stations, municipal and medical facilities, social service agencies, emergency shelters and water
and sewer facilities. Microgrids provide resiliency to a community in the event of a major outage event by allowing critical
services to stay connected and serving vital community needs.
AEP Ohio will invest up to $200,000 to research ways to continue developing and to maintain Smart City efforts in the long
term. We are excited about the opportunities this partnership provides, including improving quality of life in our
communities through innovations in transportation and data collection.
In October 2018, Columbus, Ohio, was selected one of 20 winning cities in Bloomberg Philanthropies’ American Cities
Climate Challenge. The Cities Climate Challenge is a $70 million program to promote efforts in cities to fight climate
change and provide a more sustainable future for their citizens.
Columbus is using resources from the Cities Climate Challenge to establish a workforce development program for energy
efficiency auditors to increase the number of homes that receive an energy audit. The city plans to expand programs for
financing energy efficiency and renewable energy for commercial buildings. AEP Ohio’s robust energy efficiency
programs support the city’s goals and help broaden our reach in delivering energy efficient solutions and clean power to
customers.
INNOVATION GOES GLOBAL
AEP is developing initiatives and forming partnerships in the U.S. and around the world to scout new innovation
technologies, validate them fast, demonstrate their benefits to customers and policymakers, secure timely regulatory
support or contractual approvals for innovation and deployment, and deploy them at scale.
By participating in global accelerator programs for startup companies, technology innovation networks, joint utility
collaborations and global technology innovation information hubs, we can move faster to identify and deliver new solutions
for all of our customers within the next five years.
AEP is one of 10 international utilities in the 
Free Electrons
global energy accelerator program, giving us access to the
world’s most innovative technology entrepreneurs from more
than 60 countries. Free Electrons allows us to choose the ones that we think will best fit our customers’ needs which we
then validate with other members of the group and within our service territory. We are currently validating two technologies
in Oklahoma and Ohio.
The CEOs of AEP, Enel (Italy) and Hydro-Quebec (Canada) formed the International Energy Innovators Consortium to co-
develop technologies that are not currently available. This collaboration of technology experts for microgrids, big data
analytical tools and e-mobility yields joint initiatives with the potential to serve the customers of all three companies.
We are also partnering bilaterally with Enel-X (Italy), Innogy (Germany), ESG (Ireland), China Light and Power (Hong
Kong), Hydro-Quebec and other international utilities, to identify opportunities to co-validate, co-develop and co-invest in
new technologies.
In addition, the CEO-led Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership provides access to a global information hub for
innovative technologies, business models and public policies that are enabling new technologies to be developed and
deployed. AEP has been a member since the 1990s and gains important insights from other international CEOs on how
they are working to solve similar challenges facing our customers.We are learning how AR/VR and its wearable technology can
help us bridge the real world with the digital.
Drones are an effective means of inspecting power lines for
Augmented/Virtual Reality
The thread that connects the legacy analog power grid of the past with the modern, digital grid of the future may lie in the
three-dimensional and colorful world of augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR). We are learning how AR/VR and its
wearable technology can help us bridge the real world with the digital to become as common as smart-phones and
tablets, saving us money and time while enhancing safety and training efforts.
We began learning about the benefits of AR/VR when we
initiated a proof of concept in 2017 as a potential tool for
conducting virtual site visits of field operations. One of the
project’s deliverables was a white paper to document what
employees will need to know in order to use AR/VR
technology to meet a business need. AEP also signed on to
an Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) study identifying
practical AR/VR applications in the industry. What we
learned will improve operational efficiency and safety for our
employees. For example, a single employee equipped with
the AR/VR goggles can conduct a virtual site visit, entering a
station and interacting with stakeholders remotely through
web streaming.
We have found that people who wear the goggles and
immerse themselves in the experience of AR/VR actually
forget they are not physically there and start solving
problems through what they are seeing. This demonstrates that we can collaborate remotely, using technology to “see” our
way to a solution. In addition, this technology enables us to study and possibly identify defects in construction projects
before they are built can keep employees safe.
We have developed several new projects around this exciting technology. These include:
A mobile phone application for the BOLD transmission line that incorporates AR, giving viewers a real-world look at
the structure on their phone. In addition, we developed two Microsoft HoloLens applications (a mixed reality
technology). One is used to share information about BOLD with industry and public stakeholders. A second version
is more technical for engineers.
A mobile app that allows workers at one of our power plants to view certain types of equipment through a phone’s
camera to see real-time data and visuals. This allows employees to stay a safe distance from the equipment while
inspecting its performance.
We are leveraging Microsoft’s HoloLens to enable transmission engineers to remotely collaborate on station
standards design. They can virtually walk through their designs in an immersive 3-D experience to correct potential
issues earlier, before construction begins.
Drones in Flight
Drones are an effective means of inspecting power lines for
regular maintenance and to survey damage after storms. In
2017, we began using a camera-equipped drone for power
line patrols to test how well the drones work for inspections.
We also use drones to conduct inspections of generation,
transmission telecommunications and distribution
equipment. The advantages include:
Cameras can capture images underneath
components on a structure, such as insulator
assemblies, compared to helicopter pilots and
observers, who can only look down
Safer working conditions because no one is required
to climb a tower or ride in a helicopter
Drones can access hard-to-reach areas possibly not
accessible by helicopterregular maintenance and to survey damage after storms.
Drones are quieter than helicopters, which is a benefit
when flying in populated areas
Drones also can help us assess damage more quickly after an outage. In late 2018, an ice storm swept through the
Appalachian Power service area, leaving more than 50,000 customers without power. Following the storm, we hired a
commercial drone company to test the effectiveness of drone fly-bys to survey the damaged areas. Within 30 minutes, the
drone pilot identified three spans of downed wire and one span where vegetation needed to be cleared. The drone video
was also streamed directly to our operations center for further analysis by our employees. The drone flight saved at least a
half-day of work and kept employees out of challenging terrain.
As drone usage becomes more widespread, we are establishing a governance structure to ensure our use of drones
complies with specific requirements around physical and cybersecurity, corporate risk assessments and federal
regulations.
Transmission Integrated Design and Construction
Integrated design and construction (IDC) is a new process to bring cost and schedule certainty to projects. It requires the
creation of 3-D and 4-D models that help guide collaborative stakeholder discussions and facilitate the early engagement
of construction experts. The IDC process also allows engineers to design and build a project virtually before steel goes in
the ground, enabling us to identify and mitigate issues that could cause project delays and cost overruns. The IDC also
improves safety because the work is done in a virtual environment rather than in the field.
In 2018, AEP Transmission leveraged the IDC process for six station projects that are in different stages of development.
We are learning important lessons that will improve future project work. Brownfield projects are among those that benefit
most from the IDC process because of their complexity with sequencing of work, limited construction space and the
engagement of multiple stakeholders.
Prefabricated Transmission
Since 2015, AEP has increasingly worked with prefabricated technology to build transmission substations more
efficiently, safely and less expensively. In addition to efficiency gains, prefabrication can reduce the length of construction-
related outages, speed up installation, improve safety by minimizing risk exposure and minimize waste. There were 14
prefabricated bus and structure installations in 2018, with 17 more currently projected to be installed in 2019.
In 2018, we installed 184 prefabricated foundations in eight different stations, including four hurricane restoration projects
along the Texas Gulf Coast. The ability to prefabricate foundations and streamline material handling and construction
allowed us to restore station functionality more quickly than would have been possible using traditional construction
methods. In fact, it only took approximately 30 minutes to complete bolting the prefabricated bus and structure assembly
onto the awaiting columns at the Verhalen Substation near Pecos, Texas.
It is our intent to make these foundations the standard, rather than the exception, as cost savings and time efficiencies
grow.SOCIAL
SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
RESPONSIBILITY
ZERO HARM
No aspect of our work is more important than safety and health, whether it is an AEP employee, contractor or a member of
the public. Zero Harm is at the heart of everything we do. It means we believe all occupational illnesses and injuries are
preventable 
Because We Care
 that everyone goes home in the same or better condition than when they came to work.
UNLOCKING THE POWER OF PERSPECTIVES
We are committed to providing a pathway for employees to advance and unlock the power of
perspectives to better serve our customers, drive innovation and generate sustainable growth for
our company.
Learn more
WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT
AEP provides a broad range of
training and assistance that supports
lifelong learning and transition
development, which is especially
important as we move toward a more
digital future.
Learn more
DIVERSITY &
INCLUSION
A diverse, inclusive and highly
engaged workforce not only improves
performance, it also improves
company culture.
Learn more
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts
extend beyond our workforce to the
customers and communities we
serve, including our supplier base.
Learn moreCULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT
A strong and healthy culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long-term
success. An engaged, collaborative and empowered workforce not only improves morale and
performance, it fuels innovation, sparks ingenuity and drives continuous improvement.
Learn more
AEP’s comprehensive safety programs are the foundation for our
safety and health transformation.
SAFETY & HEALTH AT AEP
No aspect of our work is more important than safety and health, whether it is an AEP employee, a contractor or a member
of the public. Zero Harm is at the heart of everything we do. It means we believe all occupational illnesses and injuries are
preventable Because We Care that everyone goes home in the same or better condition than when they came to work.
We Care about our people, our customers and our communities.
Sadly, we lost one employee in 2018 and one in 2019 to
injuries sustained on the job. A line mechanic with our
Southwestern Electric Power Company died on the job from
an electrical contact in Shreveport, Louisiana. In March
2019, an Appalachian Power Company meter servicer was
fatally injured when his vehicle rolled over a hill due to road
erosion.
The impact of these losses to their families and coworkers
is profound and unacceptable to us. We believe safety is
personal, and we accept that each of us has a responsibility
to look out for each other and say something when safety
and health are at risk. We are committed to doing all we can
to prevent this from happening again. We took immediate
action to refocus our workforce by taking time to pause and
think about additional steps that can be taken to mitigate
risks. We held company-wide Safety Stand-Downs, during
which employees discussed the events, as well as the importance of work planning.
2018 marked the beginning of the third year of our five-year safety and health transformation to achieving Zero Harm –
zero injuries, zero occupational illnesses and zero fatalities. Getting to Zero Harm means reflecting on our past, with an
understanding of how much we stand to lose with just a single shortcut. We have established several programs and
activities that serve as the foundation for our journey. Our objective is to take our safety and health culture from good to
great by making it personal and holding each other accountable. We are doing this one day at a time.
We know we can achieve Zero Harm because
work groups across the company achieve it
every year. We are creating a learning-centric
safety culture where events are looked at
objectively and used as opportunities to
prevent future harm, while learning from those
who do it well. It’s a culture that focuses on
communicating, learning and continuously
improving so the same events aren’t repeated.
Our efforts include:
Building a comprehensive governance
structure that allows us to be more
proactive, break down silos and remove
obstacles to preventing harmEnhancing training to objectively evaluate safety-related events
Implementing employee recommended policies to make driving safer
Improving accessibility of safety and health information through online platforms
Analyzing and sharing injury data and trends with business units in a timely manner
Producing video messages to educate employees
Coaching employees to have meaningful conversations about safety and health
SAFETY & HEALTH PERFORMANCE
We are making steady improvement on our journey to
achieving Zero Harm. We are on a journey with no end and
can’t afford to take our eyes off the ball for a single second.
In 2018, 11 fewer employees and contractors were injured,
and more than 80 percent of AEP work reporting locations
did not experience a DART (Days Away, Restricted or Job
Transfer) event.
2018 Safety & Health Performance
Overview:
The DART rate for AEP employees was 0.393
compared with 0.445 in 2017.
We calculate a combined DART rate for employee
and contractor performance, which gives us a total
picture of the progress our entire workforce is making
toward Zero Harm. The combined DART rate was
0.446 compared with 0.507 for 2017.
AEP contractors’ DART rate for 2018 was 0.507
compared with 0.582 for 2017. There was additional
focus on contractor safety in 2018, which will continue.
In 2018, AEP employees and contractors experienced
161 DART events compared with 172 in 2017.
The severity days/rate for 2018 was 17.568, a
reduction from 22.324 in 2017. The severity rate is
meant to show how critical each injury and illness is.
The concept is that an employee who must miss time from work or be restricted in their activity to heal and recover
has a more severe injury or illness than one who can immediately return to work.
We are proud of the progress we have made so far; however, we know that reaching Zero Harm takes persistence and
continued effort. No single solution or activity will improve AEP’s safety and health performance. However, we are
confident that the programs, policies and procedures we have in place will make a positive difference in the lives of our
employees, contractors and their families.
Managing Performance
Internal audits of our safety and health management system and compliance processes are part of our quest for Zero
Harm. The audits help flag potential hazards that could lead to harm, allowing us to take proactive corrective and
preventive action. In 2018, we audited safety and health programs at more than 50 locations. We share the audit results
with business unit leaders and safety professionals across the company to leverage best practices and lessons learned.
Assessing Effectiveness
We want to take every opportunity to get better at what we do and learn how we can work safer. This is why Safety and
Health and AEP Texas are partnering on a pilot to set up an assessment process. It looks at how we use our skills and
training, along with critical safety measures and protections, to influence the outcome of our work. We’ll take what we learn
to create a framework for an assessment standard that can be applied to a variety of tasks across all business units.The Good Catch program encourages employees to proactively
share information about unsafe conditions or events where there
was no resulting harm or damage.
SAFETY & HEALTH INITIATIVES
The safety and health of our employees, contractors and the public is our highest priority. We continue to make significant
progress; however, we still have work to do to get to Zero.
AEP’s comprehensive safety programs are the foundation
for our safety and health transformation. To achieve it we
focus on engagement, accountability, proactive hazard
identification and correction and continuous improvement.
To empower a culture of safety across the organization, we
have created several technical committees that tap into the
experience of front-line supervisors and employees to
create and implement safety solutions. These committees
enable quick communication and planning on safety issues
and ensure our safety messages reach everyone at AEP
and drive deeper safety engagement within the
organization.
To help us gauge our progress, in 2018 we conducted our
second Safety Perception Survey. Results from this survey
help us identify areas where our safety programs are
effective and where they can be improved. More than 90
percent of our employees participated in the survey, which
showed many strengths in our safety culture, including:
A strong focus and commitment to safety
More employees believe leaders are accountable for preventing injuries
Employees appreciate the structure of the new Safety and Health committees
Employees continue to feel empowered and expected to take action to prevent injuries
We know we are making progress. Today, more employees believe all injuries are preventable compared with the survey
results in 2015, when the survey was first administered. To achieve Zero Harm, everyone must believe all injuries and
illnesses are preventable. It’s the only way to change the way we behave. We look for ways to mitigate risks instead of
accepting them. The Safety Perception Survey identified the following areas of opportunity for improvement:
Better recognition of safety achievements and milestones is needed
Office-based employees want a greater connection to safety
Greater employee engagement will be critical to achieving sustainable best safety performance
Safety & Health Analytics
We continue to see the benefits of data analytics on our safety and health programs. In 2017, we began using data
analytics to provide business unit leaders and their safety committees more detailed analysis regarding injuries in their
respective organizations. Data visualization tools are used to help illustrate safety data in a graphical way so that we can
more easily spot patterns and trends. The data showed that similar injuries occur across AEP. By using these reports, we
can help our employees better understand the underlying causes of common injuries and how to improve injury prevention
efforts.
Safety & Health Manual
We know that our employees have the greatest insight on how to work better and safer, because they are performing the
work every day. In 2018, we enlisted our employees to help revise the AEP Safety and Health Manual, which is availablein multiple formats. The eBook version is accessible through mobile devices and offers additional features to users
beyond the print manual, such as infographics, a search function, and a bookmark feature to save key safety information
for quick access.
The revised manual includes AEP’s newly developed, company-wide 
Life Saving Rules
. Rather than maintaining a set of
rules for each business unit, this update provides a standard set of rules that are foundational to our safety culture and
apply to everyone. These rules rise above the rest at AEP, and they come with the highest standard of accountability and
enforcement.
Site Inspection Program
We established our Site Inspection Program in 2016, following a fatal crash between a train and an AEP vehicle at a
private rail crossing at a construction laydown yard. Through this program, we inspect sites across our service territory to
identify potential safety hazards that could put our employees and contractors at risk. Our Site Inspection Team uses a
standardized approach, with an owner assigned to each facility inspection. More than 3,700 sites were inspected during
the first year of the program, including substations, laydown yards, generation plants and office facilities.
In 2018, we expanded this effort to create mitigation plans for the next tier of risks. Through 2018, the Site Inspection
Team completed 159 physical projects and developed 80 revised work practices. This work will continue in 2019. The
types of risks we focused on included vehicle crashes while turning onto public roadways and vehicle impact by a train in
the entrance/exit area of specific sites.
CORE Visits
Coaching through Observation, Recognition and Engagement (CORE) visits are a leadership tool that can be used to
assess a variety of activities. The visits connect employees with their leaders in a two-way dialogue to improve
engagement and performance. Even though safety and health is the focus, the interactions can include discussions on
continuous improvement, work expectations and opportunities to develop standard work. In 2018, leaders documented
more than 16,000 CORE visits. This information is used to identify trends on where we can improve across AEP as well
as be an early indicator of risk or harm.
In 2018, we continued the Shadow of the Leader – CORE Visit Training to improve employee engagement and reinforce
positive behaviors. This provides leaders with more ways to build trust and engage with their team members. In 2018,
more than 400 employees participated in 30 classes. In total, more than 4,000 employees have participated in this
training.
Good Catch Program
The Good Catch program encourages employees to proactively share information about unsafe conditions or events
where there was no resulting harm or damage. Through the program, situations are reported and corrected, and learnings
are communicated throughout the organization. In 2018, nearly 5,000 good catches were reported by employees and
more than 500 good catches by contractors.
Preventing Overexertion
One of the more common types of employee injuries is overexertion. In 2018, we formed an employee team to develop a
strategy to reduce these types of injuries. About 25 percent of all reported serious injuries are attributed to overexertion,
such as muscle sprains and strains. The team developed four key recommendations to prevent overexertion injuries from
occurring. These include:
Improve lifting and weight limit awareness
Create instructional videos on how to provide feedback about safety issuesDriving is a critical task for many people at AEP, which is why we
have an Attentive Driving Policy to help keep employees safe
while operating a vehicle.
Incorporate ergonomics into tool selection criteria
Develop role-specific stretching and flexibility plans for employees
We conducted a series of pilot programs on lifting and weight awareness, during which employees weighed, tagged and
developed lifting plans for a variety of common objects at their work location. Employees also received ergonomics
training to remove risk hazards that lead to common injuries. The training focused on those areas most vulnerable to lifting
and repetitive task injuries, including arms, elbows, wrists, knees and the neck.
Driving Safety
Driving is a critical task for many people at AEP. Our
employees collectively average more than 91 million miles
behind the wheel per year for work. AEP’s Attentive Driving
Policy prohibits the use of cellphones and hands-free
devices while driving for company business. The policy
reinforces the importance of seat belt use to saving lives. In
2019, we extended this policy to our contractor workforce.
In 2018, we began using new telematics technology across
our fleet and coaching our drivers on its use. Many
companies use telematics for a number of reasons,
including to improve safety on the job. Telematics
equipment is used in vehicles to monitor speed, idling,
braking, driving, seat belt use, fuel consumption and other
vehicle data.
We now have telematics installed in more than 5,200 AEP
vehicles, which include tools such as dual-facing dash
cameras and vehicle health-monitoring equipment on
hydraulic vehicles. The information gathered from these technologies will help improve our drivers’ skills and safety, as
well as reduce fuel usage and improve vehicle maintenance and claims costs. AEP uses this information to coach our
drivers.
Our employees who operate heavy equipment or drive large vehicles for their work are required to have a commercial
driver’s license (CDL). Training is integral to driver safety, and we want to ensure our employees are receiving consistent
training that matches our expectations for safe vehicle operation. In 2018, we instituted a new CDL program to ensure the
training our employees receive comes from a certified provider. One feature of the CDL program is to pair our newly
licensed drivers with a mentor, so they can gain valuable on-the-road experience from a more experienced driver.
Between 300 and 500 AEP employees will participate annually.
Communicating Safety & Health
To be effective in communicating important safety and health information, communication has to be clear and sent through
multiple channels. To maintain our focus on safety throughout the year, we communicate key safety events and outcomes
with one-page alerts sent to affected employees. We also communicate when there are new or changing policies that
impact safety. Alerts prove to be an effective way to communicate with employees in an easily accessible format. In 2018,
we issued 15 safety and health alerts.
We implemented several web-based communication platforms for instant and easily-accessible safety-related
information, including a safety and health dashboard on our internal website. This gives employees instant access to
information on Good Catches, DART and other recordable events. We also maintain a private Facebook page where we
share valuable safety and health information and recognize safe behaviors at work and home.
AEP has its own Safety and Health Video Channel, where we share safety messages monthly across the company. These
messages elevate awareness of our greatest safety challenges. We also feature first-hand accounts of safety experiencesfrom employees from across the company. So far, we have released 16 safety videos featuring our frontline employees,
with more planned in 2019.
To help our contractors achieve Zero Harm, each business unit
has a rigorous contractor pre-qualification process that sets
clear expectations for compliance and commitment.
SAFETY OF OUR CONTRACTORS
The safety of our contractor workforce is as important to us as the safety of our employees because harm doesn’t
discriminate in the pain it causes. We have a strong contractor safety program that we continuously improve upon. We’re
doing this in collaboration with contractors to ensure understanding and to set clear expectations.
To help our contractors achieve Zero Harm, each business
unit has a rigorous contractor pre-qualification process that
sets clear expectations for compliance and commitment.
We are beginning to incorporate leading indicators into the
contractor safety management program so we can
proactively address trends.
We frequently communicate with our contractors to ensure
compliance with our Safety & Health requirements. In
addition, we meet regularly and set an expectation for them
to align with our value of Zero Harm. We also regularly seek
opportunities to learn best practices from them.
When performance doesn’t match expectations, we hold in-
person meetings with contractors to identify the areas in
which they can improve upon their safety practices, and
ultimately improve their performance. In 2018, we conducted
50 in-person safety meetings with our contractors and saw
immediate, positive results. Out of the 19 Transmission
contractors who completed an in-person safety meeting, 18 experienced improved DART rates in 2018, and 15 had zero
DART cases for the entire year. The results were similar for Distribution contractors, with 11 of the 13 contractors
improving their DART rate following a face-to-face safety review, and eight contractors experiencing zero DART cases in
2018.
Our continued focus on contractor safety is an important part of our strategy and our goal for Zero Harm, especially as our
contractor workforce continues to grow.
Contractor Safety Committee
In 2018, we created a Contractor Safety Technical Committee to accomplish four initiatives to improve contractor safety.
These initiatives included a common data collection system, a standardized contractor prequalification process, a
common set of supplemental safety terms and conditions, and oversight training. The data system houses the contractor
qualification data we collect and keeps track of all contractor hours worked. The system also serves as a resource center
where users can find AEP’s Contractor Terms and Conditions, document templates and safety and training videos.
This new committee is focusing on creating a common contractor onboarding and work experience, regardless of the
AEP business unit for which they are working. To achieve this, we are working toward establishing an AEP systemwide
common prequalification process and set of supplemental terms and conditions. The committee will also develop
oversight training for those with contractor management responsibilities at AEP.
Safety Recognition
Being recognized for our safety programs means a lot to us. We are committed to Zero Harm, and we don’t do it for
awards. It is gratifying to know that we are making a difference.
In 2018, the National Maintenance Agreements Policy Committee, Inc., presented Zero Injury Safety Awards (ZISA) to 10
different AEP projects. ZISA is a premier award for industry safety, honoring union contractors, labor representatives andowner-clients who create injury-free jobsites. To qualify for ZISA recognition, a project must have zero OSHA recordable
incidents.
We are constantly seeking better ways to communicate safety
information to our neighbors, public contractors and first
responders who may come in contact with our electrical facilities.
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC
Our commitment to safety extends to the public. We are constantly seeking better ways to communicate safety information
to our neighbors, public contractors and first responders who may come in contact with our electrical facilities. We use
multiple communication channels, including videos, direct mail, in-person training, social media campaigns and school
education programs.
Unfortunately, despite our education and outreach efforts,
six public fatalities occurred in the AEP service territory in
2018 due to electrical contact. In response, we redoubled
our public safety efforts to increase public education and
awareness for staying safe near AEP facilities.
One of our focus areas is on public commercial contractors
and businesses. We are providing them with printed
information about how to work safely around overhead and
underground electrical facilities, and we encourage them to
contact us at any time.
Because first responders may be the first to encounter a
downed power line, we conduct outreach and education with
them to ensure they stay safe when responding to an
emergency. We also engage with the public in a variety of
ways, including:
Electrical safety awareness events and school safety
programs
Social media safety campaigns
Videos and reference materials with graphics to promote public safety
Promotion of “Call Before You Dig”
We continue to develop our public safety education program, including participating in an Edison Electric Institute (EEI)
working group that is developing common public safety messaging for all electric utilities to use. Once complete, this will
provide a stronger, more consistent message about public safety across our industry.
WORKFORCE SAFETY & SECURITY
AEP’s quest for Zero Harm reaches beyond occupational safety and health to include employee security and workplace
aggression. While in the field or in the office, we believe every employee should come to work feeling safe and secure. In
response, AEP has developed policies, procedures and training to increase employees’ ability to recognize, report and
respond to workplace aggression.
AEP has a mandatory self-reporting policy that requires all employees to report within 24 hours to their immediate
supervisor and/or their local Human Resources representative the following events:
An arrest, charge, indictment or conviction of a felony or misdemeanor criminal charge (except minor traffic offenses
that will not result in incarceration)
Service of a protection order or restraining order when the employee is listed as the subject of the protection or
restraining order.
The mandatory self-reporting policy makes us aware of these events sooner so we can prepare for events that could
potentially put our employees or our operations at risk.
We offer several workplace safety training initiatives to our employees. In 2018, we launched an Active Shooter ResponseWhile in the field or in the office, we believe every employee
should come to work feeling safe and secure.
table-top exercise to train our employees on how to handle
active shooter situations. This training teaches people to
think about safety not just at work, but at home and in public
as well.
While we take great measures to ensure our employees’
physical security at work - such as identification badges,
secured turnstile entrances and physical security desks and
personnel - we stress the need for situational awareness at
all times. In 2018, we conducted more than 180 active
shooter training sessions that reached more than 3,000
employees.
For our field employees, we provide face-to-face and video
Customer Threat and Aggressive Behavior training, which
includes de-escalation techniques that can be used when someone threatens the safety of our employees. In 2018, we
completed 69 sessions with more than 2,800 employees. In March 2019, we rewrote our policy for dealing with
threatening customers. If a customer threatens physical violence to our employees, business partners or company assets,
we now require a police escort and we’re training our employees on what to do. We also code these customers in our
system so that we know in advance of the potential threat and can prearrange a police escort.
We are developing a training program in 2019 to focus more on prevention techniques, such as understanding the
warning signs of an event. If we see employees are struggling emotionally, we want to be able to identify it and provide any
help that we can. Once developed, this type of proactive training will be provided to managers and supervisors across
AEP.
By putting these efforts in place, we stay true to our commitment to providing a safe working environment for all
employees.
OUR WORKFORCE
A fundamental transformation is occurring in the way we do
our work, the skills we need and the expectations of new
generations who are fast becoming the majority of our
workforce. The competition for talent is fierce, and the skills
we are looking for are evolving. Technology is playing a
pivotal role in how this unfolds. Digital platforms and artificial
intelligence (AI) are creating greater efficiencies, cost
savings and new career opportunities. Access to enormous
amounts of data are informing how we act, invest and
engage.
Amid this rollercoaster of change, agility and speed are
essential. At AEP, we are preparing our workforce for the
future by providing opportunities to learn new skills and
engaging higher education institutions to better prepare the
next generation with the skills that will be needed.
The Future of Work
The rise of mobile and wearable technology, artificial
intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), virtual and
augmented reality, drones and networks powered by 5G are among the transformational changes that are forever
reshaping the workplace and how we do our work. We rely on smart devices to organize our lives, conduct business and
do our jobs. Today, these technologies make life easier and are also changing how we do our work.
As our physical and digital worlds converge, we have to innovate more aggressively and constantly transform. 
At AEP, weare experiencing the disruption and change that come with the need to adapt to this evolving landscape. We now have a
multigenerational workforce that prefers alternative work styles and work environments beyond the traditional office. At the
same time that the work is changing, the technical and physical skills required to maintain and operate the grid remain
critical. Merging these needs requires a core mindset of continuous learning and continuous improvement.
The new demands of our work include implementing process automations and augmenting our systems with digital
technologies. We must transform our workforce by helping employees develop the skills needed to accomplish their work
using these new digital platforms.
The workplace as we know it today will also transform to accommodate the work of the future. We will adapt our offices
and other facilities to accommodate new technology and enable our employees to be more productive and collaborative.
We are also rethinking where work is required to be performed by assessing options such as virtual or remote work, and
we’re exploring new talent models. For example, we are asking ourselves whether the work can be done more effectively
and efficiently through contractors or third parties. This allows us to be more flexible as business needs and skillsets
change.
Process Automation
When looking at the future of work, one of the ways our work is changing is through process automation. We use process
automation to free up our employees to focus on more complex or valuable tasks, and to reduce error rates and improve
standardization of administrative tasks across the company. Tasks frequently selected for process automation include
data entry, performing calculations, filling out paperwork and logging in or out of applications.
To socialize the benefits of process automation, a series of work planning strategy sessions were held across AEP.
These sessions challenged teams to assess their future needs by asking questions such as: Can we accomplish our work
in a different way, and can we get people to think differently about the work that needs to be done?
This socialization resulted in submission of over 150 process automation ideas for consideration in 2018. And,
subsequently, a governance structure was established to review and approve the ideas for automation appropriateness
and viability.
In 2018, several new process automations were implemented, including:
Decreasing the turnaround time for assigning customer “No-Bill” events to the appropriate member of the Customer
Operations Billing team for further investigation. When customers don’t receive bills, there are financial ramifications
for them and for AEP. The “No-Bill” assignment process is done during off business hours prior to when the team
starts its day, saving time and resources from having to manually conduct these assignments during work hours.
Automating the creation of contractor user IDs during the employee and contractor onboarding process. Individuals
must be properly credentialed before they can access AEP facilities and critical infrastructure. During 2018, over
3,500 new user IDs were created through process automation, saving time and resources while expediting the
process.
We are exploring additional process automation capabilities, including chat bots and other cognitive technologies. Chat
bots simulate a conversation with human users – such as between our customers and employees. While still limited to a
few specific purposes, this new technology will provide us with additional opportunities for automating some of our most
basic and repetitive tasks.
WORKFORCE PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Although our annual employee turnover rate remains steadily low at approximately 6.8 percent, we anticipate that
approximately 4,000 employees will retire or leave for other opportunities within the next five years. Many of these
employees have institutional knowledge of the company, our operations and systems. In a robust economy where
employment levels are high, the competition for talent is fierce, and we have to be more deliberate and strategic in
seeking individuals with the right mix of talent and experience.
We see this level of turnover across our workforce as an important opportunity to change our approach to how we identify
our true talent needs within AEP. While we will still have a significant need to hire new talent, we are re-organizing many of
our traditional job roles and reassessing how we will get our work done in the future. For example, several expected jobvacancies can be absorbed through new process
automations and the use of other technologies. In other
areas of the company, some of our existing job functions
may no longer be required due to the shifting nature of our
work as an energy provider.
Our digital transformation will require employees to have
skillsets that merge analytics with traditional job functions.
The need for analytics integration is occurring everywhere,
from our facility maintenance staff and our line workers to
our customer service teams. Sometimes, a new technology
simply requires a quick update of existing equipment. Other
times, it requires a more thorough examination of the
staffing capabilities needed to manage new equipment, new
processes or new software. Developing or acquiring these
new skillsets is critical to becoming the energy company of
the future.
We must also look to new sources of talent to meet our
future demands. Many of the skill sets we will require may
not exist in today’s job market, so we must be proactive in
creating a talent pool that meets our specific business
needs. One example is our work with the Business
Roundtable (BRT), the Ohio BRT, the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, and universities and
community colleges in Ohio to develop a reskilling of the workforce plan. Together we are working to develop educational
programs to provide students, as well as current and future AEP employees, with the tools to transition into these new
skillsets.
AEP also has training alliances with several community colleges, universities and vocational and technical schools across
our 11-state service territory. We work with these institutions to develop academic programs that will prepare employees
for upward mobility opportunities and to attract external job seekers interested in careers in our industry. Our education
partners include 
The Ohio State University
, 
Columbus State Community College
, 
Mid-East Career & Technical Center
,
Texas State Technical College
, 
Morgan State University
, 
Tennessee State University
 and 
Oklahoma State University
Institute of Technology
, among many others. In 2018, AEP supported more than 1,100 employees with education
reimbursement.
We are also committed to equipping our employees with job readiness as we retire coal plants. Our Conesville Plant,
located in Coshocton, Ohio, will retire two units in 2019 and the remaining unit in 2020. Approximately 165 employees will
be impacted; some will continue to work at AEP, while others will be challenged with finding new jobs. To help support
their search, AEP partnered with Coshocton County Job and Family Services to provide a series of job readiness
programs and resources. Through the Ohio Means Jobs program, displaced employees will have access to workforce
trainers and career counselors to prepare them for their next career move.
Developing our Employees
Transformational change requires a more progressive and thoughtful approach in how we train, develop and retain our
employees. As the nature of our work changes, so do the skillsets, experience required, and knowledge that are
necessary to remain competitive. Our goal is to prepare our company and workforce for those changes so that we are
aligned with our future strategy. AEP provides a broad range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and
transition development. This is especially important as we move toward a more digital future that requires a more flexible,
innovative and diverse workforce.
We have robust processes to achieve this, including ongoing performance coaching, operational skills training, resources
to support our commitment to environment, safety and health, job progression training, tuition assistance and other forms
of training that help employees improve their skills and become better leaders. In 2018, AEP employees completed just
over 1 million hours of training in programs for which we track participation.
AEP provides development opportunities for employees at every level, whether through informal professionaldevelopment opportunities or formal targeted development programs. Several of AEP’s Employee Resource Groups and
utility professional groups, such as Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP), sponsor programs
and events that focus on employee education, career advancement, and personal and professional development.
In 2018, we launched Transmission University (TU), a development initiative that seeks to transform learning within the
organization. This initiative equips Transmission employees and contractors with self-guided learning opportunities that
empower them to take control of their professional development.
At AEP, we continually work to foster a culture that supports the
agility and focus needed to succeed in a fast-paced, changing
work environment. We measure our progress through employee
culture surveys.
CULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT
A strong and healthy culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long-term success. An engaged,
collaborative and empowered workforce not only improves morale and performance but also fuels innovation, sparks
ingenuity and drives continuous improvement. We need a culture that supports agility to succeed in a fast-paced,
changing work environment. This includes building on our commitment to customers, safety, operational excellence and
innovation. Our focus on culture is deliberate and unwavering and we are making good progress to achieving the high-
performing culture we are seeking.
To measure our progress, AEP conducts an annual
employee culture survey through Gallup, Inc. In 2018, we
achieved an 89 percent participation rate for the second
year in a row. While we are proud of this level of
engagement, we continue to reach for 100 percent
participation because we truly believe that every voice
counts.
Our 2018 engagement survey results were very positive, as
we achieved top-quartile performance in Gallup’s overall
company database – a full year ahead of our stated goal.
This includes our improved overall average engagement
score in the 76th percentile, compared with the 69th
percentile the previous year.
Our progress is a result of a deliberate and determined
effort throughout the year to engage with employee teams
who were struggling to improve their performance. We also improved in our Inclusiveness Index score, which was in the
77th percentile, compared to the 68th percentile in 2017. We are confident that this score will continue to increase as we
build our diversity and inclusion programs.
In 2018, we introduced a question about well-being to the survey to begin measuring the overall well-being of our
employees. Gallup defines well-being as a life well-lived – how we experience our lives, measured by purpose, social and
community connections, financial well-being and physical health. Well-being is an important indicator of employee
engagement. It follows that companies who build a culture of well-being position their employees to perform at their best.
Today, AEP provides a wide range of programs that support employees’ well-being. These include a wellness program,
financial planning and advice experts, mental health benefits, adoption assistance, and many other benefits that support
employees in their personal and professional lives.
Having a high-performing, highly engaged workforce requires giving people the tools they need to be successful and to
contribute in meaningful ways. One way we do this is through our Power up & Lead culture leadership workshop. Since the
workshop began in 2013, more than 19,000 employees have completed Power up & Lead. The workshop equips them
with knowledge, tools and resources to be more collaborative, effective and engaged. In 2018, we began offering
refresher courses to employees, and we will continue to offer Power up & Lead workshops.
SUPPORTING OUR VETERANS
AEP actively supports, recruits and hires military veterans, and educates, trains and prepares them to successfullyVeteran’s from Appalachian Power participate in a Veterans Day
Parade in Welch, West Virginia.
transition into rewarding energy industry jobs. Our veterans have the technical training, experience and personal
characteristics that make them a great fit for careers in the energy industry. They bring important skillsets to the workforce,
including leadership, discipline, teamwork and reliability. They also bring a mindset of safety, which is a core value of
AEP’s business, making them attractive recruits for our company.
We are proud that approximately 10 percent of AEP’s
employees are military veterans, and 8 percent of AEP’s
new hires are veterans. We hold open houses for veterans
so they can learn about skilled craft positions within the
company, watch live demonstrations of line mechanic work
and learn about technologies used to operate the grid. We
encourage veterans to actively seek and apply for jobs at
AEP that match their training and skills.
AEP is a member of the U.S. Army Partnership for Youth
Success (PaYS), a program designed to accelerate the
transition of veterans to careers in the private sector.
Through the Army PaYS program, active and reserve
servicemen and servicewomen in the Army and Army
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) are matched with
civilian job opportunities that require the skills acquired
during their military service. Soldiers who qualify with a skills
match are guaranteed an interview for the job by participating companies.
We also support our military veterans through the benefits we provide them. Military veterans and reservists are allowed
paid time off to attend funeral services for a service member with whom they have served. This is in addition to AEP’s
regular employee bereavement policy. We understand that a fellow service member is often as close as a family member,
and the loss is deeply felt by our veterans. We also provide pay differential for employees in the Reserves or National
Guard who are ordered to active duty in emergency situations.
AEP’s Military Veteran Employee Resource Group (ERG) is another way we support our more than 1,800 military veteran
employees. The mission of the Military Veteran ERG is to promote the roles and contributions of veterans and active-duty
military employees, provide professional development and networking opportunities, and serve as a liaison between AEP
and the veteran and military communities.
We are proud of our work to support military veterans. AEP was one of six energy companies that developed the Troops
to Energy Jobs initiative to provide veterans with a career path for jobs in the energy industry. AEP also participates in the
Veteran Jobs Mission, which has grown to more than 200 companies. The coalition is committed to hiring veterans and
has collectively hired more than 450,000 veterans since its inception in 2011.
LABOR RELATIONS
Nearly one fourth of AEP’s workforce is represented by
labor unions. We value the relationships we have with our
unionized employees and believe in a trusting, collaborative
and respectful partnership. We are working with our labor
partners to strengthen these relationships to ensure we have
a culture that attracts and supports employees who can
adapt to the rapid changes occurring in our company and
industry. Our partnership with labor unions is critical to
meeting the growing expectations of our customers and
adapting to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.
We also have in place multiyear contracts with our union partners to enhance continuity for both the company and the
workforce.
Our relationship often goes beyond the confines of a contract. Together, we’re expanding our focus on safety while
enhancing productivity. We are also working together with labor leaders to support infrastructure development across thenation. And we are partnering with labor leaders to develop the talent pipeline and skills needed for the future. Our labor-
management relationship continues to strengthen as our workforce becomes more flexible, creative and engaged.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
To be a successful business, we must embrace diversity and inclusion as an integral part of our business strategy and
company culture. We are committed to providing a pathway for employees to advance and unlock the power of
perspectives to better serve our customers, drive innovation and generate sustainable growth for our company. At AEP,
we value a supportive, inclusive business environment for our employees that reflects the diversity of the communities
where we live, work and operate.
Diversity and inclusion have become increasingly important concepts to our employees and leaders, shareholders,
suppliers and customers.
Our Diversity & Inclusion Vision Statement
 – We are committed to a culture where differences are valued and
recognized as a significant, positive influence on AEP’s ability to serve and support our employees, customers, suppliers
and other key stakeholders.
Diversity
 – Boundless range of differences and similarities represented by ALL of our employees, 
customers,
suppliers and stakeholders.
Inclusion
 - Intentional focus on ensuring that ALL employees are valued, respected, and have a 
sense of
belonging.
Diversity and inclusion are key components to our business strategy and help us remain competitive and attract and retain
the best talent. A diverse, inclusive and highly engaged workforce not only improves performance but also improves
company culture – creating an environment that welcomes different experiences, beliefs, ideas, backgrounds and
thoughts.
2018 was the second year of the Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan – The Roadmap to 2025. The plan focuses on four
key areas:
Diverse Workforce:
 Build a diverse, high-performing workforce that reflects the communities we serve.
Eliminate barriers that prevent employees from maximizing opportunities and potential.
Inclusive and Engaged Workforce:
 Cultivate a collaborative and inclusive work environment that
empowers all employees.
Accountability & Sustainability:
 Establish accountability measures to ensure that AEP’s
management and leadership teams model the behavior that advances diversity and inclusion initiatives.
External Partnerships:
 Foster relationships with external partners and stakeholders to broaden
access to diverse talent by building partnerships with educational institutions, diverse community
organizations and professional associations.
Each of the four goals is accompanied by strategies and measures designed for successful companywide
implementation. In addition, we created a shared accountability structure to ensure our continued progress. This structure
includes the accountability of AEP’s leadership team for implementation and management of this plan, a Diversity and
Inclusion Advisory Council, and employees who are responsible for living AEP’s inclusive culture. Learn more about our
progress in our 2018 Sustainability Goals Progress Report.
Listening Tour
In 2018, AEP launched a Diversity & Inclusion Listening Tour – a process designed to hear firsthand the state of diversity
and inclusion across our company. The listening tour gave employees a safe place to talk about diversity within AEP, toengage leaders and discuss ways to take ownership by cultivating a culture of inclusion. We held 54 sessions at 21
locations across the AEP service territory, reaching more than 700 employees.
Participants were asked to grade AEP and their local workplace on diversity and inclusion. Overall, 64 percent rated the
company and their local workplaces an “A” or “B” but more than 25 percent gave us low marks. 
During the sessions,
employees asked about the business case for diversity and inclusion – how it supports our business, employees,
shareholders, communities and our customers. Participants also stressed the need for accountability, education and
engagement from leadership and for change readiness – equipping leaders to have conversations with employees on
these issues.
The second phase of the tour takes place in 2019. It will include sharing feedback with all participants and developing
action plans to address site-specific biases.
Inclusive Leadership Education & Awareness
As part of our commitment to the 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge
 and as part of our strategic initiatives,
executive leadership attended an Inclusive Leadership education and awareness session that focused on understanding
and disrupting biased decision-making patterns in talent management. 
Based on feedback from senior executives, we
will launch a 2019 leadership initiative with a goal to have 90 percent of all AEP leaders attend an Inclusive Leadership
workshop.
Multicultural Holiday
In 2019, we began offering employees the choice of a multicultural holiday such as religious observances, cultural
celebrations and federal holidays that are not currently observed by the company. This approach fosters a more openly
inclusive work environment for all AEP employees.
AEP has relationships with many diverse organizations such as
the National Urban League, to assist us with our diversity efforts.
PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUCCESS
Our diversity efforts are fueled by a number of internal and
external initiatives, programs and partnerships. Whether
through educational institutions, professional associations,
community organizations, employee resource groups
(ERGs) or leadership development forums, we are focused
on building and fostering partnerships that give us greater
access to diverse talent.
We are proud to support and participate in 
Paradigm for
Parity
®, the 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
™ pledge
and the 
Columbus Commitment: Achieving Pay Equity
. We
also have relationships with many other diverse
organizations such as the 
National Society of Black
Engineers, to assist us with our diversity efforts. These
partnerships not only expose AEP to more diverse talent but
also help us become a recognized partner and leader
among potential employees.
We have alliances with several colleges and universities that broaden our access to diverse candidates. Through our
2025 Diversity and Inclusion Roadmap, we will implement a companywide targeted college recruiting initiative that
focuses on partnerships with schools representing Historically Black Colleges and Universities, the Hispanic Association
of Colleges and Universities and women’s colleges and universities, as well as working with offices of diversity and
inclusion at other colleges and universities. We set a 2025 goal that at least 10 percent of new hires into full-time, entry-
level jobs will come from targeted high school development programs, technical colleges and/or universities (based on
available opportunities).EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
One of the best ways for AEP to demonstrate its commitment to a trusting and inclusive work environment is to empower
employees to form and participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs reflect the diverse makeup of our
workforce and enable us to gain valuable insight into the diverse communities we serve. They also help increase
engagement across the company by providing employees with a safe space to discuss work-related issues and to
develop innovative solutions.
In 2018, Indiana Michigan Power launched a new multicultural ERG called VOICE – Valuing Organizational Improvement
and Community Excellence. The group’s mission is to foster an inclusive work environment that promotes respect and
value of employees through cultural awareness where employees are provided the opportunity to develop while giving
back to the community.
AEP’s Employee Resource Groups
Abled and Disabled Allies Partnering Together
(ADAPT)
African-American Employee Resource Group
(AAERG)
Asian-American Employee Partnership (AAEP)
Hispanic Origin Latin American Employee Resource
Group (HOLA)
Military Veterans Employee Resource Group
(MVERG)
Native American Tribes Interacting Observing
Networking (NATION)
Pride Partnership (for LGBTQ employees and their
allies)
Valuing Organizational Improvement and Community Excellence (VOICE)
Open to all employees, the ERGs sponsor programs and events focused on culture, education and personal and
professional development. ERG members are active community volunteers supporting efforts such as Project Mentor and
Make a Difference Day. ERGs also play an active role in AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts, including recruitment of
new employees.
The support from senior managers is a key factor to the growth and success of the ERGs. Executive sponsors advocate
for the ERGs and their interests, provide strategic guidance, enlist the support of other senior leaders and connect ERG
members with relevant stakeholders.
RECOGNIZING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
At AEP, we take deliberate actions to create a work
environment in which employees are valued and the
diversity and richness of the backgrounds and perspectives
of our people are embraced. An inclusive environment
allows us to leverage the diverse talent of our workforce for
business success. In turn, employees who are included and
respected are more likely to be engaged, to be innovative
and creative, and to be high-performing contributors. It also
says a lot about who we are as a company.
According to the latest Gallup research, the most engaged
employees are those working in an open, fair and diverse
environment. For the second consecutive year, we are
continuing to use the Inclusiveness Index to measure our progress. On a scale of one to five, our mean score was 4.01.
We anticipate continued improvement based on the tactics in the diversity and inclusion roadmap through 2025.Recognition for our Diversity and Inclusion efforts:
For the third year in a row, AEP was recognized as one of the nation’s 2018 Best Places to Work in the 
Disability
Equality Index (DEI)
. The Abled and Disabled Allies Partnering Together (ADAPT) ERG is one of the driving forces
behind our continued recognition.
In January 2019, we were recognized among the top
230 companies in 10 sectors included in Bloomberg’s
2019 
Gender-Equality Index (GEI)
, which recognizes
companies who are trailblazers in their commitment to gender reporting and advancing women’s equality.
In early 2019, AEP was named to Forbes 
America’s Best Employers for Diversity
, which includes 500 of the top
companies that disclose the most diverse boards and executive ranks and the most proactive diversity and inclusion
initiatives.
We also earned a spot on Forbes inaugural 
Best Employers for Women
 list in 2018. AEP ranked 193 out of 300
corporations, universities and organizations, and third in the Utilities category.
In 2018, AEP was recognized as a Winning “W” Company by the
2020 Women on Boards campaign, whose mission is to increase
the percentage of women who sit on U.S. company boards to 20
percent or greater by 2020.
LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY
It is important to us to be diverse from the board room to the
front line. Having employees and board members who
represent different experiences, thought processes,
generations, genders, and racial and ethnic backgrounds
gives us a broader perspective on business issues,
challenges and solutions. It moves us to a place of viewing
differences as strengths. It also solidifies our commitment to
building a high-performing workforce that reflects the
diverse communities we serve.
In 2018, AEP was recognized as a 
Winning
 “W” Company
by the 2020 Women on Boards campaign. The mission of
the campaign is to increase the percentage of women who
sit on U.S. company boards to 20 percent or greater by
2020. In 2019, the number of women serving on AEP’s
board has increased to four with the election of Margaret
McCarthy at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Women
now account for 31 percent of AEP’s Board of Directors.
Additionally, three members of our Board of Directors have
been named to Women Inc. magazine’s list of 2018 Most Influential Corporate Directors.
At the leadership level, we are proud of our efforts in conjunction with the 
Paradigm for Parity
®, which seeks to fix the
corporate leadership gender gap. In 2018, Public Service Company of Oklahoma announced the promotion of a female
leader to serve as president and chief operating officer. Currently, two of the seven AEP operating companies are led by
women.
Today, AEP’s leadership is made up of 28 percent women and 19 percent minorities due to recent leadership changes.
Our Board of Directors, AEP leadership team and regional utility presidents include nine women, three African
Americans, two Hispanics and one Asian American. Leadership diversity lays the foundation for enabling a more inclusive
workforce that breaks down silos and creates a trusting, engaging and collaborative work environment. While we are
making progress, this is a journey and we still have a way to go.SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts extend beyond our
workforce to the customers and communities we serve,
including our supplier base. Small and diverse suppliers
enable innovation, increase competition, improve savings
and enhance the AEP brand. We want our pool of suppliers
and business partners to align to the diversity of our
communities by making it easier for diverse suppliers to do
business with us.
The Supplier Diversity Program focuses on maximizing
opportunities for diverse businesses, which include
businesses owned by women, minorities (including
Hispanic, African American, Asian American, Native
American), veterans, LGBTQ, HUBZone and service-
disabled veterans. We set a goal to generate a pool of
diverse strategic suppliers and business partners that mirror
the customers we serve by reaching 13 percent diverse spend by 2023 (includes Tier 1 (prime) and Tier 2
(subcontractors) suppliers. In 2018, we increased our diverse spend by 1.45 percent ($95 million) and achieved our goal
of 1 percent enterprisewide.
We continue to improve our Tier 2 supplier program, which allows us to understand the impact our spend is having on
diverse suppliers through our direct suppliers. The Tier 2 program demonstrates the importance we place in
understanding how our spend trickles down through our supply chain to impact the communities we serve. We are focused
on specific outreach with targeted suppliers to create more opportunities that will grow our Tier 2 program.CUSTOMER &
CUSTOMER &
COMMUNITY
COMMUNITY
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
At AEP, our goal is to provide world-class service while creating positive, lasting relationships with our customers. We
want to be the people that our customers and communities turn to first when they have energy needs. We also want to
meet our customers in the communication channel of their choice while providing tailored solutions and making it simple,
fast, and convenient to do business with us. That’s how we create value for each customer.
INVESTING IN EDUCATION
A significant focus of our corporate giving is on education, especially STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math) programs, and basic human needs, such as hunger and housing.
Complementing the focus on education is a commitment to work with the public and private sectors
to help those students and their families gain access to nutritious food and a secure, safe place to
live.
Learn more
CUSTOMER
ENGAGEMENT
Expectations and new technologies
are changing the way we interact with
our customers. Giving customers
multiple channels to engage with us,
including self-serve options, is critical
to their experience with AEP.
Learn more
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
Whether through supporting business
expansion or relocation, community
training and education or financial
support – we are connecting
customers with communities to
create shared value for all.
Learn more
COMMUNITY
SUPPORT
Through volunteerism and corporate
giving, AEP is proud to support the
vibrancy and resilience of the
communities we serve – as an
energy provider and a system of
community support.
Learn more
ENERGY ASSISTANCE
Sometimes our customers experience financial hardships and need help paying their energy bills.Sometimes our customers experience financial hardships and need help paying their energy bills.
AEP has several initiatives and resources to help customers manage these situations, including
monthly payment plans and energy assistance grants and programs. We also offer programs and
resources to help our customers lower their electric bills and reduce their energy consumption.
Learn more
In 2018, we opened a dedicated Social Media Center to better
meet our customers needs in the communication channel of their
choice.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
We are experts at producing and delivering safe, reliable
electricity to our customers. However, we want to be much
more than that. At AEP, our goal is to provide world-class
service while creating positive, lasting relationships with our
customers. We want to be the people who our customers
and communities turn to first when they have energy needs.
We also want to meet our customers in the communication
channel of their choice while providing tailored solutions and
making it simple, fast and convenient to do business with us.
That’s how we create value for each customer.
Our customer experience strategy includes a variety of
initiatives over multiple years focused on developing people,
processes and customer-driven insights to help us exceed
our customers’ growing expectations and changing needs.
We are moving from being transactional focused to
emphasizing the total customer experience. As part of this
change, we are improving the interactions customers have
with us. From first contact to delivery of service, changes in service and even termination of service, we are studying each
touchpoint with our customers to improve their overall experience and satisfaction. We are also using new tools and
technologies to help us do it better and more efficiently.
CUSTOMER-DRIVEN INSIGHTS
To understand what our customers want, what their perceptions and expectations of AEP are, and how they want to
engage with us, we need their input. One way we gather this information is through surveys, online panels, email and
phone interviews.
Through the J.D. Power Customer Satisfaction Survey coupled with data we receive from Market Strategies International,
we are able to compare our performance with that of our utility peers and other industries, such as banking,
telecommunications and retail.
We also monitor customers’ experience after a phone or online interaction. This feedback is collected through phone
interviews and email invitations and helps us understand how difficult or easy it was for them to get their needs met. We
also randomly select residential and commercial customers and survey them about their overall satisfaction with our
brand, ease of doing business and other relationship attributes.
We collect all of this information in a dashboard so that we can get a total picture of a customer’s experience with AEP,
including any feedback they provide and preferences. This gives us a centralized location to look at all of this data on each
customer so we can better serve their needs through tailored energy solutions.
ENGAGING WITH CUSTOMERS IN THEIR CHANNEL OF CHOICE
Expectations and new technologies are changing the way we interact with our customers. In 2018, our customersconducted nearly 31 million online transactions, more than a 37 percent increase over the previous year. Giving customers
multiple channels to engage with us, including self-serve options, is critical to their experience with AEP. For example, if
customers can check their bill through a voice channel (such as Amazon’s Alexa or Google Assistant) or mobile app, they
won’t need to call us. This expedites the solution they are seeking and reduces the volume of calls to which we must
respond. In addition, with the integration of new customer relationship management tools, we will be better equipped to
respond to customers’ individual needs more efficiently and cost-effectively.
Improving the interaction customers have with AEP is better
for them and for us. In 2018, we installed new technology in
our Customer Solutions Center that allows customers to
engage with AEP more easily using the communication
channel of their choice. This includes online chat, email or
phone.
In 2019, we are rolling out an automated call-back feature
where customers will be able to opt for a return call rather
than waiting on hold. This will be especially helpful during
times of heavy call volumes, such as during a major outage
event. In preparation for this technology change, our
customer care agents received 15 weeks of advanced skills
training, empowering them to give every AEP customer a
positive experience
Social Media
Our customers are increasingly using a variety of social media platforms to connect with us. Because they are always
plugged in, they expect immediate response from us, day or night. This is especially true during outages, when customers
expect real-time, accurate information about restoration efforts. AEP manages several social media channels including
Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Over the past several years, we experienced a significant increase in social media
followers and activity, which only increases the need for AEP to provide effective, real-time communications with our
customers on our social media channels.
To do this, in 2018 we opened a dedicated Social Media Center at our corporate headquarters in Columbus, Ohio. The
new center is run by a combined staff of Customer Care Agents and Corporate Communications team members who are
now available seven days a week. The team closely monitors social media feeds for all AEP-related customer posts and
interacts instantly with customers, letting them know we are listening and responding to their needs.
With our Social Media Center staff, we are able to quickly respond to customers’ online posts or begin a direct dialogue
to learn more about the issue they are experiencing. Through technology enhancements, we are also able to collect better
data, such as message sentiment and how often the Social Media team is able to “elevate” an AEP-related post from
negative to neutral, or from neutral to a positive post.
Having a dedicated Social Media Center will help us make a significant impact on our customer sentiment, improve our
overall customer satisfaction, provide new marketing channels and enhance our company’s reputation. Social media is
important because it gives us a near-real-time snapshot of our overall customer satisfaction levels.
Social Media Center Strategy:
Deliver proactive communications to our customers and stakeholders
Enhance relationships with key organizations, businesses and other stakeholders
Protect and enhance our reputation
Promptly address customer questions and complaints
Enhance the customer experience
Promote self-service options
Deliver real-time outage and safety communications
Identify and mitigate reputational, information security, physical security and legal risks through 24/7 listening
Learn what customers and stakeholders say about us and our industryAEP’s mobile app makes it easier for customers to do business
with us, including the ability to pay their bill, monitor their energy
use and report or check on the status of an outage.
Customer Digital Assistant
Advancing our capabilities to use new technology systems
and communication tools is a fundamental focus of our
Customer Experience Strategy. Customers today expect
more personalized products and services, and we
recognize the opportunity to increase their satisfaction by
making it easier for our customers to interact with us. A
significant number of consumers are adopting digital
assistance technology, illustrating a growing interest in the
voice channel, including the use of smart home applications
to handle everyday tasks.
In 2018, Indiana Michigan (I&M) Power partnered with
Google and Tendril (a home energy management
technology platform) to launch a new voice channel
application on Google Assistant for I&M customers. We also made this application available on Amazon Alexa with a soft
launch in late 2018. With this new voice/digital assistant channel, customers can more easily interact with us. They can
also get answers to questions, such as “How can I save energy?” or “How much is my average bill?”
We are developing a plan to provide a common home energy management platform, complete with voice channel access.
The new voice engagement channel will allow customers to access information within their home energy management
platform and other AEP digital customer applications, such as the mobile app.
In the future, we plan to integrate additional features into our voice/digital assistant channel, including the ability for
customers to report an outage or enroll in an AEP program or service.
Customer Mobile App
Mobile apps are popular because of their ease of use and
access to self-serve options, such as online banking,
shopping or bill payment. In 2017, AEP launched a mobile
app to give customers tools to make it easier to do
business with AEP using mobile devices. The top requests
customers ask for are the ability to pay their bill, monitor
their energy use and report or check on the status of an
outage.
New features we added in 2018 include:
Biometric login capability
Proactive outage alerts and interactive outage maps
Meter barcode scanning for outage reporting and
account registration
Ability to edit account information, including
signup/cancel billing and outage alerts, edit payment
accounts, view payment history and add additional
electric accounts
Access to 13-month historical energy usage data and graphs
One of the top pain points for our customers is their billing and payment experience. Our customers want simple, secure
and multiple digital payment options. In 2018, we completed many projects to meet these customer expectations. We
integrated our third-party credit card vendor to streamline the customer experience by removing duplicate entry of their
information.
In addition, third-party fees charged to customers who use a credit card to pay their bills is another common pain point. In
2018, we reduced our customers’ credit card fee from $2.95 to $1.85 per transaction. I&M elected to eliminate the fee
altogether, serving as a model for the rest of AEP in the future. Based on feedback from our business customers, we also
expanded our credit card payment option to our commercial and industrial customers.Some customers want options, such as auto- or pre-pay and monthly billing plans. Others simply want the ease of paying
with their smartphone. In 2019, we will roll out a simplified auto-pay process providing an easier and faster sign-up
process. Customers using the new feature can save their payment information online, expediting their transaction. We will
also pilot a “flat bill” concept to some of our I&M customers.
In Oklahoma, we introduced a pre-pay program, known as Power Pay, which functions similarly to a prepaid phone card.
This program offers customers of Public Service Company of Oklahoma a voluntary payment option, giving them more
control over when and how they pay for their electric service.
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT & RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT
We have many touchpoints with our customers that help shape their overall AEP experience. Traditionally, these customer
interactions were managed and tracked by separate groups within AEP. But what if we could bring a customer’s entire
history with us onto a single platform?
To do this, we need to understand every interaction a customer has with us, from initial communication and account
management to billing, payment history and social media posts. We call this the 360-degree view of the customer. This
tells us what we need to know up front so that we can provide the best solutions for customers.
An important tool to effectively do this is known as a customer relationship management (CRM) system. In 2018, AEP
kicked off a project to implement a new CRM system from the ground up. The new system, once operational, will
consolidate customer touchpoints into a single place and allow us to view the total customer experience and provide more
tailored solutions.
Transmission Customer Experience
When we think about customers, we generally think about the customers of local distribution companies. However, AEP
also serves very large customers who directly connect to our transmission grid and have very different needs. These
customers include Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and other transmission owners, such as electric cooperatives
(co-ops). Power quality is a priority issue with these very large customers. As companies continue to modernize their
manufacturing equipment, their systems become more sensitive to quality issues such as voltage variations and
momentary power outages. We are working to understand the operating needs of our commercial and industrial (C&I)
users and will continue to improve our level of service and reliability to meet the increasingly strict standards required by
these key customers.
We provide targeted support to our electric co-ops and municipal electric utility partners through internal communication
groups and ongoing stakeholder process meetings.
This group’s objective is to proactively identify customer pain points and work to resolve them. This includes conducting
root cause analysis and developing backup service delivery plans for our large transmission customers. Our goal is to
solve a customer’s problem before the customer is aware a problem even exists.
ENERGY ASSISTANCE
Sometimes our customers experience financial hardships
and need help paying their energy bills. These hardships
can put customers in a tough situation where they have to
choose between electricity and other basic human needs.
This problem is not limited to just a few people. According to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration, in 2015, nearly
one-third of U.S. households struggled to either pay their
energy bills or maintain acceptable levels of heating and
cooling in their homes.
AEP has several initiatives and resources to help customers
manage these situations, including monthly payment plansand energy assistance grants and programs. We also offer programs and resources to help our customers lower their
electric bills and reduce their energy consumption, such as energy efficiency programs, rebates and incentives. Learn
more about some of the many energy assistance programs offered across AEP’s service territory:
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)
Appalachian Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
AEP Ohio: 
Ohio PIPP Plus
, 
Community Assistance Program
, 
Neighbor to Neighbor Program
Indiana Michigan Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
Public Service Company of Oklahoma: 
Light A Life Fund
Southwestern Electric Power Company: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
The funding available to support our energy assistance programs comes from a variety of sources, including the
government, social service agencies and even other customers. Income guidelines determine eligibility. The funding level
of different programs can fluctuate from year to year based on several factors, including improvements in the economy that
lessen demand for aid, increased or decreased government funding and other contributions or grants awarded to support
these programs.
Government-sponsored energy assistance programs provided approximately $66.4 million in federal and private energy
assistance in 2018. We also received more than 24,800 pledges totaling more than $5.9 million in energy assistance
from our self-serve agency websites.
The U.S. federal government shutdown in late 2018 and early 2019 caused financial hardships for many of our
government-employed customers. In response, we empowered our customer service agents to work in every way
possible to help those impacted by the government shutdown.
In 2018, Kentucky Power revamped its former Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) and nearly doubled the number
of low-income families who can be served. An order from the Kentucky Public Service Commission increased customer
contributions to the HEAP program from 15 cents to 30 cents a month. In addition, Kentucky Power matched the customer
contributions dollar for dollar with shareholder funds.
Together, the programs generated nearly $1 million in 2018 to provide heating and cooling assistance to about 2,500
customers in the region. Program funds are distributed to customers who meet income requirements set by community
action agencies. Additionally, Kentucky Power offers an opportunity for customers to contribute to the energy assistance
program through their bills.
In 2018, Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) set up a Neighbor to Neighbor program to help qualified customers with their
energy bills. The program provides an option for customers to contribute to the program simply by checking a box on their
bill and specifying the amount they want to contribute above their bill amount. The contribution is tax-deductible. To qualify
for aid, customers must meet the guidelines of the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LiHEAP) and
other eligibility standards.
I&M also provided $400,000 to the Indiana Community Action Association (IN-CAA) to help families pay their energy bills
and use energy more efficiently. IN-CAA is a nonprofit comprised of Indiana’s 22 community action agencies. I&M’s
assistance stemmed from discussions with these agencies as part of the company’s Building the Future regulatory rate
review, and was approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
In addition to federal and private energy assistance, the AEP Foundation contributes financial support to help our
customers meet basic needs including food and shelter. In early 2018, the AEP Foundation awarded a $50,000 grant to
assist low-income residents in Eastern Kentucky. The grant to the Christian Appalachian Project helped fund the
nonprofit’s Elder Housing and Family Housing programs. Both programs make home repairs or install weatherization
measures for families and individuals who cannot afford repairs. The need is so great in this region that the Christian
Appalachian Project has a waitlist of families in need.
CUSTOMER EMISSIONS REPORT
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear, accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. AEP's Customer Energy & Emissions Report reflects our commitment to transparency by proactively sharing
data and information about AEP’s performance and strategy for a clean energy future. This demonstrates that we arelistening to our customers, addressing their need for relevant and timely information to better inform their sustainability
goals and strategy.
In this summary, we provide the AEP system-wide and operating company specific greenhouse gas emission rates which
can be used to calculate emissions associated with customer’s 2017 and 2018 energy use.
Supplemental GHG Emissions Data
View Report
Giving back to our communities is fundamental to our vision of
powering a new and brighter future for our customers and
communities.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY
The power and the human energy AEP brings to the table
move people forward. We’re powering a new and brighter
future for our customers and our communities by:
Expanding our employee volunteer programs
companywide to encourage more volunteer activities
and track positive impacts.
Offering Community Care grants to nonprofit
organizations where AEP employees volunteer
significant hours.
Focusing our philanthropic giving on causes that
support our priorities around STEM education and
basic needs of food, emergency and affordable
housing and clothing, and measuring impacts.
Through these and other engagement initiatives, we are
building on our history of helping communities thrive. And we
are looking to do even more.
Corporate Giving
Giving back to our communities is fundamental to our vision of powering a new and brighter future for our customers and
communities. Through volunteerism and corporate giving, AEP is proud to support the vibrancy and resilience of the
communities we serve – as an energy provider and a system of community support. In 2018, AEP and the American
Electric Power Foundation donated approximately $25.5 million to support more than 1,800 community organizations.
Since 2016, we have donated more than $63 million through our philanthropic giving efforts.
For more information, see AEP’s Community Impact Report.
Investing in Education
A significant focus of our corporate giving is on education, especially STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering andMath) programs, and basic human needs, such as hunger
and housing. Complementing the focus on education is a
commitment to work with the public and private sectors to
help those students and their families gain access to
nutritious food and a secure, safe place to live. We also
support many cultural and community initiatives important to
our customers.
AEP’s most significant area of philanthropic giving is STEM
education. Focusing on STEM provides a pathway out of
poverty for urban and rural youth. Many 21st century jobs will
require proficiency in STEM courses, and these jobs have a
high likelihood of delivering a living wage. Credits CountSM,
the signature program of the AEP Foundation, addresses
the issues of college preparedness and affordability for
underserved urban and rural students who want to seek
STEM-related career opportunities. Since the program’s
creation in 2014, the AEP Foundation has committed $14.2 million to the program across our service territory.
The Credits Count program, funded by the AEP Foundation
and carried out in partnership with local community colleges
and public school districts, now operates in all seven AEP
operating companies:
AEP Ohio - Columbus State Community College and
Columbus City Schools, launched in 2014
AEP Texas - Laredo Community College and Laredo Independent School District, launched in 2017
Appalachian Power – BridgeValley Community & Technical College and Kanawha County Schools, launched in
2017
Indiana Michigan Power – IVY Tech and Marion Community Schools, launched in 2016
Kentucky Power – Ashland Community and Technical College and Lawrence County Schools, launched in 2015
PSO – Tulsa Community College and Tulsa Public Schools, launched in 2015
SWEPCO – Bossier Parish Community College and Bossier Parish and Caddo Parish school districts, launched in
2014
In conjunction with state and higher education institutions, AEP Transmission launched the AEP Opportunities iN Energy
(ONE) career-readiness program in 2018. The program offers high school students a 10-week internship and mentorship.
Interns participating in AEP’s ONE program can earn the OhioMeansJobs Readiness Seal from the State of Ohio, a
formal designation on their high school diploma and transcript indicating that they have the personal strengths, strong work
ethic and professional experience that businesses need. Students who complete the program and their technical degree
will be qualified to apply for permanent positions with AEP and other energy companies. 2018 marked the pilot year in
central Ohio. In the future, we hope to expand the program to other areas and business units.
Having a strong higher education system directly supports economic development and growth of the local economy. In
West Virginia, this is especially important in the wake of coal plant retirements and coal mine closures in the state. In
2018, the AEP Foundation awarded West Virginia State University (WVSU) a $250,000 grant to equip laboratories in its
new chemical engineering program. West Liberty University (WLU) also received a $25,000 grant from the AEP
Foundation for its STEM lab, which serves more than 200 students per semester in courses such as physiology, histology
and anatomy.
The Energizing STEM Initiative – a partnership between The Education Alliance and Imagine Learning – received a
$450,000 grant from the AEP Foundation to help young students in West Virginia build a strong foundation in math. The
grant provides more than 2,200 elementary students in Lincoln and Logan counties with an effective computer-based
supplemental curriculum to improve math outcomes over a three-year period. West Virginia is projected to have over
25,000 jobs in STEM-related fields in the next several years, and this initiative helps ensure students are ready with the
knowledge and skills they will need.
More than 1,000 students from Columbia, Hempstead, Howard, Lafayette, Little River, Miller, Nevada and Sevier counties
in southwest Arkansas attended Explore Success, a youth manufacturing conference intended to introduce careeropportunities in manufacturing in the region. SWEPCO and our John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant supported the event. This
conference is another example of our commitment to investing in and educating students at a young age about future
career opportunities with our local industries, which is key to maintaining the region’s vitality.
In 2018, the AEP Foundation awarded Junior Achievement of Northern Indiana (JANI) a $300,000 grant for a new facility
to provide localized career development programs and an entrepreneurial center that can meet the needs of a younger,
savvier generation of entrepreneurs. During the 2017-18 school year, JANI reached more than 142,000 students in 30
counties and has the greatest market share of any Junior Achievement chapter in the nation.
Investing in Basic Human Needs
Community organizations play a pivotal role in the well-being
of individual community members, as well as the social
fabric of the community. These organizations provide
assistance for housing, food, education, skills training and
more. Investing in the resources of community organizations
helps to bridge the gap between the potential of an
individual to be independent and the obstacles to success
that person might face. When we elevate and invest in our
communities, we are helping to build a brighter future.
Being a good neighbor means helping others in need:
In 2018, SWEPCO responded to two local Arkansas
fire departments in need of equipment and land to bolster their public safety services. We provided a
decommissioned truck from AEP’s fleet to the Gillham volunteer fire department. The fire station needed the truck to
help extinguish wildland fires that larger firefighting equipment cannot easily reach. In Gentry, SWEPCO donated
land near the Flint Creek Power Plant for a new fire department helipad. The donation gives the fire department a
safe and readily accessible landing and loading location for air ambulances.
In 2018, Mountain Mission School, a century-old southwest Virginia resident school for children in need, received a
$1 million grant from the AEP Foundation. The boys’ residence was damaged by a fire in April 2018, and its more
than 100 disadvantaged young men were being temporarily housed in the school gymnasium and chapel while the
school was being refurbished. The AEP Foundation’s grant allowed the school to substantially upgrade the
residence hall.
Pelotonia is a bike ride in Ohio that raises funds for cancer research at The Ohio State University Comprehensive
Cancer Center. The AEP Foundation is a major funding partner with Pelotonia and announced in 2018 that its
donations will double to $500,000 a year for three years. Because of the AEP Foundation’s increased contributions,
Pelotonia will be able to magnify its impact in raising funds for research to end cancer.
The Rescue Mission is a nonprofit organization that provides restorative care to those facing homelessness in Fort
Wayne and Allen County, Indiana, and their nine surrounding counties. The AEP Foundation awarded a $300,000
grant to its City on a Hill campaign to help the organization relocate to a larger facility and expand its women’s and
children’s ministry. AEP supports the Rescue Mission with additional donations, including a $50,000 AEP
Foundation grant for the mission’s Learning Center and volunteer work provided by Indiana Michigan Power (I&M)
employees.
VOLUNTEERISM AT AEP
Supporting community projects and programs requires more than financial support. It requires time and labor to make
progress possible. Every year, AEP employees from around our service territory give their time, talent and financial
donations to a variety of organizations throughout our service territory. Our employees are a force of voices, hands and
hearts caring together to make our communities stronger and better for us all. Most importantly, our employees are
consistent in their efforts, both when times are good and when hardship strikes.
The value of employee volunteerism to our communities and to AEP is long-lasting and impactful. It helps to enhance the
quality of life, advance and expand education opportunities for underserved populations, and create shared social andIn 2018, our employees gave more than $20,000 in special relief
donations to The Salvation Army through the AEP Emergency
Disaster Fund.
economic benefits. Through the collective efforts of our
employee volunteers, we are strengthening the social fabric
of our communities. We set new corporate sustainability
goals to better engage our employees in company-led or
supported volunteer activities as well as better track the
impact our employees are having within our local
communities.
We were reminded of the importance of community giving
as natural disasters devastated parts of our service
territories and beyond. In 2018, our employees gave more
than $20,000 in special relief donations to The Salvation
Army through the AEP Emergency Disaster Fund. The AEP
Foundation matched 100 percent of the employee
contributions to help relieve the impacts of Hurricane
Florence in the Carolinas. Since 2004, employee giving
along with company and AEP Foundation matches have
provided more than $1.4 million for natural disaster relief.
When disaster strikes, AEP employees are quick to respond. Whether they are on the job repairing storm damage or
giving money and their time to help those affected by disaster or tragedy. To improve our ability to help those in need,
AEP, with the help of concerned employees, established the AEP Emergency Disaster Relief Fund. Distinct from the
special disaster recovery efforts, the fund provides a vehicle for the company and our employees to support each other
and dependent family members who suffer losses as a result of disasters and tragedies. Employees are able to donate to
the fund through a one-time donation or payroll deduction.
Employee Volunteerism in 2018
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) offers a mini-grant program to encourage and support employees’ and
retirees’ community volunteer activities. The PSO Connects Volunteer Grant was started in 2015 and is part of the
company’s legacy of volunteerism in its communities. One of many examples of the company’s volunteerism includes
participation by dozens of PSO employees each year in the Tulsa Area United Way Day of Caring, one of the largest
single days of community service in the nation.
Restoring the past for the future was the intent behind an employee-led restoration effort of a rundown 165-year old
cemetery located on the property of Southwestern Electric Power Company’s Welsh Power Plant. Over the course of two
years, employees restored the historic Lev Old cemetery, which dates as far back as 1855. The Titus County, Texas,
Historical Commission awarded the plant and its employees with its Merit Award, and installed a marker at the site – a
visual symbol of the historic significance of the site.
In Corpus Christi, Texas, an elementary school nurse’s plea for help with supplies for the “Nurse’s Closet” became a
rallying call for AEP Texas employees that sparked a new and lasting relationship. The closet stocks basic clothing needs
and toiletries for students of the Crockett Elementary School, located in an economically challenged area where many
students are homeless or lack basic needs such as shoes and clothes. Employees at AEP Texas responded with clothing
and supplies. The company has established a long-term relationship with the school to help meet basic needs before the
school year begins as well as mentor students.
Most weekdays, many AEP employees in Central Ohio can be found delivering meals to those in need over their lunch
hour. During the past 13 years, an army of AEP employees have delivered more than 100,000 meals to homebound
seniors. The AEP Foundation made a $1 million commitment to LifeCare Alliance, which provides a wide range of health
and nutrition services to older adults and medically challenged residents in Central Ohio. The AEP Foundation’s donation
enables LifeCare Alliance to buy one new delivery van annually for four years, and support the organization’s core
programs to keep clients safe, independent and living in their own homes. The grant is the largest in LifeCare Alliance’s
history, and they graciously nominated AEP for the 2019 Medical Mutual Pillar Award for Community Service for our long
history of volunteerism and philanthropy. AEP was honored with this award.INVESTMENTS SUPPORT LOCAL
GROWTH
Between 2019 and 2023, AEP will invest nearly $33 billion in
capital to modernize the electric power system. Most of those
investments will be directed to transmission and distribution.
This magnitude of investment has significant positive impact on
our communities. In 2018 we acquired a new software tool
called IMPLAN, to help us more accurately measure the
economic impact of our capital investments. We ran a model
looking at the 2019-2023 investment plan to identify direct and
indirect benefits to communities where this will occur. Here’s
what we learned:
Our capital investment will create or support
approximately 40,000 jobs within our service territory per
year over the course of our investments. The majority of
these jobs are in construction, and employed directly by
AEP or through contractor or vendor relationships. The
additional jobs created are in supply chain and retail
sectors.
The total labor income generated is over $2 billion
annually.
The investment will impact the gross regional product by
$3 billion annually.
We are reaching out and meeting with stakeholders across our service territory to help them understand why the magnitude
of these investments is not only warranted but imperative to the future stability and resilience of the grid and the communities
we serve. By investing capital to modernize the system, we are actually lowering customer bills in the long run because we
are mitigating the future need for costly repairs when old equipment fails.
The bottom line is that the investments we are making in the grid make it more reliable, resilient and secure, and have
significant positive local benefits through job creation and economic growth.
AEP provides comprehensive location advisory services to
ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Building strong, vibrant and sustainable communities requires innovation, investment and collaboration among state,
regional and local business partners. AEP’s Economic & Business Development (E&BD) team puts its expertise and
partnerships to work supporting economic development and growth within our local communities. Whether through
supporting business expansion or relocation, community training and education or financial support – we are connecting
customers with communities to create shared value for all.
Our National Customers team manages corporate
relationships with many of our largest customers to provide
customized solutions to meet their energy needs. For
example, when Cinemark USA, Inc., one of the world’s
largest motion picture theaters, needed a partner to help
identify renewable energy for its facilities, AEP provided a
solution.
In addition to business development, the AEP National
Customers team is focused on providing exceptional
customer service. Based on feedback from a group of 25
national chain customers, Edison Electric Institute (EEI)
recognized the team for exceptional customer service in
2018. AEP won the National Key Accounts Executive Award
for Sustained Excellence in Outstanding Customer Service.
Two of our customer managers were also recognized forcompanies looking to expand or locate new operations in our
service territory.
their individual performance.
AEP also provides comprehensive location advisory
services to companies looking to expand or locate new operations in our service territory. This includes property searches
and screening, custom community and site analysis, and introductions to local economic development partners and
industry resources.
Beyond our current customers, AEP proactively identifies and manages business relationships with prospective
customers in target industry sectors to try to secure investment in new facilities across the AEP system. In addition to
pursuing domestic companies, our efforts include attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) to our service territory, which is
a key source of capital, job creation and innovation.
In 2018, we supported 110 projects that will bring 14,700 jobs to the local economies across our 11-state service territory.
Economic development helps our communities in several ways, including increasing the tax base, job development,
economic diversification and capacity-building for long-term sustainability.
AEP actively works to support industries experiencing high growth, including petrochemical, data centers and shale gas.
Below are examples of economic development projects we supported in 2018.
JSW Steel returned an electric arc furnace to service in Mingo Junction, Ohio, after nearly 10 years of sitting idle.
The reopening of the mill is expected to eventually create 1,000 jobs and will house the largest Consteel® Tenova
electric arc furnaces in North America. The company already has expansion plans in the works, including the
installation of a second mill in Ohio.
AEP Ohio helped Amazon Web Services to site three data centers and a distribution center in Central Ohio in 2016.
Amazon added the second of five planned data centers at each of three sites served by AEP Ohio; they have plans
to continue to grow in Central Ohio. Amazon’s total investment will be approximately $1.1 billion. The combined
direct and indirect impacts of Amazon’s investment could create thousands of new jobs in Ohio and hundreds of
millions of dollars in new regional income and gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the region.
Appalachian Power (APCo) celebrated its partnership with the ELDOR Corporation with the grand opening of its
first North American plant – a $75 million facility – in southwest Virginia. This Italian auto parts manufacturing facility
is located on an AEP Quality Site and will employ 120 workers. The company’s expansion plans could employ 350
workers within four years. APCo’s economic development strategy is focused on new manufacturing and job growth
and increased tax base for its communities.
Sofidel Group, an Italian manufacturer of tissue paper, broke ground on a $360 million integrated paper plant that
will create 300 jobs in Inola, Oklahoma. The land for the facility was sold to Sofidel by PSO. 
Recognizing the need to
attract capital investment to the region, PSO worked to prepare the site for industrial development through the AEP
Quality Sites Program. We continue to market the remaining Inola property for additional economic development
projects. Sofidel’s other greenfield investment in the U.S. is also AEP-served. Located in Circleville, Ohio, the $400
million facility opened in 2018 and, at capacity, will employ approximately 700 people.
AEP’s service territory overlaps many of the most productive shale gas regions in the U.S. In our AEP Texas
territory, this includes the Permian Basin in West Texas and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas. These shale
plays provide a plentiful supply of natural gas, petroleum, and natural gas liquids for current and future petrochemical
facilities including liquid fractionators and cracker projects. In 2018, Cheniere Energy, Inc. opened a $15 billion
liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facility in Texas, making the state a competitive player in the global LNG market.
The Corpus Christi Liquefaction project will result in the creation of more than 430 permanent jobs when fully
operational, and more than 4,000 jobs during peak construction. It is projected to have a $5 billion economic impact
in the Coastal Bend region during a nine-year construction period, and $17 billion for the State of Texas during that
same time period. We also worked collaboratively with EPIC Pipeline LLC, whose pipeline project will connect
crude oil and gas from West Texas to the Corpus Christi markets. We will provide electric service to some of the
compression stations along the pipeline. Other petrochemical and LNG export facilities are being pursued in the
region.
Quality Sites Program
A primary focus of our activities is the development of build-ready industrial properties across our 11-state territory. AEP’s
Quality Sites Program identifies sites that have infrastructure and utilities in place and have completed due diligence
studies to help growing businesses minimize overall site location risk, save time and reduce development costs. In 2018,
we added three new industrial properties to our Quality Sites Program, bringing the total number of sites to 50. Learnmore about this program and the location of quality sites in AEP’s service territory.
In 2018, we were named one of the nation’s top utilities for economic development by 
Site Selection Magazine
, for the
seventh consecutive year. AEP was recognized for its effort to cultivate commercial and industrial business development
and for creating new jobs. The recognition is based on end-user project activity, website tools and data, innovative
programs and incentives for businesses, and the utility’s own job-creating infrastructure and facility investment trends.
SUPPORTING APPALACHIAN COMMUNITIES
We are building stronger partnerships with our local communities to help revitalize some of the hardest hit communities by
the changes in the coal industry. Three states in the heart of Appalachia have been particularly affected. Kentucky, Ohio
and West Virginia have experienced job losses, the loss of tax revenue to support local public services, and the loss of
indirect economic benefits from having a locally employed workforce. In response, AEP is making targeted efforts to
revitalize those communities to attract new industry and jobs and empower local leaders to take the lead in rebuilding their
communities.
In 2017, AEP and our regional economic development
partners launched Appalachian Sky – an initiative to attract
the aerospace and aviation industry to AEP’s central
Appalachia service region. A comprehensive regional
workforce analysis of AEP’s Kentucky territory was the
catalyst that showed that coal miners, many of whom lost
their jobs due to recent mine and coal plant closings, have
the skills that aerospace and advanced manufacturing
companies need. The study, funded in part by a Kentucky
Power Economic Growth Grant (K-PEGG), concluded that
the region had eight times the national average of skilled
metal workers - recognizing the potential of the aerospace
industry to diversify the central Appalachian economy.
AEP commissioned a leading aerospace consultancy to
determine the viability of aerospace in Appalachia’s coal
and steel country. Several counties in the region have been
certified as AEROready
. The AEROready certification ensures aerospace companies that the certified regions, sites
and communities are suitable for aerospace operations. We continue to work collaboratively with our partners in an effort
to further develop and market the Appalachian Sky initiative.
Other areas within AEP’s service territory are attractive for aerospace and aviation investment, and we have pursued
similar AEROready certifications:
In October 2017, the City of Shreveport and surrounding communities were certified as AEROready. They saw
immediate impact when Western Global Airlines announced it would establish an aircraft maintenance facility at
Shreveport Regional Airport. The $3 million investment will ultimately create 170 new direct jobs and an estimated
308 new indirect jobs.
In April 2018, the San Patricio County Economic Development Corporation and Corpus Christi Metropolitan
Statistical Area announced the region received the first AEROready Certification in Texas. The move sets the stage
for the Coast Bend to attract high-quality aviation and aerospace jobs to the region.
TM
SUPPORTING THE FEDERAL SECTOR
Military and other federal government agencies and facilities are an important customer segment and growth area for
AEP. We provide electric service through our regulated business to over 3,500 federal accounts. Our focus is on three
areas of interest:
Utility Energy Services Contracts (UESC) within our regulated footprint
Various business development opportunities outside of our regulated service territory with our competitivebusinesses (e.g., AEP Energy Partners)
Utilities Privatization (UP) of military facilities both within and outside our regulated footprint
Through these avenues, we help our federal and military customers meet their sustainability and resiliency goals and
measures. The federal government has a comprehensive framework for action through 2020 that calls for using resources
more efficiently and acquiring more energy from renewable resources. To support that initiative, we help the federal
government mitigate the effects of climate change on military operations, installations and national security.
AEP has proposed energy resilience solutions to the Department of Defense (DoD) to assist in preparing for and
recovering from energy disruptions impacting mission assurance on military installations. Further, energy resilience
encourages the necessary planning and capabilities to ensure available, reliable, and quality power to continuously
accomplish DoD missions.
Thirty of our large federal accounts may present new opportunities for UESC-type work. UESC provides federal
customers with comprehensive energy and water efficiency improvements and demand reduction services. These
projects can encompass a broad range of energy conservation measures, including system upgrades and
recommissioning, retrofit projects, renewable energy, cogeneration plants and microgrids.
In 2018, AEP Energy was awarded a $362 million contract with the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) to provide over 6.5
terawatts of electricity to various U.S. government and military installations operating in the PJM Interconnection (regional
transmission operator) over a five year period beginning in 2019.
We are also partnering with military facilities to offer solutions to privatize on-base utility systems (electricity, natural gas,
water and wastewater). These opportunities allow AEP to operate and maintain the facilities’ electricity systems and allow
the military to stay focused on its mission. Two examples of where we are working with the military to manage their utilities
include Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo, Texas and Red River Army Depot in Texarkana, Texas.
SUPPLY CHAIN AND PROCUREMENT - NON-FUEL SUPPLIERS
AEP purchases billions of dollars in goods and services every year, ranging from chemical solvents and office supplies to
vehicles and industrial equipment from national, regional and local suppliers. As a large company, we are able to manage
costs by negotiating prices, strategically sourcing and managing inventory. By applying a procurement-category
management model, we can look at the whole value chain from sourcing through inventory.
We continue to improve efficiency through strategic sourcing – optimizing what we buy and how we buy it to manage
inventory and costs as well as provide standardization in our purchasing practices. Our procurement team gets involved
earlier in the purchasing process to educate employees on best procurement practices.
We continue to seek opportunities to deploy technological solutions. In 2018, we went live with a robotic process
automation solution in Asset Recovery that streamlines the scrap metal billing process. Additionally, we have launched a
barcoding and RFID technology project to improve the materials management activity throughout our operations.© 2019 American Electric Power.