 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 2014 Corporate Accountability Report – Index of Content  
I. About Our Business  
a. Message from the Chairman  
b. Who We Are  
i. How We Are Structured  
1. Regulated Operations  
2. Competitive Operations  
3. AEP Transmission Company  
c. Corporate G overnance  
i. Ethics and C ompliance  
ii. Corporate Leaders and Governance  
iii. Executive T eam 
iv. Board of D irectors  
1. Board Statement  
v. Corporate Separation  
vi. Lobbying and Political Activity  
d. Strategy for Growth  
i. Capital Investment Strategy  
ii. Transmission Growth  
1. Joint Ven tures  
2. Competitive Transmission  
3. Working with Stakeholders  
iii. Economic and Business Development  
1. Foreign Direct Development  
iv. Energy Policy  
1. Gas/Electric Market Harmonization  
v. Fueling the Future  
1. Coal Unit Retirements  4 
 2. Shale Gas  
3. The Future of Coal  
4. Renewable Energy  
5. Nuclear, Hydro & Other Resources  
e. Managing Risk  
i. Volatile Capacity Markets  
ii. Climate Change  
1. Our Position  
2. Greenhouse Gas Regulations  
3. Carbon Capture and Storage  
4. Resource Planning and Carbon  
5. Assigning Value to Carbon  
iii. Cyber Security  
iv. Physical Security  
v. Inland Waterwa ys 
f. Utility of the Future  
i. Opportunities & Challenges  
II. Business Performance  
a. Financial Performance  
i. 2013 Performance  
ii. Executing Our Strategy  
iii. A Positive Outlook  
b. Safety & Health Performance  
i. Safety Path Forward  
ii. Contractor Safety  
iii. Changing Regulations  
iv. Safety Recognit ion 
v. Public Safety  5 
 c. Environmental Performance  
i. Compliance Performance  
ii. Emissions  
iii. Checks and Balances  
iv. Environmental Regulations  
1. Regulations Update  
v. New Source Review  
vi. Water Quality and Stewardship  
vii. Waste Management  
1. Nuclear Waste Management  
viii. ESH Policy & Philosophy  
d. Energy Reliability  
i. Measuring Reliability  
ii. Reliability Compliance  
1. Reliability Assurance Initiative  
iii. Grid Resiliency  
iv. Aging Infrastructure  
v. CREZ Transmission Project  
vi. Improving Reliability  
vii. Emergency Response  
1. National Emergency Response  
2. AEP’s Emergency Response P lan 
III. Technology & Innovation  
a. Entrepreneurship in the Workforce  
b. Smart Grid  
i. gridSMART  
c. Energy Efficiency  
i. Efficiency in Coal  6 
 d. Distributed Generation  
i. Net Metering  
e.  Big Data  
IV. Customers and Communities  
a. How We Engage  
i. Local Outreach  
ii. The Role of Social Media  
b. Our Custom ers 
i. Measures of Success  
c. Strong Communities  
i. Philanthropy  
ii. Volunteerism  
d. Sustainable Procurement  
V. Our Work Force  
a. Culture Commitment  
b. Diversity  
i. Jobs for Veterans  
ii. Employee Resource Groups  
c. Continuous Improvement  
d. Awards &Recognition  
VI. Reports & Fast Facts  
a. About This Report  
b. Material Issues  
i. AEP A ssessment  
ii. Industry A ssessment  
c. GRI 
d. Mid-Year Updates  
e. Coal Supplier Survey  7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 Message from the Chairman:  
The State of Our Business  
Dear Friends,  
I welcome this opportunity to review our 2013 performance, discus s our plans and projections for 2014, 
and share AEP’s vision for the future. The production, distribution and use of electricity are changing 
dramatically as our industry undergoes a challenging but exciting transformation. We have reshaped 
parts of our bu siness, strengthened our financial position and sharpened our plan for sustainable growth 
to meet these challenges.  
Our shareholders have been rewarded for our performance. 
AEP has paid over a century of consecutive quarterly common 
stock cash dividends. Our investments in employees and 
infrastructure, our focus on continuous improvement and our 
fiscal discipline provide a solid foundation as we build the 
utility of the future .  
We provide a vi tal service that keeps people safe, supports the 
economy and sustains quality of life. But the pace of change is 
accelerating, and what got us through our first century won’t 
get us through our second. To sustain our targeted earnings 
growth, we must adapt  to the new realities of our operating 
environment by leveraging our strengths as a regulated electric 
utility to grow our business for the future. We have more 
confidence than ever in our strategy to meet the challenges and 
opportunities before us, and we  are taking steps to execute our 
strategy.                Nicholas K. Akins  
                        Chairman, President & CEO                                                    
                  American Electric Power   
As we move forward on this journey of  change and 
adaptation, our values will be our north star. In 2013, we 
updated our corporate values to reflect who we are today 
and who we must become if we are to transform into the 
utility of t he future . We worked with our employees to help 
us shape this vision and we agreed that zero harm, 
customer focus, integrity and stewardship, and the ability to 
adapt and achieve are the values that will determine our 
success. We also worked with employee s to articulate our 
purpose. It’s simple and precise – We power life’s 
possibilities℠. 
9 
 Changes to Our Business  
In 2013, we separated our Ohio generation assets from our Ohio distribution and transmission operations 
and transferred them to a new competitive  affiliate, AEP Generation Resources. Corporate separation, as 
it is called, was required to achieve full market -based pricing of generation for retail customers. Ohio 
customers can shop for the generator of their electricity and AEP Ohio will continue to deliver energy to 
them over its distribution and transmission assets.  
One of the greatest risks to our new competitive 
generation business is the PJM Interconnection 
capacity auction , which currently pays the same price 
for capacity from power plants in the region as it does 
for demand response programs and imported energy 
from areas as far away as Louisiana. To keep the grid 
operating reliably, “steel -in-the-ground” capacity is 
required to generate electricity during peak demand 
periods. In addition, the rules provide easy 
opportunities for financial speculation in the auction, 
which drives down prices and forces premature 
retirements of existing plants within the PJM footprint. 
Toge ther, these inequities create financial risk and fail 
to properly incentivize long -term investments in 
generating capacity, which will eventually threaten 
reliability.  
We need to improve the structure of capacity markets 
and maintain fuel diversity within PJM to meet future 
energy needs and ensure stable electric prices. We are 
working with several of our peers and PJM to correct 
some of the deficiencies in the capacity auction 
process.  
Another significant accomplishment in 2013 was the completion of the largest transmission construction 
project in AEP’s history. The new transmission lines will carry 18,500 megawatts of west Texas wind 
energy to major population areas in the Electric 
Reliability Council of T exas, supporting the 
Texas Competitive Renewable Energy Zone 
(CREZ) initiative. Our approximately $1.5 
billion investment in CREZ reflects our 
commitment to modernizing the grid, improving 
reliability for customers and providing a 
pathway for access to re newable resources.  
CREZ is the largest transmission construction 
project in AEP’s history.  
10 
 Our regulated businesses provide the largest growth platform for AEP. Our 4 percent to 6 percent 
targeted earnings growth rate is predicated on regulated capital in vestment and successful regulatory 
support. We have a strong balance sheet, excellent credit metrics and ample liquidity. We plan to invest 
approximately $3.8 billion to $4.1 billion annually between 2014 and 2016, primarily in transmission 
and distributio n projects. These investments will replace aging infrastructure, improve reliability, help 
the grid respond to coal unit retirements, support regional transmission projects and reward investors.  
Infrastructure development, combined with positive customer and employee experiences, are the 
foundation to our future success. Our success will depend on having employees who are entrepreneurial, 
collaborative, agile, and focused on continuous improvement to meet and exceed customer expectations.  
We are working t o retain and attract great people and to strengthen our culture to support them. Our 
culture initiative is focused on leadership, strategic alignment, employee engagement and performance 
recognition – and in 2013, we advanced in all those areas. We are red esigning our performance 
management and compensation systems, developing new tools and training for leaders at all levels, and 
doing a much better job of working together within our organization.  
2013 In Review  
Financial Performance  
We achieved excellent financial results in 2013. Our total shareholder return for the year was 14.2 
percent, compared with an average of 7.8 percent for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. Our debt -to-
capitalization ratio also improved, ending the year 
at 54.3 percent – the lowest percentage in more 
than a decade.  
We ended 2013 with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP) earnings of $1.48 
billion or $3.04 per share, compared with $1.259 
billion or $2.60 per share in 2012. For the year, 
operating earnings were $93 mil lion or $0.19 per 
share higher than GAAP earnings due to the 
following items (net of tax): plant impairments of 
$124 million, or $0.25 per share; a $25 million, or 
$0.05 per share, regulatory disallowance resulting 
from a Virginia State Corporation Commiss ion 
order related to the ownership transfer of Amos 
Plant Unit 3; a $19 million, or $0.04 per share, 
reversal of a storm cost deferral in Virginia; and a 
$5 million, or $0.01 per share, restructuring 
charge. These negative items were offset partially 
by th e effects of a U.S. Supreme Court decision 
resulting in a favorable $80 million, or $0.16 per share, United Kingdom (U.K.) windfall profits tax 
credit.  
11 
 Several factors contributed to our success: 
approvals for and completion of $647 million in 
securitiza tions in West Virginia and Ohio; 
inclusion of the John W. Turk, Jr., Plant and 
other assets in rates in Texas; regulatory support 
in Michigan and Indiana for the Donald C. Cook 
Nuclear Plant’s life cycle management plan; and 
sustainable savings and enhance d revenue 
sources identified through employee -led 
continuous improvement efforts.  
Analysts and investors took note of our success. 
Our stock is now trading in line based on the 
S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index’s forward price -
to-earnings ratio. During 2013 , our share price 
was up 9.5 percent, far outpacing the index, 
which was up 3.3 percent, and closed 2013 at 
$46.74.  
Engaging Our Work Force  
Safety  is a core value and top priority at AEP and is of utmost importance to me and to all employees. 
We are pleased to report that in 2013, for the second year in a row, we had no employee fatalities at 
AEP. Regrettably, two contractors working for  AEP were fatall y injured on the job. During the past two  
years, we also achieved the best recordable incident rate in more than a decade, which means fewer 
employees were injured while performing their jobs. Our contractors also outperformed their recordable 
incident targets during the past two years.  
This is a  significant achievement for AEP, and I am enormously grateful to all of our employees who 
worked conscientiously, every day, to achieve these great results. It makes me very proud that AEP 
employees look out for each other and work together to prevent har m and to accomplish our business 
objectives. Teamwork will continue to be the cornerstone of our culture efforts.  
Unfortunately, the workplace accidents that did occur kept employees off the job for longer periods of 
time in 2013 than in 2012. We also had  27 percent more preventable vehicle accidents across the AEP 
system. These are troubling and unacceptable trends, and we will work to reverse them in 2014. Any 
injury hurts everyone: our employees, their families and the communities in which we live.  
Our safety culture is based on the deeply held belief that all workplace injuries can be prevented, and I 
have challenged our employees to recommit to our goal of zero harm. Every one of us should go home 
safe and healthy each day. It’s the most important thi ng we can accomplish and it must be top of mind, 
every minute of every day.  
12 
 Our employees are contributing directly to our financial health. We launched several employee -led 
initiatives in 2013 that will be instrumental in meeting our financial targets in the next few years, 
including an employee -led effort to improve processes, increase efficiency, and reduce waste and costs.  
In 2013, to improve our business and increase employee engagement, we conducted a one -year gain -
sharing program whereby we split wi th employees the proceeds of savings in excess of $200 million. 
Our employees submitted hundreds of ideas for sustainable cost savings, enhanced revenue sources and 
process improvements. I am pleased to report that every AEP employee (excluding senior mana gement) 
received the maximum $1,000 benefit due to the success of the initiative.  
Investing in our employees goes beyond their active time with AEP. In 2013, AEP’s qualified pension 
funding increased to 99 percent. We have aggressively funded this plan to  benefit our employees, 
retirees, customers and investors.  
As an electric power company, AEP provides an essential service, and our social responsibilities extend 
beyond our employees to our customers, communities and the general public. We must make the electric 
grid more secure, resilient and capable of handling modern -day electricity demands. We are redesigning 
power lines to better withstand stress from ice and wind to make the grid more resilient in general. We 
have a team in place working to improve our emergency preparedness and strengthen the physical 
infrastructure of the grid.  
Environmental Performance  
2013 was a great year for AEP in terms of environmental performance  – perha ps our best year ever. We 
did not receive any significant enforcement actions last year, despite 188 regulatory inspections. We are 
proud that 48 million gallons of fuel oil were transferred to our boats in our River Operations business 
without a single sp ill in the river. And, our voluntary Environmental Performance Index, an internal 
measure to drive continuous improvement in our generation business, recorded its lowest number of 
incidents since it was created in 2003.  
AEP has invested approximately $10 b illion in environmental controls and new generation over the past 
decade. As we complete the next phase of environmental controls and fuel conversions, we will be able 
to redirect capital to the growth areas of our company. In 2013, we redirected about $15 0 million from 
across the company to invest mainly in transmission projects. This is how we are optimizing all of our 
resources and working as a team – a major thrust of our culture change initiative.  
Changes in our fuel mix and the retirement of coal -fueled plants will continue to have a positive effect 
on our carbon footprint. In 2013, our carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions were approximately 115 million 
metric tons – a 21 percent decrease from 2005 emissions of approximately 145 million metric tons. We 
will become less carbon -intensive as our generating capacity shifts from 61 percent coal and 23 percent 
natural gas in 2014, to 49 percent coal and 28 percent natural gas in 2026. Our use of renewable energy 
will continue to increase during that timeframe. Addi tionally, our 14 percent reduction in CO 2 emissions 
since 2010 has already exceeded our 10 percent reduction target we previously set for 2020.  13 
 We are concerned about the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed New Source 
Performance Standard s to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, including CO 2, from new electric 
generation units and its intent to issue rules governing existing plants. We are committed to a balanced 
fuel portfolio that includes coal, and we will continue to work with regulator s as they develop these rules 
so that coal is considered a vital part of the energy mix. We also believe in a wide variety of CO 2 
reduction strategies, including advanced coal technologies. AEP’s ultra -supercritical Turk Plant in 
Arkansas demonstrates the viability of advanced coal technology that the EPA should consider.  
I believe that a combination of issues – the 
emerging EPA regulations, the questions 
around capacity markets, and the physical and 
cyber threats that our facilities face – are 
significant  challenges to our business that must 
be dealt with. We continue to work with 
regulatory and government officials to ensure 
that any regulations achieve the right balance 
between environmental protection, fuel 
diversity and cost to our customers. At the sa me 
time, we are actively engaged in securing our 
facilities from physical and cyber -attack.  
600-MW John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant in  
southwestern Arkansas exemplifies our commitment  
to the responsible use of coal as a fuel source  
Having a national energy  strategy would help us to achieve the balance we need on these issues. 
Electricity impacts people’s lives deeply, and so does the lack or unreliability of it. The electric grid is a 
safety net, and uncoordinated government policies and actions can strain that safety net. We are 
concerned that the government does not fully consider the social and economic ramifications of the rules 
and regulations it imposes. As a country, we must address how we deal with the social safety net of our 
electric power grid. AE P will continue to be actively and positively involved in developing sound public 
policy for the benefit of our customers and the country.  
As with our social and financial performance, we could not have accomplished our environmental 
objectives without our  employees’ dedication to high standards and a strong sense of doing what is right. 
We are very proud of our safety, financial and environmental accomplishments in 2013, which are 
strong indicators of the preparedness and well -being of our company and bode  well for the future.  
2014 and Beyond  
Our outstanding performance in 2013, along with the organizational and culture initiatives we started, 
have set the stage for the future. 2014 will be an important year for AEP as we continue to execute our 
growth str ategy. Transmission will play a key role in our growth. We will focus on growing our 
regulated businesses, advancing our competitive segment, improving the customer experience, engaging 
with our various stakeholders and working with our employees to help a chieve our goals.  
14 
 Our disciplined approach to allocating capital, controlling costs and successfully working through 
regulatory proceedings will continue to strengthen our financial position. We project an operating 
earnings range of $3.35 to $3.55 per sh are in 2014, $3.30 to $3.60 per share in 2015 and $3.45 to $3.85 
per share in 2016. We will keep operations and maintenance expenses in check as we continue to make 
significant capital investments in our regulated businesses. Transmission will be an import ant earnings 
contributor. In 2013, AEP Transmission Holding Company contributed $0.16 per share to operating 
earnings; it is expected to contribute $0.29 per share in 2014.  
Despite a solid foundation, the path forward will not be easy. We are facing a sig nificant financial 
challenge in 2016 due to the outcome of forward capacity auctions and the lack of growth in demand for 
our product. However, we have a plan that will 
maintain our earnings growth beyond 2016. Our 
employee -led continuous improvement and c ost-
control initiatives will play a big role. We are 
confident, based on what our employees have 
achieved already, that we will succeed.  
We will also focus attention to decrease injury 
severity and preventable vehicle accidents in 
2014. We are launching a new initiative in 2014 
called “See Something, Say Something, Do 
Something” to encourage employees to speak up 
about unsafe practices without fear of retaliation, 
even if a more senior worker is involved. We need 
to be focused and fair when unintended event s 
occur to ensure fairness, consistency and shared 
accountability in analyzing events. We will 
continue to work relentlessly toward our goal of 
being a top performer in safety and health by 
2016. More important than statistics, I want our 
employees to stay  safe and healthy.  
Board of Directors Transitions  
The AEP Board of Directors  is losing three long -standing directors this this year – Richard Sandor, John 
Turner and Mike Morris. We will miss their contributions greatly, and we wish them well in the years 
ahead.  
Richard Sandor, who was elected to the board in 2000, has served longer than any other current board 
member. He is the founder of the Chicago Climate Exchange, which admini stered a voluntary, legally 
binding greenhouse gas reduction and trading system. His experience with environmental financial 
products has proved extremely beneficial to AEP.  
15 
 John Turner joined the board in 2008. His background in environmental stewardship has served us well. 
He formerly headed the Conservation Fund, and was assistant secretary of the U.S. Department of State 
and the director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.  
Mike Morris began his service as AEP’s chairman, president and chief executive  officer (CEO) in 2004. 
He served as chairman through 2013, as CEO until November 2011, and as president through 2010. 
Mike left his stamp on our company in so many ways: our commitment to zero harm; an emphasis on 
open communication; his support for the s uccessful operating company model we have in place today 
that has enhanced local relationships and regulatory outcomes; and his vision for our transmission 
business to be a catalyst for earnings growth. Mike also built upon AEP’s history of innovation by 
advancing pioneering technologies, such as ultra -supercritical advanced coal technology at our Turk 
Plant. As we build our model of the utility of the future , we begin with a strong foundation, d ue in large 
part to Mike’s integrity, commitment, influence and perseverance. It is a challenge and a privilege to 
succeed him as CEO and chairman.  
While we will miss these retiring directors, we are confident that our continuing slate of directors has the  
expertise, talents and perspectives needed to ensure successful oversight of our company.  
In February 2014, the board welcomed J. Barnie Beasley, Jr., as a new director. He retired in 2008 as 
chairman, president and CEO of Southern Nuclear Operating Co., a subsidiary of Southern Co. His 
nuclear operations expertise and insights into our industry will make our board stronger. His addition to 
the board, along with two other new members who joined in 2013, completes this evolution of the AEP 
board. We are gra teful for their service to AEP.  
A Sustainable Future – The Utility of the Future  
AEP is fundamentally changing the way it operates and manages its business. This business has become 
one of optimizing resources and focused capital allocation in the midst of  substantial structural and 
technological shifts within the energy landscape.  
The utility of the future  has seven key characteristics: a balanced, more diverse and less carbon -intensive 
resour ce portfolio; an entrepreneurial and engaged work force committed to continuous improvement; a 
modern, efficient grid that can handle new technologies; the ability to constructively influence 
regulatory and public policies; customers whose 
needs are met or  exceeded; investors who seek 
consistent dividends and earnings growth; and 
strong, trusting relationships with the 
communities it serves and other stakeholders 
with whom it works.  
AEP’s inclusion in Fortune  magazine’s 2014 
World’s Most Admired Companies l ist in the 
electric and gas utilities sector is a strong 
indicator that we are working on being a model 
for the future. Fortune  measures nine attributes 
16 
 related to financial performance and corporate reputation. It is humbling and extremely gratifying to b e 
so honored. This recognition reflects our commitment to our customers, communities, employees and 
shareholders as we transform our company to meet the energy needs of the future.  
Our blueprint for the future is not final; it’s a work in progress. We acc omplished a great deal in 2013 to 
secure our future and we have certainty about who we are and know where we are headed. I am 
confident we are on the right path, and I believe our investors agree. We have much to accomplish in 
2014 and in the years ahead. My strong confidence in our future lies in the knowledge, strength, 
experience and determination of the men and women of AEP. They continue to carry us forward, into 
the future.  
 
Nicholas K. Akins  
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer  
American Ele ctric Power  
 
Who We Are  
“Our job is generating electricity and getting it to where it's used. We're in this business because it is 
concerned with the supply of a fundamental requirement of modern living, because it's an honorable 
one, because we like it, a nd because we want to earn a living at it.  
‘We aim to give one kind of service to everyone... the best that's possible. That means supplying our 
customers with what they want when they want 
it. It means being courteous at all times and 
maintaining attrac tive, easy -to-do-business -with 
offices.  
‘It means doing everything we can to keep 
complaints from arising, and it means prompt 
and fair handling of those that do.  
‘We are a citizen of each community we serve 
and take an active part in its affairs. Like any  
other citizen, we want our neighbors to think 
well of us. Besides, it makes good business sense. We prosper only as the community prospers; so we 
help it thrive in every way we can.  
‘Such is our job as we see it. We are trying to do it well and to do it b etter all the time.”  
17 
 Our commitment to our customers and our contributions to society as described by George N. Tidd, 
president of American Gas & Electric, in 1934. The company was renamed American Electric Power in 
1958. This philosophy continues to guide  us today and keeps us grounded in a fast -changing 
environment.  
AEP has been in business for more than a century. We are dedicated to delivering safe, reliable and cost -
effective electricity to our customers and value to our shareholders – that’s our busin ess. Our history is 
rich with ingenuity and technology breakthroughs that have enhanced the quality of life for our 
customers, significantly reduced our environmental impacts and developed a highly skilled work force. 
Our industry is experiencing a renaiss ance and the future is looking much different than it did a few 
years ago. The business model that made us so successful during the first 107 years is undergoing its 
own transformation. We continue to navigate these changes and build a new model for the fu ture. 
Although we are still at the beginning of this transformation, our vision is clear: We will be a cleaner, 
stronger regulated utility that invests in the grid to modernize it and make it more resilient. We will 
enable new technologies and deliver sup erior service to our customers through an engaged and 
entrepreneurial work force. We will continue to be a solid investment choice for investors. We don’t yet 
have all the signposts identified, but we know we are on the right path. Our increasing share pri ce 
indicates investors’ confidence that our strategic direction is sound – for AEP it is all about discipline 
and execution.  
We adopted a revised set of values this year 
that better reflect our culture and who we are 
today as we set a course for the future . We also 
articulated our purpose more clearly. 
Fundamentally, our values have not changed. 
Rather, we redefined what they mean in this 
new business environment. They also shape our 
culture.  
Our new purpose statement – We power life’s 
possibilitiesSM – defines what we do and why 
we are here as a company. Our employees are 
proud to work for AEP and they wanted the 
purpose statement to reflect their pride and 
speak to the noble business we are in. Our 
employees took part in focus groups to help us 
create thi s purpose statement and to provide 
feedback as we redefined our values.  
How We Are Structured  
Our principal business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power. We serve more 
than 5.3 million customers in our regulated businesses and approximately 215,000 through our retail 
18 
 energy unit. AEP’s business was restructured in 2013 to accommodate an expansion of our competitive 
business segment required by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and to better execute our strategy 
for gro wth in our regulated companies. We completed the restructuring as we continued to navigate the 
major transformation our industry is undergoing.  
Regulated Operations  
 
Our regulated businesses have well -defined service territories, customer rates and return -on-equity rates 
for capital investments approved by state and federal regulators. Our operating company presidents have 
primary responsibility for their companies’ balance sheets, earnings, capital allocation, rate base growth, 
regulatory relationships and overall performance. They work collaboratively with other bus iness units 
and with each other to meet the needs of their customers. This local approach also strengthens 
relationships with the communities they serve and provides a better understanding of what local 
regulators will support.  
This is important as we ma ke significant capital investments to comply with environmental regulations, 
invest in our transmission and distribution infrastructure and maintain the operational integrity and 
reliability of the entire system.  
Vertically integrated public utilities  – AEP 
owns and operates generation facilities and 
transmission and distribution lines and other 
facilities to deliver electric power. These 
utilities generate, transmit and distribute 
electricity for sale to retail and wholesale 
customers through the assets o wned by 
Appalachian Power Company, Indiana 
Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power 
Company, Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma, Southwestern Electric Power 
Company, Wheeling Power Company, Kingsport Power Company and AEP Generating Company 
(regulated genera tion properties).  
Transmission and distribution  – This business segment is involved with the transmission and 
distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers in Ohio and Texas. AEP Ohio serves 
more than 1.4 million retail customers and AEP Texas serves nearly 1 million customers. These 
companies are often referred to as “wires only” businesses because they do not include the generation 
function in their business. While 100 percent of AEP Texas customers purchase generation supply fro m 
competitive retail electric suppliers, AEP Ohio purchases energy and capacity to serve its remaining 
generation service customers who have not selected their own supplier.  
19 
 Competitive Operations  
 
This business segment includes subsidiaries that have nonutility generating assets, a wholesale energy 
trading and marke ting business, barge operations, and a retail supply and energy management unit. The 
generation and marketing subsidiaries of AEP are impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market 
entrants, construction or retirement of generating assets by others, a nd technological advances in power 
generation. Our ability to maintain relatively low -cost, efficient and reliable operations is critical to our 
competitiveness.  
 AEP Generation Resources – This is the largest subsidiary of our competitive businesses. AEP 
Generation Resources (AGR) is a public utility that owns 10,002 megawatts (MW) of generating 
capacity with rights to an additional 1,186 MW. AEP completed the separation of its Ohio 
generating assets from its Ohio distribution and transmission operations, a nd it transferred most 
of AEP Ohio’s generating assets to a new competitive affiliate, AGR, as of Dec. 31, 2013. AGR 
now manages most of AEP Ohio’s former generating assets in the competitive generation 
market. The initial capitalization was approximately $3 billion, with roughly two -thirds 
representing equity and the remainder debt.  
 AEP Energy  – This is our retail supply and energy 
management business. AEP Energy is a retail 
electricity provider that supplies electricity and related 
services to residential, commercial and industrial 
customers. AEP Energy has approximately 215,000 
retail customers in Ohio, Illinois, Pennsylvania, New 
Jersey and Maryland and is licensed to operate in 
several other states . AEP Energy’s challenge, in a 
very competitive marketplace characterized by low 
energy prices, is to be profitable and to grow at a rate that delivers superior financial returns in 
exchange for the associated risk.  
 AEP Energy Partners  – This is our wholesale energy trading and marketing business. AEP 
Energy Partners enters into short - and long -term transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy and 
other services. It ope rates primarily in the ERCOT , the MISO  and PJM Interconnection . AEP 
Energy Partners sells power into t he market and engages in power, natural gas, coal and 
emissions allowances, risk management and trading activities.  
 AEP River Operations  – This business unit transports liquid, coal and dry bulk com modities 
primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower 
Mississippi rivers. AEP River Operations, one 
of the largest inland waterways carriers, 
transported 29 million tons of coal and other 
consumables to AEP facilities and 37 million 
tons of coal, grain and ot her bulk goods for 
other commercial customers in 2013. Coal 
20 
 represented 56 percent of tons hauled in 2013, followed by agriculture (22 percent) and steel (12 
percent). Total tonnage decreased by more than 8 million tons compared with 2012, primarily 
due to  fewer U.S. coal exports and the lingering effects of the 2012 drought.  
We own or lease approximately 3,000 barges, 60 towboats and 25 harbor boats. In 2014, we will add at 
least 20 10,000 -barrel tank barges as we enter the tank barge transport business. This will allow us to 
serve both current and new customers that transport liquid commodities. The timing correlates with the 
recent significant growth of barge transportation of oil and gas products.  
Transporting liquids, such as petroleum products and ch emicals, brings some new risk and additional 
regulations that must be followed. The liquids market can also produce a greater financial return; we 
estimate a barge moving liquids can generate up to five times higher return than a barge hauling dry 
cargo. R iver Operations’ strong safety and environmental record also should help the organization 
succeed in the liquids market. One of the greatest risks associated with this business line is the state of 
disrepair of the nation’s locks and dams on its inland wat erways.  
AEP Transmission Holding Company  
AEP Transmission Holding Company (AEPTHCo) is a holding company for all AEP Transmission 
companies (Transcos) and joint ventures with other utilities. The transcos own and operate transmission 
assets that are physi cally connected to AEP’s existing system. They are geographically located to align 
with our utility operating companies and are focused on:  
 Local reliability improvements such as upgrades, and rebuilding or replacing existing, aging 
infrastructure;  
 Constru ction of new facilities to support customer needs, generation connections, new 
transmission service directed by regional transmission operators (RTO), and new facilities 
needed to support reliability; and  
 Projects assigned as a result of RTO planning initi atives to address regional reliability, reduce 
congestion and integrate supply -side resources (primarily renewables) and retirements of coal 
units.  
The transcos rates are regulated by the Federal Energy Regu latory Commission  (FERC). The transcos 
are independent of, but overlay, the service 
territories of AEP’s regulated utility companies. 
They can separately raise capital and are able to 
build new transmission without affecting the 
balance sheet or credit ra tings of the operating 
companies.  
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, 
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, AEP 
Oklahoma Transmission Company, AEP West 
Virginia Transmission Company, and AEP 
21 
 Kentucky Transmission Company are operational. These companies cu rrently have transmission assets 
that are in service or under construction. The Appalachian Power Transmission Company has received 
conditional approval from the Virginia State Corporation Commission, subject to project -by-project 
review and approval. Appl ications for regulatory approvals for AEP Southwestern Transmission 
Company (SW Transco) are pending in Arkansas and Louisiana.  
Electric Transmission Texas  (ETT) is a joint venture between subsidiaries o f AEP and MidAmerican 
Energy Holdings Company . ETT will have more than $3 billion in investments within the Electric 
Reliability  Council of Texas  (ERC OT) over the next decade. ETT operates in ERCOT.  
Transource , a joint venture between AEP and Great Plains Energy, develops and invests in new 
transmission inside and outside of AEP’s service ter ritory. It operates primarily in the PJM 
Interconnection , Southwest Power Pool  and Midcontine nt Independent System Operator  (MISO). FERC 
Order 1000 created new opportunities for competitive transmission investment by giving incumbent and 
non-incumbent transmission developers similar cost -recovery mechanisms for regional and interregional 
projects . Click here for updates on joint venture projects.  
Learn more about AEP’s current regulatory activity  
Corporate Governance  
At the heart of corporate governance is the role  of the board of directors, the highest governing authority 
within a company. The board is the protector of shareholders’ long -term interests with a responsibility to 
ensure those who invest in the company earn a fair return on their investment. Effective governance is 
guided by policies and by directors who are informed and engaged. The independence of directors is a 
hallmark of strong corporate governance. AEP’s Board of Directors  is largely composed of independent 
directors. Nick Akins, who serves as chairman, president and chief executive officer, is the only member 
of AEP’s board that is from management.  
Organizations do not change for the better without strong leadership. Durin g this time of significant 
change and transition for our business, we have a strong management team in place that reflects the 
breadth and strength of AEP’s leadership capabilities and our ability to adapt successfully to change.  
Ethics and Compliance  
As an organization, we are guided by high standards of ethics and compliance. Our board of directors 
abides by a set of Principles of Corporate Governance while management and employees are guided by 
our Principles of Business Conduct . We hold the board, management and employees to these principles 
and expect nothing less than the highest level of ethical behavior. We also expect employees to speak up 
when they see something that falls short of those expectations. However, if employees are unwilling to 
report an ethics or compliance violation for fear of retaliation, our corporate culture, our reputation and 
the financial health of  the company are at risk.  22 
 Therefore, we maintain a confidential 24/7 hotline that allows employees to report concerns 
anonymously or to seek guidance on ethical, safety or compliance issues. We encourage our employees 
to feel free to share information or concerns. We provide annual, mandatory training to all employees on 
the Principles of Business Conduct, specifically detailing how to report concerns and our anti -retaliation 
policy. All of these efforts are grounded in the belief that the identification a nd resolution of concerns 
are critical to sustaining a strong and healthy company.  
Corporate Leaders & Governance  
AEP's Executive Team  
 
From left to right:  
David M. Feinberg, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Dennis E. Welch, 
Executive Vice President and Chief External Officer; Brian X. Tierney, Execut ive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer; Lisa M. Barton, Executive Vice President, AEP Transmission; Robert P. 
Powers, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Nicholas K. Akins, Chairman, President 
and Chief Executive Officer; and Lana  L. Hillebrand, Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative 
Officer.  
 
 23 
 AEP’s Board of Directors  
 
From Left to Right:  
Lionel L. Nowell III, Linda A. Goodspeed, Steve Rasmussen, Richard L. Sandor, Thomas E. Hoaglin, 
Sara Martinez Tucker, Ralph D. Crosb y, Nick Akins, John F. Turner, Richard C. Notebaert, David J. 
Anderson, Sandra Beach Lin, Jr., Michael G. Morris, J. Barnie Beasley, Jr., and Oliver G. Richard III  
Board Statement  
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for monitoring and o verseeing the company’s 
sustainability initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. This is the 
fifth year AEP has integrated its sustainability reporting with financial reporting. The Committee fully 
supports this approach. Stakeholders have expressed approval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership 
with this integrated approach to corporate reporting.  
Throughout the year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability 
objectives, challenges, target s and progress. The Committee reviewed and discussed the final text of this 
report before recommending its approval by the full Board of Directors.  
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports both from management and from the Committee 
on Director s and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives and from 
management and Board committees about the company’s financial reporting and economic performance. 
Topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at the Boa rd and Committee meetings. 
24 
 All members of the Board reviewed the report in detail and at the conclusion of this review process the 
Board of Directors adopted a formal resolution approving the report.  
The Board believes this document is a reasonable and tra nsparent presentation of the company’s plans 
and of its environmental, social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized to management 
that it will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan to meet 
stakehold ers’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to changing 
circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report.  
 
Thomas E, Hoaglin  
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 7, 2014  
 
Corporate Separation  
The state of Ohio’s decision to promote electric market deregulation was the impetus for AEP’s recently 
completed corporate separation proces s, which required approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC). Corporate separation is among the main drivers of change in our business and, 
while it will provide us with significant new opportunities, it carries significant risks as well . At the 
same time, the vast majority of AEP’s operations and earnings remain tied to the regulated segment of 
our business.  
Ohio Power Co. completed the separation of its generating assets from its distribution and transmission 
operations on Dec. 31, 2013 . A new competitive affiliate, AEP Generation Resources (AGR), now owns 
and/or controls more than 11,000 MW in the competitive, or merchant, generation market. Following 
anticipated unit retirements through 2015, it is expected that AGR will own and/or con trol 
approximately 8,700 MW of generation.  
There are risks associated with participating in energy markets, and AEP Generation and Marketing – 
the umbrella business segment for most of our competitive businesses – has experienced commercial 
staff to manag e these risks.  
As part of corporate separation, Ohio Power’s two -thirds ownership of 1,300 -MW Unit 3 of the John 
Amos Plant (867 MW) in West Virginia was transferred to Appalachian Power Company. A 50 percent 
interest (780 MW) in the Mitchell Plant in Wes t Virginia was transferred to Kentucky Power.  25 
 In March 2014, we filed with the West Virginia Public Service Commission to propose the acquisition 
of the remaining 50 percent of the Mitchell Plant by Wheeling Power be approved. There are additional 
filings we will be making at the FERC in connection with the proposed Mitchell Plant transfer to 
Wheeling Power.  
 
 
Lobbying and Political Activity  
 
We actively participate in the political process to advance our long -term business interests and the 
interests of our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. We also lobby and work for 
what we believe is in the best interests of our customers, shareholders, communities and the nation. We 
maintain five political action committees (PACs) that are run by our employees – one for federal 
candidates and separate state PACs in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Approximately 30 percent of 
the employees eligible to participate in one of our PACs do so. AEP’s federal PAC, the AEP Committee 
for Responsible Government, contributed more than $509,375 to candidates for public office in 2013. 
Federal and state laws allow AEP to pay expenses of operating its PACs. We also have a process 
whereby political  contributions are reviewed annually by AEP’s board of directors.  
In 2013, we spent about $7.5 million on internal and external lobbying activities at the state and federal 
level. This includes dues to trade or national associations for which a portion goe s toward lobbying. We 26 
 maintain an office in Washington, D.C., to address issues involving federal legislation and regulation. 
Each of our operating companies has lobbyists who work in their respective state capitals.  
We belong to or participate in several state, local and national organizations, including the Edison 
Electric Institute , the Business Roundtable  and the National Association of Manufacturers  (NAM). We 
do so for a variety of reasons, including staying current on issues, learning best business practices from 
our peers, and strengthening our relationships with our customers, many of whom are also  members. We 
disclose our political contributions, as well as the portion of membership dues to various organizations 
that is used for lobbying purposes, on an annual basis. We also post our corporate political contributions 
policy online. For more informa tion, see our lobbying policy and our disclosure for 2013 .  
We believe, as a general rule, that it is more beneficial to AE P to remain involved in these organizations, 
even if we occasionally disagree, than to withdraw. We believe we can be far more effective in shaping 
the policies of the organizations from within rather than sitting on the sidelines.  
From time to time, many , if not most, of the organizations to which we belong reach conclusions or take 
positions on issues with which we disagree. If we feel strongly enough, we voice our disagreement and 
work to change the organization’s position. Sometimes our views prevail, sometimes they do not. Many 
times we are able to reach some sort of compromise.  
We are firm believers in transparency and active participation in public debate. That conviction is based 
on our deeply held belief in collaboration, which we practice both int ernally and externally. Our 
experience is that open, candid discussion and a good -faith attempt to reach common ground is the best 
way to do business.  
Strategy for Growth  
Discipline, continuous improvement, smart investment decisions and execution underpi n our strategy for 
growth. We are adjusting to a number of new realities – stagnant demand for our product, a slow 
economic recovery, an abundance of low -cost shale gas, the need for a more resilient grid, retirement of 
approximately 6,600 MW of our coal u nits by 2016, new technologies that require greater grid 
flexibility, and increasing threats of physical and cyber -attacks on the grid. Yet, this is as much an 
exciting time as it is a challenging time for our business and our industry.  
AEP is at a point in its history where it has capital to deploy because our environmental investments are 
nearly complete, giving us more flexibility to focus on growth areas of the company. We have a firm 
financial platform and a regulatory compact that supports investment s in infrastructure and the customer 
experience. In addition to refurbishing the grid and building new infrastructure, our plan is to invest in 
technologies that improve reliability, operational efficiency and customer service. Our strategy is to 
bring our  investments closer to what our customers value.  
In many ways, the electric grid is a social safety net. Our strategy will strengthen this safety net to 
improve quality of life, customer satisfaction and system reliability, and provide our employees with a 
safe and engaging workplace that rewards entrepreneurship and collaboration.  27 
 Although our ability to invest may be hampered by new regulations, our intent is to operate a modern 
grid that is reliable and adaptable with new and emerging technologies. In addition, our communities 
will be vibrant, desirable places to live, work and operate a business; our shareholders will consider us a 
solid investment; we will provide secure, reliable and affordable electricity; we will be leaders in 
environmental steward ship; our stakeholders will want to stay engaged with us; and our philanthropic 
investments will lift people up and offer new opportunities. We have laid the foundation for the future 
and now we’re building the infrastructure.  
Successful execution of our strategic goals will achieve our objective of 4 percent to 6 percent earnings 
growth. These strategic goals are the foundation of our growth strategy.  
 Optimize regulated utility returns: AEP’s financial objectives are to earn fair returns by 
prudently inve sting capital for our customers and maintaining our investment -grade credit 
ratings.  
 Grow our transmission business: AEP Transmission’s growth strategy is focused on building and 
maintaining a diversified portfolio of transmission projects. For the year en ding Dec. 31, 2014, 
AEP Transmission Holding Company projects it will contribute an estimated $0.29 per share to 
earnings. Our portfolio consists of:  
o AEP Transmission Company – A company for wholly owned transmission companies, or 
transcos, which have bee n approved by or have filed for approval from state 
commissions, or are operating where state approval was not necessary. The transcos 
develop, own and operate transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s 
existing system. They are regulated b y the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) and can raise capital and build new transmission without affecting the balance 
sheet or credit ratings of the operating companies.  
o Joint ventures – Joint ventures have been developed with other electric ut ility companies 
for the purpose of developing, building, owning and operating transmission assets.  
o Transource Energy – A competitive business started in 2012, Transource focuses on 
developing projects within and beyond the AEP service territory.  
 Transform  our generation business: External factors continue to call for significant changes in 
our generating fleet. We will do this by:  
o Diversifying our fuel mix.  
o Retiring approximately 6,600 megawatts (MW) of coal -fueled generation by the end of 
2016 and refuel ing or retrofitting with environmental controls more than 7,200 MW of 
regulated and competitive coal -fueled generation. This will affect our regulated and 
competitive generation businesses between now and 2020.  
o Improving the operational performance of our generation fleet.  
 Maximize our competitive business platform: AEP’s expanded Generation and Marketing 
business segment objectives are:  
o Integrating competitive generation with our retail and wholesale businesses.  
o Investing capital conservatively.  
o Mitigati ng risk and volatility through hedging activity.  
o Adjusting the cost profile to a competitive generation business model rather than a 
regulated utility model.  28 
  Improve the health of our organizational culture: Culture is a business imperative and the 
linchpi n of a successful strategy, yet it is abstract and subjective. It’s our job to reach out to our 
employees, communicate the strategy and vision, and focus on how each business unit can 
contribute to AEP’s overall strategy and vision so all employees know ex actly what their roles 
are. 
We delivered on all of these strategic objectives in 2013. Read more about our performance.   
Capital Investment Strategy  
Our ability to achieve sustainable earnings impro vement will be influenced significantly by our capital 
investment strategy. When we put capital to work, we are improving operational efficiencies, customer 
reliability and shareholder value.  
We are aligning our resources to support our primary pillars of  strategic focus: the development of our 
physical and technological infrastructure, improving the customer experience and improving the 
employee experience.  
Our sights are on the future. We know 
tomorrow’s utility must be adaptable, agile and 
ready to emb race new opportunities as they 
arise. That is why we are putting our capital 
where it will provide the maximum benefit to 
customers and shareholders. That means if one 
business unit needs capital to take advantage of 
a growth opportunity and another busine ss unit 
has uncommitted capital available, we transfer 
those funds where they can do the most good. In 
2013, we were able to redeploy about $150 
million, primarily from our generation business, 
to invest largely in transmission projects. Rather 
than lookin g at capital investments at each 
business unit independently, we examine our 
needs across the system as a whole and make 
adjustments as needed.  
We are a regulated electric utility, which means 
the investments we make on infrastructure are 
generally suppor ted by regulators and earn 
regulated returns. AEP’s infrastructure investments must balance the needs of our customers, the 
company and our shareholders. Our Investment Review Committee works with our operating companies 
to understand their capital needs a nd determine where resources should be deployed for optimum impact 
for customers and shareholders.  
29 
 Transmission Growth  
Our transmission business continues to be a major growth engine for AEP as changes in the electric 
industry present more opportunities f or AEP Transmission, inside and outside of our service territory. 
We have a proven track record of building, operating and maintaining transmission systems and are 
continuously seeking new ways to do it better. Our employees have developed innovative solut ions that 
reduce our physical and environmental impacts, are more cost effective, increase our operational 
efficiency and reliability, and support our efforts to make the grid more resilient. We are now building 
and expanding our transmission business in 1 3 states.  
In 2012 and 2013, our transmission business secured $3.3 billion of new investment opportunities 
through the three regional transmission organizations (RTOs) in which we operate. A large portion of 
these investments are tied to the retirement of  
coal-fueled generating units across our system 
that were announced within the PJM 
Interconnection  region, as well as the 
infrastructure to support the integration of large -
scale wind resources in  the Southwest Power 
Pool (SPP) and Electric Reliability Council of 
Texas  (ERCOT) regions. Many of our coal -
fueled plants play a critical role in maintaining 
regional transmission grid reliability, and 
without these resources, new transmission is 
needed to ensure continued reliability.  
AEP Transmission Holding Co.’s (AEPTHCo) contribution to company earnings in 2013 totaled $80 
million, exceeding a $66 million target. On an earnings -per-share basis, that equates to $0.16 per share 
vs. a target of $0.14 per share. AEPTHCo’s $890 million in capital spending and joint venture equity 
contributions in 2013 exceeded a target of $747 million.  
AEP Transmission’s growth strategy focuses on four types of projects built by its Transcos, joint 
ventures and operating companies:  
Regional projects : The retirement of an unprecedented number of coal -fueled power plants across the 
United States over the next few years will have a  significant impact on the performance of the 
transmission grid. As AEP prepares to retire approximately 6,600 MW of its own coal -fueled units, we 
will make significant investments to support the grid by reconfiguring and enhancing regional 
transmission as sets to ensure continued reliability. In addition, both SPP and ERCOT have launched 
major initiatives to enhance the capacity and capability of their transmission grids.  
Local reliability plans : Local transmission facilities that are 100 -kV and lower accou nt for the majority 
of AEP Transmission facilities. This infrastructure tends to be older and more susceptible to reliability 
threats. Local reliability projects are focused on reducing the frequency and duration of customer 
outages served by these facilit ies 
30 
 Aging infrastructure : Addressing aging infrastructure is another focus, as 65 percent of AEP’s 
transmission lines were built more than 40 years ago. This can result in significant operations and 
maintenance costs and reliability issues as these physica l assets reach the end of their useful life. AEP 
Transmission plans to evaluate and prioritize the targeted replacement of these assets, resulting in a 
potential $9 billion to $11 billion investment over time.  
Customer -driven projects : In addition to addr essing the aging infrastructure and improving reliability, 
AEP Transmission is responding to the accelerated demand for service from shale gas customers. Our 
transmission system is surrounded by major shale plays, such as the Marcellus and Utica shale 
form ations in the East and Eagle Ford in the West. Oil and gas processing facilities are rapidly being 
developed that require quick, reliable transmission service. AEP Transmission’s technology strategy has 
supported this growth by accelerating the execution o f infrastructure projects, enabling oil and gas 
customers to begin operations in as short a time as six weeks.  
Based on approved projects, the infrastructure improvements our transmission business will make 
between 2014 and 2018 will result in approximatel y 280 new or enhanced stations, more than 1,000 line 
miles of new transmission lines and 2,700 miles of rebuilt transmission lines.  
Joint Ventures  
We continue to support the joint ventures we formed with other utilities to build new transmission assets 
within and outside of our service territory. These partnerships allow us to leverage both expertise and 
financial assets. Many of them modernize the grid and improve reliability, alleviate congested power 
corridors and facilitate the development of renewabl e generation.  
Electric Transmission Texas (ETT)  
Electric Transmission Texas  (ETT), a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of AEP and 
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., completed the largest transmissio n construction project in AEP’s 
history in 2013. ETT operates in ERCOT and is 
an operating utility with a growing rate base. In 
2013, ETT finished seven new 345 -kilovolt 
(kV) transmission lines (approximately 460 
miles) and other infrastructures, marking t he 
conclusion of an approximately $1.5 billion 
investment to support the Texas Competitive 
Renewable Energy Zones (CREZ) program. 
CREZ reflects the state of Texas’ commitment 
to renewable energy.  
In December 2013, ETT energized the last of seven  
345-kV transmission line projects under the CREZ  
banner.  
31 
 In addition to CREZ, ETT is currently working on projects totaling more than 320 miles of transmission 
lines and upgrading nine company -owned substations with various in -service dates through 2023. The 
total of ETT investment is an estimated $1.5 billion.  
Electric Transmission America (ETA)  
Electric Transmission America  (ETA) is a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of AEP and 
MidAm erican Energy Holdings Co. ETA has a 50 percent ownership interest in Prairie Wind; Westar 
Energy holds the remaining 50 percent. The SPP approved the project in April 2010. The project 
consists of 345 -kV double -circuit transmission lines, running from an existing substation in Wichita, 
Kan., to a new substation northeast of Medicine Lodge, Kan., and then south to the Kansas/Oklahoma 
border. The approximately $170 million line is needed to enhance the delivery of electricity in Kansas 
and to support the sta te’s expansion of renewable energy. In June 2011, the Kansas Corporation 
Commission approved the route. Construction began in August 2012 and the project is scheduled to be 
in service by the end of 2014.  
Pioneer Transmission  
Pioneer Transmission  is a joint venture between AEP and Duke Energy to build and operate 
transmission lines and related facilities in Indiana. In December 2011, the approximately 70 -mile 
Reynolds -to-Greentown segment of the Pio neer project was approved by the Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator (MISO). Pioneer and Northern Indiana Public Service Company are jointly developing 
the approximately $330 million segment.  
Competitive Regulated Transmission  
In April 2012, AEP bec ame the first traditional regulated utility to form a competitive business for 
transmission with the launch of Transource Energy , a joint venture between AEP  and Great Plains 
Energy  (GPE). Expanding Transmission’s growth strategy portfolio, Transource is a subsidiary of AEP 
Transmission Holding Company, the holding company for the transcos  and joint venture projects. 
Transource proactively positions AEP to pursue projects that result from FERC Order 1000 within the 
PJM Interconnection, SPP and MISO, as well as 
additional projects.  
On Jan. 2, 2014, two projects in Missouri – representing 
an approximately $398 million investment – were 
transferred from Great Plains Energy to Transource. 
The projects were approved by the Missouri Public 
Service Commission and the SPP. FERC also approved 
the establishment of a base rate formula and incentives 
for the projects. The larger of the two projects is a $333 million 175 -mile line with an expected in -
service date in 2017. The other is a $65 million project that is expected to be in service in 2015.  
32 
 The main driver behind AEP’s competitive transmission bu siness is FERC Order 1000, which was 
issued in 2011. It fundamentally changed how transmission facilities will be developed, owned and 
operated as well as how costs will be supported. We are encouraged by and supportive of FERC’s 
decision to consider publi c policy in the transmission planning process, including economic and 
reliability considerations, the facilitation of the integration of renewable energy into the grid, and 
environmental regulations. The order mandates that the regional and inter -regional cost allocation 
methodologies follow a set of principles and requires RTOs and transmission providers to offer evidence 
in their compliance filings. The key principles require cost allocation methodologies to be closely tied to 
the benefits that are calcul ated as part of the transmission planning process.  
Working with Stakeholders  
As the demand for energy grows, so do the expectations of our stakeholders. We try to be as transparent 
and inclusive as possible when projects are in process. In mid -2013, AEP Transmission developed an 
outreach program to proactively 
communicate and engage with customers and 
communities about proposed transmission 
projects. With a focus on face -to-face 
engagement, we have the opportunity to 
meet with landowners and concerned cit izens 
to discuss details of the projects and gather 
feedback and concerns. This effort included 
launching a new transmission website – 
www.aeptransmission.com  – to give 
stakeholders easier access a nd more timely 
information on current projects. The site provides information such as the purpose, location and benefits 
of the project; the physical structures that will be used, and project timelines.  
Economic and Business Development  
 
Developing and investing in the local communities where we operate and provide s ervice has become 
increasingly important to us and our communities. Our Economic and Business Development  (E&BD) 
team works with local communities and state officials to attract and retain businesses and jo bs.  
 
33 
 In 2013, the E&BD team helped to bring nearly 25,000 jobs and more than $3.5 billion of investment to 
our communities, including announcements from such companies as BAE Systems, Inc. in Fort Wayne, 
Ind., Toyota in Buffalo, W.Va., Verizon and Macy’s  in Tulsa, Okla., and Tenaris in Bay City, Texas. In 
2013, AEP was named one of the top 10 utilities in economic development by Site Selection  magazine 
for the second year in a row.  
Site Selection  focuses on corporate real estate 
strategy and economic dev elopment. The 
recipients were chosen based on an analysis of 
corporate end -user activity in 2012 in the 
company's territory. This includes website tools 
and data; input from site location decision -
makers; innovative programs and incentives for 
business, in cluding energy efficiency and 
renewable energy programs; and the utility's 
own job -creation infrastructure and facility 
investment trends.  
Data Center Qualification Program  
The E&BD team  provides comprehensive assistance such as property searches and screening; custom 
research on demographics, work force, incentives and geographic information system (GIS) mapping; 
electric service plan and rate design; site visits; design, build and maintenan ce services for electrical 
facilities; local economic development training; 
and introductions to state, regional and local 
government officials and business leaders.  
AEP provides economic development training 
and assistance to the communities we serve to 
collaboratively improve our success rate at 
recruiting and retaining business and industry. 
In 2013, AEP hosted 10 educational forums across our service territory attended by more than 400 
community partners, including local, regional and state economic de velopers and elected officials.  
AEP continues to focus on building a portfolio of job - and development -ready sites in our service 
territory to meet the needs of expanding companies. This gives us an edge when we are marketing to 
prospective customers. One  industry we focus on for site development is the data center industry 
because of its strong potential for growth. Globally, according to research by Gartner, big data demand 
and data storage will exceed availability by 2015. AEP’s 11 -state territory inclu des locations that have in 
place those factors that are critical to data center operations, such as access to strong fiber networks and 
reduced risk of natural disasters and other hazards.  
To capitalize on this market opportunity, AEP commissioned Biggins  Lacy Shapiro & Co. (BLS), a 
location economics and site selection firm, to qualify nine locations in seven states as ready for data 
center development. The qualification process includes an assessment of market conditions, selection of 
34 
 potential sites, an d a detailed analysis at the site level of factors that are most critical to the operation of 
data centers. The central Ohio region, in particular, has seen several recent data center investments, 
including project announcements from Compass Datacenters, D iscover Financial Services, TJX 
Corporation and IBM.  
Energy Policy  
Many factors can affect the price and reliability of energy throughout the country. AEP has long 
advocated the need for a national energy policy to serve as a road map for how our country  will generate 
and deliver electricity in a reliable, cost -effective manner over the long term.  
We believe a national energy policy must 
recognize regional differences and needs. The 
best approach would be a national framework 
that gives each region the flexibility to make 
choices and investments based on what makes 
the most sense for that state or region. For 
example, wind power in some western states, 
such as Oklahoma, is cost competitive with 
traditional fuel sources because these regions 
have excellen t wind resources. In other states 
with a greater proximity to coal and a lack of 
wind resources, a different mix of energy 
investments may be more appropriate. Regional transmission organizations and state utility commissions 
are already approaching the is sue this way, and we support this approach. However, absent a cohesive 
national energy policy to stitch the pieces together, companies have little incentive to make strategic 
long-term investment decisions, such as building new generation capacity.  
There are some important aspects of an energy strategy that also need to be addressed:  
 Preventing overdependence on one fuel source and maintaining fuel diversity:  
Maintaining reliable service requires a diverse fuel portfolio. We need every resource at our 
disposal – coal, natural gas, renewables, nuclear, hydro, energy efficiency and demand response.  
 Infrastructure investment and transmission development:   
In addition to environmental compliance costs, the electric utility industry will need to invest as 
much as $2 trillion over the next two decades to refurbish and replace existing infrastructure and 
to build new facilities to meet the nation’s future energy needs. With investments this large, it is 
easy to see why we need a national energy policy to allow our  industry to plan with more 
certainty over the long term.  
 Establishing the right pricing models:  
Developing pricing models that recognize the total value of energy services, including use of the 
grid by distributed generation resources and the value of en ergy efficiency services.  
 Rational energy and environmental regulations:   
Because Congress has not been able to enact legislation based on a rational environmental and 
35 
 energy policy, the U.S. Environmental Pro tection Agency  (EPA) is using its authority under 
existing environmental laws to adopt new rules that will impact this industry over the near and 
long term. Our industry will make a huge investment through the end of this decade to comply 
with new EPA reg ulations affecting power plants. Our comments on EPA’s initiatives often 
include information essential to full consideration of the collateral impacts of new regulatory 
programs and revised environmental standards. We are also working with our state regula tors to 
assure that they have adequate information to seize any new opportunities for flexibility in their 
implementation plans for the new regulations. Although we have already made significant 
investments to reduce emissions at our coal -fueled plants, mo re investment is needed. For AEP 
alone, to comply with existing EPA regulations, we will need to invest approximately $3 billion 
to $3.5 billion between now and 2020 in our remaining coal units.  
Gas/Electric Market Harmonization  
Energy has been the backbon e of this nation’s economic growth and prosperity for decades. It is 
common for the natural gas and electric utility industries to work together, as they have done for years. 
Today, the electric utility industry consumes more than 30 percent of the natural  gas consumed in the 
United States to generate electricity. Coal unit retirements and the development of abundant shale gas 
reserves, are pushing the electricity sector to rely even more heavily on natural gas.  
This growing interdependency presents challe nges as well as opportunities. From an environmental 
perspective, natural gas is a more favorable fuel. But the misalignment of the gas day and the power day 
for purchasing and scheduling supplies to ensure reliability is the largest challenge for AEP as w e 
increasingly rely on gas for power generation. Under the current market design, AEP has to commit the 
availability of its natural gas generating units to the regional transmission operator before we even know 
whether gas supplies or transportation capaci ty are available on the interstate pipelines. The alternative 
is for AEP to purchase and schedule the gas before we know whether the generating unit will be selected 
by the regional transmission operator to generate. Neither option is optimal for reliabili ty. This issue has 
lingered for two decades but has only recently come to the forefront of energy policy discussions.  
At one time, fuel oil was often used as a back -up for gas plants in the event natural gas supplies were not 
available. But a combination o f cost and environmental regulations has limited the use of that option. As 
we depend more on gas to generate electricity in the wake of impending coal unit retirements, it is more 
urgent to better align the gas and power industries in terms of supply logi stics.  
Today, to expand the pipeline capacity to deliver gas supplies for power generation when needed, the 
gas industry typically requires a firm financial commitment to reserve the capacity for the required 
volume on a 24 hour/7 days a week basis, each day of the year and over an extended contract term. This 
would require us to reserve and pay for firm transportation costs to serve our plants, whether we need it 
or not, on a regular basis. Electric generating units do not operate on that schedule, especi ally gas 
peaking units that may operate only a few hours of the day or a few days of the year when electricity 
demand is high. This is particularly problematic for merchant generators who do not have a mechanism 
to recover firm transportation costs when th e plant is not operating.  36 
 In an effort to better understand the interdependency of the electric and natural gas industries, the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) asked both industries to provide information, 
particularly regarding the role the agency should play in coordinating the two markets. AEP has been 
actively engaged in the FERC initiative that began in 2012. In March 2014, FERC issued a notice of 
proposed rulemaking to better align the nat ural gas operating day and scheduling practices by interstate 
pipelines with the electric industry. The commission is seeking to address the incongruities between the 
gas and electric industries.  
An example of potential reliability issues during peak deman d periods occurred in January 2014. PJM 
Interconnection reported that at one point during a period of extreme cold that month, more than 9,000 
MW of gas -fueled generation was off line due to an inability to deliver gas to the facilities. This extreme 
cold significantly boosted demand for natural gas for both electricity generation and heating purposes. In 
this case, power generators are not considered priority customers in terms of human needs; local gas 
distribution companies that have long -term contracts to meet their winter peak demands for heating are 
given priority status on the pipelines. With demand so high and supply constrained, one of AEP’s gas 
plants was limited in its availability when it was needed most.  
Fueling the Future  
 
While our use of coal to produce electricity is declining, coal remains vital for a reliable and secure 
energy future. That said, we must have a diverse fuel mix to reduce the potential exposure of our 
company and customers to fluctuations in market prices, costs, regulations and electric demand. Too 
great a reliance on any one energy s ource – particularly those with a history of price volatility – creates 
significant risk exposure to rising prices and supply disruptions.  
AEP has added approximately 5,000 MW of natural gas -fueled generation to our resource portfolio 
since 2004, enabling  us to switch between fuel sources based on price changes over time. An attractive 
characteristic of natural gas is that it produces 
significantly lower CO 2 and other emissions 
when burned than does coal.  
We project AEP’s generating capacity to shift 
from approximately 61 percent coal and 23 
percent natural gas in 2014 to approximately 49 
percent coal and 28 percent natural gas in 2026. 
The remainder of our resource needs will be 
supplied by renewable energy, nuclear, 
hydroelectric and pumped storage, energ y 
efficiency and demand response programs. Transmission expansion and smart grid technology 
deployments are other tools that can help us address the changes in generating capacity.  
37 
 In 2013, AEP consumed over 158 billion cubic feet (bcf) of natural gas to generate electricity. This was 
28 percent less than in 2012 and reverses an upward trend that began in 2010. The decrease was driven 
primarily by higher natural gas prices. In some regions of the country, the pipeline infrastructure also 
constrains capabil ity to expand the use of natural gas.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coal Unit Retirements  
Transformation of AEP’s generating fleet through unit retirements, environmental retrofits and refueling 
of units with different fuel sources is being d riven by changing environmental regulations, changing fuel 
supply opportunities and changing customer demand. The age of our plants is also a factor in unit 
retirements, as they near the end of their useful life. As the operating environment has changed, s o too 
has our generation planning.  
39 
 By continuing to explore more cost -effective alternatives for compliance with current, pending and 
proposed regulations, we reduced our original compliance estimate. More than $7 billion was spent on 
compliance from 1990 through 2011 to reduce emissions from coal -fueled plants. We estimate that the 
cost of complying with new regulations will be an additional $3 billion to $3.5 billion between 2013 and 
2020. Our plan is designed to meet the needs of our customers, maintain grid reliability, further diversify 
our fuel sources and comply with new regulations. And by reducing our estimated capital investment for 
environmental compliance, we are able to redeploy resources to growth areas of the company, such as 
our transmission business.  
We plan to retire 4,063 megawatts of regulated power generation in 2015 and 2016 and retrofit or refuel 
another 6,100 MW. Additionally, 2,523 MW of competitive generation is scheduled to be retired in 
2015 and 1,155 MW is earmarked for retrofitti ng with environmental controls.  
The changes to our fleet will naturally result in CO 2 reductions as natural gas and renewables account 
for a larger portion of our fuel mix. We also are continually seeking opportunities to improve the overall 
efficiency of our generating units, which will improve the CO 2 emission rate of these units.  
 
Reliability Concerns  
Risks related to the plan t retirements include service reliability and the loss of those units during periods 
of extreme demand. We are concerned about what will take the place of those units during extreme 
events once they are retired next year. We saw how critical those units ar e to the system during severe 
cold events in January 2014, when prolonged periods of sub -zero temperatures led to a sharp ramp -up of 
coal-fueled generation in the PJM Interconnection’s 13 -state mid -Atlantic and Midwestern territory.  40 
 During that time, most  of AEP’s coal units slated for retirement operated, keeping people warm and safe 
during dangerous weather events. By mid -2015, those units will no longer be available to fill that 
demand and once they are retired, they are gone forever. Unfortunately, reg ulations have not given 
proper consideration to the resilience and reliability that are required of the electric system during 
extreme times.  
We have always been concerned about this prospect, and the winter of 2014 was an early warning sign 
of serious is sues ahead with electricity supply and reliability if we don’t take action now. We must 
ensure there are adequate power plant capacity, fuel diversity and grid investments after the retirement 
of significant amounts of coal -fueled generation in mid -2015.  
Plant Decommissioning  
As coal units are taken off line, a new chapter in plant decommissioning begins. A plant 
decommissioning team within our Generation business unit will manage the process of retiring coal 
units and will assure that they are done safel y and in a manner that complies with environmental 
requirements. In addition to the environmental monitoring that will be required at the plant sites well 
into the future, and the demolition of buildings and equipment, there will be social and community 
impacts.  
Hundreds of AEP employees will be affected by the unit retirements. Some will retire while others will 
move to new jobs within AEP. But a significant number of employees will be displaced. We’re working 
to help these employees find jobs at other AEP  plants or elsewhere in the company. It is unlikely all 
displaced employees will secure positions, and we are providing resources to help them prepare for that 
transition. Despite the impending job losses, we are proud of the unwavering commitment by those  
working at affected plants to operating them safely and efficiently, every day.  
Our plants also make up a large part of the tax base in the communities where they’re located, and the 
loss of tax revenue will be felt in those communities. Learn more about how our Economic & Business 
Development team is working and investing in communities to promote economic growth.  
There also are financial ramifications for AEP resulting from coal unit retirements. We expect to recover 
the remaining book value of our retir ed regulated generating assets through the normal regulatory 
process. However, we will not be able to recover the full cost of the retiring units in our competitive 
generation business and took pretax impairment charges totaling $441 million for 2012 and 2 013.  
Shale Gas  
Shale gas development provides another opportunity for economic growth and a secure energy future. 
Several major shale gas formations are located, in part, across eight of 11 states in AEP’s service 
territory, including two of the fastest g rowing: the Utica in Ohio and West Virginia and the Eagle Ford 
in Texas. Extraction of gas from shale formations is changing the fuel mix across the industry by making 
gas more competitively priced with other fuel sources. Shale gas is abundant in much of our footprint, 
and extraction with more efficient technologies, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing (also 41 
 called fracking), is boosting local economies and creating growth opportunities for many of our 
customers and communities.  
Energy co mpanies operating in Ohio extracted 
10 times as much from horizontal drilling in the 
Utica shale formation in the third quarter of 
2013 as they did in all of 2012, according to 
figures released by the state. The Utica shale 
lies in and near parts of our se rvice territory.  
Drilling on the Eagle Ford shale formation in Texas has created higher demand for and the need for 
quick access to, electricity. Our Economic & Business Development  teams across areas with active shale 
plays provide expertise and tools for oil and gas companies and suppliers to explore opportunities for 
relocation and help identify the most cost -effective locations. Resources include a one -stop location 
online to get the services they need. AEP Texas  and AEP Ohio  also have online resources dedicated to 
the development needs of the oil and gas industries in those states. This collaboration creates mutual 
benefits, including job creation and an accessible and efficient supply chain, as well as electricity 
demand growth.  
Our Economic & Business Developm ent teams 
across areas with active shale plays provide 
expertise and tools for oil and gas companies and 
suppliers to explore opportunities for relocation and 
help identify the most cost -effective locations.  
 
 
 
Being innovative and delivering good customer  service positions AEP to take advantage of emerging 
business opportunities across our service territory.  
AEP Transmission installed its first “station in a box” in Catarina, Texas, in 2012, a unique pre -
packaged substation design that can be built in abou t half the typical construction time frame of a 
traditionally built permanent station. The shale gas development in Oklahoma, West Virginia, Texas and 
Ohio has companies racing to extract the fuel deep beneath the earth’s surface, sometimes in very 
remote locations. Natural gas companies cannot wait the typical 12 to 18 months for the completion of a 
traditional substation. To serve these customers’ needs quickly, AEP Transmission developed a “skid 
station” – a portable station on a skid that can be install ed in a matter of weeks before the station in a 
box can be built for permanent service. By creating a basic yet high -tech skid -mounted substation, we 
can deliver power in just four to eight weeks.  
42 
 It is clear that shale gas is changing our industry and con tributing to overall lower and more stable 
natural gas prices. AEP supports development of shale gas resources provided it is done in an 
environmentally responsible manner.  
The Future of Coal  
Our decision to build the 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plan t, in southwestern Arkansas, is a 
testament to our continued commitment to the responsible use of coal. The plant, which began 
commercial operation in late 2012, is the first coal -fueled plant AEP has built and operated in more than 
two decades. It represe nts the future of coal -based technology that we continue to advance.  
The Turk Plant is the only operating power 
plant to use ultra -supercritical technology in the 
United States and is one of the nation’s cleanest, 
most efficient pulverized coal plants. As a 
significant addition to the generating fleet along 
with new natural gas units, this plant allows 
Southwestern Electric Power Company  
(SWEPCo) to continue its strategy of fuel 
diversity that has benefite d its customers for 
decades.  
The 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant in  
southwestern Arkansas exemplifies our commitment  
to the responsible use of coal as a fuel source.  
The Turk Plant faced a variety of regulatory and legal challenges as well as an a nti-coal grassroots 
campaign before finally being able to start operation. The plant created 109 new, permanent jobs with an 
estimated annual payroll of $9 million. SWEPCo owns 73 percent of the plant’s capacity and operates 
the facility; co -owners are Ark ansas Electric Cooperative Corp., East Texas Electric Cooperative and 
Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority.  
The importance of the Turk Plant to the nation’s fleet of coal -fueled power plants was recognized in 
2013 with the Edison Electric Institute's 
(EEI) 2013 Edison Award . It is the electric 
power industry's most prestigious honor. 
The award recognizes AEP for its 
distinguished leadership and for 
engineering and operating an  extremely 
efficient power plant that utilizes the most 
innovative technologies to meet 21st -
century electricity needs.  
 
43 
 Renewable Energy  
We expect renewable energy to become an increasingly larger piece of our energy portfolio. Eight states 
where we opera te have laws or regulatory orders that set forth requirements or goals for renewable and 
alternative energy sources. These are Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia 
and West Virginia. The requirements in Indiana, Oklahoma and Virgin ia are voluntary whereas the 
others are mandatory.  
As a result, AEP has been steadily increasing 
its renewable energy portfolio during the last 
several years through renewable energy power 
purchase agreements (REPAs). AEP’s 
operating companies currently h ave nearly 
2,000 MW of REPAs delivering renewable 
energy to the operating companies. In addition 
to these in -service resources, other resources 
under development or whose contract is set to 
expire in the near term include the following:  
 One wind REPA (200  MW) for Indiana 
Michigan Power Company  is 
scheduled to begin deliveries in late 
2014. This REPA was the result of a 
modification of the New Source 
Review Consent Decree . 
 One wind REPA (151 MW) for Public 
Service Company of Oklahoma  (PSO) 
is scheduled to expire at the end of 
2015.  
 PSO will begin to receive  deliveries in 
early 2016 from three wind projects 
(599 MW) currently under 
development in Oklahoma. The 
addition of these purchases will increase PSO’s total wind under contract to 1,137 MW.  
 One biomass REPA (58.5 MW) for Kentucky Power Company  is scheduled to begin deliveries 
in 2018. This biomass REPA was approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission in 2013 
but is currently on appeal before the Franklin County Circuit Court.  
44 
 
 
 
Nuclear, Hydro & Other Resources  
Nuclear power and hydroelectric power remain important resources in our energy portfolio. AEP’s 
2,191 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman, Mich., provides low -cost, emissions -free 
electricity to I&M customers. Cook’s two units produce enough energy to power approximately 1.5 
million homes and represent 40 percent of I&M’s power generation portfolio.  In 2005, the plant 
received license extensions from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission permitting the units to run an 
additional 20 years beyond the duration of their original operating licenses – until 2034 and 2037, 
respectively.  45 
 AEP operates 17 hydroel ectric and pumped storage 
projects in five states.  
 
 
 
 
 
In 2013, utility commissions in Michigan and Indiana granted I&M approval of its Life Cycle 
Management Project, enabling the plant to make necessary investments to continue operating effectively 
during the plant’s license extensions.  
Hydroelectric power is another source of cost -effective energy. AEP operates 17 hydroelectric and 
pumped storage projects in five states. These projects produce approximately 800 MW of generation 
without directly produci ng CO 2 emissions.  
Although energy efficiency  and demand response are not physical assets, we incorporate them in our 
integrated resource planning because they serve as important resou rces in meeting our system’s energy 
and capacity needs. These programs have received regulatory support for cost recovery in most of the 
states we serve, and this is necessary to enable sustainable demand response and energy efficiency 
programs going forwa rd. For AEP, appropriate cost recovery includes reimbursement of program costs, 
consideration of net lost revenues and an opportunity to earn a reasonable return. This regulatory 
treatment ensures that these programs are appropriately considered along with  supply -side investments, 
such as power plants.  
New Diving Technology  
The need for underwater inspections of our hydroelectric facilities led us to technology that is out of this 
world – literally. Cutting -edge, space -age technology was recently tested at  AEP’s Smith Mountain Dam 
in Roanoke, Va., while a yearly inspection of the facility was conducted. Underwater inspections are 
usually done by traditional divers. This state -
of-the-art hard suit advances the safety of 
underwater diving equipment by providi ng 48 
hours of on -board life support equipment and 
eliminating the need for decompression when 
divers resurface.  
 
46 
 Managing Risk  
We are faced with an array of risks, some well understood and controlled and others emerging and not 
as well defined. Our effe ctiveness at managing risk helps us to identify and prepare for new 
opportunities that may benefit our customers, improve the work environment for our employees and 
deliver value to our shareholders.  
Our enterprise risk management process continuously eva luates our levels of acceptable risk based on 
internal targets and guidelines and external operating conditions. As part of our enterprise risk 
management and strategic planning processes, we have developed utility industry scenarios that present 
potential  business trends and issues based on the key drivers in AEP’s business.  
The goal is not to predict the future of the electric utility industry but to help us identify the range of 
possibilities that could exist in the future and to examine the impacts of scenarios on our business, our 
current strategies’ chance for success in those scenarios, and other potential strategic options.  
The scenario development process enables us to find potential weaknesses in AEP’s strategic plan and 
develop more robust plans  for the future. It also allows us to identify emerging risks or issues that could 
become material risks or new business opportunities. One example that is being monitored and 
evaluated is distributed generation technologies and how they interact with the grid as these technologies 
become more widely deployed.  
These activities link risk management and strategic planning more closely and give management and the 
Board of Directors more information to understand, evaluate and respond to all of the risks and s trategic 
opportunities facing the company now and to anticipate what could affect the company in the future. It 
enables us to be more proactive in our decision -making and risk reduction activities.  
Our Enterprise Risk Oversight group, led by our chief risk  officer, is responsible for developing the 
collective risk assessment of the company. This group gathers and analyzes information from functional 
business units at all levels of the company and reports to the Risk Executive Committee, which consists 
of me mbers of the executive management team and functional unit representatives. The Risk Executive 
Committee makes recommendations to business unit leaders for risk mitigation, where appropriate, and 
identifies the major risks and material issues on an enterpr ise-wide basis that align with the company’s 
strategies, which are monitored, reported and discussed on a regular basis with the Audit Committee of 
the AEP Board of Directors.  
Volatile Capacity Markets  
A significant risk facing AEP’s competitive generatio n business is the outcome of annual Reliability 
Pricing Model (RPM) capacity auctions. This auction runs every May and sets the capacity price for a 
one-year period, three years in advance. The auction is conducted by the PJM Interconnection , the 
regional transmission organization (RTO) that coordinates the movement of wholesale electricity in all 
or parts of 13 states and the District of Columbia. The auction matches anticipated capacity needs with 47 
 what is bei ng offered by power generators, demand response (DR) and energy efficiency resources. 
Capacity payments represent an important portion of a plant’s income. AEP Generation Resources is 
particularly vulnerable because the revenues and earnings potential of i ts fleet of newly competitive 
plants are tied to fuel and power prices, including PJM’s capacity auction.  
The May 2013 auction covered the delivery period June 2016 through May 2017. During the 2013 
auction, the capacity price cleared at $59.37 per megawa tt-day, down from $136/MW -day the prior year 
– a 56 percent drop in price. This sent 
shockwaves through the investment community 
and created a great deal of uncertainty in the 
market. Without sufficient capacity pricing to 
pay for the plants to operate, co mpanies such as 
AEP are faced with financial loss or premature 
unit retirements. We have deep concerns about 
the viability of this process and the resulting 
negative reliability impacts it will have over the 
long term.  
AEP's Conesville Plant in Ohio is aff ected by the  
capacity auctions as it is now part of AEP’s  
competitive generation business.  
The auction should create long -term price signals for all resources and compensate generators for 
investing in generation capacity. We believe the PJM auction pro cess for capacity resources has not 
worked properly and must be reformed. The current rules actually encourage volatility and speculation. 
This volatility, combined with continued price suppression, does not provide the revenue needed to 
support the cost t o operate existing power generation or encourage the construction of new plants. It was 
among the reasons AEP chose to retire its Muskingum River Unit 5 instead of converting it to natural 
gas. This decision resulted in a $154 million asset impairment char ge in 2013. We were not being 
adequately compensated by the market to proceed with the capital investment needed to convert the unit 
to gas.  
The capacity price for all demand response 
resources in the 2016 -2017 auction was the 
same as the price paid for g eneration despite 
lower performance requirements and lower 
penalty provisions for demand response than 
for generators. PJM has taken some steps to try 
to improve this disparity. More work will be 
done in 2014 in the PJM stakeholder process. 
The existing en ergy and capacity markets have 
created a situation whereby nearly all new 
capacity is in the form of demand response, 
imports, energy efficiency, wind and gas 
48 
 resources. In the case of demand response, most of these resources receive the same capacity clea ring 
price as physical generating resources, even though the vast majority of demand response is available 
during the summer only.  
AEP has formed a coalition to resolve some of these flaws by the next auction in May 2014. Coalition 
members include Duke En ergy, Dayton Power & Light and FirstEnergy. These companies agree with 
AEP that non -competitive practices resulting from market design flaws foster volatile auction results 
that push prices to be artificially low. To address these matters, the coalition ma de two regulatory filings 
in December 2013 and two more in the first quarter of 2014. The coalition made these filings in 
response to PJM’s filings with the FERC as PJM attempts to close some of the loopholes before the next 
auction.  
Market reforms that mu st occur include limiting the amount of capacity from outside PJM’s territory 
that can be bid in to the auction; placing reasonable caps on the amount of demand response that can be 
bid in to the auction; preventing speculative bidding that keeps prices ar tificially low; and requiring 
demand response resources to be subject to the same financial repercussions that generators face if they 
fail to meet the market requirements.  
Climate Change  
 
AEP faces many risks to its long -term sustainability as a company committed to providing safe, reliable 
and affordable electricit y to its customers. We recognize the risk and likelihood that we will face climate 
regulations as well as potential climate legislation or other greenhouse gas (GHG) requirements. As a 
result, we continue taking actions to reduce our carbon footprint while  increasing our fuel diversity over 
time. We also continue to be engaged with many organizations and stakeholders on this issue.  
Our Position  
Our climate change position is unchanged: there is enough scientific evidence and sufficient public 
policy discuss ion to warrant consideration of the potential impacts in our long -range planning processes. 
Consequently, we have taken measurable, voluntary actions to reduce or offset carbon emissions from 
our operations since the early 1990s. We voluntarily reduced or offset carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions 
through the Chicago Climate Exchange between 2003 and 2010 and set a new 2020 goal for emission 
reductions of an additional 10 percent below 2010 levels. We are proud of the progress we’ve made to 
reduce our CO 2 emissi ons during the last decade, and the transformation of our generation business will 
further reduce emissions in the future. In 2013, AEP’s CO 2 emissions were approximately 115 million 
metric tons* compared with 122 million metric tons* in 2012. This represe nts a 21 percent reduction 
compared with our 2005 CO 2 emissions of approximately 145 million metric tons. We are a much less 
carbon -intensive company than a decade ago and that trend will continue.  49 
 We also believe climate change is a global issue. We belie ve that moving too quickly with climate 
change initiatives could impair already struggling world economies even further. Any plan to reduce 
CO 2 emissions must be rational in terms of timing, scope and reduction targets to accommodate 
continued growth of wo rld economies, allow sufficient time to develop the necessary technologies, 
mitigate costs to customers and achieve the environmental benefits desired.  
*AEP owned generation excluding Clifty Creek and Kyger Creek.  
Greenhouse Gas Regulations  
President Obama  announced a Climate Action Plan in May 2013 that included a schedule for the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA) to develop CO 2 emissions standards under the Clean Air Act. 
In December 2010, the EPA h ad previously announced its intention to establish emission standards for 
new and existing power plants, and had already issued a proposal for new sources.  
In January 2014, the EPA re -proposed New Source Performance Standards  (NSPS) for GHG emissions 
from new electric generating units under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act. These include separate 
performance standards for new fossil -fueled steam generating units and new combustion turbines. The 
standard for coal -fueled steam generating units is based on the use of partial carbon capture and storage 
systems. The EPA based its standard on demonstration projects and plants currently under construction 
that intend to supply CO 2 to enhanced oil recovery operations. Each of the plants under construction has 
received substantial government assistance, and project costs have escalated dramatically. New efficient 
natural gas combined cycle units can meet the proposed standa rd without any additional carbon controls.  
We believe AEP’s John W. Turk Jr., Plant, one of the most efficient coal plants in the nation and the 
only ultra -supercritical coal plant, should be considered in the EPA’s rule -making process. The Turk 
Plant rep resents a technology that has been “adequately demonstrated” through its use at a number of 
commercial -scale electric generating units 
throughout the world. Instead, in the re -
proposed rule, the EPA relies upon academic 
studies and demonstration projects ( none of 
which is in operation) in its defense that carbon 
capture and storage  (CCS) technology is the 
technology of choice. We believe our own 
experience with CCS suggests there is  much to 
be learned before the technology can be 
commercially or economically viable.  
AEP’s John W. Turk Jr., Plant is one of the most  
efficient coal plants and the only ultra -supercritical  
coal plant in the nation.  
 
50 
 AEP is not currently planning to bui ld new coal -fueled capacity, but economics, the need to maintain 
fuel diversity, and other factors could lead us down this path in the future. We strongly believe that the 
EPA should not dictate energy policy, and that over -dependence on a single fuel with  a history of price 
volatility has inherent risks. Moreover, without greater harmonization of the natural gas and electricity 
markets and significant investments in pipelines and infrastructure, gas dependency exposes the 
electricity grid to new reliabilit y risks.  
The President has directed the EPA to issue guidelines for CO 2 emissions from existing electric 
generating facilities by June 1, 2014. Such guidelines are intended to establish procedures so that states 
can develop and implement the standards thro ugh their state implementation plans.  
We continue to work with the federal government as it develops these rules for existing fossil -fuel-based 
power plants. As the regulatory process moves forward, we will continue to seek to achieve the right 
balance be tween environmental protection, impact on company operations and the cost to our customers. 
We recognize the actions and positions we take are not always well -received by some stakeholders, but 
we remain committed to having open dialogue.  
Carbon Capture an d Storage  
AEP was a first mover on validating carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology at our Mountaineer 
Plant in West Virginia. Although the validation -scale project was successful technologically, our 
investment was significant and our state regulato rs would not allow us to recover the investment 
associated with that project. Without cost recovery, AEP was left without a viable path to demonstrate 
the technology at a commercial scale.  
The decision to not move forward with a commercial -scale project a lso derailed efforts to begin to 
address many of the more challenging issues associated with developing this technology, including 
significant technical, financial, legal and practical challenges. AEP continues to be a strong advocate for 
developing and ad vancing CCS technologies, and we believe that technological solutions are critical to 
reducing emissions from, and improving the performance and reliability of, electric generation 
processes. To date, CCS has yet to be adequately demonstrated at a commerci al scale on any coal -based 
generating unit, although there are CCS projects under active development in the United States.  
We need to be smart about our investments to develop these new technologies. To maximize the limited 
resources to develop carbon red uction technologies, we believe the industry should focus on those with 
the greatest promise, so that available dollars can fund significant advances in fewer technologies, rather 
than small advances in a large number of technologies. We see a brighter fut ure for CO 2 capture 
breakthrough processes that may redefine how the industry produces electricity with coal.  
AEP is actively involved with the Coal Utilization Research Council  (CURC), based in Washington,  
D.C. CURC’s mission is to advocate for technology development that furthers the advancement and use 
of coal, one of our most valuable domestic resources and a key component of a balanced energy 
portfolio.  51 
 Despite the lack of commercial CCS technology, AEP ’s carbon emissions will be significantly reduced 
as we retire a generation of older coal -fueled power plants in the coming years.  
Resource Planning and Carbon  
Our stakeholders often ask us if we factor the cost of carbon into our resource planning. The a nswer is 
yes – we have been doing this for years.  
The potential for carbon regulation has been part of our 
integrated resource planning process for many years and 
will evolve as more definitive requirements emerge from 
the regulatory processes currently u nder consideration. 
AEP’s planning process considers all available resource 
and market options to achieve the least -cost plan. This 
includes future legislative or regulatory carbon actions.  
We continue to be actively engaged in many different public policy  discussions at the state, federal and 
international levels to support new proposed requirements that are feasible and economical and don’t put 
our customers or the economy at a competitive disadvantage.  
Internationally, we are engaged in two organization s focusing on climate and energy sustainability 
issues. The first is the International Emissions Trading Association  (IETA). The organization, whose 
members include more than 140 international companies, ser ves as a leading business advocate for a 
cost-effective and workable framework for greenhouse gas emission reductions using emissions trading, 
offsets and other market mechanisms. In 2014, AEP serves as the chair of IETA.  
AEP is a member of the Global Sustainable 
Electricity Partnership , a CEO -led group of 14 of 
the world’s largest electricity companies in 12 
countries. The partnership develops joint energy and 
environmental policy frameworks  in domestic and 
international markets and demonstrates how they 
enable electricity to be generated and delivered 
through the development of small generating 
projects and technology, policy and financing 
seminars with local stakeholders. AEP benefits from 
exchanging experiences among the companies on 
issues such as technology innovation, grid reliability, electricity markets and project financing, as well 
as environmental and clean energy development policy for application in the United States.  
 
52 
 Assigning V alue to Carbon  
 
There is a growing debate about the social cos ts and benefits of carbon and its role within the electric 
sector. The generation and use of electricity creates enormous social benefits and has been a key 
instrument in powering economic growth and enhancing the quality of life for millions of Americans.   
Domestic, abundant resources such as natural gas and coal have been the dominant primary energy 
sources that add value to our society through their conversion to electricity. AEP and others have made 
great strides over the past 100 -plus years to convert  these finite resources more efficiently, to the benefit 
of our customers and society. However, the 
simple fact remains that the cornerstone of this 
process is converting hydrocarbons into simpler 
molecules of water and carbon dioxide (CO 2), 
thereby releas ing energy. Thus, CO 2 is not an 
unintended consequence of the conversion 
process, such as sulfur dioxide or nitrogen 
oxide, but rather a fundamental outcome.  
 
The generation and use of electricity creates enormous  
social benefits and has been a key instr ument in  
powering economic growth and enhancing the quality  
of life for millions of Americans.  
Several years ago, the federal government developed a methodology that essentially assigns a monetary 
value to carbon dioxide emissions based on the potential  effects of climate change. The value is referred 
to as the Social Cost of Carbon (SCC). Values for the SCC were updated in 2013 without any 
opportunity for public participation and were much higher than original estimates.  
The government uses the SCC in its analysis of programs and activities to ensure that the effects of 
changes in GHG emissions as a result of regulatory programs are appropriately taken into account in the 
cost-benefit analysis. However, the government does not use the social benefit of carbon in its 
calculations. We believe that the best way to get a balanced assessment of the true value of carbon is to 
consider the cost and social benefits. Social benefits of fossil -based energy directly affect quality of life, 
from clean drinking water  to heating and cooling. Energy has powered three industrial revolutions, 
including today’s technology revolution. Those are positive benefits of carbon that are often overlooked. 
We are concerned that the use of these values could help substantiate regula tions beyond what might 
otherwise be economically prudent.  
53 
 The challenge is that current regulatory cost -benefit methodologies are already deficient in capturing all 
macroeconomic impacts to consumers. In particular, they do not adequately consider the soc ietal 
benefits of affordable, reliable energy.  
Climate change is a very complex scientific field, and projecting future economic impacts of 
atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations requires extensive analysis well beyond what current 
observations and mea surements would suggest.  
We would encourage the U.S. Government’s Interagency Working Group to explore alternative systems 
to more accurately monetize carbon benefits and/or costs and to be more transparent about their process. 
Until that time, we believe  the SCC should not be used within the regulatory process.  
Cyber Security  
 
Cybersecurity poses a growing risk to electric utility systems. Like many other forms of infrastructure, 
the physical assets that generate and deliver energy to our homes and businesses depend increasingly on 
the integrity and security of th e information technology and the data that support them. Any disruption 
to that information or technology poses a significant threat to national security, the environment, the 
economy and our social well -being.  
Breaches to the security of the grid could 
disrupt the flow of commerce, damage real and 
personal property, compromise personal 
information, cause blackouts, and create chaos 
for society, our industry, our company, our 
communities and our customers. Therefore, we 
work diligently to protect the secur ity of our 
physical assets and information.  
We do this in three ways: we work with others to coordinate our efforts, we share information and best 
practices, and we stay current with emerging threats and risks. Further, we take actions to protect AEP’s 
information systems, technology and data that support our power plants, transmission operations centers, 
data centers and business networks.  
Regulatory Framework  
Given the increasing indications that energy systems in the United States may be vulnerable to malicious 
and disruptive cyber -attacks, cybersecurity is a national security priority. President Obama signed an 
Executive Order, “ Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity ,” in February 2013 to require federal 
54 
 agencies to coordinate and assist the owners and operators of critical infrastructure to better protect 
themselves from cyber -attacks. The order iden tifies the energy sector and the electric industry as critical 
infrastructure. The cybersecurity framework that is being developed through this presidential order is 
being reviewed by the Department of Energy. We are participating in the process through ou r industry 
trade group, the Edison Electric Institute  (EEI), and we are sharing best practices.  
The electric industry is one of the few critical infrastructure functions with mandatory cybe rsecurity 
requirements under the authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC). The Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 gave FERC the authority to oversee the reliability of the bulk power system, 
inclu ding the authority to approve mandatory cybersecurity reliability standards. The North American 
Electric Reliability Corporation  (NERC), which FERC has certified as the nation’s Electric Re liability 
Organization, developed Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) cybersecurity reliability standards. In 
January 2008, the commission issued Order No. 706, the final rule approving the CIP reliability 
standards, while concurrently directing NERC to develop modifications to address specific concerns.  
In 2013, FERC adopted enhanced CIP standards to expand protection against attacks on the power grid. 
These revised CIP standards cover the security of electronic perimeters and the protection of critic al 
cyber assets, as well as personnel and training, security management and recovery plans.  
In addition to CIP, AEP supports and complies with cybersecurity standards for the Donald C. Cook 
Nuclear Plant through the Nuclear Regulatory Commission  (NRC), which is authorized by FERC as the 
cybersecurity regulator of nuclear power plants. AEP, in conjunction with other nuclear power 
operators, coordinates through the Nuclear Energy Institute for effective cybersec urity practices to 
address the NRC cyber security regulations.  
We participate willingly with NERC and the NRC on cybersecurity, but we are concerned that the 
ongoing cybersecurity initiatives of other agencies will duplicate efforts already in place within  the 
federal government.  
Sharing Information and Working with Others  
AEP partners with a number of other utilities and EEI to keep legislators and regulators informed about 
the advanced cybersecurity functions. We regularly share our knowledge and experti se with others at the 
federal and state levels. Although there are no NERC CIP -type cybersecurity requirements at the state 
level, we are working with our state regulators to help them better understand these risks and how we 
manage them.  
We recently took steps to enhance our threat detection capabilities and to share what we learn with our 
industry, our peer companies and relevant federal agencies. Our efforts go beyond compliance and we 
have been an industry leader in promoting private sector cooperation with our Cyber Security 
Operations Center (CSOC). This was initially designed as a pilot cyber threat and information -sharing 
center specifically for the electric sector and today is in full operation. CSOC works with a leading 
defense contractor to levera ge their experience and capabilities.  55 
 We also work with a consortium of utilities across the country and the Electric Sector Information 
Sharing and Analysis Center to learn how best to share information and collaborate about potential 
threats. Many of ou r initiatives include greater threat -sharing information between the government and 
the private sector, and we work to increase private sector access to government -classified threat 
intelligence data.  
In late 2013, as part of our industry’s continuing prog ram to advance threat sharing and coordination, 
AEP participated in NERC’s GridEx II exercise. This effort focused on improving the coordination and 
interaction between utilities and government agencies relative to potential cyber and physical threats 
against the nation’s electrical grid. We used this exercise to further advance our own internal response 
and coordination processes and communications.  
Taking Action within AEP  
For more than a decade, AEP has worked to strengthen its cybersecurity programs an d to ensure that 
those programs evolve to meet new risks. We constantly scan the system for risks or threats and 
continuously assess our own capacity, including cybersecurity knowledge, staffing, capabilities and the 
need for future investment.  
Cyber hacke rs have been able to breach a number of others’ very secure facilities, from federal agencies, 
banks and retailers to social media sites. As these events become known, we continually assess our own 
cybersecurity tools and processes to determine where we mi ght need to strengthen our defenses.  
We use multiple layers of cybersecurity and authentication to protect our data, information technology 
and supporting systems on a daily basis. We evaluate all known emerging threats and vulnerabilities and 
continuousl y improve our detection and defense processes and tools. We also have continuous 
awareness programs to help our employees recognize phishing, or other potential forms of cyber -attack.  
All AEP employees must complete Security Awareness Training annually, c overing physical and 
cybersecurity. The training gives employees information and tools to shield our data from threats as it 
travels across the AEP network. It also places a shared responsibility for security with employees and 
the company.  
Customer Priva cy 
Like all utilities, AEP collects and maintains data in order to provide service to customers. We have 
worked for many years to protect the confidentiality of customer information and to prevent 
unauthorized use. We meet or exceed all legislative and reg ulatory requirements regarding the integrity 
and privacy of such information, and we operate with a strong sense of responsibility to protect personal 
data from unauthorized disclosure.  
The identification and safekeeping of personally identifiable informat ion (PII) is important to AEP 
employees, contractors, customers and vendors. AEP collects, uses and retains PII only for legitimate 
business requirements, and we have internal controls to help prevent or mitigate any unauthorized 
disclosure of PII.  56 
 Physica l Security  
AEP operates more transmission equipment than any other utility in the nation. We take the security of 
this infrastructure very seriously and immediately take action if the integrity of the grid is threatened in 
any way.  
The industry and AEP lo ng ago identified substations that provide critical support for the transmission 
system, and we proactively work to ensure these critical assets are secure and protected. We do not 
disclose those critical assets, nor our specific security measures. What we  can say is that we have taken 
proactive steps to evaluate our systems, reduce the impact of threats and improve our response if an 
attack were to occur.  
We use a variety of security technologies to 
safeguard our critical assets and are prepared to 
respond  to emergencies at those locations with 
internal resources and public safety personnel. 
We also maintain backup equipment, including 
spare transformers, and can redirect power flows 
remotely to address actual or perceived threats to 
the system. We work wit h industry working 
groups that are developing strategies to improve 
crisis response across the nation.  
The industry and AEP long ago identified substations  
that provide critical support for the transmission  
system, and we proactively work to ensure thes e  
critical assets are secure and protected.  
In 2014, FERC directed NERC to develop mandatory reliability standards to protect the electric grid 
from physical risks. This directive followed well -publicized news reports about the physical security of 
the gr id. The standards are expected to be drafted and implemented this year.  
We support physical security standards for transmission equipment, and it is important that FERC has 
recognized that a one -size-fits-all approach to security will not be the most effe ctive. Security plans need 
to be customized for the unique characteristics and location of each facility. New standards are 
important to protect critical infrastructure from physical threats but will increase the cost of compliance 
as additional investment s would be required.  
AEP will continue to work with experts within and outside of our industry to develop effective security 
plans for critical equipment and improve awareness and response to potential cyber and physical threats 
to the system.  
 
57 
 Inland Wate rways  
One public policy matter that creates business risk and is not as visible to the public as other issues is the 
deteriorating condition of our inland waterways infrastructure, which is maintained by the U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers  (the Corps). In their prime, our nation’s ports and inland waterways system were the 
envy of the world. But not enough has been done to maintain and update that infrastructure as it has 
aged.  
The Corps estimates that 47  percent of all main or auxiliary locks on the Ohio River will be in poor or 
failing condition by 2016. Data indicate that this risk will rapidly worsen, especially in light of budget 
pressures on the Corps’ navigation projects.  
Why does this matter so m uch to AEP? 
Through our River Operations business unit , we 
transported 66 million tons of cargo over these 
waterways in 2013 – and 43 million tons of that 
cargo touched the Ohio River Basin. Many of 
our power plants rely on barge transportation 
for fuel and other consumables and to transport 
equipment. Over the last eight years, we have 
experienced several lock failures on the Ohio 
River that have cost our barge business more 
than $11 million.  
Through our River Operations business unit, we  
transported 66 million tons of cargo over inland  
waterways in 2013  
The nation’s inland waterways are of strategic economic and military importance because the 
commercially navigable waterways connect 41 states, prov iding the capability to move large amounts of 
freight cargo. These waterways carry agricultural commodities, chemicals, coal and petroleum products 
to ports across the United States. It is the most cost -effective delivery system we have for transporting 
raw materials that enables the United States to compete in a global marketplace. But the infrastructure 
supporting this commerce is past its 50 -year lifespan, according to the Institute for Waterways, a unit of 
the Corps. And according to the Congressional R esearch Service, only one lock along the Ohio River 
has received funding to be replaced through the 2016 fiscal year.  
Nine major locks were scheduled for significant closures in 2013 to repair or replace deteriorating 
equipment. These closures represent 4 39 days, contributing to significant delays in delivering 
commodities and creating financial risk. We take actions wherever possible to mitigate these risks. For 
example, if we know a lock is due for a scheduled outage, we can deliver coal to a power plant  in 
advance of the lock closure.  
58 
 Funding to fix the problems is inadequate. The Corps has prioritized numerous issues that must be 
addressed but doesn’t have the funding to fix them. For example, the Olmsted Lock on the Ohio River is 
a critical project th at is devouring virtually all of the congressional and trust fund dollars available for 
locks and dams today, and it will continue to do so at least through the end of the decade.  
The Olmsted project was authorized in 1988 with a projected cost of $775 mil lion and a completion date 
of 2000. Today, the project is little more than half -way completed with a projected in -service date of 
2020 and a completion date of 2024 at an estimated cost of $3.1 billion.  
AEP continues to support a 20 -year capital developmen t plan proposed by the Inland Waterways Users 
Board and various trade associations. In addition to process reforms, this plan would increase the fuel 
charge that commercial users of waterways (regulated and unregulated) would pay to help fund 
infrastructur e improvements. Legislation that includes parts of the capital development plan and 
important process reforms passed both the U.S. House and the Senate with veto -proof majorities in 2013 
and is expected to become law in 2014. Although introduced in Congres s in 2013, legislation to increase 
the fuel charge was not passed by either the House or the Senate. We are working to help ensure that the 
fee increase will be enacted into legislation in 2014.  
Congress’ failure to adequately fund waterways infrastructur e would undercut the low -cost 
transportation required for American businesses to remain competitive in international markets and raise 
the cost of doing business and living in America.  
Utility of the Future  
The electric utility industry is undergoing a ra pid and significant transformation, and the only thing that 
seems certain is change. We cannot see into the future, but we must be prepared for it. At AEP, being 
prepared means thinking about the future of our industry and how electric companies of tomorro w will 
differ from those of today.  
We can make three reasonable predictions about the future: 1) the pace of change will accelerate; 2) it 
will require vision, planning and adaptability to succeed; and 3) successful electric companies will 
embrace and lea d change.  
At AEP, we believe it makes business sense to 
seriously consider the electric utility company 
of the future. What will it look like? How will it 
operate? What challenges and opportunities will 
it face?  
We know the process of changing our business  
is a journey with no end — much like our quest 
to be a sustainable company. We are grounded 
in our conviction that we must balance the needs of customers and investors, and that our employees 
hold the keys to our success.  
59 
 Although we cannot see with certa inty what is to come, we believe the utility of the future will need to:  
1. Develop a diverse and well -balanced fuel resource portfolio that is more secure, reliable and less 
carbon intensive than it is today.  
2. Modernize the grid to enable the management of ph ysical assets with information technology 
and data to optimize efficiency and value, while providing a pathway for renewable energy and 
other sources to reach the market.  
3. Focus on customers by delivering superior customer service and bringing investments c loser in 
line with what customers need and want.  
4. Work constructively to influence public policies and regulations that move away from incentives 
and subsidies and toward value creation and fairness — especially for low - and fixed -income 
consumers.  
5. Develop a work force that is entrepreneurial, engaged, collaborative, adaptable and flexible, 
along with a culture that supports those qualities.  
6. Deliver strong, reliable financial performance that meets or exceeds investor expectations.  
7. Be a good corporate citize n of our communities by supporting volunteerism, philanthropy, 
economic development and environmental stewardship and building strong, trusting relationships 
with stakeholders.  
Opportunities & Challenges  
Our vision for the future is clear and the path forw ard is paved with opportunities and challenges. Here 
is a summary of what is before us at this point in our journey:  
Business Opportunities for Success:  
Opportunities and Challenges  
1. Infrastructure & Regulated Investments  — As our financial commitment to generation related 
investments begins to wind down, our capital investment strategy will shift to infrastructure 
investments such as transmission and distribution that improve the  reliability of service to our 
customers.  
2. Focus on Customer Experience & Improved Quality of Service  — We seek to meet or 
exceed customer expectations as we provide reliable, quality , affordable service. The 
investments we make in grid reliability, technology and efficiency support brand loyalty and a 
high degree of customer satisfaction.  
3. An Engaged & Entrepreneurial Work Force  — A culture that fosters employee engagement 
is better able to adapt to a changing business environment. Employee -led continuous 
improvement efforts are the key to AEP’s competitiveness and success.  
4. Operational Excellence & Environmental Leadership  — We are committed to operational 
excellence that fosters ingenuity and innovation to enhance the quality of life for our customers, 
reduce our environmental impacts and develop a highly -skilled w ork force. We will be a good 
corporate citizen and help to boost the economic vitality of the communities we serve.  60 
 Challenges to Achieving Business Objectives:  
1. Unregulated Market Vola tility  — When capacity auctions do not create long -term price signals 
for all resources and compensate generators for investing in generation capacity, reliability of the 
system and the financial health of our company are at risk. We are working with our peers and 
the PJM Interconnection to address some the flaws in this system.  
2. Aging Infrastructure  — Whether it is power plants, transmission or distribution lines or t he 
locks and dams on the nation’s inland waterways, aging infrastructure threatens the reliability of 
service that we provide to our customers. Aging infrastructure is also a business opportunity as 
we invest in new facilities. Given the extent and magnitu de of the aging infrastructure, 
addressing this issue in a timely and effective manner presents a challenge.  
3. Impact of New Environmental Regulations  — The increasing scope and stringency of new 
and existing environmental regulations pose technical and financial challenges for our industry. 
We are especially concerned with the proposed New Source Performance Standards to regulate 
greenhouse gas emissions from new electric gen eration units and the intent for new rules 
covering existing plants. We believe there should be an appropriate balance between 
environmental protection, impact on company operations and the economy and cost to our 
customers.  
4. Lack of a National Energy Framework  — Without a cohesive, national energy policy or 
framework that recognizes regional flexibility, there is little incentive to make strategic long -
term investment decisions, such  as building new generation capacity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 61 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 
  63 
  
Financial 
64 
 Performance  
 
One sign of a great company is its ability to manage through short -term volatile conditions to achieve 
long-term sustained value. At AEP, we are a stronger and more resilient company because we are 
investing in and c arefully managing our human, financial and environmental capital. By incorporating 
sustainability throughout our business, we can achieve the level of operational and financial 
performance that enhances the customer experience, delivers fair returns to our  shareholders, meets our 
obligations to our lenders, engages employees, and allows us to fulfill our environmental and social 
commitments. In 2013, AEP exceeded its financial and operational targets, maintained a strong balance 
sheet, achieved our best env ironmental performance ever, and had no employee fatalities for the second 
year in a row. AEP has turned an important corner on its path to becoming the utility of the future . 
Our emphasis on ex ecuting our strategy, engaging employees in continuous improvement, and 
exercising fiscal and strategic discipline was rewarded in the marketplace in 2013. AEP shareholders 
received a 14.2 percent total return, including dividends, compared with the 7.8 pe rcent total shareholder 
return of our peers in the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. Our annual dividend increased 6.4 percent 
and we continue to target a 60 percent to 70 percent dividend payout ratio.  
 
 65 
 2013 Performance  
Contributing to AEP’s financial success in 2013 were a number of factors: approvals for and completion 
of $647 million in securitizations in West Vi rginia and Ohio; inclusion, starting in February 2013, of the 
John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant and other assets in rates in Texas; regulatory support in Michigan and 
Indiana for the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Power Plant’s life cycle management plan; and sustain able 
savings and enhanced revenue sources identified through employee -led continuous improvement efforts .  
AEP’s earnings for 2013, based on Generally 
Accepted Accounting Princi ples (GAAP), totaled 
$1.48 billion or $3.04 per share, compared with $1.3 
billion or $2.60 per share for 2012. AEP’s operating 
earnings in 2013, or GAAP earnings excluding 
special items, totaled $1.57 billion or $3.23 per 
share, compared with $1.49 billion  or $3.09 per 
share in 2012. AEP Transmission Holding 
Company (AEPTHCo) contributed $0.16 per share 
in 2013 – $0.02 higher than originally forecasted – 
reflecting its accelerated growth. We expect 
AEPTHCo to contribute $0.29 per share to 
operating earnings  in 2014. Overall, AEP delivered 
operating earnings per share at the high end of our 
earnings guidance. We reaffirmed our earnings 
growth range between 4 percent and 6 percent.  
2013 operating earnings were higher than GAAP 
earnings due to the exclusion of charges related to plant impairments and regulatory disallowances, 
reversal of deferred storm costs, and a charge related to our cost restructuring efforts, somewhat offset 
by a favorable court decision associated with U.K. windfall taxes.  
Weather -adjuste d sales of electricity fell 1.6 percent in 2013 compared with 0.7 percent in 2012. The 
closure of Ormet Corp., an aluminum smelter in Ohio and AEP’s largest customer, was a significant 
factor in this decline. Excluding Ormet, weather -normalized sales were down 0.6 percent in 2013 and 
are expected to grow by 1.2 percent in 2014. We expect an additional 270 megawatts of new industrial 
load to come on line in 2014. Residential and commercial sales were flat in 2013 and are projected to 
remain that way in 2014.  Among residential customers, the use of home -energy efficiency programs is 
reducing the average usage per customer. In total, we anticipate total normalized gigawatt -hour sales to 
be down 1.1 percent over 2013 levels but essentially flat, excluding Ormet.  
A somewhat sluggish economy, along with our customers becoming increasingly efficient users of 
electricity, is limiting load growth below historical rates of 1 percent to 2 percent per year.  
66 
 Fiscal discipline is central to our business 
strategy, and we work hard to be efficient and 
thoughtful about how we spend our resources. 
We strive to manage those resources in ways that 
consider the customer impact in essentially every 
decision we make and with every dollar we 
spend. On a total system basis, excludin g items 
with earnings offsets and River Operations , 
operations and maintenance (O&M) spending for 
2013 was $2.8 billion, which was flat with 2012.  
At AEP, we are working to align our investments 
with what our customers value and in ways that 
reward our shareholders. That’s the philosophy 
driving our capital investment strategy. Customers want safe, reliable and affordable electricity. They 
also want efficient, effective communication with us. About 9 5 percent of our capital funds are 
forecasted to be invested in our regulated 
operations. In 2013, we invested $3.7 billion in 
our regulated businesses. In 2014, we expect to 
invest approximately $2.8 billion (excluding 
AFUDC debt and equity) in our transm ission and 
distribution units. We will invest approximately 
$875 million this year in our regulated generation 
business, mostly for environmental compliance 
and life cycle management at the Cook Nuclear 
station. As our environmental investments 
continue to  wind down, we are redeploying that 
capital to transmission and distribution.  
In 2013, we improved our total debt -to-
capitalization ratio, a common indicator of a 
company’s financial health, to 54.3 percent – the 
lowest percentage in more than a decade. Th is 
compares with a debt -to-capitalization ratio of 
55.2 percent at the end of 2012 and 57.2 percent 
in 2009. This is an important metric because it 
shows AEP’s leverage ratio in the market when it 
seeks capital for infrastructure development; the 
lower the  percentage, the more financial 
flexibility a company has. AEP’s ratio positions 
us well in the capital markets.  
In 2013, AEP maintained its liquidity position – 
the ability to gain access to cash when it’s needed. AEP’s liquidity position of approximately  $3.4 
67 
 billion primarily consists of our two revolving credit lines. Our debt -to-capitalization and liquidity ratios 
reflect a strong balance sheet, solid credit metrics and adequate liquidity to support our growth strategy.  
We maintain a qualified, defined  benefit pension plan that, at the end of 2013, was 99 percent funded. 
Our strategy has been to aggressively fund the plan to the benefit of our employees, retirees, customers 
and investors. We are working hard to match the duration of the plan’s assets to  its liabilities to reduce 
risk as the plan approaches full funding. In 2013, the qualified plan paid $324 million in benefits to plan 
participants.  
AEP’s other postemployment benefit plan is now more than fully funded at 117 percent. This is due, in 
part, to changes we made in 2012 to medical plans for future retirees. Starting in December 2012, we 
capped our contribution to retiree medical costs to reduce future exposure to medical cost inflation. 
Employees hired after December 2013 are not eligible for r etiree medical coverage.  
One of the most significant milestones in 2013 was the completion of corporate separation – separating 
our generating assets from transmission and 
distribution assets in Ohio. This division of 
assets supports the state’s competit ive 
electricity market. The process included 
transferring some assets to other AEP 
operating companies. We received approvals 
from the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, the Public Utilities Commission 
of Ohio, and utility commissions in Virginia, 
West Virginia and Kentucky, and worked with 
many other stakeholders to accomplish this 
effort. We created a competitive generation 
business for our Ohio assets, AEP Generation 
Resources.  
We are well positioned to hedge the generation from our competitive fleet through our retail provider, 
AEP Energy . Because the ability to maintain relatively low -cost, efficient and reliable operations is a 
significant factor in determining competitiveness, we continue to ca refully analyze the cost structure of 
that business. The challenges are compounded by a dysfunctional capacity auction process in PJM 
Interconnection that undervalues generation capacity. The value of these newly deregulated plants is at 
stake, and we are reforming the way we operate them to function as a competitive generation business.  
Executing Our Strategy  
AEP’s disciplined approach to allocating capital, controlling costs and successfully working through 
regulatory proceedings has made the company’s f inancial position stronger. Investors have a much 
68 
 clearer picture of AEP’s plan for the future and have expressed confidence in our strategy and ability to 
deliver, based on our current performance.  
As AEP’s future takes shape, the road ahead is 
not enti rely smooth. Chief among the headwinds 
we face is a significant revenue shortfall in 2016 
due to the drop in the level of capacity revenues 
from the PJM auction. It is a significant 
challenge, but our current forecasts show that we 
will be able to maintain  our growth rate beyond 
2016 as long as we stay the course. In 2013, 
through our repositioning effort and an employee -
led gain -sharing program that identified 
sustainable savings and enhanced revenue 
sources, we have already begun to fill the gap.  
Growth will be driven by our ability to invest 
capital in our regulated companies and earn a fair 
and timely return. The success of our competitive 
business will be driven by both the capacity and 
energy markets as well as our ability to react to 
those markets. W e are projecting our competitive 
operations to be a positive cash flow business that will be positioned to take advantage of recovering 
energy and capacity prices as they occur.  
AEP is at a pivotal moment in its 107 -year history. We have capital to invest,  and we are deploying it 
predominantly in our regulated business. Our projected 4 percent to 6 percent earnings growth rate is 
predicated on this strategy, as well as our commitment to continued focus on sustainable cost savings 
and expense discipline. We are giving our employees the tools and processes to advance continuous 
improvement, and our employees are showing us their ingenuity and know -how to get the job done. By 
fostering a culture of engagement, we are confident we will meet the challenges ahead of us.  
A Positive Outlook  
Our projected operating earnings range is $3.35 to $3.55 per share for 2014, $3.30 to $3.60 per share for 
2015 and $3.45 to $3.85 per share for 2016. We expect to achieve these results through a combination of 
robust capital inves tments with timely recovery in our regulated utilities, and continued cost control. We 
will continue to keep O&M spending – which is not immediately recovered through rates – in check.  
69 
 As we keep O&M spending under control, we 
expect to invest approxima tely between $3.8 billion 
and $4.1 billion per year in capital between 2014 
through 2016. If there is unallocated capital in 
generation and distribution, we plan to redeploy it 
to transmission, which has local reliability 
improvement projects as well as ne w construction 
projects ready to go as soon as resources become 
available. In 2013, we put this strategy to work and 
redirected approximately $150 million, primarily 
from our generation business, to invest largely in 
transmission projects. Today, we are bu ilding 
transmission facilities in 13 states, and we expect 
that number to grow. We will also invest in new 
technologies such as a mobile alert system to 
improve communications with our customers and 
make improvements to strengthen the grid’s 
resiliency and  reliability.  
During the next three years, AEP’s revenue and 
earnings are expected to grow in all of our 
regulated segments, with the most significant 
growth coming from AEP Transmission . During 
the same period, earnings from the competitive 
generation segment are expected to decline, driven 
by lower capacity revenues.  
We are optimistic about AEP’s future. Although 
the things that made AEP successful in the past 
will not necessarily lead to future  success, we 
have a plan. We’re investing in our infrastructure 
to better serve our customers, engaging our 
employees, and learning to adapt to transformative 
changes in our industry as we build the utility of 
the future. Our success will pay financial rew ards 
to our shareholders and reward AEP with 
improved customer satisfaction and an engaged 
work force. At AEP, we assume success and we 
manage, plan and act to realize it.  
 
 
 
70 
 Safety & Health Performance  
 
Whether at work or at home, safety and health don’t take a break. Our drive to achieve zero harm – no 
injuries, illne sses or fatalities resulting from our operations – is personal and our commitment is stronger 
than ever. We will not relent in our pursuit of zero harm because we know there will never be a finish 
line when it comes to safety and health. We cannot afford t o ever let down our guard. Our investments 
to protect our employees and contractors from harm are significant, a reflection of our commitment. Our 
progress is significant; AEP is in the top quartile among our peers and some parts of our business are in 
the top decile, which is what we are striving for systemwide. This effort has been the catalyst for a major 
culture shift in AEP that emphasizes zero harm as the goal every day.  
This commitment to safety and health is that much stronger because much of our w ork carries the risk of 
physical harm. That is why we are deeply grateful no employee lost his or her life while on the job in 
2013, the second consecutive year without a fatality. And there were fewer reportable safety events 
during 2013 than the prior ye ar, one of our best years yet. But that performance is tempered by the 
severity of these injuries, which was higher than the prior year, keeping employees off the job for longer 
periods of time. Vehicle accidents that we consider preventable also increased  by 53 percent in 2013 in 
the Utilities organization and 27 percent across all of AEP.  
In 2014, we are putting new efforts in place to help us tackle the uptick in injury severity and the 
increase in preventable vehicle accidents. We will be launching a ne w initiative called “See Something, 
Say Something, Do Something” to encourage employees to report potentially unsafe work practices 
without fear of retaliation and without regard for whether a more senior employee is involved. It is peer 
coaching with a sa fety focus.  
The manner in which management handles unintended events also figures strongly in the effectiveness 
of our safety and health efforts. “Just Culture,” a structured approach to how employees are treated when 
unintended events occur, is used to pi npoint where management systems failed. It helps leaders ensure 
fairness, consistency and shared accountability in analyzing events, with a focus on what happened and 
why, rather than on who is to blame. Fostering an environment that supports this approach  is part of our 
effort to create a more collaborative, supportive culture at AEP. Employee focus groups conducted in 
2013 and a culture survey completed in 2012 told us we have a lot more work to do before we achieve 
this type of culture.  
Both past perform ance and forward -looking actions are considered in measuring our safety and health 
performance. Our employee recordable incident rate (as defined by the Occupational Safety & Health 
Administration ) for 2013  was 0.83, which was better than our target of 0.94. This performance matched 
our 2012 mark and is the best in company history. Our employee severity rate – the severity of injuries 
that occur – in 2013 was 23.04 versus the target of 18.64 and our 2012 per formance of 19.24. That 
employees are incurring more serious injuries is not acceptable. Severity days (lost work days and 71 
 restricted activity days due to injury) rose from 3,495 in 2012 to 4,094 in 2013, a 17 percent increase. 
The year before, severity da ys had declined by the same percentage.  
Slips, trips and falls accounted for the most severity days in 2013 (49 percent of the total), followed by 
overexertion events (17 percent).  
 
Internal audits of our environmental, safety and health management system and compliance processes 
are a major part of our quest for zero harm. Safety 
and health programs were audited at 18  locations in 
2013. The top five areas where risks were identified 
in 2013 were in the hoisting/lifting, 
welding/cutting, confined space, walking and 
working surfaces and respiratory protection 
programs. All of the audit comments are shared 
with business u nit leaders and safety and health 
professionals so that they may leverage the lessons 
learned from the audit activities.  
Our Generation business unit uses the Managing Environment, Safety and Health (MESH) system to 
track performance and ensure compliance  with requirements. Many of our power plants have electronic 
MESH manuals that link to corporate resources while also addressing plant -specific processes.  
72 
 The Path Forward  
Our commitment to continuous safety and health improvement and to our goal of achiev ing top -decile 
performance among our peers by 2016 is evidenced by our current five -year Path to Excellence, 
established in 2011. We track our performance and that of peer utilities through the voluntary Edison 
Electric Institute Annual Safety and Health S urvey.  
Our first five -year Path to Excellence aimed for top -quartile 
performance, and we came very close to meeting that goal. 
Annual safety and health performance is a factor in employees’ 
incentive compensation, emphasizing its role in our values and 
culture and employees’ accountability for it.  
Our focus on zero harm means compliance with regulations is 
just a starting point. Various initiatives and procedures are designed to help us go beyond compliance, 
including Job Hazard Assessments, our Uniform Ev ent Analysis process and the Human Performance 
Improvement Initiative. Sharing details of injuries and ways employees have avoided or prevented harm 
has helped us work more safely.  
One step we took in 2013 to help combat our incident severity was the estab lishment of a Serious 
Injuries and Fatalities (SIF) rate. The SIF rate is an example of going beyond compliance to drive 
continuous improvement. The rate is calculated using the OSHA rate formula (the number of serious 
injuries and fatalities multiplied by  200,000 divided by total hours worked).  
Measuring these events will help us focus more directly on the kinds of incidents that can cause life -
altering injuries and fatalities and determine ways to prevent them in the future.  
Last year, employees and con tractors in Transmission and Distribution began using smart phones to 
record and disseminate safety - and health -related information from job site observations. This allows 
field employees to share information with other work groups more quickly and easily.  In Transmission, 
a total of 5,161 job site observations were performed in 2013 via smart phone devices.  
Also in our transmission business, a working group of employees from across AEP meets quarterly to 
identify and communicate lessons learned and best p ractices. This effort, called Grand Central Safety, 
encourages field employees to talk about their safety challenges and successes.  
The risk of injury is present all the time. In our River Operations business, our employees spend a lot of 
time on the water . To minimize the water hazard risks, we began placing small transmitters on employee 
life jackets. The Overboard Recovery Communications Apparatus system will help us quickly locate 
someone who has fallen overboard. Although our goal is to never have a pe rson overboard, this 
additional safety feature brings us to the highest standards of industry safety practices.  
We have evidence that zero harm, while challenging, is achievable. Many AEP locations across our 
business units attained it in 2013.  
73 
 Contractor  Safety  
We expect AEP contractors to share our value of zero harm when they are working for us. We challenge 
them to keep improving their performance, and we provide training and tools to help them. It is 
important to us because our contractors’ safety 
performance can affect AEP’s reputation and risk 
profile.  
We have set Occupational Safety & Health 
Administration (OSHA) recordable incident rate 
targets through 2016 for our major contractors in 
construction, maintenance and other physical 
work. Targets als o have been instituted for 
contractors serving individual business units.  
AEP’s major contractors outperformed the target 
recordable rate in 2013 by a considerable margin 
(1.39 actual performance versus 1.60 target). 
However, this performance was overshado wed by 
two contractor fatalities.  
AEP has been a key player in an industrywide 
effort to hold contractors accountable to the same 
safety performance standards as utilities. Many of 
our contractors voluntarily enter their safety 
statistics in a database ava ilable for utilities to view. In addition to giving contractors clear direction and 
expectations for safety performance in our industry, the database allows us to monitor their performance 
and to be proactive if we notice troubling events or trends.  
Chang ing Regulations  
OSHA  is reviewing and updating several 
regulations that will affect how we do our work at 
AEP. We are very committed to safety and health 
and provide our employees with tools, processes, 
procedures and other proactive measures to 
prevent harm. We have proactively engaged 
OSHA during this process. We have concerns 
about regulations changing without a guarantee of 
added protections for workers and have shared our 
concerns with OSHA. The new rul es are due out 
this year.  
74 
 Safety Recognition  
We believe it is important to recognize employees’ outstanding safety performance, on and off the job. 
The Chairman’s Life Saving Award, founded in 2004 to recognize employees for their selflessness in 
helping o thers, has been presented to 56 employees.  
The crew of the M/V Boonesboro received the 2013 Chairman’s Life Saving Award for helping to 
rescue five fishermen who had fallen out of their overloaded, swamped boat in the Ohio River as another 
tow was about to  run over it. These River Operations employees were recognized: Josh Darst, John 
Hoffman, Sidney Jones, Josh Kinder, Buck Knapp, Matt Montgomery, William O’Hara, Brandon 
Richards and B.J. Rose.  
The Bill Sigmon Safety Award in our Generation business unit was introduced in 2013, shortly after the 
senior vice president’s retirement. This award recognizes his deep commitment to safety throughout his 
career at AEP. The award acknowledges individual employees’ efforts to promote a strong safety 
culture. The fir st winners of the award are Mac Soules, a diesel mechanic at the Pirkey Plant in Texas, 
and Rob Osborne, a managing director in Generation Fleet 
Operations.  
The John P. DesBarres Safety &  
Health Excellence Award recognizes  
both recent and sustained safet y and  
health performance and takes into  
account innovative approaches that  
yield results. The 2013 DesBarres  
Award winner will be announced in  
July 2014.  
 
AEP Utilities, which comprises our operating companies, confers annual safety and operations awa rds. 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma received AEP Utilities’ Best Sustained Safety Performance 
Award for 2013. Indiana Michigan Power received AEP Utilities’ Zero Harm Award for 2013.  
Public Safety  
Protecting the public from unsafe contact with our elec trical equipment is a challenge and one that we 
work hard at every day. Educating the general public and contractors about safely working around 
power lines is an ongoing process, and we have targeted communications that we share with trade 
groups and othe rs. Another area of concern is the homeowner who climbs a ladder without realizing the 
proximity of an electric power line or digs a hole without knowing that there is an underground power 
line in that location. We use all communication channels available to provide safety information to the 
public. Unfortunately, sometimes it is unheeded.  
75 
 Copper Theft Steals Safety  
Fifteen public fatalities in 2013 were the result 
of vehicles crashing into utility poles, and three 
public fatalities and four additional ele ctrical 
contacts resulted from attempted copper theft. 
There also were seven other public fatalities.  
Attempted copper theft, which can cause 
customer outages in addition to grave physical harm or death, remains a problem in parts of our service 
territory.  
Our governmental affairs teams have been working with state legislatures across the AEP system to 
create or strengthen laws that could help stem incidents of copper theft. New legislation was introduced 
in certain states in 2013, with increased penalties for scrap dealers who buy stolen copper.  
We also seek to educate the public through community and media outreach. Our Southwestern Electric 
Power Company  utility hosted an informational workshop last spr ing in Texarkana, Ark., for police, 
legislators, scrap dealers and the news media to showcase the dangers of copper theft.  
We also enlist help from our customers. All customer bills feature an annual message about copper theft 
that includes a phone number for reporting incidents.  
 
Environmental Performance  
 
Although our  environmental efforts are built around compliance, we take additional measures and 
always strive for continuous improvement. In 2013, we achieved our best environmental performance in 
company history. AEP did not receive a single formal environmental enfo rcement action from any of the 
local, state or federal agencies that regulate our operations. This compares with two actions received in 
2012. When agencies raise issues with us, we work with them to address their questions and concerns to 
their satisfacti on. In addition, our Generation business unit completed the year with the best results on its 
Environmental Performance Index since the voluntary index was established in 2003, and AEP River 
Operations  operated during 2013 without a single spill into the river. These results are attributed to a 
number of factors, but central to this success is a commitment by our employees to a high standard of 
performance.  
 
76 
 Compliance Performance  
We are required to comply with hundreds of 
federal, state and local regulations at all of our 
operating locations. Environmental agency 
inspectors make scheduled and unannounced 
visits to our sites to monitor our compliance 
with regulatory requirements, permit limits and 
reporting and recordkeeping obligations. In 
2013, there were 188 inspections by regulatory 
agencies in which physical facilities, procedures 
and recordkeeping practices were examined.  
One of the voluntary actions we take to help 
drive performance improvement is the internal 
Environmental Performance Index for our 
generation business. We recorded three incidents 
in 2013, our best performance since we launched 
this index in 2003. The index monitors incidents 
for opacity, water quality permits and oil and 
chemica l spills at our power plants.  
Environmental Performance Index includes incidents  
for opacity, NPDES, and oil and chemical spills at our  
power plants.  
As our Transmission business continues to grow at a fast pace, there are increasing opportunities for 
AEP to impact the environment. We quickly realized that this required more focus on environmental 
compliance matters related to permitting and construction of new and renovated infrastructure. In 
response, in 2013 we created an environmental manager position  to better support Transmission’s 
compliance needs in the field.  
Emissions  
Our emissions continue to decline as our plan for retrofits and retirements of coal units unfolds. Since 
1990, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions each have been  reduced by more than 80 
percent, and mercury emissions have declined by nearly 60 percent since 2001. Factors leading to the 
decreased emissions include installation of controls such as scrubbers, changes in the type of coal 
burned, unit retirements, and reduced generation due to economic conditions.  
In 2013, carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions in the United States were up about 2 percent over 2012, 
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration , largely due to a slight increase in coal 
77 
 consumption for electricity. From 2012 to 2013, AEP’s CO 2 emissions declined from 122 million metric 
tons to approximately 115 million metric tons. This represents a 21 percent reduction compared with our 
2005 CO 2 emissions  of approximately 145 million metric tons. AEP’s generating fleet has exceeded 
President Obama’s 17 percent reduction goal for CO 2 emissions, due to a number of circumstances, 
including reduced demand, five years before the deadline and without additiona l regulation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 
 Checks and Balances  
Increasingly, we rely on our environmental, safety and health management system to help our 
environmental performance continually improve. Given the success of our fossil and hydro generating 
fleet and construc tion projects, we have expanded the use of this system to our mining operations, coal 
transfer facilities and river transportation operations.  
We conducted internal audits of our environmental management programs at 19 locations in 2013. The 
audits general ly confirmed that programs are in place and are achieving compliance objectives. Audits 
also are focusing more on specific risks and controls, assuring that procedures are being handled 
effectively.  
As AEP plants are retired, environmental requirements wil l continue to apply. Many existing 
environmental requirements, in particular with respect to the management of water and coal -combustion 
byproducts, will continue; however, additional requirements could potentially emerge. Compliance with 
environmental req uirements after these plants are decommissioned will be given the same level of 
emphasis as if the plants were still in operation. Regulatory commissions in states where plants will be 
retired are being informed of the work that will be required well into the future.  
Environmental Regulations  
The increasing scope and stringency of 
environmental regulations pose technical and 
financial challenges for our industry. These 
challenges are influencing decisions to upgrade or 
retire coal -fueled generating units a nd planning for 
new generation projects across our industry.  
Across our sector, the Edison Electric Institute 
reports that at least 68,500 MW – which represents 
about 20 percent of the total coal generating 
capacity in the United States in 2010 – will be 
retired by 2022. This excludes additional impacts 
from new GHG regulations that are under 
development. A report from the U.S. Department 
of Energy predicts the scope of the retirements will 
require significant investments in transmission to 
maintain grid r eliability. As a result, our 
investments will be substantial.  
AEP plans to retire 4,063 MW of regulated power generation in 2015 and 2016 and is retrofitting with 
environmental controls or refueling another 6,090 MW. On the competitive side of our business , 2,523 
79 
 MW of competitive generation is scheduled to be retired in 2015 and 1,155 MW is earmarked for 
environmental controls.  
AEP’s active participation in development of new regulations is intended to ensure that new 
requirements are achievable, based on sound science, balanced with other rulemakings and implemented 
in a rational time frame. We must be responsible to our shareholders who make the required capital 
investment and to our customers, who will ultimately pay for the implementation of compliance 
strategies. Some of our stakeholders disagree with our approach to public policy and regulatory 
advocacy. We are committed to staying engaged with them through the process, as that is the best 
opportunity for understanding and addressing each other’s conce rns. 
 
 
 80 
 Regulations Update  
Mercury & Air Toxics Standards  
The most stringent of the federal regulations, the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards  rule (MATS), was 
finalized in 2012. MATS establi shed unit -specific emission requirements for mercury, metals and acid 
gases. The MATS compliance deadline is April 16, 2015, but up to a one -year extension may be 
obtained from state permitting authorities if adequate justification is provided. AEP has rec eived several 
MATS deadline extensions, typically due to transmission reliability concerns, capacity obligations or a 
lengthy scheduled retrofit. Our compliance strategy calls for installation of emission control systems, 
unit retirements and conversion of  some coal units to natural gas. Implementation is under way with 
permitting and regulatory reviews, and engineering and design work.  
The timing of MATS and the number of compliance -driven unit retirements and retrofit projects for 
AEP and the industry are  causing grid reliability concerns. Reliability during peak demand periods is 
most at risk. During extreme cold weather in January 2014, on average, most of AEP’s coal units slated 
for retirement in mid -2015 ran to serve the high customer demand. At the sa me time, natural gas 
delivery to some of our gas -fueled plants was challenged, all of which required voltage and load 
reductions in the bulk power system. Although the system held together, there was a real threat of 
rolling blackouts and little room for e rror. It is a reminder that the electric system must be able to meet 
extreme requirements, such as we saw this winter, not just steady -state conditions.  
We continue to provide leadership in the ongoing dialogue to help ensure that MATS compliance 
strategie s balance the need to preserve grid reliability. We are closely coordinating these efforts with 
state commissions and environmental agencies, the EPA, regional transmission organizations, the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the North American Elec tric Reliability Corporation.  
Emission transport rules  
The EPA’s efforts to reduce interstate transport of SO 2 and NOx in the eastern half of the United States 
continue. In 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which was remanded by  the 
D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals but was allowed to stay in effect until an alternate rule was developed. 
The EPA then developed the Cross -State Air Pollution Rule  (CSAPR), but it also wa s remanded after a 
legal challenge. The EPA appealed that decision, and the case went before the U.S. Supreme Court in 
December 2013. A ruling is expected in mid -2014. Meanwhile, the CAIR requirements remain in place, 
pending additional court or agency act ion.  
Separate from CSAPR, the EPA has indicated that it is developing a new ozone transport rule that will 
be proposed during the summer of 2014 and will focus on NOx emissions. Also, on Dec. 9, 2013, eight 
states from the Northeast Ozone Transport Region  petitioned the EPA to add nine upwind states to the 
region, including states with AEP generating resources. The goal would be additional NOx and volatile 
organic compound (VOC) emission reductions from these states. The EPA has 18 months to respond to 
the petition.  81 
 NAAQS  
The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to review and, if needed, revise National Ambient Air Quality 
Standards  (NAAQS). Several NAAQS proposals have been revised or are under re view, possibly 
leading to additional emission reduction requirements. The EPA is expected to propose a revised ozone 
NAAQS in late 2014. NAAQS for SO 2 and NOx were revised in 2010 and NAAQS for fine particulate 
matter were revised in 2012.  
Due to the EPA’s  implementation schedule for the revised NOx, SO 2 and NAAQS – impacts, if any – 
from these revisions won’t be known until later this decade at the earliest. The expected time frame for 
finalization and implementation of a revised ozone NAAQS rule would als o likely result in any 
associated emission reductions being required late this decade at the earliest.  
Regional Haze  
The EPA’s regional haze regulation is designed to protect visibility in designated areas such as national 
parks. In February 2014, the EPA  approved Oklahoma’s compliance plan for Public Service Company 
of Oklahoma  (PSO) to meet requirements of the EPA’s regional haze rule. Under the plan, PSO will 
install emissions control equipment on some of its gas -fueled plants. PSO will also retire one of its coal -
fueled units at Northeastern Station in 2016 and will retrofit the other Northeastern Station unit with 
emission controls in 2015. The latter unit will be retired in 2026. The plan is also  expected to enable 
PSO’s coal facilities to meet the requirements of the EPA’s MATS rule. The state’s plan is a result of an 
April 2012 agreement with the EPA, the state of Oklahoma and PSO to reduce emissions and protect 
Oklahoma consumers and ratepayers .  
Greenhouse Gas (New Source Performance Standard - NSPS)  
AEP continues to engage the federal government as it develops regulations to reduce CO 2 emissions 
from new and existing fossil fuel -based power plants. As one of the nation’s largest consumers of c oal, 
we have particular interest in helping to shape these regulations. We seek an appropriate balance 
between environmental protection, impact on company operations and cost to our customers.  
We believe the EPA’s NSPS  guidelines for existing sources should take into account the following 
principles:  
 New rules should maintain the generating fleet that currently powers America. Rules should not 
strand  existing c apital investments in equipment or jeopardize reliability.  
 The rules should respect the rights of states to have ultimate authority and flexibility in enforcing 
the regulations.  
 EPA guidelines should be based on reductions that are achievable at the source . 
 Performance standards should be based upon adequately demonstrated systems that are fuel - and 
technology -specific.  
 Credit should be given for significant reductions already made or those that are being made.  82 
  Electricity consumers should be treated fairly  and equitably. Standards should reflect the electric 
sector’s proportional share of U.S. CO 2 emissions and not require additional reductions that 
adversely affect low - and middle -income consumers.  
Coal Combustion Residuals Rule  
How coal ash is handled ha s been the focus of the EPA for the past few years as it considers a couple of 
options for regulating coal combustion residuals . Public and regula tory attention heightened in early 
2014 following an incident involving a coal ash pond owned by another utility company. In light of the 
Dan River Plant incident in North Carolina, AEP has undertaken a review of its ash ponds for similar 
design arrangemen ts. If we find any issues or concerns, we will address them immediately and 
appropriately.  
In December 2013, our industry received 
clarity and direction on the EPA’s intent to 
finalize rules to regulate coal ash and other 
coal combustion residuals (CCRs).  The 
agency continues to weigh two options to 
regulate coal ash – as either special waste 
under the hazardous waste section of the 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or 
as a non -hazardous waste. A solid waste 
ruling will be important to the industry. The 
EPA has extended the deadline to finalize the 
rule to Dec. 19, 2014.  
CCRs have long been used in concrete, 
wallboard and a wide variety of construction 
materials. While this benefits other industries, 
it also provides a source of financial and 
environ mental benefits to AEP. By diverting 
the coal ash to beneficial reuses, we are minimizing our environmental impacts by reducing the need for 
waste disposal sites. In addition, the sale of CCRs provides an important source of revenue for AEP.  
In 2013, AEP generated 8,666,177 tons of CCRs and was able to beneficially reuse more than 3.1 
million tons, or 36 percent of the total. Beneficial reuse of CCRs avoided more than $20 million in 
disposal costs in 2013 and generated more than $8 million in revenues.  
316 (b) Standards  
New rules governing cooling water intake systems, known as 316(b) standards , are to be finalized in 
April 2014 with a phased -in compliance timeline.  
Under the C lean Water Act, the 316(b) standards aim to protect fish and other aquatic organisms that 
have contact with water intakes or, more specifically, the screens that protect cooling water systems 
83 
 from debris. Impingement occurs when water currents draw aquatic  organisms against an intake screen. 
Entrainment occurs when small fish, eggs or larvae are drawn into the cooling water system through the 
screen openings and are affected by heat, physical stress or compounds used to prevent build -up of algae 
and slime t hat can affect the efficiency of the system.  
Our power plants will be affected by the new 316(b) rule. Several of these plants will be retiring, and we 
are working with our permitting agencies to be able to refrain from making any unneeded modifications 
in the interim. For the remaining plants, we may need to retrofit modified intake screen systems to 
reduce impingement. Changes to address entrainment are more difficult to gauge, since that decision 
will be determined by a series of site -specific studies th at the EPA is expected to require. The EPA 
recognizes that its most costly solution, cooling towers, may not be appropriate in all locations and has 
proposed that it would consider alternatives on a site -by-site basis. We favor this approach.  
Cooling tower s reduce plant efficiency and increase water consumption. Adding cooling towers would 
be problematic at some of our western coal plants, which operate in areas prone to long droughts. Many 
of these plants already use a closed -loop cooling system in which r eservoirs were built specifically to 
hold and recirculate the water used for cooling.  
Steam Electric Effluent Limitation Guidelines  
The Clean Water Act directs the EPA to set, periodically review and update effluent limitation 
guidelines  that regulate wastewater discharge from steam electric generating facilities (e.g., coal, 
combined -cycle natural gas and nuclear units). On April 19, 2013, the EPA propose d more stringent 
guidelines that could require upgrades to, and installations of, new wastewater treatment systems at a 
potentially significant expense. A final rule was expected this year but the EPA has delayed the release 
of the standards to Sept. 30, 2 015. We’ve been studying the possible impact if we move from wet to dry 
handling of coal ash. To comply with existing treatment standards, many of our coal ash ponds provide 
treatment of the ash wastewater from the plants in addition to many additional was te streams. If the ash 
ponds are eliminated, those remaining waste streams would still need to be treated – and the necessary 
technologies for that would have to be selected, engineered and installed.  
We’re expanding our use of a computer model to help us assess what will happen to various pollutants 
as they move through different wastewater processes at a power plant. The model considers the type of 
coal burned, water chemistry, size and flow of the treatment ponds, chemical reactions, weather 
conditions a nd other factors. This helps us to predict how changes to the plant will affect the waste 
streams. For example, the model will permit us to better gauge how adding a new scrubber or 
eliminating an ash pond will affect the wastewater the plant produces.  
The model will also be used to help with water recycling decisions and to determine if water reuse will 
affect the final wastewater output or any intermediate water treatment steps. It will help us ensure that 
water management changes not only meet national effluent guidelines but also do not create unintended 
consequences or prevent us from meeting local water quality standards. The information generated will 
be useful as changes resulting from the revised effluent guidelines are implemented in the coming ye ars.  
 84 
 New Source Review  
In 2007, AEP entered into a court -approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. The 
original consent decree had specified that AEP would install flue gas desulfurization (FGD) systems on 
the Rockport Plant units, Big S andy Unit 2 and Muskingum River Unit 5.  
In 2013, a modification to the decree was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District 
of Ohio, Eastern Division. The modification lowered a system -wide SO 2 emission cap for AEP plants 
that becomes increasingly stringent through 2029. The modification also gives us more flexibility in 
how we meet these requirements.  
NSR Consent Decree Annual Report Archive (PDF)  
 2013 NSR Annual Report  
 2012 NSR Annual Report  
 2011 NSR Annual Report  
 2010 NSR Annual Report  
 2009 NSR Annual Report  
 2008 NSR Annual Report   
Water Quality and Stewardship  
 
Water is a critical input to producing electricity. It is used in  power plant boilers and is also used for 
cooling, cleaning and transporting fly ash and bottom ash.  
Water quality, availability, use and management are increasingly important issues for our society. We 
are taking steps to reduce our water consumption, imp rove our water quality and address water 
availability issues as we comply with current regulations and prepare for new ones.  
The value of water came into sharp focus when a chemical from a local company leaked into the Elk 
River in West Virginia early this  year, contaminating municipal drinking water supplies serving about 
300,000 residents. A state and federal disaster declaration imposed a water ban, warning the public not 
to consume or use tap water in a nine -county region.  
We immediately reached out to  our employees in affected areas to inform them of the water ban and the 
associated health concerns. We gave our employees bottled water and hand sanitizer and posted water 
use warning signs.  
This event served as a sobering reminder of how precious this n atural resource is to our everyday lives – 
much like electricity.  85 
 Ohio River Basin Water Quality Trading Project  
AEP is one of the first utilities in the nation to 
take part in the world’s largest interstate water 
quality trading plan. Representatives fr om Ohio, 
Indiana and Kentucky pledged their support to 
the plan in 2012, and the first trades took place 
in March 2014, culminating a five -year effort. 
AEP began working with the Electric Power 
Research Insti tute (EPRI) and other partners in 2011 on a market -based approach to improve Ohio River 
water quality. The program is good for farmers, the environment and the participating companies.  
AEP is one of 15 companies that have joined EPRI and the Southern Research Institute  in founding a 
first-of-a-kind research facility to address power plants’ water usage and treatment. The new Water 
Research Center  at Georgia Power Company’s Plant Bowen was dedicated late last year. The center will 
focus on finding new ways to manage and treat wastewater and to reduce and conserve water that power 
plants use.  
AEP has particip ated in the Carbon Disclosure Project Water Survey  for four years now. In 2013, the 
questionnaire was issued on behalf of 530 investors representing $57 trillion in assets who seek 
business -critical information about water consumption and water use strategy and planning. In addition, 
AEP provides extensive water data in our Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) repo rt. 
Waste Management  
We manage many types of waste created by generating electricity, operating office buildings, and 
repairing and replacing equipment. We continue to make progress in reducing waste and diverting waste 
away from landfills through benefici al reuse or recycling.  
We’ve made headway in reducing the amount of 
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) -containing 
equipment used across the company. PCBs have 
not been used in new electrical equipment for 
more than 30 years but are present in some of 
our olde r transformers and other pieces of 
electric equipment. We removed and recycled 
approximately 42,000 pieces of electrical 
equipment in 2013; less than 1 percent of these 
items were found to contain greater than 500 
parts per million (ppm) PCBs.  
The EPA con tinues to move forward on 
developing a proposal that may mandate the 
phasing out of various levels of PCB -containing 
86 
 equipment. The rule potentially could be quite costly due to the amount of equipment affected and the 
expense of identifying and replacing it. 
There were approximately 1,800 transmission and distribution equipment spills in 2013, down from 
approximately 2,085 in 2012. Ten spills involved greater than 500 ppm PCBs in 2013 compared with 
nine spills in 2012.  
During 2013, we also recycled nearly  1.6 million gallons of oil, 11 million pounds of paper and mixed 
office waste, 48 million pounds of scrap metal, 147,000 light bulbs, 233,000 pounds of batteries and 
more than 433,000 pounds of electronic equipment, such as computers and phones, preventin g disposal 
in landfills. These numbers are not all inclusive but are considered good estimates of waste management 
across AEP and indicate progress in reducing waste.  
 
Nuclear Waste Management  
The Department of Energy (DOE) oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has 
charged fees to plant owners for this disposal. But the government has stopped developing the Yuc ca 
Mountain storage facility in Nevada, leaving this issue unresolved.  87 
 Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) owns and operates the two -unit, 2,191 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear 
Plant in Michigan. Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we have a significant future finan cial 
commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel. We need a national solution to this issue, which should be 
part of a comprehensive energy strategy.  
Since 1983, I&M has been required to collect a fee of one mill per kilowatt -hour for fuel consumed after 
April 6, 1983. The fees that are collected have gone into a federal Nuclear Waste Fund to pay for a 
federal nuclear waste disposal site. The Fund has collected nearly $30 billion nationally, including 
interest, since the surcharge was put in place.  
The Nu clear Energy Institute (NEI) and the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners 
(NARUC), along with several utilities (including I&M), filed a petition in late 2012 challenging the 
DOE’s continued collection of this surcharge. In November 201 3, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
D.C. Circuit ordered DOE to submit a proposal 
to Congress to reduce the fee to zero in light of 
the fact that no disposal site has ever been 
selected and the Fund coffers are more than 
adequate to cover current activity . DOE 
submitted that proposal to Congress in January 
2014, but it is not yet effective. DOE will likely 
seek to stay its effect while it pursues all 
available routes of appeal. In the meantime, 
I&M continues to collect and pay the fee as 
required by curren t law.  
In 2012, we began and completed an initial loading of  
spent nuclear fuel into dry casks at the Cook Nuclear  
Plant in Michigan, which will support an additional  
three years of dual -unit operation at full power.  
The uncertainty associated with lon g-term storage has placed the burden of interim storage on each 
nuclear facility. AEP is addressing this issue on the assumption that a workable offsite solution will not 
exist before the operating licenses for both Cook units expire two decades from now. In 2011, AEP 
signed a settlement agreement with the federal government that allows I&M to make annual filings to 
recover certain spent nuclear fuel storage costs resulting from the government’s delay in accepting the 
spent fuel for storage.  
In 2012, the C ook Plant began a program of loading spent fuel into dry casks. Twelve casks, each 
containing 32 spent nuclear fuel assemblies, were loaded that year. Without removal of the used -fuel 
assemblies, the spent fuel pool would have reached capacity in 2014, for cing shutdown of one or both 
Cook units. The next cask loading is scheduled for 2015, when 16 casks are expected to be loaded, with 
future loadings to occur every three years thereafter. The facility can be expanded as demand requires.  
Discussions are occu rring within the industry about the feasibility of building regional or private fuel 
storage facilities to handle interim storage until a long -term repository or reprocessing plan is in place, 
88 
 using the funds that have been collected for long -term storage.  The outcome of these discussions is 
uncertain.  
ESH Policy & Philosophy  
Environment, Safety & Health Philosophy  
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are 
met in harmony with environmental prote ction.  
Environment, Safety & Health Policy  
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect 
people and the environment by committing to:  
 Maintain compliance with all applicable ES&H 
requirements whi le pursuing the spirit of ES&H 
stewardship;  
 Ensure that people working for or on behalf of AEP 
understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into 
their business functions;  
 Support continual improvement of environmental 
performance and pollution preventio n; and  
 Hazard elimination through employee involvement 
and continual health and safety improvement.  
 
Energy Reliability  
 
The U.S. electric grid is a complex, interconnected network of components that work together to provide 
a reliable power supply. When one part isn’t functioning at its best, a loss of power may occu r. When 
that happens, regardless of the reason, customers expect their service to be restored quickly. If it isn’t, 
there can be political, regulatory, economic and social consequences for our customers and our 
communities that impact AEP.  
89 
 We must prevent  outages to a practical extent 
and restore power safely and efficiently when 
they do occur. We face challenges affecting our 
ability to maintain the existing 220,000 -mile 
transmission and distribution network while 
also upgrading infrastructure to meet fut ure 
demands and changes in the generation 
portfolio across the country. Our challenges 
include the age of our infrastructure, the threat 
of external interruptions, the need for greater 
capacity, the difficulty of siting new facilities, 
new and future envir onmental regulations, and 
the cost of needed investments.  
The ability to weather major storms and other 
large -scale interruptions is an area of increasing 
focus for us and the industry in general. The 
United States had seven weather/climate 
disasters with losses exceeding $1 billion each 
in 2013, according to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration.  
We are developing and refining technologies to 
improve reliability and pursuing changes to our processes and procedures. Our industry learned there are 
many impediments to effective restoration following a large event like Superstorm Sandy in late October 
2012, which affected the Northeast more directly than those areas that AEP serves.  
Measuring Reliability  
We track our transmission and distribution  reliability performance with several metrics that are used 
industrywide. These indicators show us how 
reliable our system is and how our customers 
are impacted when it is not. The investments 
we are making in our transmission and 
distribution system impro ve reliability and 
operating efficiency and prepare the system 
for new technologies in the future.  
The System Average Interruption Duration 
Index (SAIDI) measures how many minutes 
the average customer experiences an 
interruption in electric service in a g iven 
year. During 2013, the AEP System SAIDI 
was 200.2 minutes, a 3.7 percent increase 
90 
 from 2012. The growth of vegetation contributed to about 33 percent of SAIDI results and impacts to 
equipment accounted for about 20 percent.  
The System Average Interrup tion Frequency Index (SAIFI) represents the number of interruptions the 
average customer experiences in a year. During 2013, the system’s SAIFI was 1.329, a 0.9 percent 
increase from 2012.  
The Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) represents  the average length of time it 
takes to restore service when an outage occurs. AEP’s 2013 CAIDI was 150.6 minutes, a 2.7 percent 
increase from 2012. A combination of factors are responsible, including a reduction in the number of 
shorter -duration outages t hat historically affected larger numbers of customers that skew the metric 
upward and an increase in non -major storm events.  
Vegetation -related outages and equipment failure are among the biggest challenges to AEP’s service 
reliability. Managing vegetatio n on our rights of way (ROW) is key to maintaining transmission and 
distribution system reliability. AEP manages the trees and vegetation around power lines using a 
combination of performance -based (such as targeting low performing circuits) and cycle -based 
maintenance strategies. Maintaining a regular tree -trimming cycle is a significant expense that directly 
affects customer bills. During the past five years, AEP has invested more than $1 billion in vegetation 
management, including $221.8 million in 2013.  The issue of reliability has prompted several states to 
consider or implement shorter intervals between tree trimming programs.  
Going forward, we are looking for opportunities to use an integrated vegetation management approach 
to ROWs for new transmissio n lines. This would involve addressing key ecological concerns while 
maintaining reliable transmission service. Reducing the need for herbicides, controlling invasive species, 
and providing greater natural species diversity are examples of practices under such an approach that 
could potentially reduce long -term vegetation maintenance costs.  
One way we will do this is to identify potential partnerships with organizations that have experience 
with habitat conservation. In March 2014, AEP was among 32 private  companies and five states that 
committed to enroll more than 3.6 million acres in the Lesser Prairie -Chicken Range -Wide Conservation 
Plan. This three -year plan is a collaborative effort to support habitat conservation for the bird, which is 
being considered for listing under the Federal Endangered Species Act. As we seek to build new 
transmission facilities across our service territory, we are mindful of potential environmental and 
ecological impacts we might have. Working with organizations such as the Western Association of Fish 
& Wildlife Agencies – which is overseeing this plan – helps us understand the issues, support habitat 
preservation a nd take appropriate actions to mitigate our impacts.  
Reliability Compliance  
2013 marked a decade since the 2003 Northeast blackout that left 55 million people in the dark in the 
United States and Canada. The blackout was the catalyst for more stringent ru les and regulations to 
protect the grid from another such event. Since then, the North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation  (NERC) has been authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) to 91 
 enact and enforce rules and standards protecting the U.S. bulk power system. These rules and standards 
are constantly evolving, and they affect virtually everything we do in operating, m aintaining and 
protecting the grid day to day.  
The reliability standards in place today require processes and procedures to advance the reliability and 
resiliency of the bulk electricity system. We also must demonstrate a strong commitment to compliance; 
noncompliance with NERC reliability standards can lead to serious financial consequences as well as 
reputational risk.  
In May 2013, AEP convened its first NERC grid reliability summit focused on building stronger 
relationships with regulators and grid opera tors and improving AEP’s reliability compliance 
performance. The emphasis is now shifting to a focus on management controls related to how the 
nation’s electric grid is managed. The summit brought together AEP executives, NERC, Southwest 
Power Pool and Rel iabilityFirst Corporation officials to discuss regulator expectations, company 
reliability performance and the future of reliability compliance.  
Reliability Assurance Initiative  
We expect that the future of NERC compliance lies with the Reliability Assurance Initiative  (RAI). RAI 
is a new approach to compliance that shifts the process from a focus on historical compliance and zero 
tolerance standards, to a m ore collaborative process of identifying reliability risks and using that 
information to better gauge future compliance monitoring and enforcement efforts. We agree that this 
new reliability philosophy has the potential to be much more effective and effici ent. We also recognize 
the job of compliance will not become any easier. Rather, RAI intends to require registered entities – 
bulk power system owners, operators and users who are registered with NERC – to focus more on 
activities that matter most to relia bility.  
With RAI, the emphasis is on reforming both the monitoring and enforcement areas of reliability 
regulation. Regulators want companies to 
monitor their own activities, detect issues when 
they occur, assess the risk of those issues, and 
correct the causes of those issues in a timely 
manner. NERC conducted several pilots in 
2013 to develop a uniform approach to audits 
that aligns with this new reliability culture. AEP 
participated in one of those pilots in late 2013, 
in partnership with ReliabilityFir st, allowing us 
to have input in the evolution of the monitoring 
and audit scoping process.  
In May 2013, AEP convened its first NERC grid  
reliability summit focused on building stronger  
relationships with regulators and grid operators and  
improving AEP ’s reliability compliance performance.  
92 
 AEP was again asked by ReliabilityFirst to participate in a new enforcement pilot in 2014. The pilot will 
allow AEP to internally log minor violations of select NERC requirements rather than individually 
reporting eac h one. The logs would track the potential violations and the remedial actions taken. The 
logs will be periodically reviewed by ReliabilityFirst; the first review is tentatively scheduled for late 
April 2014.  
AEP believes that registered entities should be committed to a reliability culture more than a compliance 
culture because it shifts the focus from complying with the bare minimum to truly ensuring the 
reliability and resiliency of the grid.  
Grid Resiliency  
One of the greatest physical threats to the ele ctricity infrastructure is severe weather. AEP was fortunate 
that 2013 brought less severe weather to our service territory than 2012 did, when an early -summer 
derecho (a severe windstorm accompanied by heavy rain and hail) knocked out power to more than 1 .4 
million of AEP’s 5.3 million customers and caused millions of dollars in damage. In addition to 
financial costs, outages also create political and social risks, especially when the disruption is prolonged.  
To improve the performance of the physical infr astructure of the grid, we created a Distribution Storm 
Hardening Strategy Team to recommend strategies that will ease the impacts of severe weather events 
on our customers by making the infrastructure more resilient and easier to fix when it does break.  
New design criteria to strengthen, or harden, the distribution system took effect in early 2014. We have 
elected to design new and replacement poles to withstand wind speeds and ice accumulation above and 
beyond the National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) requirement for our service territory. The ice build -
up component has been increased to one inch of 
ice in the central and northern portions of AEP’s 
service territory from a quarter - to a half -inch, 
respectively. In the southern portion of our 
territory, where high winds are the primary 
driver of major storm damage, we have 
increased the system’s ability to withstand high 
winds from 60 mph to 90 mph. Along the Gulf 
coast we continue to design facilities to 
withstand 150 mph winds.  
One of the greatest phys ical threats to the electricity  
infrastructure is severe weather  
These hardening measures are predicted to increase the strength of electric structures by at least 25 
percent with nominal increase in cost. In addition, we developed an assessment tool to h elp us determine 
where to deploy capital funds to maximize the benefits of grid -hardening initiatives. Among the criteria 
to be used are the number of customers served; the type of customer (how many on a particular circuit 
are considered “critical” custom ers, such as hospitals and nursing homes, law enforcement agencies, and 
93 
 water or wastewater facilities); the age of the poles; and the average duration of outages. This will allow 
us to put our resources to work where they deliver the most value for our cu stomers.  
Nationally, the hardening effort has been driven by state utility commissions, and there is regulatory 
support for these initiatives in our service territories.  
On Dec. 31, 2013, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission approved Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma’s application to broaden the scope of an existing cost recovery rider to include the costs of 
system hardening and grid resilience activities to strengthen the company’s distribution system against 
weather -related events. Examples of system har dening include installing stronger structures and 
decreasing the distance between poles. Grid resiliency activities include installing devices such as line 
reclosures and other hardware that splits the system into sections so that, in the event of a fault on one 
section, the impact remains isolated.  
In Indiana, Senate Enrolled Act 560 of 2013 provides a regulatory framework for utilities to implement 
a Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge (TDSIC) to pay for these 
initiatives. The  TDSIC rider is used to recover costs associated with certain electric infrastructure 
expansion projects, including those intended to improve safety or reliability; modernize the system; or 
improve an area’s economic development prospects. Prior to impleme nting the TDSIC rider, the 
company will file a seven -year plan with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission with details of the 
projects under consideration.  
In Ohio, the existing Distribution Investment Rider helps us fund distribution system improvemen ts, 
including grid hardening.  
AEP is among other utilities participating in the Electric Power Research Institute’s three -year Grid 
Resiliency Project . Started in 2013, the project will provide our industry with new tools and strategies to 
improve the distribution system’s ability to withstand severe weather events.  
Aging Infrastructure  
The U.S. electric power grid was built more than a century ago. Although investments have been ma de 
to improve reliability and enable the grid to handle new and emerging technologies, a number of factors 
are increasingly affecting reliability. These include the age of the equipment, weather events, permitting 
challenges for new infrastructure, and eco nomics. AEP has developed a diagnostic tool to help us better 
manage reliability through maintenance.  
A new central Asset Health Center (AHC) platform is being implemented by our Transmission team to 
virtually monitor the condition of substation equipment  in the field. The AHC is being developed to 
prevent failures, enable condition -based maintenance and prioritize replacement of aging or poorly 
performing equipment.  
Investing in our infrastructure is strategically important for AEP because capital invest ments improve 
customer satisfaction and system reliability while improving operating efficiencies and delivering value 94 
 to our shareholders. But there is a finite amount of available resources, and there are competing demands 
for their use. In 2014, we expe ct to invest $2.8 billion (excluding AFUDC debt and equity) in our 
transmission and distribution business and approximately $875 million in our regulated generation 
business to improve reliability and the customer experience. Ensuring that capital is deplo yed and 
invested where it maximizes the value to our customers is the focus of a collaborative effort called 
“Enabling Capital Excellence ,” part of the company’s commitment to c ontinuous improvement.  
CREZ Enhances Reliability  
Improving reliability while bringing wind energy to market in west Texas is the purpose of the 
Competitive Renewable Energy Zones  (CREZ) initiative in that state. CREZ is the largest transmission 
construction project in AEP’s history. Electric Transmission Texas LLC (ETT), a joint venture between 
subsidiaries of AEP and MidAmerican  Energy Holdings Co ., received the second -largest assignment of 
CREZ projects from the Public Utility Commission of Texas. In December 2013, ETT energized the last 
of seven 345 -kV transmission line projects under the CREZ banner.  
All CREZ projects are now  complete. In total, CREZ involves nine different transmission service 
providers building 2,400 miles of transmission lines to transport 18,500 MW of west Texas wind 
generation to major population centers in that region. ETT built approximately 460 miles o f new lines 
and upgraded 16 switching stations, marking the conclusion of ETT’s approximately $1.5 billion 
investment in the Texas CREZ initiative.  
ETT has other projects under way, including about 25 projects scheduled for completion by the end of 
the de cade.  
The two largest projects will improve 
transmission service in the rapidly growing Rio 
Grande Valley. These projects will add 
approximately 250 miles of 345 -kV 
transmission lines between Laredo and 
Brownsville and an estimated $560 million to 
the com pany’s portfolio. ETT’s total investment 
opportunity is approximately $3 billion by 
2023.  
In total, CREZ involves nine different transmission  
service providers building 2,400 miles of transmission  
lines to transport 18,500 MW of west Texas wind  
generati on to major popu lation centers in that region.  
Improving Reliability  
With service reliability as our cornerstone, we are continuously seeking to improve our processes and 
practices to give our customers the best possible experience. We are relying on our employees to help 
95 
 make that happen. They are the most knowledgeable about the work they perform to keep the lights on, 
have a good understanding of what customers want and often have ideas to improve efficiency and 
reduce costs.  
Whether planning work or h elping the physical work force spend more time on their respective crafts 
and less time on tasks that interfere with that, we are committed to continuous improvement. This 
commitment allows us to focus on the right things at the right time. One example is the decision to 
streamline the morning process in our Columbus distribution district. The daily all -hands safety meeting 
was divided into smaller crew meetings. Stretching to prevent physical harm, such as strained backs, 
was moved to the field where it co uld be done as part of field prep work. We also improved the 
scheduling process so that job packages – tools and other items that line crews need for that day’s job – 
are ready to go in the morning. These changes enable our crews to get to their job sites earlier in the day 
and spend more productive time serving customers.  
In our Transmission organization, process improvement and standardization efforts are also making a 
difference. In one case, a simple change in technology is transforming some of the work  we do in the 
field. By supplying field employees with upgraded technology solutions, such as tablets and smart 
phones, we are able to eliminate the need for back -and-forth travel to office locations to receive and 
execute switching orders. Information is now transmitted in real time, expediting the work and trimming 
costs.  
Emergency Response  
When a major event occurs that produces widespread outages, the electric industry mobilizes to deliver 
resources, supplies and crews needed to get the lights back on safely and quickly. This practice of 
mutual assistance, which dates to the 1950s, helps utilities mitigate the risks and costs of major outages 
through sharing of resources. The utilities that seek assistance pay the costs of the utilities and 
contractors providing labor and equipment.  
National Emergency Response  
Improving the coordinated response to power interruptions affecting multiple regions of the United 
States is the purpose of the newly formed National Response Event (NRE) framework, which AEP had a 
leadership role in developing last year. 
Approximately three dozen utilities contributed 
to this effort. The goal is to ensure that resources 
are allocated to restore power as quickly and as 
safely as possible in an efficient, coordinated 
way.  
A new Nati onal Response Executive Committee 
composed of senior utility executives from all 
regions of the country will govern the NRE 
process, and a National Mutual Assistance 
96 
 Resource Team will pool and allocate resources to best meet restoration needs in a major e vent. Three 
regional mutual assistance groups (RMAGs) in the Northeast have been consolidated to allow better 
coordination of resources. Superstorm Sandy demonstrated that having too many RMAGs can impede 
restoration progress, so the number of RMAGs nation wide was reduced from nine to seven. When an 
NRE is declared, the RMAGs will act as one entity to ensure the highest level of resource coordination.  
The NRE framework was developed in partnership with federal and state agencies to improve the flow 
of infor mation between utilities and government emergency personnel, expedite movement of resources 
across state and international borders, and leverage the logistical support and security capabilities that 
the military can provide in emergencies.  
Federal, state a nd local officials have voiced support for the NRE approach. The National Association of 
Regulatory Utility Commissioners passed a resolution endorsing it in November 2013. States can help 
support this approach by backing utility efforts to increase system  hardening, install micro grids in 
strategic locations and use smart grid technologies.  
AEP’s Emergency Response Plan  
As the industry seeks to improve emergency response in the wake of storm -related widespread outages, 
AEP is simultaneously taking a close look at its own plans and developing an updated plan that 
considers the lessons learned of the last few years and recommendations from the Emergency Response 
Planning Team. Our Emergency Response Plan (ERP) is expected to be fully implemented by early 
2015 .  
ERP traces its roots to the critical reviews of utilities’ restoration activities by regulatory commissions in 
New York, Maryland and Connecticut after major Northeast storms several years ago – specifically, 
Hurricane Irene and the Nor’easter of Octobe r 2009. These reviews prompted AEP to conduct its own 
assessment of storm restoration practices to determine areas of, and set goals for, improvement. An ERP 
team representing all operating companies and various business units is charged with implementing the 
recommendations resulting from that review.  
A key element of the ERP is establishment of an Incident Command System (ICS), a nationally known 
crisis management tool used by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and increasingly adopted 
by industry, i ncluding utilities. ICS will make it easier for our employees to do their jobs by improving 
management efficiency, reducing redundancy and more clearly defining the focus of employees’ 
responsibilities during emergency response. It also will improve commun ications with first responders 
and emergency management agencies because we often will be using the same chain -of-command 
structures and terminology that they use.  
Other components of the ERP are technology and process improvements that will enhance custom er 
satisfaction and communications by providing the frequent and accurate information the public wants. 
During power outages, customers want to know as precisely as possible how soon their service will 
return. An online mobile alert system that provides cu stomers with information on the status of outages 
is being rolled out in 2014. Ideally, this alert system could be used for other customer communications, 
such as due dates for bills, notification of overdue bills, and timing of upcoming scheduled outages.  97 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 
 Employee Entrepreneurship  
Innovation comes from human curiosity and a natural instinct for people to problem -solve. By giving 
employees ownership and the freedom to find and implement solu tions, we can foster entrepreneurship 
in our work force that cultivates creativity, innovation and the right amount of risk taking. AEP has a 
long heritage of innovation, from building central power stations and the first extra -high voltage 
transmission li nes, to being the first to experiment in utility control of customers’ cooling and space 
heating as a load management tool. We didn’t accomplish these breakthroughs by sitting on the 
sidelines.  
Time and again, our employees have 
demonstrated their entrepr eneurial spirit. 
Through perseverance and technical expertise, 
their achievements have improved the 
efficiency and operation of the electric grid, 
reduced our environmental impacts, and 
advanced early research of energy storage. 
Those first 107 years of ou r existence set the 
stage and show us that we have what it takes 
to succeed in the future.  
Through scenario planning, continuous improvement and support for out -of-the-box thinking, we are 
shaping our culture to be more agile, collaborative and customer fo cused. At the forefront of this 
evolution are our employees, who continue to challenge the status quo in pursuit of what’s best for AEP, 
our customers, the environment and, ultimately, our shareholders.  
Entrepreneurship in Action  
If we have a problem and need a solution, we’ve learned that all we have to do is ask our employees. 
From new transmission tower designs to improved environmental technology performance and 
continuous improvement ideas that have led to sustainable cost savings and new revenues, ou r 
employees are leading the way. Here are a few examples of innovation started by employees that are 
having significant positive impacts:  
 AEP was awarded a patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the work of five AEP 
engineers who developed a mitigation technology that prevents large -particle coal ash from 
building up in the selective catalytic reduction pollution control system (SCR). The buildup led 
to restricted air flow in the SCR, affecting a plant’s efficiency and the SCR’s ability to red uce 
nitrogen oxide emissions. The technology is now in service in at least two plants.  
 We know that without our employees being engaged, we cannot be successful. To encourage a 
higher level of involvement, we implemented a repositioning study and a gain -sharing program 
called Engage to Gain (E2G). The E2G program ran during 2013 and gave employees a forum to 
share ideas to help us achieve a target of $200 million in sustainable savings and revenue 
enhancements. Anything over the $200 million would be split  with employees 50/50, up to 
101 
 $1,000 per employee. The program exceeded its goal and every employee – except for senior 
officers – received a $1,000 payout. Here is a sampling of the ideas that led to long -term savings 
and new revenues:  
o The Finance and Acc ounting team identified $16 million in savings that included 
renegotiating agreements on banking fees and increasing e -billing of customers.  
o Information Technology identified $22 million of sustainable savings. One of the ways 
they did this was to elimina te approximately 100 low -criticality applications and 
deploying continuous improvement initiatives throughout the organization.  
o The Generation team identified $8 million of operations and maintenance (O&M) savings 
opportunities through continuous improveme nt initiatives in power plants. They did this 
mainly by bringing more work in -house and eliminating the need for as many contractors, 
and switching to a different scrubber polymer at the Gavin Plant in Ohio.  
o In addition to savings, revenue gains totaling $ 93 million were identified. Among the 
ideas was a review of an off -peak water heater tariff that was still crediting customers 
with discounted rates without confirmation that the water heaters were still in use by 
customers. Other savings came from optimiz ing generation units by increasing their 
availability and maximizing energy efficiency programs in our service territory.  
 We want our vendors to buy electricity service from us. Our Economic & Business Devel opment  
team launched an initiative to work with our suppliers that are considering moving or expanding 
their operations and are not currently located within AEP’s service territory. We want them to 
move to a location where we can serve them. The team help s the supplier find the right location 
and identifies tax incentives and infrastructure needs to facilitate the move or expansion. It also 
brings our supply chain closer to us, reducing costs and environmental impacts, such as 
emissions caused by long -haul transport of goods. A steel manufacturer relocated from Texas to 
Ohio and expanded operations in response to AEP’s growing demand for transmission poles and 
lattice towers.  
 A team from Environmental Services, Civil Engineering and the Gavin Plant won appr oval from 
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to use a geosynthetic clay liner for the Gavin Plant’s 
landfill expansion. The liner replaces the need for two feet of high -quality clay to line the landfill 
before using it for ash disposal. By doing this , we eliminated the need to excavate the clay and 
transport thousands of truckloads over public roads, the cost to repair damaged roads, and the 
need to stockpile clay at the plant. The team had to prove to regulators that the liner would 
provide adequate environmental protection. The cost difference between a clay liner and this new 
liner is significant.  
 As the fly ash reservoir at our Cardinal Plant approached full capacity in 2014, AEP engineers, in 
collaboration with S&ME, Inc. (a consultant), developed  an innovative plan to raise the height of 
the reservoir’s earthen dam. The team engineered a new structure, 1,500 feet long, on top of the 
existing dam that uses mechanically stabilized earthen walls, vinyl sheet piles and a slurry 
trench. The vinyl sheet s provide an extra measure of protection against seepage from the dam. 
This design is the first of its kind in the United States. The project provides the plant with 
enough capacity to continue operating into 2020. It was completed in one year at a cost of  about 
$10 million. The alternative method to rebuild an earthen dam would have required at least three 
years and cost as much as $20 million. The Ohio Department of Natural Resources played an 
active role in permitting, inspecting and approving the work.  102 
  AEP Transmission  redefined “cutting edge” technology with the design of a new and compact 
extra -high voltage 345 -kV line, called BOLD (Breakthrough Overhead Line Design). In 
response to the need t o minimize right -of-way land requirements and increase the functionality 
of 345 -kV lines and corridors, we challenged our employees to develop a new high -capacity 
345-kV line design for long -distance applications. Two design patents were granted and a util ity 
patent is pending. The new compact design provides more capacity, improves the use of rights of 
way and, with its unique low -profile design, is more streamlined in appearance. AEP 
Transmission plans to debut the efficient, high -capacity BOLD design whe n it replaces an 
existing 138 -kV line near Fort Wayne, Ind. Construction is expected to begin in 2014 and will be 
finished in stages in 2015 -2016. The new BOLD line design is an example of the solutions -
oriented culture and collaborative leadership at AEP.  
Smart Grid  
The technology and gadgets we rely on today are much faster, more efficient and less costly than they 
once were. When cellular technology first debuted, the portable phone was expensive, clunky and 
required a battery in a bag in order to work – nothing like the smart phones in use today that fit in your 
pocket. This evolution of technology has occurred in every industry; the electric industry is no 
exception. And one thing is certain – tomorrow’s technology will be even faster, more efficient a nd 
more affordable.  
Electric vehicles, smart appliances, energy storage and distributed solar generation are among the 
technologies we are adapting to and incorporating into our current infrastructure.  
Three forces shape AEP’s advanced energy and digital technology strategy to ensure we are meeting 
customers’ needs:  
 The types of technologies being deployed;  
 When these technologies become cost -effective; and,  
 The policies that can influence the deployment of these technologies onto the electrical grid.  
One of AEP’s largest technology initiatives, 
called gridSMART®, integrates a host of 
advanced grid technologies into the existing 
electric network that can improve service 
quality and reliability, lower energy 
consumption, and offer additional customer 
benefits. The new technologies can help us 
improve our efficiency, identify and respond 
to outages more quickly, and better monitor 
and control operation of the distribution 
system. gridSMART® also provides 
customers with new and innovative programs 
103 
 and prici ng options that allow them to monitor and control their own energy use, saving resources and 
money.  
Applying technology on our distribution system through monitoring and controlling voltage is another 
advancement to reduce the amount of energy that must b e produced and delivered to customers on 
demand. Known as Volt Var Optimization (VVO), this technology has proven its technical viability and 
energy efficiency potential. Typically, customers receive electricity at a voltage between 114 and 126 
volts. Usin g the full range of voltage is common practice in our industry. Studies and recent experience 
are showing that optimizing voltage – delivering voltages that more closely match the voltage level 
customers’ equipment was designed for – benefits customers and  the grid. Customers continue to 
receive the electricity they need while reducing their demand from the grid and lowering their 
consumption. This contributes to energy efficiency at the customer’s location and makes for more 
efficient use of the distributi on system.  
Deployment of VVO began in AEP Ohio  as part of the gridSMART® Demonstration Project and has 
since expanded to Indiana Mic higan Power , Kentucky Power  and Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma . Early results indicate that reductions in energy consumption by customer s averaging 3 
percent are achievable with this technology in operation. The Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission 
and Michigan Public Service Commission have each ruled that VVO can be recognized as an energy 
efficiency program in their respective states. AEP’s operating companies will be selectively reviewing 
options for deploying this technology where conditions are favorable.  
gridSMART® Project Overview  
AEP’s gridSMART® initiative is designed to provide the advanced grid infrastructure needed to realize 
the many potential benefits of the smart grid. These technologies make the grid more efficient and 
empower our customers to use energy more efficiently. AEP is deploying smart grid technologies in 
several states, with regulatory support.  
 AEP Ohio ’s first phase of its gridSMART® demonstration project deployed a comprehensive 
suite of innovative smart grid technologies on 80 circuits serving 132,000 customers in Central 
Ohio. The $150 million project was funded through a $75 million federal grant, cost recov ery 
support from the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and in -kind vendor contributions. AEP 
Ohio has proposed to extend gridSMART® with 
a Phase 2 deployment that will include 
Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) for 
approximately 894,000 customers, Di stribution 
Automation Circuit Reconfiguration (DACR) 
for approximately 250 priority circuits, and 
VVO for approximately 80 circuits. The 
company is proposing to recover the $295 
million project cost over four years.  
104 
  AEP Texas  has completed installation of  a 1 million meter smart grid network. The $308 million 
project is being recovered through an approved 11 -year regulatory surcharge. The company is 
also deploying DACR on 15 circuits.  
 Indiana Michigan Power  (I&M) has deployed a smart grid network to appro ximately 10,000 
customers. The $7 million project was funded through a settlement agreement approved by the 
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission. I&M has installed VVO on nine circuits and received 
approval for its use as an energy efficiency program thro ugh filings in Indiana and Michigan. 
I&M is upgrading DACR on 11 circuits and installing it on 11 additional circuits.  
 Public Service Company of Oklahoma ’s (PSO) initial gridSMART® project included  
approximately 31,000 customers with AMI, 14,000 of whom a re served on 13 circuits equipped 
with advanced grid management technologies, 
such as VVO and DACR. The project was 
financed through an $8.75 million American 
Reinvestment and Recovery Act low -interest loan 
from the Oklahoma Department of Commerce, 
along w ith $2 million in annual revenues 
approved by the Oklahoma Corporation 
Commission (OCC). In January 2014, PSO filed 
an application with the OCC to broaden the scope 
of its AMI deployment to cover its entire 30,000 -square -mile service territory for its rema ining 
approximately 520,000 customers over three years. The timing for the completion of this 
approximately $135 million project could change pending the regulatory review process.  
 Kentucky Power Company  is deploying advanced grid technology on approximate ly 30 
circuits. The company is also installing distribution Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 
(SCADA) on these circuits to provide greater visibility for dispatchers and to allow for the 
remote control of equipment. The existing technology investmen t is expected to be recovered in 
customer rates.  
 Appalachian Power Company  (APCo) has installed three circuits with DACR and is installing 
the technology on four more circuits. APCo is also upgrading some circuits with SCADA. APCo 
was the first utility in North America to deploy a 1 -megawatt -scale sodium sulfur (NaS) battery 
at its Chemical Station in Charleston, W.Va., and has since deployed another 2 -MW battery at 
Balls Gap Station near Milton, W.Va.  
 Southwestern Electric Power Company  (SWEPCo) has DACR t echnology on two circuits, is 
upgrading the technology on 14 circuits, and is installing the technology on an additional three 
circuits.  
Energy Efficiency  
 
AEP is proud of the  energy efficiency gains we’ve been able to accomplish with our customers across 
our service territory over the last several years. We have always encouraged our customers to use energy 
105 
 wisely and efficiently. Today, we see achievable levels of energy effi ciency and demand response as 
important resources that are incorporated into our integrated resource planning process.  
Energy efficiency and demand reduction 
programs have received regulatory support 
in most of the states we serve, and 
appropriate cost r ecovery will be essential 
for us to continue with these consumer 
offerings. Appropriate recovery of program 
costs and net lost revenues, as well as an 
opportunity to earn a reasonable return, 
ensures that energy efficiency programs are 
considered financial ly comparable with 
supply -side investments, such as power 
plants.  
Starting in 2008, AEP ramped up efforts to reduce peak demand by 1,000 megawatts (MW) and energy 
consumption by 2,250,000 megawatt -hours (MWh) system -wide by the end of 2012 through the 
introduction of additional energy efficiency and demand response programs. Since that time, AEP’s 
operating companies have implemented more than 100 energy efficiency and demand response 
programs across our service territory.  
From 2008 through 2013, these pr ograms reduced energy consumption by more than 4 million 
megawatt -hours (MWh) and peak demand by more than 1,200 megawatts (MW). To achieve these 
levels, our companies invested approximately $540 million during that period. These results are 
preliminary an d subject to independent third -party evaluation and verification of savings, as required. In 
addition, for the 2013/2014 PJM delivery year, AEP has approximately 600 MW of demand response 
capability in the PJM Interconnection .  
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA) awarded AEP Ohio  the 2013 ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year  Award for its Efficient Products program. The Efficient Products program includes 
energy efficient lighting discounts for CFL and LED light bulbs, and appliance rebates for ENERGY 
STAR certified refrigerat ors, freezers, clothes washers, high -
efficiency electric water heaters and heat pump water 
heaters. AEP Ohio offers a variety of energy efficiency 
programs and discounts to help residential customers save 
money and energy.  
The EPA also awarded AEP Texas  Central Company a 2013 
ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence 
Award for continued leadership in protecting the 
environment through its high performance New Homes program. The New Homes prog ram provides 
outreach, education and marketing for ENERGY STAR certified homes.  
106 
 Public Service Company of Oklahoma  received a 2013 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained 
Excellence Award, as well, for continued leadership in protecting the environment through its Home 
Performance with Energy Star program. The program provides homeowners with incentives to upgrade 
their homes using a holistic approach.  
I&M received regulatory approval to eliminate the use of a third -party program administrator in its 
Michigan service territory. This gives the company more control over the types of programs that are 
offered and the level of spending to support those programs. In addition, both the Michigan Public 
Service Commission and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission have approved plans for I&M to 
qualify VVO as an energy efficiency program.  
With increasing efficiency standards, such as the im plementation of more efficient lighting standards, 
we are concerned that energy efficiency mandates will become more difficult and costly to achieve in 
the future. Legislators in some of our states are rethinking energy efficiency requirements due to these  
cost and achievability concerns as well. Our concern is that financial penalties could be imposed if we 
do not achieve escalating benchmark requirements, even if a good -faith effort is made.  
Further, certain mandated requirements may be 
virtually unachi evable from an economic 
perspective. In other words, the cost to attain 
participation rates necessary to achieve the 
targets could be much higher than the overall 
benefits associated with the corresponding 
impacts. In such instances, AEP would be 
opposed t o implementing energy efficiency 
and demand response portfolios that are not 
considered cost -effective, and we believe it 
would be unfair to penalize us for not being 
able to reach these unachievable energy 
efficiency targets.  
We have also taken measures t o reduce energy 
consumption in our office buildings and 
service centers. We reduced our kilowatt -hour 
(kWh) usage by 25 percent by the end of 2013, 
compared with the 2007 baseline. The 
equivalent accumulated savings from reduced 
energy consumption at more than 300 facilities 
exceeds $17 million. We achieved these energy 
consumption reductions through equipment investments, such as new heating and cooling systems, and 
an employee education campaign. By reducing usage, we are able to sell the unused energy in  the 
wholesale energy market, or not produce it at all, while reducing our impacts to the environment.  
 
107 
 Efficiency in Coal  
While our generation portfolio has shifted over the last decade to include more natural gas -fueled and 
renewable generation, we also  completed construction of the country’s first ultra -supercritical coal -
fueled unit, the John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant  in Hempstead County, Ark., in late 2012. The Tur k Plant 
represents a new generation of plant design using a higher temperature and pressure steam cycle that 
requires less fuel to produce each megawatt -hour of electricity. The plant’s advanced thermal cycle 
ranks it among the most efficient coal plants i n the world. It also means that all emissions, including 
sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and carbon dioxide, are lower than conventional coal -
combustion processes per unit of electricity produced.  
This unit was designed to provide low -cost base lo ad power to complement new gas generating 
resources that were built in recent years. A significant addition to the generating fleet along with new 
natural gas units, the Turk Plant allows Southwestern Electric Power Company to continue its strategy 
of fuel  diversity that has benefited customers for decades.  
We have also made significant investments to enhance the efficiency of many of our coal -fueled plants, 
thereby offsetting the energy needed to run emission control technologies.  
Distributed Generation  
Distributed generation (DG) – small -scale power generation near the point of consumption, such as a 
home with a rooftop solar array – has the potential to revolutionize the electric utility industry. We are 
actively preparing for the investments in the grid  that lie ahead to support development and deployment 
of these technologies onto the grid.  
Net Energy Metering  
AEP recognizes the natural maturity of the distributed generation (DG) market but also has an obligation 
to advocate for fair and equitable rat e recovery to support the ongoing reliability of the electric grid.  
Public policies and rate structures put in place to encourage early development of DG have led to 
unintended consequences that must be addressed. The Energy Policy Act of 2005  required state utility 
commissions to consider enacting special rates to encourage growth of renewable DG. As a result, states 
adopted a series of mechanisms, including net  energy metering (NEM) tariffs, to accommodate that 
directive.  
Net energy metering arrangements typically use a single meter to “net” the amount of energy produced 
by a DG consumer against the amount of energy used by that customer. NEM tariffs typically credit DG 
consumers at the full retail rate. This rate not only includes the costs associated with the energy itself, 
but also the fixed costs associated with serving customers, such as the distribution and transmission 
infrastructure and generation stand -by capacity. Thus, when DG customers are credited at the full retail 108 
 rate under NEM tariffs, they avoid paying their fair share of these fixed costs for services that they use 
from the grid.  
As a result, those costs are shifted to all other customers, whi ch is obviously not fair or equitable. This 
cost shifting can disproportionately affect vulnerable customers, such as low -income households or 
those with fixed incomes. In addition, as more customers shift to existing NEM tariffs, utilities are 
placed at f inancial risk of not being able to recover their fixed costs in a timely manner, which is 
necessary to maintain grid reliability.  
When the number of DG installations was 
relatively low, the impact of these subsidies 
was limited. However, with significant  
declines in the cost of solar power, as well as a 
variety of substantial government subsidies, 
the growth of DG is beginning to have a 
material effect on electric utilities and non -
NEM customers throughout our industry.  
Although the overall number of NEM  
customers on the AEP system is relatively 
modest today, the pace of growth is quickening. We are discussing the long -term impacts of NEM 
policies and regulations to our company and our non -NEM customers with our legislators and 
regulators. AEP is actively  engaged with our industry trade group, the Edison Electric Institute, and our 
stakeholders to reach a fair and equitable solution that leads to a more sustainable arrangement for all 
customers.  
A central issue in the debate over DG and NEM policies is th e value of the grid. Both non -DG 
customers and DG NEM consumers use the grid. DG NEM consumers need the grid to provide energy 
at times when their DG system is not generating electricity, such as when customers with rooftop solar 
panels use energy at night . Even if these DG consumers are generating more power than they need, they 
rely upon the grid to absorb and distribute that energy, even if the utility doesn’t need it. Therefore, a 
fair and equitable arrangement needs to provide credit to DG NEM customer s for the real avoided cost 
of the energy that they offset while they should also pay their fair share of the costs for the grid services 
they use.  
While there are many ways to address this issue, we must have a mechanism to support our investments 
in the  grid when accommodating the multitude of different resources being connected to it.  
Big Data  
The volume, speed and variety of data available today are overwhelming. Think about the many types of 
data we are bombarded with – financial data, environmental  data, medical data, cybersecurity data, 
social network data and much more. What do we do with all this information and how do we make sense 
of it and get the most value from it?  
109 
 The issue of “big data” is gaining momentum as access to data increases and i s available in forms that 
can’t be processed or analyzed using traditional models. With the ability to store more data than ever 
before, businesses find themselves data rich and information poor. They are struggling with how to 
maximize the value from the data they’ve collected and how to store, manage and use it.  
With the advent of the smart grid, AEP can collect data and monitor and manage operations more 
effectively. For example, we use the data from grid management technologies to help us detect and 
diagnose equipment issues so we can perform maintenance before a failure occurs.  
Customers can use the data from smart meters to make more informed decisions about how and when 
they use energy. Our employees use data to help us understand what our customers  want so we can serve 
them better. If we don’t develop a better understanding through the use of big data, we may not extract 
the most value from our technology investment, miss an opportunity to improve our business or, worse, 
risk being blindsided by pot ential problems.  
AEP is among seven Central Ohio companies participating in the Columbus Collaboratory , a partnership 
across multiple industries to help companies tackle key technology c hallenges including “big data” and 
cybersecurity. The Ohio Third Frontier Commission approved a state grant with an estimated cost of $5 
million to support the initiative, which is supplemented by $21 million of private funding. AEP is 
contributing $4 mill ion over the next four years. This innovative project is a collaborative effort to drive 
economic growth and development. AEP is among seven Central Ohio companies participating in the 
Columbus Collaboratory, a partnership across 
multiple industries to hel p companies tackle 
key technology challenges including “big data” 
and cybersecurity. The Ohio Third Frontier 
Commission  approved a state grant with an 
estimated cost of $5 million to  support the 
initiative, which is supplemented by $21 
million of private funding. AEP is contributing 
$4 million over the next four years. This 
innovative project is a collaborative effort to 
drive economic growth and development.  
We are expanding our abil ity to analyze the many different types of data sets we collect. This is helping 
us identify trends as well as indicators for improvement. For example, it can help us understand how the 
size of a house can be a factor in a customer’s decision to participat e in energy efficiency programs. Big 
data can also help us project weather, enabling us to better plan for it. It also gives us greater precision 
around decision -making. But we are still in the learning phase of understanding and leveraging the 
benefits of  big data to support our business.  
Big data can also exacerbate concerns regarding cybersecurity and privacy. As we learn more about and 
use big data in our business, we will remain diligent in ensuring that protections are in place to continue 
the same h igh level of protections necessary to maintain the security of our operations and trust of o ur 
customers.  
110 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112 
 How We Engage  
Our commitment to stakeholder engagement and developing healthy, trusting relationshi ps is important 
to us. Stakeholder engagement at AEP takes many different forms, including written correspondence, 
social media, teleconferences and face -to-face meetings. In November 2013, we held a multi -
stakeholder meeting with AEP’s leadership team , led by Chairman, President and CEO Nick Akins . 
During our meeting with environmental organizations and soci ally responsible investors, we emphasized 
the importance of these relationships to AEP and encouraged stakeholders to share their ideas and 
concerns, including opportunities to collaborate. The dialogue focused largely on AEP’s business 
challenges and oppo rtunities as we transition toward a more sustainable energy future.  
We discussed the operational, social and financial consequences of coal unit retirements; the 
diversification of our generation portfolio; our investments in new technology and grid moder nization; 
our changing business model; and the growth of our transmission business. We also discussed our focus 
on engaging our employees to help us meet these challenges.  
We recognize the importance of engaging with our fuel suppliers and conducted our f ourth coal supplier 
stakeholder meeting in December 2013. More than a dozen AEP coal suppliers joined AEP leaders, 
including Nick Akins, to discuss the results of AEP’s annual Sustainability Coal Supplier Survey. In 
addition to the survey results, the disc ussion focused on the future of the coal industry and the suppliers’ 
relationships with AEP. Through this survey, we have now collected five years of environmental, safety 
and health performance data about our suppliers. Our suppliers continue to exhibit s uperior performance 
compared with national averages.  
Local Outreach  
Stakeholder engagement happens at all levels and in many forms throughout AEP. Our operating 
companies, power plants and other business units regularly engage with many different stakeho lders on 
a wide variety of topics. In some cases, our approach includes stakeholder collaborative groups focused 
on such topics as energy efficiency or resource 
planning. In other cases, it is one -on-one or a broader 
outreach to a community, such as an ope n house at a 
power plant. As costs of customer -owned generation 
decline, communities have become more active 
participants in resource planning discussions.  
This was the case in Indiana last year during 
stakeholder meetings about Indiana Michigan Power’s 
Integrated Resource Plan (IRP). Participants helped 
shape a plan that includes renewable generation and energy efficiency to meet load growth. An IRP, 
which is filed with state regulatory commissions, explains how a utility company will meet projected 
capac ity, or peak demand, and energy requirements of its customers. This type of engagement allows 
our stakeholders to be more personally involved with our subject matter experts.  
113 
 The Role of Social Media  
There is nothing as important or effective as developi ng relationships face to face, but the pace of 
change requires us to use a variety of communication channels to engage with our stakeholders and to 
stay in touch more generally. Social media plays a significant role in this evolution, although it will 
neve r replace the personal connections we value.  
We regularly connect with stakeholders using 
tools such as email, Facebook , Twitte r, 
YouTube , LinkedIn , Yammer, Instagram and 
blog posts , among others . We can engage those 
who have an interest in our business, and we 
can see what people are saying about us, our 
activities and our industry. This engagement 
helps us understand t he perceptions some may 
have and gives us the opportunity to respond if 
we so choose.  
Social media has become an increasingly critical tool in our ability to communicate with customers, and 
they with us, especially during major storm restoration efforts. Storm damage can leave customers in the 
dark with limited or no access to information resources, such as TV, for hours and sometimes days. 
During these outages, smartphone devices and tablets become a lifeline for many customers, allowing us 
to connect the m with real -time information about restoration efforts. AEP uses Facebook, Twitter and 
YouTube to share information such as:  
 Estimated restoration times and maps,  
 Public safety messages,  
 Photos and videos of the damage.  
In late 2013, AEP developed new features on its website, partly in response to the exponential increase 
in website traffic from mobile devices. These new features allow customers to learn the cause of an 
outage, if known; estimated times for power restoration for their address, and the n umber of customers 
affected.  
Our Customers  
 
Customers jud ge their experience with any company in terms of cost, quality and service. They also 
measure value by how well a company responds when something goes wrong. Demonstrating that we 
care about our customers in every interaction we have with them is the hallm ark of a positive customer 
experience. Providing reliable, quality, affordable service is just the beginning. We have to understand 
114 
 what our customers want, sometimes before they do, and be ready to meet those expectations. If we do it 
right, the payback f or AEP is brand loyalty and a high degree of satisfaction for our customers.  
The customer experience encompasses every touch point we have with our customers, whether on the 
phone, with a line crew in the field, through billing and online transactions, or through the interactions 
our employees have while serving in the community.  
Because the customer experience is a high priority at AEP, we have re -energized our efforts to improve 
customer satisfaction. In 2014, we reintroduced customer satisfaction into our incentive compensation 
plans for employees through action -oriented, measurable customer experience work plans that are being 
implemented by our operating companies. These plans include new and enhanced technology solutions, 
targeted communication and e ducation efforts, and improved product offerings, such as energy 
efficiency and home warranty programs where 
applicable.  
We are also building a new baseline of 
customer satisfaction survey data from all 
customer classes (residential, industrial, 
commercial ) to benchmark against national and 
regional peers. Our goal is to ultimately 
incorporate the overall customer satisfaction 
measure itself into incentive compensation for 
employees, similar to current metrics associated 
with environmental and safety perfor mance.  
AEP's line crews are a front line point of contact for  
our customers. The customer experience is a high  
priority for AEP.  
We also know that, increasingly, technology is playing a critical role in how we communicate with our 
customers. We know elec tronic engagement is important to them because about 43 percent of customers 
have already shared their email addresses and about 18 percent are enrolled in paperless billing, a slight 
increase from 2012.  
In 2013, customers conducted approximately 15 milli on online transactions with us, a nearly 19 percent 
increase from 2012. Web traffic also increased for both desktop and mobile users. We experienced an 82 
percent increase in overall transactions compared with 2012. Approximately 735,541 residential, 
comme rcial and industrial customers receive their bills electronically. At the end of 2013, 44 percent of 
customer bill payments were being processed online and electronically. Online bill pay and electronic 
billing is a win -win for us and our customers; it is more efficient and eco -friendly and enhances 
customer satisfaction.  
AEP prides itself on quick, responsive and consistent customer service. In 2013, the number of calls that 
came into our call centers from customers slightly increased from 2012. Our focus has been to provide 
customers with a variety of channels for service, including online and self -service options over the 
115 
 phone. Enhanced self -service options empower customers to access and update account information, 
make payment arrangements and receive outage restoration information.  
Customer acceptance of the self -service options aided in reducing our average speed of answer, or how 
long it takes to answer a call, by 15 seconds in 2013. However, the average time we’re spending on the 
phone with a custo mer increased by three seconds. This increase is attributed to the amount of time our 
associates are speaking with customers to resolve their requests. While more customers are opting for 
self-service, the more complex calls must still be 
handled by our ca ll centers. The complexity of the 
call and length of time on the phone with a 
customer are directly correlated, which explains 
the increase in time spent on the phone.  
AEP continues to be a leader in customer service 
with respect to our large commercial a nd 
industrial customers. The AEP National Key 
Accounts program continues to be recognized by 
customers as one of the top national account 
programs in the industry. The team was recently 
recognized by the nation’s leading chain and 
multi -site businesses for  exceptional customer 
service in the Edison Electric Institute’s 2014 
National Key Accounts program . This is the third 
consecutive year the AEP National Key Accounts 
team has bee n recognized for its sustained efforts 
to deliver excellent customer service. The team 
represents AEP and its operating companies by 
managing corporate energy and real estate 
relationships with key national retail and 
industrial customers, providing them w ith a single 
point of contact. This is important to these 
customers who operate multi -site, multi -state 
operations. Our team helps manage their complex 
accounts, provides economic and business 
development services and serves as a technology 
resource.  
Custo mer delinquency rates can be a barometer of the general health of the economy. The positive 
trends from previous years of reduced bill delinquencies did not continue into 2013. Total AEP active 
account balances that were delinquent increased 14 percent. Th e picture was bleaker in the residential 
and nonresidential delinquency levels for those who were behind on their bills 60 days or longer, which 
was 36 percent higher than in 2012. In addition, more and more customers are entering into deferred 
payment agr eements. The inconsistent growth of the economy affects these statistics and will likely 
continue to do so. We continuously work with our customers to create payment arrangements to prevent 
service disruption. We also offer energy efficiency programs and e ducation to help lower customer bills 
116 
 that may be a result of higher -than-average consumption. We will continue to closely monitor these 
statistics and our collection efforts.  
The slower -than-expected improvement in the economy continues to take a toll o n some of our 
residential and business customers. Through grants, we provided approximately $45 million in federal 
and private energy assistance in 2013, almost 32 percent less than in 2012. Funding in 2013 of the Low 
Income Home Energy Assistance Program , or LIHEAP, was lower because funding levels vary from 
year to year based on congressional action. The LIHEAP program helps low -income families pay their 
heating and electric b ills through cash grants that are paid directly to the utility company.  
We also provide other types of aid to assist customers. 
Our self -serve agency website provides a convenient 
way for social services agencies to make their pledges 
via the Internet. In  2013, more than 11,000 pledges 
were recorded, totaling $2 million. In addition, AEP has 
Neighbor to Neighbor programs in the majority of its 
states that help customers who are behind on their bills 
but whose incomes disqualify them for government 
assistan ce. The funds for this program come from 
customer contributions as well as AEP grants.  
AEP Ohio residential customers can also participate in the PIPP Plus Program . The program allows 
income -eligible customers to make reduced payments on their utility service bills based on a percentage 
of the household income and heating source. Customers whose househol d income is at or below 150 
percent of the federal poverty income guidelines are eligible for PIPP Plus. Regulated electric and gas 
companies in Ohio offer the program to their 
customers. Customers whose homes are all 
electric pay 10 percent of the househo ld’s 
monthly income year round, while customers 
who do not heat with electricity pay 6 percent of 
the household’s monthly income year round, 
each with a minimum $10 payment. AEP Ohio 
had 130,576 customers participating in the 
program at the end of 2013.  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) 
helps its customers who are facing financial 
hardship to heat and cool their homes through 
their Light A Life Program. Light A Life is a 
year-round program allowing customers to pay a 
little extra each month to suppo rt customers in 
need. PSO customers have generously given to the Light A Life program since 1986. In 2013, 
approximately 2,100 pledges were recorded, totaling $48,413.  
117 
 Measures of Success  
In 2013, AEP placed third in the Top 100 Call Center awards from Ben chmarkingPortal. The 
competition compares the performance of customer contact centers throughout North America by 
evaluating their key metrics against industry peers. This objective process identifies who is achieving 
superior results both in financial and  qualitative terms, and AEP ranked among the best in the industry.  
Once again, AEP ranked as the top -rated utility website in the J.D. Power 2014 Uti lity Website 
Evaluation StudySM (UWES). Among the 75 utility companies included in the study, AEP performed 
particularly well in the Desktop/Laptop computer category. The UWES is based on website evaluations 
from more than 13,000 electric and/or gas resid ential customers. Companies are ranked on a scale of 1 
to 500; AEP scored a 451.  
Strong Communities  
Being a responsible corporate citizen goes beyond the fence line of our property to the heart of the 
communities and economies in which we operate or that we serve. Our investments range from the 
thousands of hours our employees volunteer locally, to corporate financial support for important 
community programs and initiatives, to economic training and development efforts. The need for our 
support is greater than ever as many areas continue to struggle economically while several of our coal 
units prepare to retire, eliminating jobs and 
other economic support as a large employer.  
Eastern Kentucky is one of the regions that has 
been negatively affected by the ec onomic 
downturn and is bracing for the retirement of 
AEP’s Big Sandy Plant Unit 2. The plant’s Unit 
1 is expected to be converted from a coal -
burning unit to a natural gas -fueled unit, 
effectively ending the use of coal at the plant.  
AEP's Economic and Bus iness Development group 
has  
been making inroads across our service territory,  
working with local communities to attract and retain  
business.  
The end of coal operations at Big Sandy Unit 2 will result in the loss of some local tax revenues and 
jobs. In r esponse, Kentucky Power Company hired InSite Consulting, LLC, a nationally known 
economic development consulting firm, to analyze and evaluate Eastern Kentucky’s economic 
development opportunities. The results of this study were a catalyst for the beginnin gs of a multi -state 
effort called the Kentucky Central Appalachian Economic Recovery Region. In addition, the study was a 
catalyst for a joint effort by Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers called 
118 
 Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Both of these efforts are regional collaborations between public and 
private entities to create jobs and other investments in the eastern Kentucky region.  
The analysis found that Eastern Kentucky has much to offer potential businesses, including a skilled 
work  force, easily accessible roads and a robust inventory of potential development sites. However, 
these selling points are not well -known or 
promoted. With the goal of creating a 
successful regional economic development 
organization and bringing jobs back, A EP and 
Kentucky Power will lead the effort by 
providing consulting and other resources to 
advance these two initiatives, as well as 
assisting local economic development 
organizations.  
AEP’s Economic and Business Development 
(E&BD) group has been making in roads 
across our service territory, working with 
local communities to attract and retain 
business to help soften the impact of the 
economic downturn. This group works 
strategically with businesses, communities, 
and state and local officials through our 
operating companies to identify potential sites 
for business relocation and expansion.  
Multiple local and regional economic 
development initiatives also took place 
throughout 2013. Two of our operating 
companies, AEP Texas and Public Service 
Company of Oklaho ma (PSO), teamed up 
with regional and local banks to raise capital 
via senior unsecured term loans to finance 
capital investments that support efforts to 
meet our customers’ needs. Our Indiana 
Michigan Power Company is also engaged in 
this type of financin g. Allowing local banks 
to provide financing for large -scale capital 
expenditures expands more traditional 
financing strategies used by AEP.  
Historically, the opportunity to finance assets 
was limited to large national financial 
institutions with global p ortfolios and 
traditional capital markets. Raising capital 
119 
 within our service territory allows us to build liquidity and diversify our lender base. It also allows us to 
do business with local banks, promoting stronger local ties and strengthening the econo mies in the 
communities we serve.  
Philanthropy  
Corporate philanthropy is also important to our communities because it helps enhance quality of life, 
advances education and other worthy endeavors, and enriches communities. In 2013, AEP and the 
American Ele ctric Power Foundation donated more than $21 million to support more than 2,200 
community organizations.  
In 2013, the AEP Foundation introduced Credits CountSM, a dual 
enrollment program to help students pursue STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Math ematics) education and careers 
while completing a high school diploma. Through a $5 million, 
five-year grant to Columbus State Community College Foundation 
in Ohio, the program will be launched in the Columbus City 
Schools in the fall of 2014.  
The program  will help students fill in 
learning gaps so they are ready to take 
college -level courses while still in high 
school. By graduation, students will have 
earned credits that count toward a career -
ready certificate in a STEM -related field or 
toward a college degree in fields that may 
include energy, the environment or 
information technology. Students who 
achieve a grade point average of at least 3.0 
are also eligible for college scholarships to 
continue their post -secondary education at 
Columbus State. Togethe r, the accumulation 
of college credits at no cost while in high 
school and the potential award of college 
scholarships addresses two of the largest 
barriers to attaining a college degree, 
especially by disadvantaged  youth – college 
preparedness and afforda bility.  
Major components of the program include 
middle school STEM experiences, college 
readiness assessments, tutoring, and a 
summer bridge program to enhance English 
and math skills. The program is designed to 
120 
 be replicated in other locations in the AEP service territory.  
The use of corporate jets is critical to our ability to conduct business in our 11 states. But these assets 
can also be used to help those in need. In 2013, AEP Aviation joined more than 550 other corporations 
that transport cancer pati ents to life -prolonging treatment as part of the Corporate Angel Network 
(CAN). According to CAN, flying on corporate aircrafts allows patients to save the expense of 
commercial tickets and avoid large 
crowds, which can pose a health risk to 
patients with immune system 
deficiencies. All arrangements are 
handled by CAN and there is no 
additional cost to the company to 
accommodate a patient and his/her 
family member or companion. CAN is a 
public charity supported entirely by 
contributions from individuals, 
foundations and corporations. Although 
there were no matches between our 
flight schedule and patients’ needs in 
2013, we are ready to support this 
initiative in 2014.  
Volunteerism  
Corporate philanthropy is one way we support our local communities. Another i s through our work 
force, many of whom selflessly serve on local boards and commissions, coach Little League teams, lead 
Parent -Teacher Associations or volunteer at local homeless shelters and food banks.  
AEP and the International Brotherhood of Electric al Workers Union, Local 1466, donated a record -
breaking 405,000 meals to the Mid -Ohio Foodbank during our annual Operation Feed Campaign in 
2013. The Mid -Ohio Foodbank works with grocers, food companies, Ohio farmers, the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture, an d community partners to obtain and distribute food to more than 550 food pantries, 
soup kitchens, shelters, after -school programs, and senior housing sites across central and eastern Ohio. 
AEP has participated in the Operation Feed Campaign since 1982.  
Whe n America celebrated the spirit of 
volunteerism on Make a Difference Day, active 
and retired AEP employees participated in 26 
community projects in nine states. This 
“national day of doing good” is sponsored by 
USA WEEKEND Magazine in partnership with 
Points of Light/HandsOn Network.  
121 
 Among their projects included sprucing up a playground for children with special needs; a pancake 
breakfast to support a local high school’s band programs; donating supplies to schools; delivering 
Thanksgiving food baskets to needy families; and donating clothing, food and blankets to the homeless.  
Nearly 315 Appalachian Power employees and retirees  
fanned out across three states to read to schoolchildren  
on Read to Me Day 2013.  
Other commitments made in 2013:  
 A $1 million A EP Foundation grant to fund the Center of Science and Industry’s Energy 
Explorers exhibit in Columbus, Ohio, over the next two years enables guests to explore how 
energy is produced and delivered to our homes and businesses, and why the choices we make are  
significant.  
 A $100,000 AEP Foundation grant to the Armed Services YMCA (ASYMCA) Lawton -Fort Sill, 
in Lawton, Okla., will support construction and renovation of facilities to bring current programs 
under one roof and provide space for new programming. The  ASYMCA Lawton -Fort Sill was 
established in 1942 to meet the needs of military members and their families by providing very 
low-cost licensed, quality child care and free household items, clothing and food; assisting 
traveling military and family; and prov iding direct financial aid to military families in need.  
 Recognizing that autism affects thousands of families, including many in our service territory, 
the AEP Foundation provided a $50,000 grant to the Highlands Foundation, Inc., located in 
Prestonsburg , Ky., for the Highlands Center for Autism (HCA) financial aid program. HCA is 
the only Kentucky -based center that uses the evidence -based applied behavior analysis method to 
treat children with autism. The grant will be used by HCA to help underwrite trea tment expenses 
and help fund enhancements that will aid in treatment.  
Sustainable Procurement  
We work with fuel and nonfuel suppliers to drive continuous improvement and efficiencies within the 
supply chain while improving environmental and safety perform ance. We ask suppliers about their 
sustainability strategy and activities through 
our procurement process, and we advise 
them of opportunities to help them reduce or 
mitigate their impacts on natural resources.  
AEP’s Supply Chain, Procurement, and 
Fleet O perations underwent a significant 
transformation in 2013. Through continuous 
improvement initiatives, the group has 
significantly reduced costs, streamlined 
sourcing practices and established a Center 
of Excellence to provide benchmarks and 
122 
 analytics, esta blish best practices, and measure our progress in achieving cost and efficiency 
improvements.  
One example of rooting out waste and improving efficiency included a review of a process called “clean 
sheeting,” where we broke down the material, labor and app ropriate overhead costs to build a new high -
voltage transformer. This allowed AEP to negotiate from a more informed position that resulted in 
significant savings. We also developed a long -term business plan for procurement called the 
“Transformational Plac emat,” with the goal of being an industry leader in performance and cost by 
2018. The Placemat serves as a priority list that includes goals, initiatives to help us reach those goals, 
and metrics to measure the results.  
The Economic and Business Developme nt (E&BD) group is also focusing on AEP suppliers as part of 
its relocation efforts. Through their comprehensive location advisory services, they can help our 
suppliers increase profitability, lower operating costs and maximize supply chain efficiencies.  
AEP also works directly with its fuel suppliers and surveys its 
coal suppliers on their environmental, safety and health 
performance. We have conducted four surveys of our coal 
suppl iers, a commitment we made to stakeholders to better 
understand the lifecycle of coal, its impacts on the environment 
and how our suppliers are addressing those impacts, and to share 
leading practices.  
The AEP Sustainability Survey of Coal Suppliers is t he only 
known survey of the coal industry. It reflects an assessment of 
approximately one -half of the coal mined in the United States 
and nearly every coal basin in the country. The 2013 report 
marked AEP’s fourth year conducting the survey. Results are 
based on 2011 and 2012 data.  
The 2013 report also marks a major milestone for AEP and the 
coal industry as we now have collected five years of data, giving 
us important industry insights. Key findings include a 
consistently high level of safety, health and environmental performance, with our suppliers performing 
better than the national average. We also have seen an increased commitment to sustainability reporting, 
with 45 percent of our respondents now publishing social responsibility reports compared with 14 
percent in 2009.  
This survey gives us important insights into the environmental, safety and health performance of the 
coal industry – validating that we share common values and strive for excellence in managing our 
impacts to the environment and keepin g employees safe. We have learned much about our suppliers, and 
they have learned about their own industry through this process. For example, a majority of respondents 
have programs that include training, job safety analysis programs, risk assessments and wellness 
programs.  
123 
 We plan to continue this effort because our suppliers have indicated that it provides great value, 
especially regarding environmental performance, and because it’s the only such benchmark of the 
industry. Some suppliers also said they u se the data in their own sustainability reports and to help drive 
continuous improvement within their companies. As we diversify our resource mix, we will consider 
how to engage with other fuel suppliers, particularly within the natural gas industry.  
We re sponded to Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) 2013 Supply Chain Survey  and have done so for 
the past three years. This survey aims to drive action on climate change among b oth purchasing 
companies and their suppliers. The survey provides us with a different platform to be transparent about 
our sustainable supply chain efforts and collects business -related climate change information from our 
suppliers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 124 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
125 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
126 
 Culture Commitment  
Research shows that companies with a strong culture and a strategic business plan outperform their 
peers — one of many reasons we are so focused on the employee experience. Moving toward a cultur e 
that is fully aligned with our new business environment will take time and a strong and steady 
commitment. We are very committed.  
We held approximately 90 employee focus group meetings in 2013 to solicit feedback on our culture 
journey and more than 1,00 0 employees took part. We received many ideas for improving how we 
recognize employees for their work, what it takes to be a great leader at AEP, and fostering an 
environment that welcomes employee engagement.  
In response, we created an 18 -member employe e team to develop a framework for engagement. The 
“Framework for Positive Employee -Leader 
Engagement” provides practical tips to facilitate 
more effective and meaningful engagement 
between leaders and employees. Engagement is 
a two -way street, and this fra mework places 
equal responsibility on both employees and 
leaders for positive, effective interaction. The 
engagement model will be included in a new 
leadership framework as one of the tools we’ll 
make available to leaders.  
AEP created a 15 -member employee -led corporate  
Culture Advisory Board. The team serves as champions  
for AEP’s culture initiative.  
We also formed an Employee Culture Advisory Board, a team of 15 employees who serve as culture 
stewards across the company. These members are a conduit betwe en employees and senior management. 
Board members chair local culture committees to further engage employees across the AEP system. To 
bring employees together to learn how our culture and values are tied to our business success, the board 
organized a comp anywide Culture Stand Up during the first quarter of 2014. The Stand Up engaged 
employees at all levels of the company, in group meetings, to talk about how our values are core to 
guiding us to being the utility of the future.  
To understand what we must d o to achieve the culture we want at AEP, we have to start with our own 
behaviors. To do that, we began to roll out a culture leadership workshop, Power Up & Lead. In 2013, 
about 400 members of management attended three days of training to learn about their  leadership styles, 
what makes a great leader at AEP and how to be more effective communicators. We will begin to roll 
out this workshop this year to all employees across AEP.  
 
127 
 Reward and recognition can be as simple as saying thank you for a job well don e or as substantial as a 
promotion or pay raise. Our system for recognizing employees and managing performance was outdated 
and a source of frustration among employees. Consequently, we launched an evaluation and redesign of 
our performance management and 
compensation systems to meet current business 
needs and reflect the market. Implementation 
of the new systems will begin this year.  
In addition, we will be developing a framework 
for recognition. During our focus groups, we 
received hundreds of ideas from employees 
about what makes them feel appreciated and 
valued. This framework will catalogue those 
ideas to serve as a resource for leaders.  
Continuous improvement initiatives require employee  
engagement to be successful.  
Year -end employee focus groups show ed us that employees are beginning to see change happen. More 
employee recognition, sharing of information and collaboration are taking place. Employees are still 
skeptical about our commitment, and we will have to prove ourselves by staying the course. Bu t this is a 
positive sign, and we are working hard to continue embedding the type of culture and values in our work 
force that we believe to be critical to our business success.  
Diversity at AEP  
From front -line employees to the board of directors, we val ue and celebrate diversity at AEP and in the 
communities where we live, work and operate. To us, diversity is about ethnicity, gender, age, and other 
demographic factors, as well as the differences that make our employees, customers, communities and 
board members unique. This diversity brings fresh perspectives and experiences, skills, ideas, culture 
and opinions to AEP, all of which make the work environment and the community a richer and better 
place.  
The diversity of our board of directors, executive ma nagement team and regional utility presidents 
includes six women, two African Americans and three Hispanics. Women make up 19 percent of those 
in senior leadership while minorities comprise 16 percent of the total.  
Having a board and management team with d iverse representation of age, gender, ethnicity, culture and 
experience brings a broader perspective to business issues, allowing us to make more informed 
decisions. It also sets the tone for our commitment to diversity within our work force and in our 
communities.  
In November 2013, AEP’s board diversity was celebrated at The Women’s Forum of New York’s 2013 
Breakfast of Corporate Champions. The event recognizes Fortune 500 companies that have at least 20 
128 
 percent female representation in their boardrooms. The Forum believes that these corporate champions 
can be an inspiration for other companies to advance gender balance in the board room. The diverse 
skills and perspectives women bring to AEP’s boardroom are vital in helping us navigate change and 
position ing the company for continued success.  
Diversity in our work force extends from the boardroom to the front line. We track the advancement of 
females and minorities from front -line craft -level positions to executive posts. We had greater staffing 
opportun ities in 2013 than in 2012, which had a positive impact on our diversity representation. 
Diversity is something we consider in every hiring decision.  
 
 
 
AEP will continue to be deliberate in our efforts to fill positions, being mindful that demographics va ry 
greatly across our service territory. Beyond that, we need to change how prospective employees view 
AEP. We want to be seen as a progressive company that offers a rewarding career path for the future.  
In order to maintain diversity in our employee candi date pool, we have established strong relationships 
with universities with large minority and female populations, including Texas A&M University –
Kingsville, Missouri University of Science & Technology, Tuskegee University and the University of 
129 
 Puerto Rico.  We also have partnerships with organizations such as the Center for Energy Workforce 
Development (CEWD), Direct Employers and the United Negro College Fund to assist us with our 
diversity recruitment efforts.  
Jobs for veterans  
AEP participated in the CEW D Troops to Energy Jobs pilot, which wrapped up in July 2013. This was a 
collaborative effort with five other utility companies – Dominion, Southern Company, Arizona Public 
Service, Pacific Gas & Electric, and National Grid. The purpose of the initiative w as to build a 
sustainable framework to help accelerate the training and employability of veterans in key energy 
positions. It was also designed to assist veterans in making a successful transition into our industry. The 
pilot accomplished its mission and a  national template was formed to assist energy companies across the 
country in their efforts to hire veterans, helping them to develop a comprehensive initiative for military 
outreach, education, recruiting and retention.  
AEP received the Faraday Award in April 2014 
as part of Electric Power’s annual conference. 
The recognition signifies AEP’s partnership and 
involvement in the Power4Vets  program, which 
earned national recognition as an outstandi ng 
effort in the electric power sector to recruit, 
retain and mentor veterans who are returning to 
civilian careers after serving in the armed 
forces.  
AEP representatives accept the Faraday Award in  
recognition of the company’s efforts to recruit, retain  
and mentor military veterans.  
Employee resource groups  
Employee resource groups (ERGs) are another way we give voice to the diversity of our work force. 
These groups support AEP’s values and goals, strengthen communication between AEP and its 
employees, provide a forum for exchanging 
new ideas and enhance the company’s 
desirability as a prospective employer. AEP’s 
ERGs are the Asian American Employee 
Partnership, Hispanic Origin -Latin American 
(HOLA) Employee Resource Group, African 
American Employee Reso urce Group, AEP 
Pride Partnership (for gay, lesbian, bisexual 
and transgender employees and their 
supporters) and the Military Veterans 
Employee Resource Group. The last group, the 
newest to be formed in 2013, is a company -
130 
 wide network enabling increased s upport for military members, veterans and their families. AEP ERGs 
coordinate activities to share their heritage through music, art, food and cultural events for all 
employees. They also host personal development programs, assist in diversity recruitment a nd 
participate in community outreach events throughout the year.  
Human rights in the workplace is an important social 
issue for all companies. Recognizing the evolving 
diversity of our work force and the global economy 
we operate within, AEP has changed policies, 
benefits, training and other resources to be more 
inclusive. The AEP Pride Partnership group worked 
with the Office of Diversity to greatly improve the 
company’s rating on the annual Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index. This index has 
become a benchmarking tool for large U.S. companies 
in terms of fair, nondiscriminatory treatment of gay, 
lesbian, bisexual and transgender (GLBT) employees 
in the workplace. AEP’s rating has risen to 80 on a 
scale of 1 to 100, compared with previous ratin gs of 
55 in 2013 and 15 in 2012. AEP was one of 734 
employers rated in the 2014 survey.  
Continuous Improvement  
To be a successful company, we have to work as a team; stay focused on doing the right things; be 
thoughtful about how we manage human, financia l and natural capital; and constantly communicate. 
2013 was an excellent year for AEP in many ways — we delivered on our growth strategy, our safety 
and environmental performance was among the best in our history, and we delivered value to our 
customers an d shareholders. This didn’t just happen; our employees made it happen.  
In 2013, we asked our employees to help us identify sustainable savings and new revenues. They came 
up with hundreds of ideas to be more efficient, operate more cost -effectively and ide ntify process 
improvements. Continuous improvement requires taking a close look at the work, the resources that are 
needed, and the process to get that work done. We celebrated many successes because our employees 
got involved.  
Examples of continuous impro vement efforts  
Technical malfunctions can unexpectedly take a generating unit off line. One example is the failure of a 
boiler tube. When that happens, the entire unit must be taken off line for repairs, which can be lengthy. 
Mechanics making the repairs d on’t always know what types of tools they need to bring with them for 
the job, requiring several trips to get the equipment they need. Employees at two of our power plants 
131 
 analyzed the repair process and found that they were making 24 trips to get all the equipment they 
needed. In response, they created a new Point of Use kit that is organized, well -stocked and mobile — 
allowing them to bring it with them wherever they need it. With this new kit, they have reduced the 
number of trips to eight, allowing them  to spend more time on actual repairs.  
As our Transmission business grows at a fast pace, we want to be more agile in our ability to manage the 
work in the field as well as maintain the reliability of the grid. In 2013, that meant reorganizing how we 
do our work and putting employees closer to our facilities and our customers. With 90 offices across our 
11-state region, AEP Transmission provides services to our operating companies, Transcos and joint 
ventures. We operate central service functions in region al offices in Ohio, Oklahoma and Virginia. We 
reorganized our Transmission Field Services (TFS) organization and hired more than 100 new field 
services employees to handle construction work 
that was previously done by contractors. This 
initiative will allo w for faster response when 
damage occurs to the system, and is more 
efficient because these employees are based at 
locations throughout our service territory where 
we need them. The TFS organization has 
increased the number of projects built by AEP 
crews. By doing more of this construction work 
in-house, our crews also gain knowledge and 
the core experience that is needed to grow the 
business.  
Employees are focusing on more effective and efficient  
ways to perform their jobs.  
In transmission, we also reduce d costs by increasing our complement of engineering and project 
management resources and added about 200 new positions. These decisions have led to new career 
opportunities for employees while addressing a business need.  
We made several changes in our pro curement organization to be more efficient, reduce costs and 
improve processes, focusing on reducing cost to our customers. In 2013, for example, we centralized 
procurement functions for Distribution and Transmission. This move resulted in cost savings and  
opportunities to standardize operations across AEP. The advantages of this move include:  
 Standardizing procurement procedures, terms and conditions, systems, contracts, processes and 
paperwork;  
 Standardizing contractor safety requirements and benchmarks;  
 Leveraging purchases; and  
 Improved pairing of contractors with projects.  
Many of these initiatives come down to common sense, but it is this type of engagement and 
empowerment that promotes entrepreneurial thinking and leads to cost and work efficiencies that really 
add up.  
132 
 Awards & Recognition  
The work we do to keep the lights on, minimize our impacts to the environment, and improve the quality 
of life in our communities is second nature to us. We don’t do it for awards; we do it to make a 
difference. It  is gratifying when our efforts are 
recognized for adding value and having positive 
impact.  
We are proud of the diversity in our work force 
and of the diverse opportunities and benefits we 
offer to our employees. We are also proud of 
our employees who are  innovative and have 
exceptional technical expertise. These attributes 
of our culture were recognized in different ways 
during 2013.  
AEP was recognized as one of the nation’s top 100 “military -friendly” employers by G.I. Jobs Magazine  
in 2014. This year’s  honorees were selected from among more than 5,000 employers with annual 
revenues of at least $500 million. Companies were selected based on their assets dedicated to military 
hiring, the strength of their recruiting programs, and their policies regarding National Guard and reserve 
service, among other criteria. AEP has a generous military leave policy. Approximately 10 percent of 
AEP employees have served in the military.  
Scott Smith, senior vice president for transmission strategy and business operations at AEP, shared his 
personal experience with Intelligent Utility , as well as AEP’s strategy to help returning veterans 
transition into utility jobs. Read his story - http://www.intelligentutility.com/article/13/09/aep -reaches -
out-veteran -community  
A coalition of more than 130 employers, including AEP, set a 
goal to hire 100,000 U.S. military veterans by 2020. The 
coalition surpassed that goal by the  end of 2013, hiring a total of 
117,437 military veterans – seven years early. The 131 
companies now involved have revised their pledge to hire 
200,000 veterans by 2020.  
AEP was recognized for its commitment to gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (GLBT ) workplace 
equality by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. AEP received a score of 80 out of 100 on the 
Foundation’s 2014 Corporate Equality Index, a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate 
policies, benefits and practices for members of th e GLBT community. We support our GLBT 
community by offering benefits to same -sex couples and families.  
133 
 For the seventh consecutive year, AEP was named 
one of the most adoption -friendly workplaces by the 
Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption in 2013. The 
rankings are based on the maximum amount of 
financial reimbursement and paid leave per 
adoption. We also provide families with adoption 
assistance for eligible adoption -related expenses and 
provide up to 40 hours of paid leave for new 
adoptive parents. AEP h as assisted its employees 
with 72 adoptions since 2007.  
AEP River Operations’ Chesterfield, Mo., office 
was recognized as one of The St. Louis Post -
Dispatch Top Workplaces in 2013. The Top 
Workplaces are determined solely on employee 
feedback. AEP’s Chest erfield office had a response 
rate of 92 percent. These confidential surveys are a 
great way for employers to gauge how their 
employees feel about their work environment. We 
are honored to have been selected for this award, 
especially by our own employees.  
 
Recognition for Technical Work  
Many of our employees routinely engage in technical work and research that results in breakthroughs 
that benefit both AEP and our industry. Each year, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) 
recognizes individuals, wor k teams, companies and industry collaborators for this work. AEP received 
several EPRI Technology Transfer Awards in 2013 for a variety of projects:  
 AEP led one of the first major collaborations between the automotive and utility industries on 
modern plug -in vehicle technology. Our work demonstrated how to incorporate original 
equipment manufacturer -engineered plug -in hybrid prototype vehicles into everyday fleet and 
company operations.  
 AEP was involved in a project to develop a communication interface spec ification that makes it 
easier to deploy demand response programs for consumers. It led the Consumer Electronics 
Association to release a new standard that enables off -the-shelf consumer products, such as water 
heaters, thermostats and dryers, to be compat ible with any utility demand response system. 
Similar to a USB port on a computer, the new standard allows the user to plug in a 
communication module enabling easier access to demand response programs. The 
communication module can easily be changed out as technology changes, or when consumers 
move, they can take it with them to be served by a new utility.  
 By understanding the level of investment, the cost to operate and maintain, the land needed, and 
potential savings from energy generated, we can then det ermine if a distributed solar generation 
134 
 project is the best solution for our customers. We used EPRI’s Solar Power Fact Book to gather 
data and compile it into a single manual that uses well -documented assumptions, enabling us to 
better serve our customer s who are interested in these technologies.  
 AEP was recognized for deploying equipment, collecting data, conducting analyses and 
ultimately creating case studies of our gridSMART® initiatives over four years.  
 We initiated a project to evaluate the 
likeli hood of fly ash to statically liquefy to 
support appropriate design and loading of 
ash ponds, especially during pond closure. 
This will help us to understand the safest 
way to close these ponds as regulations 
change.  
 A collaboration between AEP and other 
electric utilities on a research project about 
water withdrawal and consumption for 
electric power generation identified 
improvements we can make to be more 
efficient in our use of water. The project 
looked at how our industry compares to 
water use in othe r industries and how 
conservation options can be used to reduce 
consumption. We presented the findings to 
the Texas House of Representatives Water 
Resources Committee to inform the debate 
on how to achieve sustainable water 
resources in Texas.  
 AEP collabor ated with other utilities to 
investigate the root cause of severe 
corrosion occurring in flue gas 
desulfurization (FGD) systems installed in 
U.S. coal -fueled power plants and to 
develop new inspection and mitigation 
strategies. FGDs are installed on severa l 
AEP power plants to control emissions.  
  
 
 
 
 
135 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
136 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 137 
  
138 
   
 
 
 
 
139 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
140 
 About this Report  
This is AEP’s fifth integrated report combining the Annual Report to Shareholders with the Corporate 
Sustainability Report. This is our eighth year of reporting our sustainability performance. This website 
— www.AEPsustainability.com  — includes significant data and information about AEP’s performanc e 
and is based largely on calendar year 2013 with exceptions for early 2014 data as noted. For more 
information about AEP, visit www.AEP.com . AEP's reporting aligns with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) and also integrates principles of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). 
In addition, we review the work of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to apply 
principles that are appropriate.  
 
GRI 
AEP follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting principles in terms of data quality, r eport 
content and organizational boundaries. We use GRI’s G3.1 guidelines, the GRI Electric Utility Sector 
Supplement for reporting on industry -specific information, as well as some aspects of GRI’s fourth 
generation of Guidelines, G4, as we begin to trans ition from G3.1 to G4.  
Audit Review Of This Report  
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of company performance statements contained within 
the 2014 AEP Corporate Accountability Report. Financial information was reconciled with AEP's 
audited finan cial statements, if applicable, or to such other sources as deemed appropriate. Processes 
used in accumulating the significant nonfinancial data were reviewed and the data reconciled to the 
sources(s). The appropriateness of the context in which data are p resented was also reviewed. Finally, 
forward -looking information was verified as consistent with other public information disclosed by AEP. 
Based upon our review as of April 25, 2014, we believe the performance information contained within 
the Report is ap propriately stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and 
nonfinancial information are reasonable.  
 
Richard A. Mue ller 
Vice President, Audit Services  
April 25, 2014  
 141 
 Material Issues  
Knowing what issues are most important to the company and its stakeholders is a key factor when 
disclosing performance. We consider material issues to be those that have affected, or that are 
reasonably likely to affect, the company's reputation, liquidity, capital resources or results of operations. 
Material issues can also include those that stakeholders consider important to their interests and to AEP's 
sustainability.  
In 2012, AEP cond ucted a formal materiality assessment to evaluate the sustainability issues of 
importance to our stakeholders and our business. We also sought to identify opportunities for improving 
our presentation of information. We used the Global Reporting Initiative,  the International Integrated 
Reporting Council and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board as guidance to give us 
perspective on expectations for performance reporting. And we got an analyst’s view to help us see how 
investors view our reporting and  what they need to be able to make more informed decisions about AEP.  
This exercise allowed us to see the connections between issues our stakeholders say are important to 
them and our business strategy, risks and opportunities. Understanding these linkages  allows us to be 
more focused in our engagement and to allocate resources where there is the greatest opportunity for 
sustainable growth while mitigating potential risks.  
AEP Materiality Matrix  
Description of Matrix  
The matrix highlights those issues ide ntified as AEP's new priority issues, based on the survey results. 
These priority issues are represented in blue. The numbers on the X and Y axis represent the degree of 
materiality as assessed by the survey. We defined how materiality should be interprete d for 
all stakeholders who participated, recognizing that each individual stakeholder group would 
have a different perspective. They were asked to respond to each issue, ranking them as not 
applicable/not material, low materiality, medium materiality, or h igh materiality. The X axis 
represents the scoring for internal stakeholders; the Y axis represents the average scoring for external 
stakeholders.  
Increases in the temperature of the earth’s atmosphere, caused either by natural cycles or human activity, 
and their potential impact on AEP’s operations, including its fuel mix; its environmental compliance; the 
cost of electricity; and the company’s financial performance.  
In November 2012, we sought opinions from more than 250 internal and external stakeholde rs. This 
outreach extended to the six -member Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the AEP 
Board of Directors, as well as the board chairman, all of whom completed the survey. This committee 
has oversight of AEP's sustainability reporting and initiatives and was deemed the most appropriate 
board engagement for this first assessment. In the future, we will engage the entire board.  
142 
 The materiality matrix that resulted from the survey reflects AEP’s environmental, economic and social 
impacts and a ligns with our business strategy and material risks. Although this assessment provided 
guidance, it reflects a specific point in time. In preparing our 2014 Corporate Accountability Report, we 
sought to test the continued relevance of these priority issues  as well as identify any new or emerging 
issues.  
To do this, we organized a half -day workshop 
with subject matter experts from more than 15 
business units and departments across AEP. 
Facilitated by SustainAbility, a consultant that 
works with us on stake holder engagement, the 
discussion was robust and thoughtful. These 
experts questioned how issues were described 
and offered ideas for greater clarity; they 
identified disconnects between the initial 
assessment and today’s changing environment; 
and they ide ntified new and emerging issues 
that are now on our radar screen.  
For example, the way we look at cybersecurity 
has expanded to include potential threats from 
the supply chain as suppliers gain access to 
our systems. The group also identified the 
growing impact of distributed generation, such 
as rooftop solar, to AEP’s business model and 
strategy. In the wake of Super Storm Sandy and other extreme weather events, grid hardening has also 
become a higher priority.  
We also identified three additional priorit y issues during our review. Customer relationships/satisfaction, 
engaging our employees, and market competitiveness were issues deemed material in 2012, but not 
identified as priority issues. These new priority issues reflect the strategies put in place in  2013 to help 
execute our strategy for growth. Improving our customer experience, engaging our employees and 
advancing our competitive businesses will continue to be our focus in 2014 and beyond.  
In addition to an internal review, we met with environmenta l groups and investors to discuss these issues 
in November 2013. We asked them what they wanted to talk with us about and then wove several of our 
material issues into the discussion. Some of the questions and issues they raised mirrored those of our 
internal stakeholders. For example, our external stakeholders also raised the issue of distributed 
generation and its impact on AEP’s business and the industry.  
Climate change remains a priority issue for our stakeholders, as it is for AEP. Stakeholder interes t in 
AEP’s internal culture and its influence on business strategy and success was unexpected. They saw it as 
a reflection of how the company is integrating its strategic focus with employee engagement to manage 
those issues that are shaping AEP’s future. The discussions and subsequent interactions we had with all 
of our stakeholders validate the priority sustainability issues for AEP.  
143 
 A third component of our materiality review in 2013 was an external review of AEP’s Corporate 
Accountability website. Spec ifically, we asked SustainAbility to review the content organization and 
structure and make recommendations for improving accessibility and presentation of information for 
different stakeholder audiences. This was a very helpful exercise and the organizati on of this year’s 
report and website reflect this evaluation. Among their specific recommendations was to use simpler and 
clearer language and descriptions. For example, in this year’s report, “Fleet Transformation” is now 
called “Coal Unit Retirements.” S ustainAbility also recommended tailoring online communications to 
engage different stakeholder groups.  
AEP also received an analysis of its environmental, social and governance reporting – prepared by the 
Analyst DeskSM – a partnership between MetaVu and Wall Street investment analytics firm CRD 
Analytics. The analysis looked at reporting transparency, availability, completeness and syntax. We 
found this to be a valuable input to our process because it provided an investor’s view by reviewing our 
reporting  through the lens of the NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability Index. This index tracks 
companies that are taking a leadership role in sustainability performance reporting.  
The sum of our review process has given us a sharper focus on priority issues, impr oved online 
navigation and prompted us to use more straightforward language in describing parts of our business. It 
has also brought us closer to providing more tailored communications for different stakeholder groups. 
We have taken all of this input into consideration in preparing the 2014 report. Each time we go through 
this process, we deepen our understanding of the importance of integrated financial and nonfinancial 
performance reporting.  
Materiality in the Electric Industry  
The number of electric uti lities committed to sustainable electricity is growing every year. Through the 
Electric Power Research Institute’s Sustainability Interest Group (ESIG), more than 40 investor -owned 
and public utilities, municipal cooperatives and merchant power generators come together regularly to 
share best practices and learn. In 2012, ESIG undertook an industry -wide materiality assessment (which 
AEP participated in) that was published in early 2013. This year, the group will publish a companion 
report about activities i dentified by stakeholders that utilities are doing or can consider to address the 
industry’s priority issues.  
Learn more about the electric utility industry’s materiality assessment . 
GRI - Global Reporting Initiative  
This report was primarily developed according to the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI)  Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3) with some integration of GRI’s fourth generation of Guidelines - 
G4. The GRI guidelines provide a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the 
world as the basis for sustainability rep orting. We are using the G3.1 standards, the Electric Utility 
Sector Supplement for reporting on industry -specific information, as well as some aspects of G4 as we 
begin to transition from G3.1 to G4.  144 
 AEP 2014 Corporate Accountability Report – GRI Report  
Carbon Disclosure Project  
As a pillar of the company's commitment to social responsibility, AEP places high value and priority on 
transparency in our actions. By respondin g to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey(s), AEP 
recognizes the importance of our disclosure and our commitment to the interests of our stakeholders. 
This is AEP’s eighth year responding to CDP.  
CDP is an international, not -for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and 
cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. They work with market 
forces to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and 
take action to reduce them. CDP now holds the largest collection globally of primary climate change, 
water and forest -risk information and puts these insights at the heart of strategic business, investment 
and policy decisions.   
 Carbon Disclosure Project - AEP's 2013 Response  (PDF)  
 CDP Water Disclosure Project - AEP's 201 3 Response  (PDF)  
 CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project - AEP's 2013 Response  (PDF)  
Mid-Cycle Reporting Update  
AEP is committed to providing a mid -cycle update on our progress toward achieving our goals. This 
update focuses on the key commitments that stakeholders ask about most frequently. A full update on all 
commitments is published every April in AEP's Corporate Accountability Report.  
All data ref lected here are YTD through June 30, 2013, unless otherwise noted. This was the cutoff for 
reporting progress to AEP’s Risk Executive Committee and the AEP Board of Directors.  
 2013 AEP Mid -Year Update of Key Commitments  (PDF)  
o 2013 Mid -Year Performance Summary  (PDF)  
 2012 AEP Mid -Year Update of Key Commitments  (PDF)  
 2011 AEP  Mid-Year Update of Key Commitments  (PDF)  
 2010 AEP Mid -Year Update of Key Commitments  (PDF)  
 2009 AEP Mid -Year Update of Key Commitments  (PDF)  
Coal Supplier Survey  
America’s energy future will no doubt contain a greater diversity of energy sources but coal will 
continue to be the foundation  of that resource base for the foreseeable future. At the same time, the life 
cycle of coal is of great concern to many of our stakeholders – from mining practices and combustion 
for energy production to disposal of coal combustion byproducts. Through our stakeholder engagement 145 
 process AEP committed to annually survey our coal suppliers to assess their environmental, safety and 
health performance.  
The purpose of this survey is to collect information about where and how our suppliers source their coal 
that AEP purchases and to collect data on their overall performance in the areas of safety, health and 
environmental compliance. This company -specific data will not be shared publicly but will be used by 
AEP to help us analyze and identify best practices and be gin to understand some of the social 
ramifications of the electric and coal industries.  
This resource site provides information for our suppliers about the survey, including links to the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement  (MMSS). Several performance indicators 
from the MMSS are included in our survey. Our commitment to transparency includes making the 
aggregated final report and analy sis public by posting it to the web.  
 2013 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2011 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2010 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2009 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement – Supplier Matrix   (pdf)  
 
 