The Powerful  
Backing of  
American Express
2019-2020  
Environmental, Social and Governance ReportESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Table of Contents
02 About this Report
INTRODUCTION  
03 Introduction
04 Letter from the Chairman and CEO
07 About American Express
HOW WE APPROACH ESG
09 Introduction
10 Our ESG Strategy 
13 Supporting the Sustainable  
 Development Goals (SDGs)
14 2019-2020 ESG Highlights
BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
18 Introduction
20 Fostering an Inclusive and  
 Diverse Workplace
24 Prioritizing Colleague Health,  
 Safety and Well-Being
27 Providing Learning and  
 Development Opportunities
BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
29 Introduction
31 Building Financial Confidence
35 Protecting Our Customers'  
 Privacy and Security
37 Innovating for Our Customers
BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
39 Introduction
40 Investing in Our Communities  
 Through Charitable Giving
43 Enabling Colleagues to Back  
 Our CommunitiesMOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
45 Introduction
46 Investing in Sustainable Operations
49 Assessing Climate Risks  
 and Opportunities
51 Advancing Sustainable Products  
 and Sourcing
53 Environmental Performance  
 Data Summary
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
56 Introduction
57 Business Ethics
60 Board of Directors and Corporate  
 Governance Framework
61 Risk Management, Data Privacy  
 and Security
62 Responsible Procurement and  
 Supplier Diversity
63 Responsible Lending  
 and Financing
64 End Notes
66 Assurance Statement
69 GRI Index
73 SASB  Index1ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
About This Report
This report covers calendar year 2019 and provides qualitative and quantitative information on our approach to 
managing our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) opportunities and risks. In some cases, we also share 
highlights from programs and initiatives that were launched in 2020 to provide more up-to-date information to 
our stakeholders.
When we use the terms “American Express, ” “Company, ” “we, ” “us, ” or “our” in this report, we mean American 
Express Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless we state, or the context implies, otherwise.
This report responds to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
and T ask Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting guidelines with respect to our priority 
ESG issues. GRI and SASB indexes can be found in the Appendix of the report, as well as our T ask Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) aligned summary report.  
In this report, the use of the term “materiality” and other similar terms refers to topics that reflect our priority 
ESG issues. We are not using such terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States 
or any other jurisdiction or as these terms are used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting.
We report on ESG issues annually through this ESG report and the American Express Corporate Social 
Responsibility website. Additional information can be found through our submissions to the CDP (formerly 
Carbon Disclosure Project), in our annual and quarterly reports on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission and on the American Express Investor Relations website. Links and references included throughout 
the report provide direction on where to find additional information.2
Reporting Guidelines and Content
Y ou may also request a copy of these documents by writing to us at the following address:
Email: corporatesecretarysoffice@aexp.com  
American Express Company  
200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, New Y ork 10285  
Attention: Deputy Corporate Secretary
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are 
subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, including the Company’s aspirational environmental commitments 
and goals, contain words such as “believe, ” “expect, ” “anticipate, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “aim, ” “will, ” “may, ” “should, ” “could, ” “would, ” “likely, ” 
“estimate, ” “predict, ” “potential, ” “continue” or other similar expressions. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-
looking statements due to a variety of factors, including: the Company’s inability to address competitive pressures and implement its 
strategies and business initiatives; changes in developing standards and certifications; the cost and availability of renewable energy 
projects, energy attribute certificates, certified carbon offset projects, certified paper and green buildings and alternatives to single-use 
plastic; supply chain and market disruption; regulation; changes in customer or colleague behavior; management’s decision to increase 
or decrease investments; potential M&A activity and the acquisition of less efficient companies; severe weather conditions; changes in 
the Company’s real estate and technology strategies; and an inability of waste management systems to divert waste to recycling and 
composting facilities. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Company’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (the “2019 Annual Report”) and the Company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission. Y ou are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of 
the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
This report includes trademarks, such as American Express®, which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are 
the property of American Express Company or its subsidiaries. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and trade names referred to 
in this report may appear without the ® or TM symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not 
assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right of the applicable licensor to these trademarks and trade names.
Apex Companies, LLC was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by 
American Express for the calendar year 2019. The Verification Statement and the scope of work is included on pages 66-68.
All endnotes throughout this report can be found on pages 64-65.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues IntroductionIntroduction
Letter from the Chairman and CEO 04
About American Express  073
3ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Introduction
Letter from the  
Chairman and CEO4
At American Express, we believe the fundamental 
purpose of a corporation is to serve the needs of 
society and that backing our colleagues, customers 
and communities so they can thrive is critical to our 
success. These beliefs have been our North Star for 
170 years and through many challenging times – from 
helping evacuate travelers during World Wars, to 
ensuring the safety of our customers’ funds during 
the Great Depression, to creating the Shop Small® 
movement to help small businesses recover from 
the Financial Crisis, to providing aid to communities 
impacted by many natural disasters and so much more. 
These core beliefs are also what guide us today in the 
face of the current global health crisis. As we navigate 
through one the most extraordinary periods in recent 
history, I am extremely proud of how our American 
Express colleagues have come together to back our 
customers, communities, partners, shareholders and 
one another.
BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
For generations, the key to our success has been 
the determination and resilience of our American 
Express colleagues and the world-class service they 
deliver to our customers every day. That is why the 
first principle in our response to the pandemic was to 
ensure our colleagues’ health and safety and provide 
them with job security, flexibility and the resources 
they need. 
In early March, we swiftly moved to work-from-home 
arrangements in almost every location around the 
world within weeks. This required a new approach 
to how we operate across the Company, including 
a complete transformation of our global customer 
service and travel operations from brick-and-mortar 
call centers to virtual, home-based service centers. 
As the situation continues to evolve, with countries 
and states at various stages of reopening schools and 
local businesses, we are taking a phased, location-by-
location approach to returning to our offices around 
the world, prioritizing our colleagues’ well-being and 
giving them flexibility to help manage their work and 
family obligations by providing the option to continue 
temporarily working from home through June 30, 
2021. 
Recognizing the importance of job and pay assurance, 
we committed to no COVID-19-related layoffs for 
the remainder of 2020 and to continuing to pay colleagues who could not work from home and whose 
offices remain closed during 2020. We have also 
enhanced our mental health and well-being programs 
as well as communications and tools to help our 
colleagues cope with challenges during this time. With 
these actions, our colleagues around the world can 
focus on what’s most important – staying healthy, 
safe and caring for their families – while continuing to 
provide the very best support to our customers.
Additionally, in the wake of recent acts of violence 
against members of the Black/African American 
Community in the United States, we are taking 
a hard look at our own business and colleague 
practices and developing a comprehensive plan to 
drive meaningful and lasting change to create equal 
opportunities for people of all genders, races and 
ethnicities. Accordingly, we recently created the 
Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity and Business 
Engagement, which reports directly to me and is 
responsible for intensifying our focus on driving long-
term change in our culture and the way we operate. 
Our framework for this effort is comprised of six 
pillars across our business: Brand, Culture, Colleague, 
Customer, Business and Community. Each of these 
pillars will have comprehensive, multi-year plans with 
clear objectives, timelines and metrics. T o solidify 
our commitment and provide transparency on our 
progress, we have provided enhanced disclosures 
around the diversity representation of our workforce 
in this report. We view this as just the beginning of a 
multi-year commitment to further advance inclusion 
and diversity priorities across our enterprise, help 
address issues of inequality, promote social justice 
and stand against racism.
We also took a step back to reevaluate our Blue Box 
Values, which guide how we operate as a company; 
these are the values to which we hold all colleagues 
accountable. This year, we made some important 
changes to be more explicit about our efforts to 
create an inclusive and diverse workforce, adding 
two new values: “We Embrace Diversity” and “We 
Stand for Inclusion. ” These updated values are 
designed to make it clear that we do not tolerate 
bias of any kind and to reinforce our commitment to 
ensuring we have a welcoming and inclusive culture 
where everyone’s voice matters and where people 
of all races, ethnicities, genders, gender identities, 
sexual orientations, ages, religions, disabilities and 
viewpoints can thrive. Y ou may find a full list of our 
updated Blue Box Values on page 57 .ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Introduction5 INTRODUCTION
In recent years, we have also focused on achieving pay parity 
and advancing female leadership at all levels of the enterprise. In 
2019, we were proud to achieve pay parity for women globally, as 
well as across races and ethnicities in the United States. We are 
also committed to supporting the advancement of women inside 
and outside of our Company through innovative programs such 
as The American Express Ambition Project, designed to back 
women’s collective success and address the unique challenges 
women face in the workplace. In recognition of these efforts, we 
are pleased to be ranked #15 on Fortune's Best Workplaces for 
Women 2020 and to have been included in Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality Index since its inception. 
BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
T o support the long-term growth of our Company, it is critical 
that we remain focused on backing our customers in ways that 
matter to them most, especially those who have been impacted 
by the pandemic. 
For our Consumer, Small Business and Corporate customers 
who need additional financial assistance during this time, we 
are providing a range of enhanced short-term and long-term 
relief programs. As part of this initiative, we created a Customer 
Pandemic Relief Program to provide short-term support for 
customers impacted by COVID-19, and we enhanced and expanded 
our longer-term Financial Relief Program to provide assistance 
to customers in need in 20 countries. For our merchant partners, 
we adjusted certain policies to back them, including raising 
contactless transaction thresholds and reminding them that we 
do not require Card Members’ signatures at the point of sale. 
Additionally, we participated in the U.S. Paycheck Protection 
Program, designed to provide small businesses with support to 
cover payroll and certain other expenses.
We also doubled down on our commitment to supporting small 
businesses around the world, which have been significantly 
impacted by the pandemic. Earlier this year, we launched our 
largest-ever global Shop Small Campaign with a commitment of more than $200 million to support a Card Member offer and 
the associated marketing campaign to help jumpstart spending 
at small merchants in a dozen countries. We also created ‘Stand 
for Small, ’ a coalition of now more than 100 companies across 
media, technology, consumer goods, professional services and 
many other industries, that have come together on one digital 
platform to provide meaningful support to small businesses as 
they navigate the impacts of COVID-19.
T o further increase our support of Black-owned businesses, we 
built a coalition with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation 
and four national U.S. Black Chamber organizations including the 
National Black Chamber of Commerce, the National Business 
League, the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s Legacy. 
Through the collaboration, we are committing $10 million over 
the next four years to provide grants to U.S. Black-owned small 
businesses to assist in their recovery and address the challenges 
they face due to racial and social inequalities. 
BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
As an organization, we are focused on helping address the most 
pressing societal issues in our communities. 
Throughout 2019, we provided more than $42 million in 
charitable giving globally, including grants from the American 
Express Foundation, our Center for Community Development 
and colleague gift-matching programs, to help empower 
organizations and people addressing our society’s most  
complex challenges. 
In the first half of 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we committed more than $7 million in grants to back 
communities, organizations and healthcare professionals on the 
front lines of this deadly disease. We worked with our longtime 
partners Hilton and Marriott to provide accommodations at 
no cost to healthcare workers in the United States. Through 
a partnership with World Central Kitchen, Hilton was able to 
provide frontline workers in some of the hardest hit cities with 
healthy meals to sustain them during their stay, so they could 
concentrate on what matters most: saving lives. We also pledged 
$3 million in grants to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational 
Fund, the National Urban League and other People of Color-
led organizations focused on supporting the Black/African 
American Community, and we matched the contributions of our 
U.S. colleagues to these and other social justice organizations 
through our gift-matching program. 
Our colleagues continue to come together to help serve 
their communities. In 2019, more than 30,000 volunteer 
opportunities were provided to colleagues across 15 countries 
through our Serve2Gether volunteer program. In 2020, we 
adapted this program to prioritize practical and safe ways to 
support nonprofits during the pandemic, such as through our 
Serve2Gether Consulting+ platform, where American Express 
colleagues can leverage their expertise in marketing, IT , social 
media and more to help nonprofits remotely. Colleagues can 
nominate nonprofits they believe would benefit from the 
platform, and as of July, more than 50 nonprofits sponsored  “Implementing strong 
environmental, social and 
governance policies and activities 
remains a key priority for 
American Express. I believe that 
by marshalling our collective will, 
creativity and resources, we will 
emerge stronger and make strides 
in making this a better, more just 
world for all who inhabit it.”ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Introductionby American Express have received consulting help through  
the program.
Another important way we back our communities is by continuing 
to do our part to protect the environment and support a low-
carbon future. We remain a carbon-neutral company powered 
by 100% renewable electricity. In 2019, we were named to the 
CDP Climate A List, which recognizes corporate leaders for their 
climate action and transparency. We also set new 2025 global 
environmental goals that include eliminating single-use plastics 
across our operations and sourcing 100% of our paper from 
certified, responsibly managed forests. Additionally, we launched 
the first-ever American Express Card manufactured primarily 
from reclaimed plastic collected from oceans and coasts and 
led an award-winning global campaign to address the issue of 
marine plastic pollution. In 2020, we also conducted a climate risk 
scenario analysis that is aligned with the T ask Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to assess our Company’s 
physical risks related to climate change.
LOOKING AHEAD
Throughout our history, we have been there for our colleagues, 
customers, partners and communities, and this time is no 
different. As we continue to deal with the impacts of the global 
pandemic, American Express has remained financially strong, 
ensuring the safety of our colleagues and soundness of our 
business so that we can continue backing all our constituents 
during this unprecedented time. 
Moving forward, our commitment to implementing strong 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) policies and 
activities remains a key priority. In 2020, we conducted an ESG 
materiality analysis to better understand the expectations of 
our internal and external stakeholders. One key insight from this 
process was the interconnectedness of many key ESG issues, 
such as the impact that inclusion and diversity, climate change 
and financial resiliency have on important priorities such as 
colleague attraction and retention, customer satisfaction and 
community resiliency. Another finding was that many of these 
themes were already embedded in our culture and business 
imperatives. From these insights, we developed an updated 
ESG framework that will drive our strategy moving forward. 
T o support the integration of this strategy into our business, 
we created a new ESG Steering Committee made up of senior 
business leaders from across our organization who will drive the 
development of our new goals and metrics. 
As we look to 2021, we will continue backing our colleagues, 
customers and communities through their recovery from the 
pandemic and beyond, while positioning our Company for a 
sustainable, inclusive and successful future. The path ahead 
may be uncertain, but I believe that by marshalling our collective 
will, creativity and resources, we will emerge stronger and make 
strides in making this a better, more just world for all who inhabit 
it. My colleagues and I at American Express are fully committed 
to helping make that vision a reality.
STEPHEN J. SQUERI  
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER“As we look to 2021, we will 
continue backing our colleagues, 
customers and communities 
through their recovery from the 
pandemic and beyond, while 
positioning our Company for 
a sustainable, inclusive and 
successful future.” 6 INTRODUCTIONESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Introduction7
About American Express7
Company Profile
A Heritage Built on Service and Sustained by Innovation
We are a globally integrated payments company that provides customers with access to 
products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Since 
our earliest days, we have strived to find new ways to enrich our customers’ lives, have 
their backs and provide our special brand of service, in ways both big and small. Even as 
our business transformed – from freight forwarding to travel to cards to innovative digital 
products and services – one thing has remained constant: our unwavering commitment 
to earn our customers’ loyalty for the long haul. That standard of excellence guides us 
today. We promise to understand, respect and back our customers, and help them on 
their journeys. Because when our customers thrive, so do we.
Diverse Products  
and Services
We have a diverse product set and a large, global 
customer base. The products, services, programs 
and tools we offer help enrich lives, grow and manage 
businesses and drive commerce. They include:
 ·Credit cards, charge cards and other payment and 
financing products
 ·Merchant acquisition and processing, servicing 
and settlement, and point-of-sale marketing and 
information products and services for merchants
 ·Network services
 ·Other fee services, including fraud prevention 
services and the design and operation of customer 
loyalty programs
 ·Expense management products and services
 ·T ravel and lifestyle services2019 FactsVision and Mission
OUR VISION: PROVIDE THE WORLD’S BEST CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE EVERY DAY.
OUR MISSION: BECOME ESSENTIAL TO OUR CUSTOMERS BY PROVIDING DIFFERENTIATED 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO HELP THEM ACHIEVE THEIR ASPIRATIONS.
cards in force114  
MILLION
whom we refer to as colleagues64,500  
EMPLOYEESin net income$6.8 
BILLION
worldwide billed 
business$1.2 
TRILLIONin revenues$43.6  
BILLIONtotal assets$198 
BILLION
#16  
FORTUNE
World's  
Most Admired 
Companies(For the year ending December 31, 2019)ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG ApproachHow We  
Approach ESG
Introduction  09
Our ESG Strategy 10
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  13
2019-2020 ESG Highlights  148
8ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG Approach
How We  
Approach ESG
Our approach to ESG is a natural extension of both our 
mission – to become essential to our customers by 
providing differentiated products and services to help 
them achieve their aspirations – and our commitment to 
doing what is right. We deliver value for our colleagues, 
customers, communities and other stakeholders by 
investing financial and human resources in ways that 
address social, environmental and economic needs.
Our approach is underscored by disciplined risk 
management that helps us endure as a place that people 
want to work, invest and do business.9
WE VIEW SERVICE THROUGH 
MANY LENSES:
Delivering exceptional products, 
services and experiences
Enabling commerce and helping  
businesses grow
Promoting a culture of respect that 
fosters inclusion, diversity and trust
Upholding the highest standard  
of integrity
Safeguarding our customers’  
privacy and data
 
Making a difference in the 
communities where we work and live
Protecting the environment and 
supporting a low-carbon futureESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG Approach
Priority Issues
In 2020, we completed a comprehensive ESG materiality analysis to update our priority environmental, social and governance issues. 
We collaborated with the think tank and advisory firm SustainAbility to guide our approach and used the following methodology: 
1. CURRENT STATE ASSESSMENT  
We conducted internal business research and external benchmarking to identify the most relevant ESG issues to our key 
stakeholders, industry and Company. As part of this process, we utilized an ESG big data software platform to review and integrate 
thousands of peer documents, regulations and other relevant data points. Additionally, we evaluated leading ESG frameworks 
including the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and more to inform our assessment. Outputs from 
the analysis were then consolidated to create a preliminary list of priority ESG issues.
2. STAKEHOLDER INPUT  
We utilized findings from our assessment to help guide our approach to collecting stakeholder input. Our third-party consultants 
interviewed more than 30 internal and external stakeholders including the Chairman and CEO, all Executive Committee members, 
shareholders, customers, strategic partners, suppliers, nonprofit organizations and others. We also conducted an ESG colleague 
survey across 16 business units globally. Further, we compiled and synthesized other ESG-related feedback received from 
stakeholders as part of our ongoing stakeholder engagement processes. Finally, we conducted an analysis of evolving stakeholder 
expectations resulting from the global pandemic and its related impacts on our priority ESG issues.  
3. ESG ISSUES PRIORITIZATION  
Using outputs from our business analysis, benchmarking and stakeholder engagement activities, we ranked our 20 priority ESG 
issues based on their relative importance to our business, their relative importance to our stakeholders and the degree of control 
and influence we have over them. The following matrix highlights these results:Our ESG Strategy10 HOW WE APPROACH ESG
CATEGORIES
Environment
Social/  
Human CapitalGovernance/  
Leadership
Business Model/ 
Innovation
Importance to businessExecutive  
compensationResponsible tax 
practicesWaste reduction  
& recyclingResponsible  
procurementResponsible  
investment  
& financing
Public policy  
practicesBoard  
compositionResponsible  
digitalization
Anti- 
corruption 
& bribery
INCREASING  
IMPORTANCEINCREASING  
IMPORTANCEImportance to stakeholders
Colleague 
health & safety
Social &  
environmental  
innovationCustomer  
satisfactionCommunity 
resiliencyBusiness  
ethicsFinancial 
resiliencyClimate change,  
energy & GHG emissionsData privacy  
& security
Responsible 
travel &  
consumptionInclusion  
& diversity
Colleague  
attraction  
& retention
ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG ApproachESG Strategy Framework and Governance
Moving forward, we are committed to implementing strong ESG policies and activities based on our priority ESG issues.
Strategy Framework
One key insight of conducting an ESG materiality analysis was the interconnectedness of many key ESG issues, such as the impact 
that inclusion and diversity, climate change and financial resiliency have on important priorities like colleague attraction and retention, 
customer satisfaction and community resiliency. From these findings, we developed a framework that will drive our ESG strategy 
moving forward. 
ESG Governance
Our Executive Committee reviews and evaluates performance and long-term goals with respect to ESG matters for the Company. In 
2020, we launched a new cross-functional ESG Steering Committee, led by senior executives from across the Company, to help guide 
our Company ESG strategy and related policies and programs. T o support the integration of this strategy into our business, the ESG 
Steering Committee will also drive the development of our new goals and metrics. 
At the Board of Directors level, the Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility Committee reviews our ESG Strategy and 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program, monitors progress against our goals and provides guidance on our efforts. Day to day, 
our CSR team works with colleagues throughout the Company to shape our efforts and monitor progress on key issues. 
Additional information on Corporate Governance at American Express can be found under the Corporate Governance tab on our  
Investor Relations website . Mission: Back people and businesses to thrive and create equitable, resilient and sustainable communities globally
Sound governance including business ethics, transparency and accountability
Executive Committee
ESG Working GroupsESG Steering CommitteeStakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, customers and communities
Promote  
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Support a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
workforce, marketplace and society.Build  
Financial Confidence
Provide responsible, secure and transparent 
products and services to help people and 
businesses build financial resilience.Advance  
Climate Solutions
Enhance our operations and capabilities to 
meet customer and community needs in 
the transition to a low-carbon future.
Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility CommitteeAMERICAN EXPRESS ESG STRATEGY FRAMEWORK11 HOW WE APPROACH ESGESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG ApproachOur strategy begins by identifying our key stakeholders, then engaging with them to understand the ESG issues that matter to them 
and the impact those issues have on our business. We identified eight key stakeholder groups based on their impact on our business 
activities and our established processes for regular engagement with them. Our continued engagement with these stakeholders helps 
ensure we are meeting their expectations and advancing our efforts to operate responsibly.Engaging Key Stakeholders 
Stakeholder Group How We Engage
ShareholdersWe provide the investment community with information about the Company’s strategy, objectives and 
performance on the American Express Investor Relations website . In 2019, we met with shareholders 
representing approximately 48% of our outstanding shares to discuss executive compensation, corporate 
governance and related matters. In order to establish a direct line of communication between shareholders and 
our Board, our Lead Independent Director actively participated in some of these meetings.
ColleaguesWe keep colleagues informed about Company news, priorities, performance and business strategies through a 
variety of channels. For example, we kept our colleagues informed about our response to the evolving COVID-19 
pandemic starting in March through daily emails and a dedicated intranet site, as well as frequent video 
messages from our CEO and town halls. In addition, leaders collect ongoing feedback through the Company’s 
Colleague Experience Survey, open Q&A sessions, Colleague Networks and our Amex Ethics Hotline.
Customers: 
Card Members, 
Businesses and 
MerchantsWe have direct relationships with millions of Card Members, businesses and merchants, actively working to 
engage with them through customer service, direct-to-customer channels and social media. 
Government  
and RegulatorsWe advocate for public policy issues that are significant to our business and our ability to serve our customers by 
providing education and context to key decision-makers in government.
SuppliersWe develop best practices in supply chain management to support inclusion and safeguard the integrity of our 
supplier relationships. 
Community and 
Non-Governmental 
Organizations 
(NGOS)We mobilize thousands of colleague volunteers through our Serve2Gether program and offer incentives for our 
colleagues to support their favorite nonprofits through our Give2Gether gift-matching program. We support 
and collaborate with nonprofits that preserve and sustain unique historic places for future generations. We also 
help develop the nonprofit and social purpose leaders of tomorrow through our American Express Leadership 
Academy and encourage community service through grants, conferences and meetings.
ESG Research and 
Rating AgenciesWe respond to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and other ESG surveys and questionnaires from 
rating agencies and indexes, including EcoVadis, FTSE4Good, Sustainalytics, MSCI and others.
Partners  
and PeersWe engage our partners and peers through industry groups, roundtables, conferences and other forums to 
address local and global ESG issues that affect us – for example, we share knowledge of online threats to  
our industry in cybersecurity forums and collaborate with our partners on initiatives that are important to  
our communities. 12 HOW WE APPROACH ESG
Third-Party ESG Ratings
We monitor our performance across several ESG-related ratings and rankings. In each of the following, we outperform or are in line 
with our peers.
CDP (Climate) A List AA MSCI (ESG) RatingInclusion in FTSE4Good  
Index SeriesESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG ApproachThe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  consist of 17 goals and 174 targets geared toward solving the world’s most 
pressing problems, including achieving gender equality, taking action on climate change, ensuring sustainable prosperity for all and more. 
Given our global footprint and role in empowering people and businesses to thrive, we believe we have an important role to play in achieving 
the SDGs. We have mapped the SDG goals to our business initiatives and programs and believe our work is most aligned with eight Global 
Goals: 
We believe our work is contributing to the success of the SDGs in a variety of ways including by giving businesses and customers 
access to financing, securing payments among a globally connected network of merchants and customers, supporting small business 
growth, going carbon neutral, raising awareness about marine plastic pollution and investing in communities around the world.
Supporting the Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDGs)13 HOW WE APPROACH ESG
3  GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
5  GENDER EQUALITY
8  DECENT WORK AND  
ECONOMIC GROWTH
11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES  
AND COMMUNITIES
12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION
13 CLIMATE ACTION
14 LIFE BELOW WATER
17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALSESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG Approach
2019-2020 ESG Highlights
Backing Our Colleagues, Customers and Communities During the 
COVID-19 Pandemic and Supporting a Fair and Equitable Recovery  
  COLLEAGUES   CUSTOMERS  COMMUNITIES
· Prioritized our colleagues’ well-being and 
safety by moving a majority to temporary 
work-from-home arrangements in 
virtually all locations around the world  
and are maintaining this as an option 
for colleagues through June 30, 2021.· Committed more than $200 million 
as part of our largest-ever global 
Shop Small campaign to support a 
Card Member offer and the associated 
marketing campaign to help jumpstart 
spending at small merchants. · Committed $7 million in financial support 
to back communities, organizations 
and healthcare professionals on the 
front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic.
· Committed to no COVID-19-related 
layoffs for the remainder of 2020.
· For colleagues enrolled in our U.S. 
medical plans, we provided coverage 
for all out-of-pocket medical and 
pharmacy service costs related to 
COVID-19 testing and treatment.· Established ‘Stand for Small, ’  
a coalition of more than 100 
companies that came together to 
provide support to small businesses 
navigating the impacts of COVID-19.· Pledged $10 million to support Black-
owned small businesses over the next 
four years through a coalition that we 
built with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation that brings together four 
major Black Chambers: the National 
Black Chamber of Commerce, the 
National Business League, the U.S. Black 
Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s Legacy.  
· Launched the Office of Enterprise 
Inclusion, Diversity and Business 
Engagement to expand upon our 
successful inclusion and diversity 
programs and create new initiatives to 
drive meaningful, long-term change.· Created a Customer Pandemic 
Relief Program to provide short-term 
support for customers impacted by 
COVID-19 and enhanced and expanded 
our longer-term Financial Relief 
Program to provide assistance to 
customers in need in 20 countries.· Pledged $3 million in grants to the 
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational 
Fund, the National Urban League and 
other People of Color-led organizations 
focused on supporting the Black/
African American Community.14 HOW WE APPROACH ESGESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG Approach15 HOW WE APPROACH ESG
2019 ESG Highlights 
Backing  
Our  
Colleagues
SDGs  3, 5, 8Foster an inclusive and diverse culture
score on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index since 2004,  
based on our policies and 
practices that support 
LGBTQ+ inclusion. 100%
Named to Bloomberg’s 
Gender-Equality Index since 
its inception in 2016, based 
on our efforts to create a work 
environment that supports 
gender equality. of colleagues who 
participated in our annual 
internal colleague survey 
said they would recommend 
American Express as a 
great place to work.91%
Support our colleagues’ professional and personal goals
of gender-neutral paid 
parental leave for U.S.-based 
regular full-time and part-
time salaried colleagues.20  WEEKS
of global 
colleagues had 
a flexible work 
arrangement.professional and personal 
development opportunities 
offered through trainings and 
other programs.1,000+ 31%
Backing  
Our  
Customers
SDGs  8Support small businesses and women-owned businesses
estimated reported spending by 
U.S. consumers at independent 
retailers and restaurants on 
Small Business Saturday.1$19.6  BILLION
Protect our customers’ 
privacy and security
Continued to promote 
Enhanced Authorization, a 
free tool that helps merchants 
drive fraud out of their digital 
ecosystem by increasing 
approval rates for online 
purchases and reducing  
fraudulent purchases.Make our products and 
services better for society
donated by U.S. Card Members to benefit 
charitable causes through our JustGiving 
Program since 2010.
Launched the first-ever American Express 
Card manufactured primarily from reclaimed 
plastic collected from oceans and coasts.$96  MILLIONwomen entrepreneurs participated in the 
workshops hosted by the ChallengeHER 
initiative since 2013 to help boost 
government contracting opportunities for 
women-owned small businesses.23,000+ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues ESG Approach16 HOW WE APPROACH ESG
2019 ESG Highlights 
Moving  
to a Low-  
Carbon  
Future
SDGs  12, 13, 14, 17Remain carbon neutral 
carbon emissions for our operations since 2018.2 ZERO NET
Commit to 
responsible sourcing 
of paper used in our U.S. 
direct marketing efforts was 
certified from responsibly 
managed forests.100%Engage our colleagues in sustainability
Earth Month activities were held for colleagues 
across more than 15 countries, including  
educational fairs, tree planting projects and  
coastal and river clean-ups.115+
Reduce waste and conserve water
Established baselines for tracking waste and 
water to support our 2025 environmental goals.Named to the 2019 CDP Climate A List, recognizing 
corporate leaders on climate action and transparency.100%
renewable electricity  
powered our operations 
since 2018. 
Operating  
ResponsiblyMaintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity
the Amex Ethics Hotline is available 
online and by phone for colleagues, 
contractors, vendors, suppliers and others 
to raise ethical or compliance concerns, with 
access to representatives who collectively 
speak more than 200 languages.Our colleagues receive Global 
Regulatory Learning Enterprise 
Essential Training on important 
policies, laws and regulations 
that govern our industry, guide 
our Company and protect our 
colleagues, customers and brand.24/7Backing  
Our 
Communities
SDGs  11, 17Strengthen the communities  
in which we operate  
in charitable giving globally, including 
grants provided by the Company, the 
American Express Foundation, our 
Center for Community Development  
and gift-matching programs.$42  MILLION
Promote stewardship  
of historic places
historic sites in 10 countries  
were preserved with the support  
of our grants.44Develop social purpose leaders
social purpose leaders trained since  
2007 with the support of our grants.125,000+
Enable colleagues to 
back our communities
of our U.S. 
colleagues donated 
to nonprofits during 
our annual giving 
campaign.80%
volunteer opportunities 
provided to colleagues 
across 15 countries 
through our Serve2Gether 
volunteer program.30,000+ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesBacking Our 
Colleagues
Introduction  18
Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace 20
Prioritizing Colleague Health, Safety and Well-Being  24
Providing Learning and Development Opportunities 2717
17ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleagues
Backing Our 
Colleagues
At American Express, we are committed to delivering a great colleague experience every day, growing the best 
talent and developing new ways of working to unlock enterprise value. We work to foster an inclusive and diverse 
culture and help our colleagues thrive both professionally and personally. When we do, our colleagues are 
more engaged, committed, creative and effective in driving results. We take a holistic approach to serving our 
colleagues by offering them a variety of resources that support their physical, financial, emotional, social and 
overall well-being. 
We have a long history of backing our colleagues. Throughout the global health crisis, our top priority has been to 
ensure our colleagues feel secure in their jobs and have the flexibility and resources they need to stay safe, healthy 
and productive. T o that end, we quickly moved to work-from-home arrangements in virtually all locations around 
the world. In addition, we announced our commitment to no COVID-19-related layoffs for the remainder of 2020.
BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC AND SUPPORTING  
A FAIR AND EQUITABLE RECOVERY 
 ·Prioritized our colleagues’ well-being and safety by moving a majority to temporary work-from-home 
arrangements in virtually all locations around the world and are maintaining this as an option for 
colleagues through June 30, 2021.
 ·Committed to no COVID-19-related layoffs for the remainder of 2020.
 ·For colleagues enrolled in our U.S. medical plans, we provided coverage for all out-of-pocket 
medical and pharmacy service costs related to COVID-19 testing and treatment.
 ·Launched the Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity and Business Engagement to expand  
upon our successful inclusion and diversity programs and create new initiatives to drive meaningful, 
long-term change.18
Foster an inclusive and diverse culture
score on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index since 2004, based on 
our policies and practices that 
support LGBTQ+ inclusion. 100%
Named to Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality Index since its inception 
in 2016, based on our efforts to 
create a work environment that 
supports gender equality. of colleagues who participated 
in our annual internal colleague 
survey said they would 
recommend American Express 
as a great place to work.91%
Support our colleagues’ professional and personal goals
of gender-neutral paid 
parental leave for U.S.-based 
regular full-time and part-
time salaried colleagues.20  WEEKS
of global colleagues had a 
flexible work arrangement.professional and personal 
development opportunities 
offered through trainings and 
other programs.1,000+ 31%2019 HIGHLIGHTSESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesIn the wake of a series of violent incidents against members of the Black/African American Community in the United States, we have 
increased our level of communication with colleagues through town halls and other forums focused on racial bias and social inequality. 
We remain committed to fighting against all forms of discrimination and to creating a welcoming, equitable and inclusive workplace 
and Company. T o support this aim, we launched a new Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity and Business Engagement. This office, 
partnering closely with our Chief Colleague Inclusion & Diversity Officer and colleagues worldwide, will work to drive our strategy 
forward, coordinating across six pillars: Brand, Culture, Colleague, Customer, Business and Community.
We conduct an annual Colleague Experience Survey to better understand our colleagues’ needs and overall experience at our Company. 
The results are reviewed in detail with senior management and our Board of Directors. Based on colleague feedback, we have a 
renewed focus on new ways of thinking and problem-solving, and increasing collaboration and speed of decision making across the 
company. In 2019, 91% of colleagues who participated in the survey said they would recommend American Express as a great place to 
work. We believe that maintaining our strong workplace culture, living our Blue Box Values and ensuring all colleagues feel valued will 
help us attract, retain and develop the best talent.ENTERPRISE INCLUSION, DIVERSITY AND BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY 
COLLEAGUE EXPERIENCE SURVEY
OUR 2019 TOP EMPLOYER AWARDS 
 ·FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For – ranked #13
 ·FORTUNE 2019 World’s Most Admired Companies –  
ranked #16
 ·FORTUNE 100 Best Workplaces for Diversity – ranked #22
 ·FORTUNE 100 Best Workplaces for Women – ranked #27
 ·Great Place to Work: Best Workplaces in Italy – ranked #2
 ·Great Place to Work: Best Workplaces in Spain – ranked #7 ·Working Mother 100 Best Companies 
 ·Anita Borg Institute T op Companies for Women T echnologists
 ·Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index  
Score of 100%
 ·AON Hewitt Best Employer: Malaysia, Thailand,  
the Philippines
 ·Working Families T op 10 Employers in the U.K.Our commitment to being a great place to join, stay and grow a career continues to earn us industry awards and recognition. 
Some honors from 2019 that make us most proud include: Chairman and CEO
Colleague Advisory NetworksOffice of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity and Business Engagement
Brand  
Authentically build 
brand relevance 
and brand affinity 
for AmEx with 
Black, African 
American, Latinx, 
Asian and LGBTQ+ 
communities, 
customers and 
colleagues.Customer  
Develop a holistic 
strategy across 
the Enterprise to 
strengthen our 
business with 
underrepresented 
minority groups and 
small businesses.Business  
Develop a holistic 
strategy across 
the Enterprise to 
strengthen our 
business with 
underrepresented 
minority suppliers 
and investments in 
underrepresented 
minority businesses.Community  
Combat systemic 
racism and 
promote equity 
and advancement 
through our 
community 
initiatives and 
charitable 
priorities.Culture  
Become a company 
where explicit 
consideration of 
equity is integrated 
in everything we 
do to embody true 
inclusion.Colleague  
Create a culture that 
respects, values and 
recognizes everyone 
by removing 
systemic barriers 
to achieve inclusion 
and advancement 
that drives company 
success.Key Pillars19 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
Our Blue Box Values guide how we operate as a company. This year, we made some important changes to be more explicit about our 
efforts to create an inclusive and diverse workforce, adding two new values: “We Embrace Diversity” and “We Stand for Inclusion. ” 
These updated values are designed to make clear that we do not tolerate bias of any kind and to reinforce our commitment to ensuring 
we have a welcoming and inclusive culture. Learn more about our Blue Box Values in the Operating Responsibly section on page 57 .EXPANDING OUR BLUE BOX VALUES ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleagues
Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace
Our Global Inclusion & Diversity strategy is focused on valuing and embracing differences and creating an environment where all 
colleagues feel they belong, have a voice and can reach their full potential. 
For us, inclusion and diversity start at the top. Our senior executives take responsibility for delivering on our commitments and 
ensuring diverse representation at all levels. Our Company scorecard, which is used to measure our performance and progress on our 
business priorities, includes a clear set of diversity goals and overall talent metrics. We set our scorecard metrics annually and review 
our progress against them regularly to hold ourselves accountable. 
In addition to our internal efforts to advance inclusion and diversity, we also believe in standing up for our values within the 
communities in which we live and work. In 2020, we signed the Ascend Pledge, which states we support efforts to combat anti-
Asian stigma that has risen amid the COVID-19 pandemic and all forms of bias and discrimination against minority communities. 
In addition, we pledged $3 million in grants to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Urban League and 
other People of Color-led organizations focused on supporting the Black/African American Community. Further, our Chairman 
and CEO joined the newly formed New Y ork CEO Jobs Council whose members aim to hire 100,000 workers within 10 years 
focusing on low-income, Black, Latinx and Asian communities. We are also continuing internal, companywide conversations to 
understand how we can better support the Black/African American Community as we work to create a more equitable society. 
Learn more about our external inclusion and diversity programs in the Backing Our Communities section on page 42.
In 2019, we analyzed three key drivers 
of diverse representation at the level of 
vice president and above (external hires, 
promotions and retention) to develop 
actionable Inclusion and Diversity goals for 
2020-2022. We are taking a targeted approach 
to support each one of these drivers, build a 
stronger diverse pipeline, increase objectivity  
in our hiring practices and utilize data to  
further mitigate bias. 
In 2019, we led inclusive leadership trainings 
for all colleagues globally. The experience 
reinforces participants’ understanding of how 
inclusive leadership is critical to advancing our 
ability to attract, select, develop and retain an 
inclusive and diverse workforce. In early 2020, 
we trained senior leaders across the company 
to create an environment where all colleagues 
feel they belong.  100%
score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index since 
2004, based on our policies and practices that support LGBTQ+ inclusion.
Named to Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index since its inception in 
2016, based on our efforts to create a work environment that supports 
gender equality.
 
Named one of Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Diversity in 2019, based 
on best practices in diverse representation among colleagues, senior 
management, boards and suppliers.2019 INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTSSTANDING UP FOR OUR VALUES OF INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY WITHIN OUR COMMUNITIES
PROGRESS ON OUR GENDER DIVERSITY METRICS3
(Percent increase from January 2018 through June 2020)20
Increase in female members 
on the Executive Committee+250%
Increase in female  
Country Managers+100%
Increase in female members 
of the Board of Directors  +33%ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleagues2019 GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER 
TOTAL GLOBAL 
WORKFORCE
52%
FemaleEXECUTIVE  
COMMITTEE
43%
FemaleEXECUTIVE SENIOR LEVEL 
OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS
37%
FemaleFemale Male
2019 UNITED STATES WORKFORCE DIVERSITY6
Job Categories Female Male AsianBlack or 
African 
AmericanHispanic or 
Latino White Other7
Exec-Sr. Level Officials & Mgrs 39.2% 60.8% 14.4% 6.4% 4.8% 74.4% 0.0%
First-Mid-Level Officials & Mgrs 54.2% 45.8% 22.0% 7 .2% 9.9% 58.5% 2.4%
Professionals 41.5% 58.5% 30.9% 6.9% 11.0% 48.5% 2.7%
All Others 70.5% 29.5% 3.4% 25.2% 19.0% 47 .2% 5.2%
T otal U.S. Colleagues 55.0% 45.0% 19.2% 12.5% 12.9% 52.1% 3.3%US NON-US5GLOBAL SUMMARY5
Job Categories Female Male Female Male Undeclared Female Male Undeclared
Exec-Sr. Level Officials & Mgrs 39.2% 60.8% 32.2% 6 7. 8 % 0.0% 3 7.0 % 63.0% 0.0%
First-Mid-Level Officials & Mgrs 54.2% 45.8% 46.7% 53.3% 0.0% 50.7% 49.3% 0.0%
Professionals 41.5% 58.5% 45.2% 54.7% 0.1% 43.9% 56.1% 0.0%
All Others 70.5% 29.5% 54.8% 45.1% 0.1% 58.6% 41.3% 0.1%
T otals 55.0% 45.0% 50.4% 49.5% 0.1% 52.1% 47.9% 0.0%2019 GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY421 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUESESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesPay equity is a fundamental expectation at our Company and central to our mission to attract and retain the best talent. Our 
compensation philosophy, reward structure and guiding principles are in place to ensure that we compensate colleagues equitably and 
free of any bias. We regularly review our compensation practices and programs to ensure they support pay equity and transparency.
Every year, we partner with an independent third-party consulting firm to conduct a company-wide pay equity analysis that covers 
all countries where we do business. We also analyze pay equity with respect to race in the United States. The review assesses pay 
on a statistical basis and considers several factors known to affect compensation, including role, level, tenure, performance and 
geography. For our 2019 analysis, in the few instances where our review found inconsistencies, we made adjustments. After making 
these adjustments, the pay for women and men at American Express is at parity globally, as is pay parity across races/ethnicities in the 
United States. Where countries have disclosure requirements mandated by regulators, we make sure we meet our obligations.
We are committed to making American Express one of the best places for women to grow, develop and thrive in their careers. We 
also are focused on building a work environment where women at all levels of the Company feel that they belong, that their views and 
contributions are highly valued and that they receive the support, recognition and opportunities they deserve.
We work to engage and retain women colleagues by promoting customized learning and engagement opportunities through internal 
trainings and external programming. Through our Colleague Networks and global forums, we aim to build stronger and more 
meaningful relationships that drive sponsorship and retention, as well as the continued progression of women into leadership roles. 
One example of this is our annual Global Women’s Conference that brings together our senior-most leaders from across the Company.   
In 2020, we launched the American Express Ambition Project to help leaders recognize their responsibility to nurture ambition and 
provide future generations of women with the backing to say, “I am ambitious. ” As part of the initiative, our Executive Committee 
surveyed the senior-most women at the Company and only a third had ever publicly described themselves as ambitious.  We 
recognized we needed to talk more openly about how we could fully back our women colleagues in achieving their ambitions, so 
we introduced targeted programming within the Company that focused on empowering women to own their ambition, including: 
roundtable sessions with leaders around the globe, networking events to strengthen our community and an internal newsletter to hold 
ourselves accountable and communicate our progress. We also launched Ambitious Insights commissioned by American Express, a 
global study on women’s relationships with ambition, in partnership with The New Y ork Women’s Foundation, to help showcase the 
need to foster and champion ambition more broadly.Commitment to Pay Equity 
Developing Women LeadersPAY EQUITY GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
PAY FOR ROLE
We set pay guidelines for roles, independent 
of the people who perform them.
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
We compensate our colleagues based on performance 
and other business-related criteria without regard to 
gender, ethnicity or any other unlawful factor.PAY PARITY
We strive to compensate colleagues doing the same 
job equitably8 and free of any unlawful bias.
PAY GOVERNANCE
We hold ourselves fully accountable to uphold a high standard on 
pay equity and monitor this closely by way of periodic reviews.22 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
In 2019, we achieved pay parity for 
gender globally and across races/
ethnicities in the United States.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesFollowing a series of tragic events against the Black/African American Community in the United States in 2020, we amplified our 
efforts to combat and address issues related to race across our Company. We have shown our support and commitment to colleagues 
through conversations with internal and external speakers focused on racism, bias, social inequity and inclusion; the development and 
distribution of several resources designed to educate colleagues about unconscious bias, allyship, the significance of words and how to 
talk about race at work; and trainings and protocols for addressing abusive Card Members. 
These initiatives complement our ongoing efforts to drive a culture of inclusion and equip leaders and colleagues with the skills to do 
so. In June 2019, our Executive Black Engagement Network held its fifth global forum, a two-day event that brought together our senior 
Black and African American leaders from across the Company, as well as our Chairman and CEO and Executive Committee members. 
The forum featured small-group discussions with leaders, panel discussions on improving the progression of Black talent and breakout 
sessions covering topics such as developing the Black talent pipeline and growing the network.Backing Black and African American Colleagues
Since 2004, we have scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index based on our policies and practices 
that support LGBTQ+ inclusion. We are also a member of Open for Business, a coalition of global companies making the economic 
and business case for LGBTQ+ inclusion in companies around the world. In 2019, we held a company-wide global PRIDE celebration to 
commemorate the 50th anniversary of the seminal Stonewall Uprising in New Y ork and of the half century of LGBTQ+ liberation that 
followed. In 2020, we launched Self-Identification (Self-ID), a voluntary effort designed to give colleagues the opportunity to share their 
diversity data with the Company, including their gender identity and sexual orientation. The initiative is designed to inform diversity, 
career and learning strategies and strengthen our inclusive culture so that everyone feels invited to bring their whole selves to work. 
Learn more about our work supporting LGBTQ+ leaders and organizations on page 42 in our Backing Our Communities section. Supporting LGBTQ+ Inclusion 
Since 1987 , we have supported a variety of Colleague Networks that bring people together with shared backgrounds and interests. 
T oday, we have 16 Colleague Networks and more than 100 chapters globally focusing on a variety of areas including disability, 
ethnicity, faith, gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation and veteran status. The Networks are colleague-created and 
serve as a key vehicle in driving the development of diverse talent, broadening participants’ professional networks and informing our 
organizational culture. Our Colleague Networks include: Promoting Inclusion and Diversity through Colleague Networks
We are committed to recruiting diverse candidates, from campus hires to executive recruitment, as well as developing and advancing 
underrepresented groups at the Company. T o help support our hiring leaders and recruiters, we provide them with resources including 
tips on drafting inclusive job descriptions, sourcing candidates, reviewing resumes, interviewing and making hiring decisions.Recruiting Diverse Colleagues
We offer a year-long mentoring program to high-performing diverse colleagues in the United States. Mentees are matched with 
executive mentors who provide them with skills, knowledge and a better understanding of the organization in a safe learning 
environment that encourages risk-taking and open conversations. The program incorporates monthly meetings, quarterly check-ins, 
feedback and assessments to drive personalized development and accountability, powering behavioral change.
Learn more about our external inclusion and diversity programs in the Backing Our Communities section on page 42. Advancing Diverse Talent23 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
 ·Asian Network at American Express (ANA)
 ·Black and Asian Network (BAAN)
 ·Black Engagement Network (BEN)
 ·Christian Network (SALT)
 ·Disability Awareness Network (DAN)
 ·Families at American Express Network ·Generations Network (GEN)
 ·Hispanic Origin & Latin-American 
Network (HOLA)
 ·Jewish Network (CHAI)
 ·Millennial Network
 ·Muslim Network (PEACE) ·PRIDE+ Network 
 ·Veterans Network (VET)
 ·Virtual Working Engagement Network 
(BlueEN)
 ·Women in T echnology Network (WIT)
 ·Women’s Interest Network (WIN)ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleagues
Prioritizing Colleague Health,  
Safety and Well-Being24
Backing Our Colleagues 
During COVID-19Supporting Colleague Health and 
Well-Being Through Healthy LivingWe want our colleagues and their loved ones to be and feel at their best. Through our award-winning health and mental well-being 
program, Healthy Living, we provide great health and well-being benefits and maintain company policies that keep them safe. From 
the healthcare we provide through our on-site Wellness Centers to one-on-one coaching and counseling, we are constantly looking 
for ways to help our colleagues and their families stay safe and foster healthy lifestyles. Our health and well-being programs provided 
opportunities and resources for colleagues to stay engaged and healthy while at home and dealing with the global pandemic.
Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have worked to 
provide our colleagues with the security, flexibility and 
resources needed to stay safe, healthy and productive. In 
April, we announced our commitment to no COVID-19-related 
layoffs for the remainder of 2020. We also expanded our 
extensive health benefits and well-being programs to provide 
virtual counseling, wellness coaching, meditation classes, 
exercise programs and more to help colleagues cope with the 
challenges and stress of the pandemic. For colleagues enrolled 
in one of our U.S. medical plans, we provided coverage for all 
out-of-pocket medical and pharmacy service costs related to 
COVID-19 testing and treatment. We quickly moved to work-
from-home arrangements in virtually all locations around the 
world, during which we completely transformed our brick-and-
mortar call centers to virtual, home-based servicing.
Additionally, we sought to foster an environment where our 
people continue to feel connected during these times of 
change through frequent, increased communications ranging 
from daily email updates to a dedicated COVID-19 hub on our 
intranet to a “Win as a T eam” listening post, where colleagues 
can have open discussions and share how they are feeling. 
Our senior-most leaders also have continued to engage with 
colleagues, lift morale and maintain personal connection 
through virtual town halls and blogs. With these actions, our 
colleagues around the world have been able to focus on what 
is most important – staying healthy, being safe and caring for 
their families – while continuing to support our customers.Healthy Living provides supportive resources, access to care 
and incentives that foster a healthier lifestyle. In many of our 
locations, we offer healthcare benefits that provide coverage for 
both individual colleagues and their families. In the United States 
for example, we offer medical, dental, vision, life insurance and 
disability benefits to full- and part-time colleagues. In addition, 
we provide free access to 24 on-site Healthy Living Wellness 
Centers around the globe. We support colleague mental health 
and well-being through our award-winning Healthy Minds 
program, which provides free and confidential counseling 
services to help colleagues plan for life events, address personal 
concerns and manage everyday events that can affect their work, 
health and family. 
In 2020, we pivoted to make our Healthy Living programs virtual in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We now offer virtual televisits 
in 14 countries with clinicians, pharmacists, registered dietitians 
and wellness coaches. We also provide daily virtual exercise and 
well-being sessions on a range of Healthy Living topics.
100% of our colleagues had access to at least 
one Healthy Living program or service
24 on-site Healthy Living Wellness Centers  
were available around the world2019 HEALTHY LIVING PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesProviding Flexible Work Arrangements
Supporting Colleagues with Caregiving ResponsibilitiesUnder our Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) Policy, colleagues who meet eligibility requirements can apply for FWAs such as 
telecommuting, flextime, part-time, compressed work weeks or job sharing. The policy encourages open dialogue between colleagues 
and managers, provides formal channels to guide them in making decisions and provides tips for ensuring a successful work 
arrangement. In 2019, 31% of global colleagues had a flexible work arrangement. The tools developed through our FWA programming 
have supported our response to COVID-19 in 2020. As we navigate our ongoing response to COVID-19, we will continue to adapt our 
work arrangements to maintain a flexible culture, serve our customers effectively and keep our colleagues safe. 
In addition to our colleagues’ commitment to one another and our customers, many balance responsibilities as parents, caregivers 
and family members. We provide a variety of benefits and support programs to help them navigate these responsibilities. T o that 
end, we offer: 
In 2020, many of our colleagues took on new and unexpected caregiving duties because of the global health crisis. T o support 
them, we have implemented a variety of new offerings including providing free premium membership to the caregiver database 
Sittercity in the United States and other resources to help colleagues address their caregiving needs.25 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
In 2020, we created a COVID-19 task force to develop protocols and guidelines to protect our colleagues’ health and safety. We 
quickly moved to work-from-home arrangements in virtually all locations around the world. We continue to assess a variety of 
criteria to determine when it is safe to return to offices, including the health conditions in the area, transportation options and 
guidance from local government, health officials and our Crisis Management T eam. Decisions to reopen offices are being made 
on a location-by-location, floor-by-floor and colleague-by-colleague basis and are not happening all at once. As offices open, we 
are implementing appropriate safety protocols such as increasing janitorial servicing, limiting the number of people in elevators 
and on floors and staggering arrival and departure times, where necessary. We also are providing colleagues with the option to 
continue temporarily working from home through June 30, 2021.Ensuring Colleague Safety
 ·Gender-neutral parental leave: Eligible U.S. colleagues can 
take up to 20 weeks of parental leave when they welcome 
a new child to their family. Parents receive full base pay for 
the entire time, regardless of whether they are growing their 
family by pregnancy, adoption or surrogacy. Birth mothers are 
eligible to receive an additional six to eight weeks of paid leave 
if medically necessary. 
 ·Financial assistance for adoption, surrogacy and 
reproductive treatments: Colleagues in the United States 
who grow their family through adoption or surrogacy can be 
reimbursed for expenses up to $35,000 per child, per event, 
with a lifetime maximum of two events. Those who undergo 
reproductive treatments are eligible for up to $35,000 in 
medical assistance. 
 ·Backup childcare: Colleagues throughout the United States, 
the U.K., France and Canada can access in-home or center-
based childcare when their regular arrangements fall through.   ·Backup eldercare: In the United States, colleagues have 
access to 24/7 care consultants who can help arrange in-home 
care for an adult loved one who may need special assistance 
while recovering from an illness or unexpected injury. 
 ·Supporting special needs children: In the United States, we 
provide programs and resources for parents of special needs 
children, including access to care consultants, counseling 
sessions and webinars.
 ·Families at American Express Colleague Network: Launched 
in 2005, this Colleague Network reaches more than 5,000 
members across nine chapters, providing support for families 
who need help balancing personal and professional priorities.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesOur global Smart Saving programs provide financial education and resources to colleagues at specific life stages, including recent 
graduates entering the workforce, new parents, colleagues planning to send their children to college and many others. In the United 
States, Smart Saving includes our 401(k) program, financial planning coaching and workshops, retirement webinars, offers to help 
colleagues save money on everyday expenses and on-demand access to financial education resources. 
For U.S. colleagues, we match 100% of 401(k) contributions up to 6% of total pay after six months of service, and all matching 
contributions are immediately vested. In 2019, 92% of U.S. colleagues participated in our 401(k) plan, an increase from 91% in 2018. 
New hires are automatically enrolled in the plan at 3% of total pay. In addition to our 401(k) match, profit-sharing contributions may 
also be made at the Company’s discretion for all eligible U.S. colleagues. Helping Colleagues Build Financial Confidence26 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
Supporting Colleague Recognition  
and Engagement Through our global reward and recognition program, Reward Blue, we acknowledge colleagues for their achievements with monetary 
and non-monetary awards. Reward Blue helps to emphasize a culture of appreciation by encouraging colleagues to praise one 
another’s everyday efforts, to reward exceptional results and to celebrate important anniversaries. In 2019, 86% of our colleagues 
received recognition or appreciation through Reward Blue.
We provide a variety of opportunities for our colleagues to engage in philanthropic and volunteer opportunities across our 
communities. Our flagship programs, Serve2Gether, Give2Gether and Green2Gether, are designed to foster a sense of shared purpose 
and provide an opportunity to give back. Learn more about these programs in the Backing Our Communities section on page 43.SERVING TOGETHER IN OUR COMMUNITIESESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesColleaguesOur in-house American Express Leadership Academy provides colleagues with tools and resources to gain the experiences, skills and 
capabilities they need to thrive in their careers. Colleagues access the Leadership Academy in a variety of ways, including through our 
self-service On-Demand content, resources like our Harvard Certificate in Leadership Excellence and specialized programs, such as our 
Accelerated Leadership Development course.Developing Leadership Behaviors and Accelerating Growth ·Colleagues received an average of 28 hours of professional or personal development training per person.
 ·We offered more than 1,000 professional and personal development opportunities through trainings and other programs.
 ·91% of colleagues participated in our performance management process, which includes defined performance, career and 
development conversations and ongoing check-ins throughout the year.2019 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS 
Providing Learning and  
Development Opportunities27 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
We are committed to the continuous professional and personal development of our colleagues. Our learning and development 
opportunities come in many forms, including programs and resources that support leadership development, career coaching, 
opportunities for pursuing formal education, mentoring and virtual and formal classroom instruction. 
2019 LEADERSHIP ACADEMY HIGHLIGHTS  
The American Express & Harvard Certificate in 
Leadership Excellence program is a leadership 
development experience designed to help colleagues 
develop leadership behaviors.
· More than 15,000 managers, directors and vice  
presidents have completed the certificate program  
since it launched in 2017 .
The Accelerated Leadership Development (ALD) program 
is designed to develop high-potential and high-performing  
vice presidents. 
· 40 colleagues attended the program in 2019, and 224 have 
graduated from it between 2011 and 2018.The Accelerate Y our Growth (AYG) program is  
a six-month development experience that targets  
high-performing managers and directors to develop  
our leadership pipeline. 
· 192 colleagues completed the AYG experience in 2019.
The New People Leader Program is a required offering for 
first-time people leaders up to the director level to  
help develop their leadership skills.
· More than 1,900 colleagues have completed the  
program since 2018.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Customers
Backing Our 
Customers
Introduction  29
Building Financial Confidence  31
Protecting Our Customers’ Privacy and Security   35
Innovating for Our Customers  3728ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Backing Our 
Customers
For 170 years, we have worked to make a difference in our customers' lives in ways that matter most to them. 
Our broad and diverse customer base spans consumers, small and mid-size companies, large corporations and 
merchants who welcome our Card Members. We back our customers in a variety of ways, including investing in 
programs that help them build financial confidence and resiliency, protecting their privacy, giving them control 
over their preferences, preventing fraud and maintaining secure payments, as well as continuously innovating to 
create exceptional products and experiences. 
BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC AND SUPPORTING  
A FAIR AND EQUITABLE RECOVERY  
 ·Committed more than $200 million as part of our largest-ever global Shop Small campaign   
to support a Card Member offer and the associated marketing campaign to help jumpstart spending 
at small merchants.
 ·Established ‘Stand for Small, ’ a coalition of more than 100 companies that came together to provide 
support to small businesses navigating the impacts of COVID-19.
 ·Created a Customer Pandemic Relief Program to provide short-term support for customers 
impacted by COVID-19 and enhanced and expanded our longer-term Financial Relief Program   
to provide assistance to customers in need in 20 countries.29
2019 HIGHLIGHTS
Support small businesses and women-owned businesses
estimated reported spending by U.S. 
consumers at independent retailers and 
restaurants on Small Business Saturday.1$19.6  BILLION
women entrepreneurs participated in the 
workshops hosted by the ChallengeHER 
initiative since 2013 to help boost government 
contracting opportunities for women-owned 
small businesses.23,000+
Protect our customers’ 
privacy and security
Continued to promote Enhanced 
Authorization, a free tool that helps merchants 
drive fraud out of their digital ecosystem by 
increasing approval rates for online purchases 
and reducing fraudulent purchases.$96  MILLIONMake our products and 
services better for society
donated by U.S. Card Members to benefit 
charitable causes through our JustGiving 
Program since 2010.
Launched the first-ever American Express 
Card manufactured primarily from reclaimed 
plastic collected from oceans and coasts.
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesWHO WE SERVE
 ·CONSUMERS: We offer a range of credit cards, charge cards and other services that make it easier for consumers to pay for their 
purchases, get rewarded for their loyalty and have peace of mind when they buy or travel. 
 ·BUSINESSES: We serve businesses of all sizes, from small independently owned establishments to large global organizations 
through a range of payment and cash flow offerings.
 ·MERCHANTS: Millions of stores, restaurants and other establishments around the world welcome American Express Cards. We work 
to make sure their experience is as seamless as possible and help them grow their businesses by connecting them to our high-
spending Card Members and by providing marketing and other services.
HOW WE SERVE
We have a service network with approximately 28,000 professionals around the globe, focused on improving customers’ service 
experiences. This includes the Customer Care Professionals and travel counselors who connect with our customers directly, as well as 
the colleagues who support our service vision in areas such as learning, capabilities, fulfillment and analytics. 
Setting the Standard for Customer Care 
We aim to provide the world’s best customer experience every day. Across our organization, we are committed to putting the customer 
first and to setting the standard for customer care. We aim to do this by recognizing and valuing each of our customers, protecting their 
privacy, keeping their accounts safe from fraud and investing in new products and services.
GLOBAL CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS IN 2019
In 2019, we received recognition for our service ethos and commitment to customers from organizations around the world. We 
received the 2019 National Award in Mexico City for “Excellence in Customer Experience in Contact Centers. ” We were ranked 
No. 1 on the J.D. Power Hong Kong Credit Card Satisfaction Study, marking the fourth consecutive year in the top spot. In 
Manila, we won the 2019 International Information and Communication T echnology (ICT) Award for Best Global In-House Center 
for the third year in a row. 30 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Building Financial Confidence 
The COVID-19 pandemic has been financially disruptive for many businesses and individuals, and we are committed to working with our 
customers to provide financial relief to those who need additional assistance during this time. We work closely with our consumer, small 
business and corporate customers and assist them by providing the right support to help them stay in control of their finances. We offer a 
range of short-term and long-term relief programs for our Card Members, with payment flexibility options to meet their needs. 
For example, we have enhanced and expanded our Financial Relief Program to provide assistance to our customers in 20 countries, 
including temporarily lowering monthly payments and interest rates and waiving late fees and annual fees while allowing Card 
Members to retain membership. 
For our merchant partners, we also adjusted certain policies to back them, including raising contactless transaction thresholds to 
reduce physical contact at the point of sale and reminding merchants globally that we do not require them to collect Card Members’ 
signatures.
Additionally, we participated in the U.S. Paycheck Protection Program, designed to provide small businesses with support to cover 
payroll and certain other expenses. Backing Our Customers During COVID-19 As we consider the various financial impacts facing businesses and individuals during these difficult times, we are more committed 
than ever to helping our customers through various forms of financial relief to help maintain their resiliency; supporting small 
businesses, in particular women- and Black-owned businesses to address the unique challenges they face; and helping customers build 
financial well-being.  31 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Standing Up for Small Businesses  
Impacted by COVID-19
In April 2020, we established ‘Stand for Small, ’ a coalition of more than 100 companies 
across media, technology, consumer goods, professional services and other industries, 
to come together and provide meaningful support to small businesses navigating 
the impacts of COVID-19. Collectively, the Stand for Small coalition is providing U.S. 
small businesses with access to valuable services, tools and expertise, among other 
benefits to help reduce operating expenses, manage teams remotely, enhance digital 
capabilities and more. Learn more about the initiative at the Stand for Small website .
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesSupporting Small Business Growth
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing character and jobs to 
neighborhoods. We have been dedicated to serving small businesses for more than 
25 years. We offer a suite of programs and resources for small business owners, 
including online tools and events, and incentivize our customers to support small 
businesses through initiatives such as Shop Small.
The Shop Small Movement
Shop Small is a movement to support small independent businesses and call 
attention to the valuable and distinct contributions they make to their communities 
and the economy. The Shop Small movement was spurred by the widespread 
participation in Small Business Saturday, a day we founded in 2010 in response 
to small business owners’ most pressing need: more customers. Through this 
annual campaign, we encourage millions of people to Shop Small and champion 
their favorite local small businesses. The 10th annual Small Business Saturday 
was held on November 30, 2019, in communities across the United States.   
 SHOP SMALL IN 2020 
Committed more than $200 million as part of our largest-ever global 
Shop Small campaign to support a Card Member offer and the associated 
marketing campaign to help jumpstart spending at small merchants.
2019 SHOP SMALL HIGHLIGHTS AROUND THE WORLD 
AUSTRALIA
Shop Small returned for its seventh 
year in Australia, where it has become 
a well-recognized national movement. 
Through the Shop Small campaign, our 
Card Members have contributed more 
than AUD$4 billion to the Australian 
small business sector between 2013 
and 2019 during the Shop Small 
campaign periods. Further, we have 
given AUD$19.5 million back to Card 
Members for spending at local small 
businesses over the same timeframe. 
JAPAN
Shop Local returned to Japan for its 
third year with 14,500 small businesses 
participating from all 47 prefectures.U.K.
As the founding sponsor and 
principal supporter of Small Business 
Saturday, we have championed the 
day since its U.K. launch in 2013. 
· An estimated £800 million  
reported spend by consumers  
with small businesses across  
the U.K. on December 7 , 2019.11
· #SmallBizSatUK and 
#SmallBusinessSaturday were 
the U.K. ’s top two Twitter trends 
on the day of the campaign.2019 IMPACT OF SMALL 
BUSINESS SATURDAY IN  
THE UNITED STATES 
An estimated seven-in-10 
American adults are aware of 
Small Business Saturday.170%T otal estimated number of U.S. 
consumers who said they shopped 
at independent retailers and 
restaurants on the day.1110  MILLION 
T otal estimated spending among 
U.S. consumers over the past 10 
years on the day.9$120  BILLION 
Approximately two-thirds of every dollar 
spent at a small business in the United 
States stays in the local community.10$0.67 T otal estimated spending among 
U.S. consumers who said they 
shopped at independent retailers 
and restaurants on the day.1$19.6  BILLION 32 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesAdvocacy Programming for Small and Mid-Size Businesses
Through our Business Advocacy programs, we provide small and mid-size businesses with educational resources, network connections 
and mentorship opportunities to help them identify new growth opportunities and thrive. 
Supporting Women- and Black-Owned Businesses
American Express is committed to empowering women- and Black-owned businesses by offering access to credit and loans, 
educational resources and grants to help grow their business.33 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
CHALLENGEHER PROGRAM
In partnership with Women Impacting 
Public Policy (WIPP) and the U.S. 
Small Business Administration, 
our ChallengeHER program helps 
boost government contracting 
opportunities for women-owned small 
businesses by offering free training 
webinars, workshops, mentoring, 
direct access to government buyers 
and local partner resources. THE STATE OF WOMEN-OWNED 
BUSINESSES REPORT
In 2019, we commissioned the ninth 
annual State of Women-Owned 
Businesses report to provide insights 
for policymakers, funders, supporting 
organizations, educators, researchers 
and more to help advance women-
owned businesses. Throughout the 
past five years, women of color have 
been the driving force behind the 
growth of women-owned businesses. 
While the number of women-owned 
businesses grew 21% from 2014 to 
2019, firms owned by women of color 
grew even faster, at 43%. Learn more 
about this information in the full  State 
of Women-Owned Businesses report .EMPOWERING BLACK-OWNED 
SMALL BUSINESSES
We built a coalition with the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce Foundation 
and four national U.S. Black 
Chambers, including the National 
Black Chamber of Commerce, the 
National Business League, the U.S. 
Black Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s 
Legacy. Through the collaboration, 
we are committing $10 million 
over the next four years to provide 
grants to U.S. Black-owned small 
businesses to assist in their 
recovery and address the challenges 
they face due to racial and social 
inequalities. Learn more about 
the initiative in the Backing Our 
Communities section on page 42.2019 BUSINESS ADVOCACY HIGHLIGHTS
· Hosted our Summit for Success annual event in 
Washington, D.C., providing panel discussions, keynotes 
and a pitch competition to nearly 1,100 business owners.  
 ·Launched a virtual contract connection platform in  
the United States to help match businesses with 
procurement officials. · Supported organizations involved in strengthening U.S. 
businesses, including Women Impacting Public Policy 
(WIPP), Women's Business Enterprise National Council 
(WBENC), WEConnect International, Women Presidents’ 
Organization (WPO), National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC), National LGBT Chamber 
of Commerce (NGLCC), the Latino Coalition, U.S. Black 
Chambers, Inc. and more. 
workshops hosted by ChallengeHER 
across the United States over the 
last eight years.75
women entrepreneurs participated  
in ChallengeHER workshops.23,000+
meetings facilitated between 
women small business owners 
and government officials. 5,850+As of 2019, women of color 
accounted for an estimated 50% 
of all women-owned businesses, 
employed 2,389,500 people and 
generated $422.5 billion in revenue.50%
over the next four years to  
provide grants to U.S. Black-  
owned small businesses.$10 MILLION
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesPromoting Financial Literacy and Inclusion
We want to help customers make informed choices, avoid financial pitfalls and follow good practices to improve their financial well-
being. We provide our customers with financial education resources and support financial literacy programs in partnership with others. 
These programs seek to address the financial needs of young people, first-time credit users and experienced credit users who want to 
improve their financial management skills. We also provide a range of products and services to meet the needs and preferences of a 
variety of customers, including those with limited access to traditional banking.34 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
SUPPORTING FINANCIAL LITERACY
The American Express Center for Community Development 
(CCD) oversees a variety of initiatives to help advance 
financial literacy among students. Since its inception 
in 2012, the CCD’s online financial literacy program, 
administered by EverFi, has reached 11,754 students who 
have completed 40,590 hours of skills learning in areas 
such as budgeting, savings and investments. In 2020, 
teachers began using the online program to support their 
remote learning plans during the COVID-19 pandemic.  
Throughout the 2019-2020 academic school year, CCD 
also partnered with Junior Achievement of Utah to provide 
financial literacy and career readiness skills to more 
than 2,000 students. The curriculum prepares young 
people by connecting what they are learning in school to 
real-world financial and career management skills.  PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSION 
THROUGH PRODUCT INNOVATION
We serve a wide range of customers and have innovated 
to provide products and services to meet new needs and 
preferences. We issue reloadable prepaid products, Bluebird®  
and Serve® with InComm as the program manager and processor, 
that allow customers in the United States who may not have 
access to traditional banking to set up paycheck deposits, 
access bills online, put aside money for the future, send money 
to friends and family and use tools to manage their money.  ·Credit — building credit, understanding credit reports  
 and improving credit scores
 ·Cards — understanding different types of credit cards,  
features and benefits ·Life — planning for life’s milestones
 ·Money — managing money, budgeting and maximizing 
financial resourcesHELPING PEOPLE MANAGE THEIR FINANCES WITH THE CREDIT INTEL FINANCIAL EDUCATION CENTER
In 2019, we launched the Credit Intel Financial Education Center, a new digital platform that provides people with resources and 
insights on managing and maximizing personal finances. Consumers can find curated articles across four main topics including:
Visitors can also search for specific insights within each category page on the site. Learn more at the American Express Credit Intel website .
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesPREVENTING E-COMMERCE FRAUD WITH ACCERTIFY
Accertify, a wholly owned subsidiary of American Express, helps organizations prevent digital fraud, in addition 
to managing disputes and chargebacks. In 2020, Accertify launched Accertify Digital Identity, designed to help 
organizations address the significant rise in fraudulent online account openings and account takeovers. Having our customers’ backs means maintaining their trust. Through our robust privacy program, policies and governance, we work to 
ensure that our customers know their choices; that they can trust how we collect, use and protect personal information about them; 
and that we comply with all applicable privacy laws and regulations. 
Our Global Privacy team oversees our programs to help protect and manage personal information about our customers, prospects and 
colleagues. Our Data Protection and Privacy Principles guide how we collect, use, store, share, transmit, delete or otherwise process 
personal information about our customers. They are reinforced through mandatory privacy and data security training for colleagues, 
as well as our Code of Conduct. We also invest in technology that gives our customers control over their privacy choices, including 
marketing, communications and email preferences.
PROVIDING TRANSPARENCY AND PRIVACY OPTIONS TO U.S. CUSTOMERS THROUGH OUR PRIVACY CENTER
Our Privacy Center, available on our website, provides U.S. customers with a resource to help them understand how data about them is 
used and the privacy choices available to them. The Center includes information about our:
 ·Online Privacy Statement, which describes what information we collect and use and our sharing practices when customers use our 
online or mobile products and services;
 ·Privacy Notices, which inform our customers of the personal information we collect, why we share it, who we might need to share it 
with and the choices they have related to the sharing of personal information; and
 ·Privacy Principles, which explain our commitment to protecting personal information. 
RESPONSIBLE DIGITALIZATION AND USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
We are committed to using digital technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning responsibly and ethically. Our 
Global Risk and Compliance T eam oversees our policies and processes related to responsible digitalization and AI.
Preventing Fraud and Maintaining Secure Payments 
We maintain direct relationships with both Card Members and merchants. These relationships create a “closed loop” in that we have 
direct access to information at both ends of a card transaction.
INVESTING IN DIGITAL FRAUD PREVENTION 
Our monitoring tools, controls and policies help us detect and prevent fraud in our operations around the world. Our data scientists 
analyze the data within our integrated network to identify suspicious account activity and deploy valuable protections – such as fraud 
alerts – to our customers, often in real time.  
T o combat the increasing sophistication and scale of fraud attacks, we use advanced machine-learning algorithms to evaluate different data 
points and make fraud risk decisions on every American Express transaction, anywhere in the world, within milliseconds. Machine learning 
models also allow us to understand unique patterns of our customers’ spending and detect counterfeit and online fraud while minimizing 
disruption to our customers’ genuine activity. We have also partnered with merchants to develop advanced techniques for detecting 
compromised Card Member account information, as well as deploying advanced digital authentication solutions to prevent identity theft. 
Protecting Our Customers’  
Privacy and Security35 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesMAINTAINING SECURE PAYMENTS 
For many years, we have been investing in, and promoting the use of, more secure connections and authentication mechanisms 
across whichever payment channel our Card Members select, from in-store and online to mobile wallets. For example, our Enhanced 
Authorization™ technology increases approval rates and reduces fraud by up to 60% in online transactions.
UTILIZING BEHAVIORAL ANALYTICS
T o combat cyber threats, we deploy behavioral analytics technology to help identify and stop fraud in our online application process for 
consumers in the United States. Behavioral analytics can help us effectively predict whether a person is a genuine applicant or a fraud 
risk. We continue to update our behavioral analytics technology as we seek to stay on top of continuously evolving cyber threats.
EDUCATING OUR COLLEAGUES 
T raining our colleagues and offering best-in-class technology are critical to mitigating risk and protecting customer information. This 
includes educating colleagues to learn about risks inherent in the payment services industry, providing tools to analyze those risks 
and ensuring colleagues know where and how to escalate issues. Colleagues participate in mandatory information security and privacy 
training every year. We also run simulations that test our colleagues’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity.
Lending and Marketing Responsibly 
We are dedicated to customer practices that embody transparency, truthfulness, fairness and a culture of non-discrimination 
throughout the credit lifecycle. We work to fulfill this commitment through our global compliance program that includes governance, 
monitoring, testing and analytics and applies to third-party vendors and their subcontractors. We have a cross-functional process to 
review new American Express products and initiatives for safety and value for our Card Members and to identify and mitigate risks. We 
regularly review marketing offers and credit decisions, as well as perform root-cause analyses of customer complaints. We also conduct 
regular colleague trainings on compliance with applicable laws and regulations through the credit lifecycle, including marketing, 
underwriting and collections activities. 
OUR PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND MARKETING INCLUDE: 36 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
  Product Transparency 
 ·Our offers must be clear, simple and easy to understand.
 ·We must consider all reasonable interpretations from a 
customer’s or prospect’s point of view.End-to-End Accountability 
 ·We must understand and prepare for how our offers 
will work in practice, including the risks, controls and 
monitoring associated with the end-to-end execution, 
including fulfillment and servicing.
 ·We must create and retain documentation, including 
process flows, control measures, monitoring and 
stakeholder approvals.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY 
Fair and ethical business practices are the foundation of our customer relationships, and we keep them front and center, especially 
when customers fall on hard times. We offer a variety of financial relief options including temporarily lowered annual percentage rate 
(APR), waived fees and other accommodations while a customer is enrolled in our financial relief program. If we must take an adverse 
action on an account, such as a line decrease or a cancellation, we communicate the reasons why the action was taken. 
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesWe continue to innovate how we deliver an exceptional experience to customers, whenever and wherever they need it. From new mobile 
app innovations to expanding our suite of services, we strive to build meaningful commerce experiences and support new forms of 
social and financial value for our customers.37 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Innovating for Our Customers37 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Innovating to Connect Card Members to the Causes They Care About
Our JustGiving program (formerly known as Members Give) helps Card Members give back and simplifies charitable giving by 
connecting them to the causes they care about. Card Members can access thousands of charities online, making donations on 
their American Express Cards or by redeeming Membership Rewards® points. From 2010 to 2019, U.S. Card Members donated 
more than $96 million to benefit charitable causes through the program. 2019 INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS
Going Green
 ·Launched the first-ever American Express Card 
manufactured primarily from reclaimed plastic 
collected from oceans and coasts.Innovative Experiences
 ·Acquired Resy, the hospitality technology company, 
enabling American Express Card Members to get access to 
Resy-powered dining experiences and offers, and enabling 
U.S. Platinum Card Members to book reservations at 
select Resy restaurants through the Amex Mobile App.
 ·Introduced a mobile check-in experience for our 
Centurion Lounges in the U.S. Amex Mobile App 
leveraging the newly acquired LoungeBuddy platform.
Digital Innovation
 ·Modernized our U.S. Corporate Card offering with 
premium employee-focused benefits, greater Membership 
Rewards flexibility, a new offering specifically for 
entrepreneurs and new digital experiences.Payments Flexibility and Functionality
 ·Added new features to our mobile app, such as 
Freeze Card, which allows Card Members who have 
misplaced their American Express Card to log into 
their account online to freeze their Card to prevent 
it from being used for new purchases until the 
Card is found. We also added the Split Purchases 
feature that enables eligible U.S. Card Members 
to split the cost of purchases directly from the 
mobile app with other Venmo or PayPal users.12
CustomersESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Communities
Backing Our 
Communities
Introduction  39
Investing in Our Communities Through Charitable Giving  40
Enabling Colleagues to Back Our Communities 4338ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Backing Our 
Communities
For 170 years, American Express has been committed to supporting the communities we serve around the 
world. The COVID-19 pandemic, social justice protests and the global climate movement have highlighted the 
many challenges faced by our communities and accelerated the need for action. As we look ahead, we remain 
dedicated to building a more resilient, engaged and equitable society, and through our philanthropic programs 
and civic engagement, empowering the people and organizations on the front lines addressing society’s most 
complex challenges.39
2019 HIGHLIGHTS
Develop social purpose leaders
social purpose leaders trained since  
2007 with the support of our grants.125,000+Promote stewardship 
of historic places
historic sites in 10 countries were preserved  
with the support of our grants.44Strengthen the communities 
in which we operate  
in charitable giving globally, including grants 
provided by the Company, the American Express 
Foundation, our Center for Community Development 
and gift-matching programs.$42 MILLIONBACKING OUR COMMUNITIES DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC AND SUPPORTING  
A FAIR AND EQUITABLE RECOVERY 
 ·Committed $7 million in financial support to back communities, organizations 
and healthcare professionals on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 ·Pledged $3 million in grants to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational 
Fund, the National Urban League and other People of Color-led organizations 
focused on supporting the Black/African American Community.
 ·Pledged $10 million to support Black-owned small businesses over the next four years 
through a coalition that we built with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation that 
brings together four major Black Chambers: the National Black Chamber of Commerce, 
the National Business League, the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s Legacy.
CommunitiesEnable colleagues to 
back our communities
of our U.S. 
colleagues donated 
to nonprofits during 
our annual giving 
campaign.80%
volunteer opportunities 
provided to colleagues 
across 15 countries 
through our Serve2Gether 
volunteer program.30,000+ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Charitable giving has been at the heart of American Express since the 1880s, when our colleagues contributed to the fundraising effort 
to build a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. In 1954, we created the American Express Foundation, a New Y ork-based nonprofit that 
supports charitable organizations. Since then, American Express has provided more than $930 million to thousands of causes around 
the world. 40 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Investing in Our Communities  
Through Charitable Giving40 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
CHARITABLE GIVING IN 2019
GIVING PRIORITIES OUR APPROACH 2019 IMPACTS
Revitalizing  
CommunitiesThe American Express Center for 
Community Development (CCD) focuses 
on revitalizing communities by investing 
in affordable housing, financial literacy, 
economic development and more. ·Provided $3.5 million in grants to  
more than 120 nonprofits serving  
low- to moderate-income individuals 
and underserved communities.
 ·Supported the development of 1,975 new 
affordable housing units through the 
low-income housing tax credit program.
Empowering  
Citizen VolunteersWe enable charitable organizations to fulfill 
their mission, expand their work, amplify their 
profile and grow their base of supporters by 
engaging community members as volunteers. ·Our grants supported more than 60 nonprofits 
that engaged an estimated 7 million citizen 
volunteers in approximately 30 million 
hours of service within local communities.  
Supporting  
Communities  
Impacted by DisasterWe support immediate and long-term disaster 
relief and recovery efforts. Since 2008, 
American Express has helped the victims of 
more than 40 disasters in 34 countries. ·Provided $750,000 to support disaster 
response efforts to Hurricane Dorian in the 
Bahamas, T ropical Cyclone Idai in Mozambique 
and the fire at the Cathedral of Notre Dame.   
Developing Social 
Purpose LeadersWe create and fund programs – such as our 
American Express Leadership Academy – that 
strengthen leaders within nonprofit and social 
purpose organizations. Since 2007 , we have 
invested more than $90 million to develop 
more than 125,000 social purpose leaders. ·Funded $10.6 million in grants  
supporting programs in 11 countries.
 ·T rained more than 27,000 nonprofit 
and social sector leaders.   
 ·Hosted our fifth annual American Express 
Leadership Academy Global Alumni Summit.
Preserving  
Historic PlacesWe support projects that preserve historic 
landmarks that bring economic, cultural 
and social value to local communities.  ·44 historic sites in 10 countries were 
preserved with the support of our grants.
 ·Provided nearly $1.8 million in grants to 
13 historic sites focused on celebrating 
women in American History  (see 
Partners in Preservation: Main Streets ).
CommunitiesESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesResponding to the COVID-19 Crisis
The American Express Foundation has committed more than $7 million in various forms of financial support in 2020 to back 
the tireless work of those on the front lines of this global crisis. This includes grants to the International Medical Corps, the CDC 
Foundation, Feeding America, Save the Children, the International Rescue Committee and the COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund for 
the World Health Organization, as well as to local organizations in 20 countries globally. These grants are helping to provide protective 
equipment to frontline healthcare workers, support the development of vaccines and feed people in impacted communities, among 
other critical needs. We are also backing efforts to fight the disparate impacts that the pandemic has had on communities of color. This 
includes $250,000 to the BET COVID-19 Relief Fund, in partnership with United Way Worldwide, to provide financial, employment and 
food assistance to African American communities and $250,000 to the Hispanic Federation’s efforts to support essential workers and 
provide food for those impacted in the Latinx community.
We also committed more than $200 million as part of our largest-ever global Shop Small campaign to support a Card Member offer 
and the associated marketing campaign to help jumpstart spending at small merchants. Learn more about our efforts to support small 
businesses and customers impacted by the coronavirus in the Backing Our Customers section on page 31.41 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
 up to $1 MILLION  
Pledged up to $1 million to match Card Member donations 
to Feeding America when U.S. Card Members use 
their Membership Rewards points to make a donation 
to the organization through JustGiving.com.
  1,000+ 
Assisted Rethink Food NYC and Eleven Madison Park 
in their efforts to feed thousands of New Y orkers. $10 MILLION   
Backed Marriott’s Rooms for Responders initiative 
to provide $10 million worth of hotel stays to heroic 
healthcare professionals in the United States.  
 500,000  
Partnered with the food delivery start-up Deliveroo to 
deliver 500,000 meals to hospitals in the U.K. and 60,000 
meals to the homes of U.K. healthcare professionals. 
  up to 1 MILLION   
Partnered with Hilton to donate up to 1 million hotel  
room nights to frontline medical professionals across the 
United States to sleep, recharge or isolate from their families.  250,000+  
Donated more than 250,000 respiratory masks to 
hospitals to help keep medical response teams safe.
 $1 MILLION  
Contributed $1 million to the World Central Kitchen (WCK) to 
provide healthy, freshly prepared meals to frontline healthcare 
professionals in some of the hardest hit cities  
across the United States.  
 15,000  
Supported small businesses and healthcare workers in 
Japan by purchasing 15,000 meals from local restaurants 
and donating them to hospitals in T okyo, Osaka and Kyoto.ADDITIONAL COVID-19 RESPONSE HIGHLIGHTS:
CommunitiesESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesStanding Up Against Racial Discrimination and Social Injustice       
Protests in response to disproportionate violence against members of the Black/African American Community and the impact of 
COVID-19 on communities of color in the United States have shined additional light on racial inequality in our society. American Express 
is committed to fight against all forms of discrimination and create a welcoming and inclusive culture where everyone’s voice matters 
and where people of all races, ethnicities, backgrounds and viewpoints can thrive.
In 2020, we pledged $3 million in grants to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Urban League and other 
People of Color-led organizations focused on supporting the Black/African American Community. We also built a coalition with the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation and four national U.S. Black Chamber organizations including the National Black Chamber 
of Commerce, the National Business League, the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s Legacy. We have committed $10 million 
throughout the next four years to fund the initiative and provide grants to Black-owned small businesses to assist in their recovery and 
address the challenges they face due to racial and social inequalities. A portion of the funding will also be used to build the capacity of 
the network through leadership development and business mentoring.42 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
CELEBRATING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY 
Through our philanthropic programs, we provide grants in support of a wide range of initiatives that celebrate inclusion and  
diversity, including:
 ·Social purpose leadership training to support ethnic diversity organizations, including Hispanics in Philanthropy, Public 
Allies, the Council of Urban Professionals Institute, Americans for Indian Opportunity, National Urban League and Leadership 
Education for Asian Pacifics. 
 ·Leadership programs that focus on the needs of women leaders in the nonprofit sector, including the New Y ork Women’s 
Foundation and the Chicago Foundation for Women.
 ·Leadership Academy programming to empower emerging leaders working in LGBTQ+ organizations, hosted in partnership 
with the Center for Creative Leadership and the Stonewall Community Foundation.  
 ·The New Y ork City LGBTQ+ Historic Sites Project, a program of the Fund for the City of New Y ork, which explores sites 
connected to the city’s LGBTQ+ history and culture.
 ·Leadership programming supporting blind or visually impaired leaders with the American Foundation for the Blind. Advancing Racial Equity and Justice Solutions
In June 2020, the Business Roundtable announced the creation of a Special Committee to advance 
racial equity and justice solutions focusing on education and workforce, healthcare, finance and 
equitable justice. Our Chairman and CEO, Stephen J. Squeri, has participated on the Equitable 
Justice subcommittee since its inception. The subcommittee has developed police reform 
principles focused on transparency, accountability, standards and training, and has issued several 
statements urging Congress to pass bipartisan policing reform. T o reduce recidivism rates, the 
subcommittee is also working on second chance hiring and clean slate reform initiatives.
CommunitiesESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues CommunitiesWe empower our colleagues to make a difference in their communities through our three flagship programs: Serve2Gether, 
Give2Gether and Green2Gether. Our Serve2Gether volunteer program provides colleagues with opportunities to engage in hands-
on, virtual and pro-bono volunteer work. T o amplify their impact, we provide micro-grants of $500–$2,500 to organizations where 
colleagues volunteer 25 hours or more per year. Through our gift-matching program, Give2Gether, we match eligible colleague 
contributions to nonprofits up to $8,000 per year. Each fall, we hold a Give2Gether campaign across our workplaces in the United 
States, Canada and India to encourage colleague participation. Learn more about our Green2Gether program in the Moving to a Low- 
Carbon Future section on page 48.
Prioritizing Virtual Volunteer Opportunities During COVID-19
In 2020, we adapted our corporate volunteer program to prioritize practical and safe ways to support nonprofits during the pandemic.  
 ·Through Serve2Gether Consulting+, American Express colleagues can apply their expertise in marketing, IT , social media and more 
to consult nonprofits remotely. The online platform makes it easy to search for organizations and projects that match our colleagues’ 
interests, including topics such as civil rights, legal services and more. Colleagues can also nominate nonprofits that they believe will 
benefit from the platform. As of July 2020, 52 nonprofits have received consulting services valued at approximately $627 ,000.13 
 ·Through the Strive for College virtual mentorship program, our colleagues and U.S. Card Members can volunteer to mentor high 
school students in the United States who are seeking support and guidance on their college and financial aid applications.
Enabling Colleagues to  
Back Our Communities43 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
2019 GIVE2GETHER IMPACTS
colleagues donated to nonprofits 
through our gift-matching 
program Give2Gether.29,000+$5.6 MILLION
in colleague  
donations matched. 3,800
charities  
supported. 2019 SERVE2GETHER IMPACTS 
volunteer opportunities 
provided to colleagues  
across 15 countries.30,000+ 586
U.S. colleagues awarded Serve2Gether 
Grants (totaling $100,000) to 
organizations where they volunteer.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
Future
Moving to a  
Low-Carbon 
Future
Introduction  45
Investing in Sustainable Operations  46
Assessing Climate Risks and Opportunities 49
Advancing Sustainable Products and Sourcing   51
Environmental Performance Data Summary  5344ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues
Moving to a  
Low-Carbon Future
One of the most significant ways we can back our colleagues, customers and communities is to do our part to 
operate our Company responsibly, contribute to a low-carbon future and protect the environment on which all 
life depends. Climate change represents one of the greatest challenges facing our planet, and we are committed 
to supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy to meet the science-based recommendations of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). As a financial services company, our primary environmental 
impacts and source of GHG emissions come from the operation of our internal data centers and office facilities, 
as well as colleague business travel and direct mail marketing activities. In 2018, we became a CarbonNeutral®14 
company and began powering our operations with 100% renewable electricity through on-site solar, renewable 
energy credits, carbon offsets and reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are committed to maintaining 
these efforts moving forward.45
2019 HIGHLIGHTS
Low Carbon 
FutureRemain carbon neutral 
carbon emissions for our operations since 2018.2 ZERO NET
Commit to 
responsible sourcing 
of paper used in our U.S. direct 
marketing efforts was certified from 
responsibly managed forests.100%Engage our colleagues in sustainability
Earth Month activities were held for colleagues across 
more than 15 countries, including educational fairs, tree 
planting projects and coastal and river clean-ups.115+
Reduce waste and conserve water
Established baselines for tracking waste and water 
to support our 2025 environmental goals.Named to the 2019 CDP Climate A List, recognizing 
corporate leaders on climate action and transparency.100%
renewable electricity has powered 
our operations since 2018. ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesWe aim to minimize the effects our operations have on the physical environment and our climate. T o that end, we have had a long-
standing focus on increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and investing 
in sustainable and safe workplaces. In 2019, we set new 2025 environmental goals focused on key operational issues including energy 
use, waste generation, water use, green building certifications, removing single-use plastics and sourcing paper responsibly. 
Investing in Sustainable Operations 46 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
PROGRESS ON OUR 2025 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS 
2025 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS 2019 PROGRESS
Energy &  
EmissionsRemain carbon neutral for our operations.15 ·Zero net GHG emissions.16 
Continue to power our operations 
with 100% renewable electricity.On track
100%Target: 100%
Reduce energy use by 35% across our 
managed facilities compared to 2011.17On track
29%Target: 35%
Waste Reduce waste generated from our managed 
facilities by 10% per colleague compared to 2019.17  ·Established baseline of 135kg per colleague.
Divert 60% of office waste generated from 
our managed facilities away from landfills.17On track
38%Target: 60%
Achieve zero waste certification 
for our U.S. headquarters.  ·Implemented composting program.
 ·Removed single-use plastic18 cups.
Water Reduce water use from our managed facilities 
by 10% per colleague compared to 2019.17  ·Established baseline of 4,367 
gallons per colleague.
Sourcing Eliminate single-use plastics across our operations.  ·Eliminated single-use plastic 
from all Centurion lounges.
 ·Eliminated single-use plastic straws 
and stirrers across our operations.
Source 100% of our direct marketing, 
customer communications and office paper 
from certified sustainably managed forests.On track
88%Target: 100%
 ·Sourced 100% of our U.S. direct 
marketing paper from certified 
sustainably managed forests. 
Green  
BuildingAchieve Green Building certifications19  
for 60% of our operations.On track
50%Target: 60%
Low Carbon 
FutureESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes ColleaguesReducing Our GHG Emissions
Since 2018, we have maintained our CarbonNeutral® certification in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, a third-party 
framework that supports the implementation of carbon neutral programs.
To achieve net zero carbon emissions in 2019, we:
1.   Reduced our emissions through investments in internal energy efficiency measures.  
 ·Cut energy consumption in our managed offices by 29% compared to 2011 through the implementation of lighting retrofits, 
HVAC equipment upgrades and new building control systems.
2.   Supported the production of renewable energy through on-site solar installations and the purchase of renewable energy 
attribute certificates (EACs). 
 ·Generated 489 MWh of renewable electricity through rooftop solar panels at our data center in North Carolina.
 ·Purchased 257 ,684 MWh of EACs worldwide.
3.   Financed projects to offset emissions from our non-electric energy use (e.g., colleague business travel, waste, corporate jets, 
company cars).
 ·Purchased 80,914 MT CO2e of carbon offsets through afforestation projects in Mexico and the development of wind farms  
in India and China.
Rethinking Our Workspaces
We strive to design, build and operate our facilities to consume less resources, emit fewer greenhouse gases and improve indoor 
environmental quality and colleague well-being. T o support these efforts, we follow best-practice sustainability frameworks, including 
the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED certification program and other international green building standards such as BREEAM and 
HQE. In 2019, 50% of our operations were certified under a green building standard. 
Our workspace program, BlueWork, employs ergonomic office furniture and sustainable construction materials based on the U.S. 
Green Building Council’s LEED Certification rating systems. We use our workspace allocation guidelines and remote work capabilities to 
optimize the efficient use of our real estate and offer greater flexibility to the Company and our colleagues. T o learn more about how we 
are adapting our workspace guidelines to keep colleagues safe during COVID-19, see the Backing 0ur Colleagues section on pages 24-25.
In addition to our green building efforts, we are focused on maintaining the resiliency and continuous operability of our offices and 
data centers. As we develop short-, medium- and long-term real-estate strategies, we incorporate factors such as climate-related 
physical risks, legislative impacts and economic incentives. For example, the design of one of our newest buildings in Sunrise, Fla, was 
constructed to withstand Category 5 hurricanes and major flooding events.47 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
 
We are proud to be one of only 35 companies 
in the United States to be named to the 2019 
CDP Climate A List, recognizing corporate 
leaders on climate action and transparency.   
In 2020, we joined RE100, a global initiative of 
influential businesses committed to using 100% 
renewable electricity. Led by the Climate Group in 
partnership with CDP , RE100’s mission is to accelerate a 
global shift to clean electricity and zero carbon grids.HIGHLIGHTS:
Low Carbon 
FutureESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
Future48 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Maintaining Efficient Data Centers
In 2019, our data centers accounted for approximately 47% of the electricity used to power our operations, producing approximately 
36% of our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions. Through a variety of data center energy efficiency measures, we believe we 
have saved nearly 26 million kWh of electricity since 2012.  
Reducing Waste and Conserving Water
Increasing environmental damage caused by plastic waste in our ecosystems 
and the global breakdown of recycling supply chains have elevated our focus on 
waste management. Four of our 2025 environmental goals are directed at the 
reduction and diversion of landfill-bound waste and the removal of single-use 
plastics. In 2019, we implemented several key initiatives to support these goals 
including the launch of a new composting program at our New Y ork headquarters. 
Water scarcity is also a growing environmental issue impacting many regions of the 
world. In 2019, we set a new goal to reduce our water consumption from managed 
facilities by 10% per colleague by 2025.23 We plan to meet this goal through 
new investments in water efficiency efforts despite an expected uptick in some 
forms of water use, such as dishwashing, due to our new waste reduction goals. 
Partnering With Our Colleagues
Our colleagues play a critical role in our environmental sustainability initiatives. 
We partner with them to advance environmental programs across our facilities 
and communities through volunteer-led Green2Gether teams and environmental 
events, such as Earth Week and Earth Hour. Through our Green2Gether teams, 
colleagues design and lead environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces 
and local communities. Sustainability-minded colleagues lead and participate in 
events such as recycling drives, lectures and awareness campaigns.2019 HIGHLIGHTS
  Waste
 ·Established a global waste 
generation baseline of 135 kg 
per colleague to support our 
2025 waste reduction goal.24 
 ·Diverted 38% of total refuse 
away from landfills for our 
managed facilities.  
  Water
 ·Established a global water 
generation baseline of 4,367 
gallons per colleague to support 
our 2025 water reduction goal.  2019 DATA CENTER ENERGY USE HIGHLIGHTS
kWh of electricity used122 MILLION
Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)20  
 ·1.64 for our production data center21
 ·1.60 for our redundancy data center22
 ·2.27 for our testing data centerPUE
square feet of enterprise 
data center building space1 MILLION+
ENGAGING COLLEAGUES IN 2019
Earth Month activities were held across 
more than 15 countries including 
educational fairs, tree planting projects 
and coastal and river clean-ups.115+
provided in financial support to 
environmental causes through 
grants, gift-matching and 
Serve2Gether grant programs.$2.8 MILLION+ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
FutureIn 2020, we conducted a climate risk scenario analysis aligned to the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
framework to assess physical risks related to climate change. 
Aligning Our Reporting to the Task Force On Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Standard
Climate change is a growing systemic threat that poses global risks for business and society. In 2015, the G20’s Financial Stability 
Board (FSB) appointed the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to develop a framework for companies to 
provide investors and other stakeholders with relevant information about their climate-related risks and opportunities. In June 2017 , 
TCFD published their disclosure recommendations with a focus on the following areas: Governance, strategy, risk management, 
metrics and targets. In line with TCFD’s recommendations, we publicly disclose our climate-related information through our annual 
CDP Climate Change response. In 2020, we joined the CDP Climate A List recognizing corporate leaders acting on climate change. 
Below, we have provided a table mapping TCFD’s disclosure recommendations to our CDP responses.
Assessing Climate Risks and Opportunities49 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
TCFD Disclosure CDP 2020 Climate Change CDP 2019 Climate Change
Governance
a)  Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks  
and opportunities.C1.1b C1.1b
b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.C1.2, C1.2a C1.2, C1.2a
Strategy
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short-, medium-, and  
long-term.C2.1a, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a C2.1, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and  
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy  
and financial planning.C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.1b, 
C3.1d, C3.1e C3.1fC2.3a, C2.4a, C2.5, C2.6, 
C3.1, C3.1c, C3.1d
c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking  
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including 
a 2°C or lower scenario.C3.1a, C3.1b C3.1a, C3.1d
Risk Management
a)  Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a, C-FS2.2b, 
C-FS2.2c, C-FS2.2fC2.2b, C2.2c
b)  Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate- 
related risks.C2.1, C2.2, C-FS2.2f C2.2d
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and  
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.C2.1, C2.2 C2.2
Metrics and Targets
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b, C9.1 C4.2, C9.1
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C-FS14.1, 
C-FS14.1a, C-FS14.1b, C-FS14.1cC6.1, C6.3, C6.5
c)  Describe the targets used by the organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance  
against targets.C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2, 
C4.2a, C4.2bC4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
Future50 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Identifying Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities  
Preparing for and responding to climate-related risks and opportunities and helping our customers and communities develop the 
capacity to respond to future changes are key aspects of our business strategy. Current opportunities include lending to support 
more resilient customer and community operations, exploring new automated digital payment environments and supporting our Card 
Members following acute events or times of distress. Failing to adapt to a changing business environment and evolving customer 
demands poses risks to our ability to generate revenue and maintain our brand. 
We manage these risks by investing in organizational sustainability and resiliency efforts and offering sustainable product options to 
our customers. For example, the American Express Green Card is made primarily from recovered plastics from oceans and coasts, 
reducing the product’s GHG emissions across its lifecycle. We also monitor changing economic conditions to provide our customers 
with diverse financing options to help them remain resilient during financial downturns. By continually innovating our products and 
financing solutions, we can adapt to new market risks and meet changes in client demands.
DEFINING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
Climate-related risks can be divided into two major categories: Those associated with the physical impacts of climate change and those 
related to the transition to a low-carbon economy.
 ·Physical risks from climate change may include impacts from extreme weather events, such as drought or flooding, and the longer-term 
physical impact of increasing global temperatures. Physical risks can have direct financial implications for organizations such as direct 
damage to assets and indirect impacts including supply chain disruption.
 ·Transitional risks from climate change may include impacts from the global transition to a low-carbon economy, new regulations, innovations 
and market changes that can have effects across the entire business. This could include changes to revenues based on shifting customer 
demands, new costs related to climate change mitigation and adaptation, impacts on the availability of raw materials and more.
The potential impacts of climate change can also offer opportunities for organizations. These can include benefits resulting from 
resource efficiency, shifting to renewable energy sources, the development of new products and services and increased resilience.
QUALITATIVE SUMMARY OF PHYSICAL CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS  
In 2020, we completed a qualitative analysis to identify potential risks associated with the physical impacts of climate change on 
certain facilities, including our global headquarters, data centers, call centers, tech operations and supplier credit card manufacturing 
sites. The assessment evaluated potential threats to business-critical sites under both historic conditions and future climate 
projections based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)  
8.5 scenario.
Risks were analyzed across several time horizons including historic conditions (1990-2018), a future mid-term projection (2035)  
and a future long-term projection (2060). This qualitative assessment of nine sites is considered a first step in our broader process  
to evaluate threats and mitigation opportunities across our global operations, supply chain and revenue sources.
Each of the nine sites were examined by looking at seven potential risks resulting from the physical impacts of climate change.  
These include: increasing temperatures, sea level rise, precipitation changes, flooding, cyclonic events, extended drought and  
extreme temperatures. 
The RCP 8.5 scenario was selected because it represents a worst-case scenario climate emissions trajectory model and  
provides an upper-boundary condition to support our assessment. In addition to using IPCC RCP 8.5 data, we also utilized local 
site-specific information, regional data from the U.S. National Climate Assessment, tidal information from the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration and data from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Climate Resilience Evaluation and 
Awareness T ool (CREAT).
This preliminary assessment indicates we could see increasing risk of flooding due to sea level rise and extreme precipitation events to 
at least five key sites, increased cyclonic activity at four sites, droughts at three sites and extreme temperatures across nearly all sites 
by 2060. Such potential risks are not forecasts and are not necessarily indicative of future performance. They also do not take into 
account potential mitigation efforts and assumes such sites continue in use to the dates specified.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
FutureCustomers increasingly expect to see environmentally responsible products, services and sourcing practices from the companies with 
whom they do business. Our approach to managing our environmental impact extends to how our products and services are created, 
delivered and used by our customers. 
Innovating to Combat Marine Plastic Pollution 
In 2018, we began collaborating with Parley for the Oceans to address the issue of marine plastic pollution and remove single-use 
plastics from our operations. In 2019, we launched the first-ever American Express Card manufactured primarily from reclaimed 
plastic collected from oceans and coasts. We complemented these efforts by introducing a Card recycling program enabling U.S. 
Card Members to return expired or non-working Cards to American Express to be recycled. T o further raise awareness on the topic of 
marine plastic pollution, we also launched a Back Our Oceans digital campaign to engage our Card Members, merchants, partners and 
colleagues with opportunities to take action. 
T o learn more about our company-wide initiatives and other ways to help combat marine plastic pollution,  
visit the Back Our Oceans campaign website .
Promoting Responsible Travel and Consumption
We are committed to exploring new ways to evolve our products and services to reduce our footprint, help our customers make more 
informed decisions and collaborate with our partners to promote responsible travel and consumption patterns. 
In 2019, we:
 ·Launched a new Membership Rewards points category to incentivize mass transit spend, which includes subways, trains, buses  
and ride-share services.
 ·Created a new feature on amextravel.com to help customers find hotels and resorts that have third-party sustainability certifications. 
 ·Supported projects that preserve historic landmarks that bring economic, cultural and social value to local communities and promote 
responsible travel and tourism.
Through the JustGiving platform, Card Members can use their Membership Rewards points to donate to nonprofit organizations that 
support environmental initiatives including carbon offset programs.
51 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Advancing Sustainable  
Products and Sourcing
SUPPORTING ORGANIZATIONS WORKING TO ADDRESS MARINE PLASTIC POLLUTION
In 2019, we provided nearly $2 million in grants to the Ocean Conservancy and National Geographic 
Society to support their programs addressing marine plastic pollution. With our support, Ocean 
Conservancy aims to engage more than 1.5 million volunteers in clean-ups, and the National 
Geographic Society aims to influence 200,000 people in reducing single-use plastics.≈$2 MILLONESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
Future52 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Environmentally Responsible Sourcing
We strive to source environmentally and socially responsible products and services from approved third-party vendors. In 2019, we 
set new 2025 environmental goals including sourcing 100% of our direct marketing, customer communications and office paper from 
certified responsibly managed forests and eliminating single-use plastics across our operations. T o support these goals, we eliminated 
single-use plastic from all Centurion lounges and removed single-use plastic straws and stirrers across our operations. T o learn more 
about our responsible procurement practices, please visit the Operating Responsibly section on page 62. 
2019 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING HIGHLIGHTS
of paper used in our U.S. direct 
marketing efforts was certified  
from responsibly managed forests.100%93%
of Card Member payments 
were electronic,25 and 59% of 
statements were paperless.26ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
Future
Environmental Performance Data Summary53 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Unit272019 2018 2017
Colleague Headcount FTE 64,500 59,000 55,000
Annual Revenue $US M $43,556 $40,338 $36,878
Building Square Footage28ft28,676,452 8,504,984 8,924,040
Green Building Square Footage29  ft24,364,026 4,488,252 4,076,962
Energy30
Global Direct Energy Consumption MWh 93,957 92,516 93,021
Natural Gas MWh 16,881 16,711 17 ,615
Fuel Oil MWh 2,021 3,241 2,333
Mobile Fuel MWh 75,055 72,564 73,073
Global Intermediate Energy Consumption MWh 283,031 270,449 282,723
Purchased Electricity MWh 257 ,569 246,955 259,323
Purchased Steam & Chilled Water MWh 25,462 23,494 23,400
Global Direct and Intermediate Energy Consumption MWh 376,988 362,965 375,744
Global Percent Renewable Electricity 100% 100% 62%
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
Scope 1 - Direct tCO2e 24,363 23,981 24,162
Scope 2 (Location) - Indirect tCO2e 113,964 112,745 119,932
Scope 2 (Market) - Indirect31tCO2e 3,153 2,994 55,273
Scope 3: Category 6 - Business Travel32tCO2e 51,679 47 ,285 34,224
T otal Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (Location)  tCO2e 138,327 136,726 144,094
T otal Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (Market) tCO2e 27 ,516 26,975 79,435
T otal Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (Market) 
and 3 Category 6 tCO2e 79,195 74,260 113,659
Verified Carbon Offset Emissions Reductions tCO2e 80,914 75,970 35,000
Net Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (Market) and 3 Category 
6 with Purchased Ghg Emissions Offsets0 0 78,659
Scope 1 & 2 (Market) Emissions Per Revenue tCO2e/$M 0.6 0.7 2.2
Scope 1 & 2 (Market) Emissions Per 
Building Square FootagekgCO2e/ft23.2 3.2 8.9
Scope 1 & 2 (Market) Emissions Per 
Colleague HeadcounttCO2e/FTE 0.4 0.5 1.4
Global Water33
Global Water Usage m3591,220 609,310 527 ,562
Global Waste34
Waste Generated tons 3,472 3,324 3,130
Waste Recycled tons 1,309 1,075 1,389ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Low Carbon 
FutureUnit272019 2018 2017
Paper Use
U.S. Direct Mail lbs. 34,987 ,332 35,380,912 76,596,158
Percent U.S. Direct Mail From Sustainable Sources 100% 100% 98%
Copy Paper Pages Printed Globally (Sheets) 75,188,493 80,512,205 83,410,737
CDP
Climate Change Survey: Score A B A-
Environmental Violations
Environmental Violations (number)  0 0 054 MOVING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTUREESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyOperating  
Responsibly
Introduction  56
Business Ethics  57
Board of Directors and Corporate Governance Framework  60
Risk Management, Data Privacy and Security  61
Responsible Procurement & Supplier Diversity  62  
Responsible Lending and Financing  6355
55ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
Operating  
Responsibly
We strive to have the backs of our colleagues, customers and communities every day and hold ourselves to 
the highest standards of ethics and integrity. Operating responsibly is built into the heart of our Company 
through our values and maintained through our policies and procedures that support business ethics, 
sound governance, regulatory requirements, risk management, data privacy and security and responsible 
procurement and lending practices.56
2019 HIGHLIGHTS
Maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity
the Amex Ethics Hotline is available online and 
by phone for colleagues, contractors, vendors, 
suppliers and others to raise ethical or compliance 
concerns, with access to representatives who 
collectively speak more than 200 languages.Our colleagues receive Global Regulatory 
Learning Enterprise Essential Training on 
important policies, laws and regulations that 
govern our industry, guide our Company and 
protect our colleagues, customers and brand. 24/7ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
Business Ethics57 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Throughout our 170-year history, we have reinvented ourselves through innovation, but we have never strayed from our core values. 
At the heart of our culture is what we call our Blue Box Values, which include the following principles that every colleague commits to 
embracing and working by each day.
Code of Conduct 
Our Code of Conduct informs our colleagues of their responsibilities regarding a range of key issues and business practices, including 
anti-corruption, technology use, gift giving, travel and entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing money laundering, conflicts 
of interest, conducting business with foreign governments and protecting customer privacy. Adherence to the Code of Conduct is a 
condition of employment, and violations can result in termination. Each colleague must certify their review of the Code of Conduct 
upon joining American Express and confirm receipt every year thereafter. Colleagues are also required to disclose all conflicts and 
potential conflicts of interest annually and promptly update their disclosure if their circumstances change throughout the year.  
The Company’s Board of Directors are subject to a separate Code of Business Conduct . This code guides each Director on appropriate 
conduct, conflicts of interest and other ethical concerns; provides mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical conduct; and 
helps to foster a culture of openness and accountability. WE BACK OUR CUSTOMERS
Relationships are at the heart of our business. We strive 
to be essential to our customers by delivering exceptional 
products, services and experiences every day – and 
promise to have their backs in everything we do.
WE MAKE IT GREAT
We deliver an unparalleled standard of excellence in everything 
we do, staying focused on the biggest opportunities to be 
meaningful to our customers. From our innovative products 
to our world-class customer service, our customers expect 
the best  – and our teams are proud to deliver it.
WE DO WHAT’S RIGHT
Customers choose us because they trust our brand and 
people. We earn that trust by ensuring everything we do is 
reliable, consistent and with the highest level of integrity.
WE RESPECT PEOPLE
We trust and respect one another for who we are 
and what we contribute. We are accountable to one 
another and empower every voice through open, 
courageous dialogue so others feel heard.WE EMBRACE DIVERSITY
We see diversity of people and experiences as fuel for the 
creativity and innovation we need to be and deliver our best.
WE STAND FOR INCLUSION
We all have biases. However, we do not tolerate bias that excludes 
or minimizes anyone – all people belong. We are committed 
to ensuring that we have a welcoming and inclusive culture 
where everyone’s voice matters and where people of all races, 
ethnicities, genders, gender identities, sexual orientations, 
ages, religions, disabilities and viewpoints can thrive.
WE WIN AS A TEAM
We view each other as colleagues  – part of the same team, 
striving to deliver the brand promise to our customers and 
each other every day. Individual performance is essential 
and valued, but never at the expense of the team.
WE SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITIES
We respect our communities and are committed 
to working together so they can thrive and make 
a meaningful difference in the world.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAnti-Bribery  
& CorruptionWe have a zero-tolerance policy for bribery and require colleagues to complete 
anti-corruption and bribery training – a requirement tied to their annual 
compensation – to inform them of applicable laws and regulations. Please  
 refer to our Anti-Corruption Standards for more information.
Anti-Money  
LaunderingOur global Anti-Money Laundering Policy defines our approach to preventing money 
laundering and related financial crimes. Colleagues receive regular training to review 
anti-money laundering policies, requirements and laws and their role in recognizing 
and reporting unusual behavior. 
Whistleblower  
PolicyOur Whistleblower Claims Policy provides procedures for handling whistleblower 
claims received from colleagues, contractors, customers, merchants and others. 
The policy protects whistleblowers from retaliation or adverse employment actions 
for reporting good faith allegations. Claims are investigated and recommendations 
for remediation are made as appropriate.
Public Policy 
Engagement 
& Political 
ContributionsWe believe that active engagement in the public policy arena is an important part of 
responsible corporate citizenship and is vital to the democratic process. Please refer 
to our Policy Engagement and Political Activity site for more information, including 
lobbying requirements and our semi-annual reporting of U.S. political contributions.
Responsible 
MarketingOur marketing programs go through multiple layers of review to help ensure that 
our customers are well-informed about our products and services. Learn more in the 
Backing Our Customers section on page 36.  
Equal 
Employment 
Opportunity 
(EEO)We are committed to equal employment opportunities for all individuals based 
on job-related qualifications and ability to perform the job without regard to 
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
disability, genetic information, citizenship, marital status or any other basis 
prohibited by law. Harassment of colleagues and contractors by co-workers, 
supervisors or outsiders is prohibited and may result in disciplinary action, up 
to and including termination of employment or termination of the contractor 
relationship. The Company also has a Global Sexual Harassment Policy Statement.
Human  
RightsWe promote human rights and are committed to leadership in responsible 
workplace practices in all aspects of our business. Our Human Rights Statement  
and Code of Conduct embody our commitment to fair and equal treatment of all 
people. We remain committed to preventing acts of modern slavery and human 
trafficking from occurring within both our business and our supply chain by 
ensuring we work with suppliers of the highest standard and by running rigorous 
employment checks. Please refer to our U.K. Modern Slavery Act T ransparency 
Statement for more information. 
Code of  
ConductOur Code of Conduct informs our colleagues of their responsibilities regarding a 
range of key issues and business practices, including anti-corruption, technology 
use, gift giving, travel and entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing 
money laundering, conflicts of interest, conducting business with foreign 
governments and protecting customer privacy.  Learn more on page 57 or see our 
Code of Conduct .
TaxationWe carefully consider our taxation positions so that they are consistent with our 
overall tax strategy, broader corporate governance requirements, applicable laws 
and corporate values. We engage with tax authorities globally with openness and 
integrity to support compliance with our tax obligations. We are a current taxpayer 
both within and outside of the United States. For more information on taxation,  
see our 2019 Annual Report .Business Ethics 
Policies and 
Procedures
Our policies demonstrate 
how we hold ourselves 
accountable to the highest 
legal, ethical and  
operational standards.58 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly59 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
The Amex Ethics Hotline provides colleagues, contractors, vendors, suppliers and others with an opportunity to report concerns 
regarding potential compliance or ethical matters without fear of retaliation. These matters may relate to our colleagues and leaders 
and/or to the principles in our Code of Conduct, such as financial reporting and accounting; corruption, fraud or other criminal activity; 
or workplace conduct. The hotline is hosted by an independent third-party, and reporters can choose to provide the information 
confidentially or anonymously (where allowed by local laws). Reporters can access it easily, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 
by phone or online and reach representatives who collectively speak more than 200 languages. Once submitted, all concerns are 
forwarded to specially trained individuals within American Express who promptly review and, if necessary, investigate the report.
We create long-term relationships with organizations that share our common interests and regularly collaborate with them to achieve 
common goals. Below are some of the organizations in which we are a member or partner:Reporting Ethics Concerns
Advocacy and Membership in Key Organizations
Corporate Social Responsibility 
 ·Better Business Bureau of  
Metropolitan New Y ork
 ·The Business Council of New Y ork State
 ·Business for Social Responsibility 
 ·Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose 
 ·The Conference Board 
 ·Council on Foreign Relations
 ·Emerging Practitioners in Philanthropy
 ·Forum for the Future 
 ·Grantmakers for Effective 
Organizations
 ·Independent Sector
 ·Partnership for New Y ork City
 ·Philanthropy New Y ork
 ·U.S. Chamber of  
Commerce Foundation  
 
 Public Policy and Advocacy
 ·American Bankers Association
 ·Bank Policy Institute
 ·Consumer Bankers Association
 ·National Association of  
Convenience Stores
 ·Partnership for New Y ork City, Inc.
 ·Securities Industry & Financial  
Markets Association
 ·The Business Roundtable
 ·U.S. Chamber of Commerce
 ·U.S. T ravel Association
 ·Western Bankers Association 
 
 Human Resources and  
Leadership Development
 ·Blue Circle Leadership
 ·Grace Hopper – US
 ·Council of Urban Professionals
 ·Center for Advanced Human  
Resource Studies
 ·Coqual (formally Center for  
T alent Innovation) 
 ·The Executive Leadership Council
 ·Hispanic Alliance for Career 
Enhancement
 ·Hispanic Association for  
Corporate Responsibility 
 ·JOPWELL
 ·Management Leadership for T omorrow
 ·National Society of Black  
Engineers (NSBE)
 ·Society of Hispanic Engineers (SHPE)ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
Board of Directors and Corporate  
Governance Framework 60 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
We have adopted Corporate Governance Principles that, together with the charters of the four standing committees of the Board 
(Audit and Compliance; Compensation and Benefits; Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility; and Risk), our Code 
of Conduct and the Code of Business Conduct for Members of the Board of Directors, provide our governance framework. Key 
governance policies and processes include our Whistleblower Claims Policy, our comprehensive Enterprise-Wide Risk Management 
Program, our commitment to transparent financial reporting and our systems of internal checks and balances. Comprehensive 
management policies, many of which are approved at the Board committee level, guide the Company’s operations. Our Board, along 
with management, regularly reviews our Corporate Governance Principles and practices to ensure that they are appropriate and reflect 
our high standards and Blue Box Values.  
Board of Directors Highlights 
Our Board is made up of a diverse group of leaders with substantial experience in their respective fields. We continually review our 
Board’s composition to identify the skills needed for our Company. Ongoing Board succession planning, along with our mandatory 
retirement age for directors, assures that the Board maintains an appropriate mix of objectivity, skills and experiences. When reviewing 
potential Board nominees, the Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility Committee considers the diversity of the Board, 
including gender and race, and does not discriminate on the basis of ethnicity, sexual orientation, culture or nationality. We believe that 
our Board has assembled the right mix of members to provide effective oversight and insightful strategic guidance.
As of March 2020, our Board comprised the following demographics:
Gender  
Diversity31%
Racial/Ethnic 
Diversity23%
Ye a r s  
Average Age63.5
Ye a r s   
Average Board 
T enure6.3
Non-U.S.15%
Independence92%
Executive Compensation  
Our executive compensation program is designed to support the longevity and stability of the Company by driving long-term business 
outcomes, promoting strong governance practices and encouraging responsible risk-taking. This is achieved by linking individual pay 
with the Company’s performance on a diverse set of measures and timelines. Long-term incentives are designed to align executives 
with the Company’s long-term performance using share-based awards. Further, the Company scorecard incentivizes performance 
and includes key objectives in four categories: shareholder, customer, strategic imperatives and colleague.  The colleague category 
on the Company scorecard includes consideration of diversity representation and talent retention.  T o support strong oversight, the 
Company’s Compensation and Benefits Committee approves performance goals across our programs and certifies performance 
outcomes. For more information on our executive compensation program, please refer to the Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
section of our 2020 Proxy Statement . ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
Risk Management, Data Privacy  
and Security61 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Risk Management Governance
We use our comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, aggregate, monitor and manage risks. The 
implementation and execution of the ERM program is headed by our Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise-wide Risk Management 
Committee (ERMC), chaired by our Chief Risk Officer, is the highest-level management committee to oversee all firm-wide risks.  
The committee is responsible for risk governance, risk oversight and risk appetite and oversees the implementation of Company-wide 
risk policies.
Our Board monitors our risk culture and oversees emerging strategic risks. Risk management is overseen by three Board committees: 
the Risk Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Each committee consists 
entirely of independent Directors and provides regular reports to the Board. For more detailed information on our Board, Board 
committees and how management oversees risk, please refer to our 2020 Proxy Statement .  
Crisis Preparedness Program  
We maintain a Crisis Preparedness Program that addresses the resiliency of key business operations (and supporting technology) 
in the event of an unplanned business disruption (including risks related to climate change). A core aspect of our program involves 
the formulation and testing of Business Continuity Plans (BCP). We provide colleagues responsible for BCPs with tools, training 
and guidance to ensure plans are tested and exercised. Our resiliency program also includes assessing the resilience capabilities of 
key third-party service providers. In addition, our Colleague Experience Group maintains Global Crisis Management Employee Care 
Guidelines to assist leaders in providing support for colleagues worldwide in a variety of crisis scenarios. Learn more about how we 
quickly adapted our business practices to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic on page 24. 
 
Data Privacy and Security  
We have implemented an Information Security Program and Operating Model that is designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction. 
The framework defines risks and associated controls, which are embedded in our processes and technology. Those controls are measured 
and monitored by a combination of subject matter experts and a security operations center with our integrated cyber detection, response 
and recovery capabilities. Our Privacy Organization focuses on handling data about our customers, prospects and colleagues in a manner 
consistent with our Data Protection and Privacy Principles and manages our practices around the collection and handling of personal 
data, as well as notification, privacy choices, data quality, data transfers and data access. 
 
T o learn more about our information security and privacy controls and policies, see Protecting Our Customers’ Privacy and Security on 
page 35. Additional information can also be found in our 2020 Proxy Statement , 2019 Annual Report and on our Privacy Center webpage.  ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
Responsible Procurement and  
Supplier Diversity62 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Managing Third-Party Relationships
Through our comprehensive third-party program, we seek to adhere to regulatory requirements and manage risk throughout the 
lifecycle of our third-party relationships by applying appropriate governance, due diligence, contracting requirements and ongoing 
monitoring commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of our third-party relationships.
We strive to source environmentally and socially responsible products and services from approved third-party vendors. In 2019, we set 
a new goal to source 100% of our direct marketing, customer communications and office paper from certified responsibly managed 
forests by 2025. Learn more in the Moving to a Low-Carbon Future section on page 52. 
T o maintain the resiliency of our supply chain, we require certain business critical services to maintain Business Continuity Plans 
and require Exit Plans for certain critical vendors. In 2020, as a result of COVID-19, we took several actions to help certain suppliers 
continue to provide services, including giving permission to work from home.
Supporting Supplier Diversity
Winning strategies, products and services require diversity 
of thought, perspective and contribution. We are committed 
to inclusion and diversity across our organization, including 
among the third parties with whom we do business. T o support 
these efforts, we are members of several supplier diversity 
advocacy organizations including the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council, Women's Business Enterprise National 
Council and National LGBT Chamber of Commerce. In addition, 
with the creation of the Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity 
and Business Engagement, we have further committed to 
focusing on increasing our diverse supplier relationships as a key 
component of our strategy. Learn more about the new Office of 
Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity and Business Engagement in the 
Backing Our Colleagues section on page 19.
We monitor our annual spend with suppliers that are certified 
business enterprises with protected-class owners and operators, 
including:
 ·Minority-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·Women-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·LGBTQ+ Business Enterprises
 ·Small Business Enterprises/8(a)/HUBZone-certified firms
 ·Disadvantaged or Disability-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·Veteran-Owned Business Enterprises
In 2019, we spent more than $350 million with diverse suppliers 
in the United States. We were also named to the Best of the 
Decade in Supplier Diversity list by Minority Business News. We support human rights in our supply chain and 
are committed to working with suppliers who share 
our values. Third parties  – including suppliers  – that 
provide us with goods or services are required to 
conduct business in accordance with all applicable 
laws, rules and regulations, in addition to adhering to 
our standards of integrity, transparency and ethics. T o 
learn more, view our Human Rights Statement and  
U.K Modern Slavery Act T ransparency Statement .Protecting Human RightsESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Operating 
Responsibly
 
Responsible Lending and Financing 63 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
As a responsible lender, we continuously evaluate our customers’ financial health and take appropriate actions to manage credit 
responsibly. Our aim is to accommodate the spending needs of our Card Members and provide appropriate borrowing capacity. No 
one factor determines our credit decisions. For consumer accounts, we look at their overall credit profile including payment history, 
reported income, overall debt level relative to their financial resources, credit bureau scores and other credit bureau information 
as applicable. When making credit decisions about commercial clients, we also look at a number of factors, including financial 
information, size and available commercial bureau reports, as well as consumer credit bureau information for small business 
accounts. This helps us to effectively manage our credit exposure and manage risk to our customers responsibly. In addition, we seek 
to maintain models that are free from unlawful discrimination. T o meet this commitment, we are intentional as to our model inputs 
and in the training and monitoring of these models to promote fair outcomes.   
American Express National Bank (AENB)
AENB, our U.S. bank subsidiary, provides American Express’ U.S. Consumer and Small Business customers with access to  
payment, financing and savings products, while ensuring safe and sound banking operations and delivering on the Company’s 
financial objectives. 
Investment Activities
AMEX Ventures, a corporate venture arm of American Express, invests in both domestic and international innovative start-ups in order 
to enhance our Company's core capabilities and accelerate our efforts in consumer commerce and business-to-business services. We 
primarily invest in early stage companies and conduct extensive due diligence before making investments.
The vast majority of the investment securities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019, represented 
U.S. T reasuries backed by the U.S. Government, which were not directly exposed to ESG-related risks.
Financing Activities
We have a long history of supporting inclusion and diversity in our financing activities. As part of our capital markets funding program, 
the Company regularly engages multiple Minority- and/or Women-Owned Business Enterprises (MWBE) in the issuance of debt 
securities. In 2018 and 2019, seven MWBE’s were engaged for debt underwriting and placed approximately $350 million of the total 
principal issued.ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues64 END NOTES
1. The 2019 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey 
was conducted by the communications and advisory firm T eneo 
on behalf of American Express and the National Federation 
of Independent Business (NFIB). The study is a nationally 
representative sample of 2,287 U.S. adults 18 years of age or 
older. The sample was collected using an email invitation and 
an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and 
does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted 
anonymously on December 1, 2019. The survey has an overall 
margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence. 
Projections are based on the current U.S. Census estimates 
of the U.S. adult population, ages 18 years and over.
2. Achieved zero net carbon emissions for scope 1, 2, and 3 (waste 
and colleague business travel, including third-party air, rail and 
rental cars) through renewable energy credits, carbon offsets, 
and reduced GHG emissions. Operations include all our managed 
facilities, field sites and data centers. Managed facilities are 
individual properties operationally managed by our global real 
estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites 
are individual properties that are not operationally managed 
by our global real estate team but directly by our business 
units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 square 
feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and 
sales offices) that are owned or leased by American Express.
3. Represents percent increase from January 
2018 through June 2020.
4. As of year-end 2019; based on the U.S. Employer 
Information Report (EEO-1) job categories.
5. Undeclared is a legally offered option in certain 
non-U.S. jurisdictions; in the United States, 
gender is required for EEO-1 reporting.
6. Y ear-end 2019 U.S. Employer Information Report 
(EEO-1) data to be filed with the EEOC.
7. Race description “Other” includes the classification: 
Native American or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian 
or Pacific Islander and T wo or More Races.
8. All other factors being equal (i.e., role, skills, 
competencies and performance).
9. This spend statistic is an aggregate of the average spend as 
reported by consumers who shopped small on Small Business 
Saturdays in surveys commissioned by American Express 
reporting spend habits on Small Business Saturday since 2012. 
It does not reflect actual receipts or sales. Each such survey was 
conducted online among a nationally representative sample of U.S. 
adults. The data was projected from the samples based on then-
current U.S. Census estimates of the U.S. adult population (18+).
10. The 2018 Small Business Economic Impact Study was 
conducted by Econsult Solutions, Inc. (ESI) on behalf of 
American Express. ESI calculated the share of national 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employment and employee 
compensation that small businesses with under 100 employees 
provide to the economy based on an analysis used by the 
U.S. Small Business Administration. ESI also estimated how 
much of each dollar spent at the average small business 
remains in their local community and used input-output 
analysis across 100 representative U.S. counties to calculate 
the additional impact that is generated locally as the result 
of the spending of employees and the spending of the small 
business with local suppliers and service providers.
11. Estimates are based on data collected from 4,021 U.K. adults 
polled by T oluna between Saturday 7 December 2019 and Monday 
9 December 2019.  The £800 million figure was calculated 
using ONS mid-2018 estimation of the U.K. adult population.12. Enrollment required. Visit www.americanexpress.
com/splitpurchases for terms and to learn more.
13. Provided by Catchafire based on the estimated cost 
for project scoping and talent sourcing, including 3,181 
hours of pro bono work valued at $197 per hour.
14. CarbonNeutral® certification is granted to businesses or 
organizations that have reduced their carbon emissions to 
net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol.
15. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites and data 
centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally 
managed by our global real estate team and housing critical 
business functions. Field sites are individual properties that 
are not operationally managed by our global real estate team 
but directly by our business units. They are typically smaller 
sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, 
foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or 
leased by American Express. The Company’s zero net carbon 
emissions commitment covers scope 1 (direct emissions from 
sources owned or controlled by American Express), scope 2 
(indirect location-based and market-based emissions), and 
scope 3 emissions (waste and colleague business travel, 
including third-party air, rail and rental cars) through renewable 
energy credits, carbon offsets and reduced GHG emissions.
16. Achieved zero net GHG emissions for scope 1, 2, and 3 
(waste and colleague business travel, including third-
party air, rail and rental cars) through renewable energy 
credits, carbon offsets and reduced GHG emissions.
1 7. Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered 
and/or measured data is available; per colleague goals based 
on number of colleagues located in such managed facilities.
18. Single-use plastics is defined as plastic items that are used 
only once before they are thrown away or recycled. These 
items are things like plastic bags, straws, coffee stirrers, 
soda and water bottles and most food packaging. Materials 
that are plastic yet designed to be reusable (i.e. reusable 
plastic food containers or water bottles) are out of scope.
19. Green building certified percentage is represented by the 
total square footage of leased or owned facilities actively 
occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot square 
footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-
party environmental building rating system as meeting their 
performance criteria (LEED, BREEAM, NABERS and GreenMark).
20. The PUE (Power Usage Efficiency) is the total overall utility 
load divided by total load needed to support the data halls. We 
collect data from strategic metering devices within our building 
systems as well as our Energy Performance Management 
System (EPMS), which reports real-time PUE data.
21. Primary Data Center for Daily BAU (business-as-usual) activities.
22. Disaster Recovery Data Center for Production Data Center.
23. Measurement is based only on managed facilities 
where metered and/or measured data is available.
24. Waste generation reported only for managed facilities 
where waste generation data is available. The waste usage 
for 2019 represents approximately 67% (4,457 ,816SF) 
of the globally managed office footprint.  
25. “Electronic” includes payments received via phone, 
online, Auto Pay, third party remits and wire transfers.
26. Includes Global Consumer, Global Small Business 
and US Corporate Card Members.
End Notes64 END NOTESESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues65 END NOTES
2 7. FTE: Full-time Equivalent; $US M: Millions of dollars; ft2: Square 
Footage; tCO2e: Metric T ons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; 
KgCo2: Kilograms of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; MWh: 
Megawatt Hours; m3: Cubic Meters; lbs.: Pound Weight.
28. Building square footage includes all leased and owned 
facilities actively occupied by American Express 
(excluding parking lot square footage), which covers 
managed facilities, field sites and data centers.
29. Green building certified square footage is total square footage 
of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American 
Express (excluding parking lot square footage) certified 
under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental 
building rating system as meeting their performance 
criteria (LEED, BREEAM, NABERS and GreenMark).
30. Energy usage based on combination of metered energy 
consumption billing data and estimated energy consumption data 
based on energy intensity per square footage standards outlines 
in the GHG Protocol where metered data is not currently available.
31. 257 ,684 MWh, 246,599 MWh and 160,663 MWh of 
renewable energy attributes were applied to the 2019, 2018 
and 2017 scope 2 market-based emissions, respectively, 
resulting in 110,811 MtCO2e, 109,751 MtCO2e and 
68,256 MtCO2e emissions reduction, respectively.
32. Represents third-party air and rail travel and rental cars.
33. Water usage reported only for managed facilities where 
measured data is available. Reported water usage for 
2019 represents approximately 77% (5,332,789SF) 
of the globally managed office footprint.
34. Waste generation and recycling data are reported only 
for managed facilities where waste generation and 
recycling data is available. The waste data reported 
for 2019 represents approximately 67% (4,674,759SF) 
of the globally managed office footprint. 
 
 
 
 
WATER RESOU RCES  •  ENVIRONMENT AL SERVICES  •  HEALTH  & SAFETY  
Apex Companies, LLC  ▪ (800) 733 -2379 ▪ www. apexcos.com  
 
 
  
 VERIFICATION OPINION  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
 
To: Americ an Express  
 
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was  engaged to conduct an independent verification of  the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by American Express for  the calendar year (CY) 2019 . This Verification  Declaration applies to the 
related information included within the scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of American Express . American Express  is 
respon sible for the prep aration and f air presentation of the GHG  emissions statement in accord ance with the criteria . 
Apex’ s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG e missions reported, 
and on the underlying systems and processes used t o coll ect, anal yze and review the in formation. Apex is 
responsible for expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement  based on the verification.  Verification 
activi ties applied in a limited level of assurance verification  are less extensive in nature , timing and ex tent than in a 
reasonable level  of assurance verification.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
• Operational Control  
• Worldwide  
• Exclusions: No ne   
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4, HFCs 
GHG Emissions Statement : 
Americ an Express Entity -Wide GHG Emission s for CY 201 9 
Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tonnes (mt) of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e) 24,363 
Scope 2 Emissions – Location Based mt CO 2e 113,964 
Scope 2 Emissions – Market Based mt CO 2e  (purch ased steam and chilled water 
emissio ns) 3,153 
Scope 3 E missions – Category 6 Business Trav el CO 2e 51,679  
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3 Business Travel CO 2e 79,195  
GHG Emission Offsets and Net Emissions for CY 2019  
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets mt CO 2e    80,914  
Net Emi ssions CO 2e 
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 Mar ket Based + Scope 3 Business Travel ) - Purchased GHG 
Emission Offsets  0 
 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1, Scope 2  and Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some 
cases  estimated rath er than histori cal in nature .  66 
 
American Express  Page 2 
May 15, 2020  
 
Period covered by GHG emissi ons verification : 
• Calendar Year 2019  – January 1 to December 31, 2019 
Criteria against which  verification was conducted:  
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Ga s (GHG) Protocol , Corporate Account ing and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 
and 2)  and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.  
• WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3 ) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard.  
Reference Standard :  
• ISO 14064- 3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions  
Level of Assurance  and Qual ifications : 
• Limited 
• This verificati on used a materiality threshold of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data  for each of the 
above indicat ors 
• Qualifications: None  
GHG Verifica tion Methodology:  
Evidence gathering procedures included but were not limited to:   
• Interviews with relevant personnel of American Express  and their consultant ;  
• Review of document ary evidence produced by  American Express ;  
• Remote r eview of American Express  data and information systems and methodology for collection, 
aggregation, analysis and review of information used t o determine GHG emissions ;  
• Audit of sample s of data used by American Express  to determine GHG emissions.  
Verification  Opinion:  
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GH G emissions statement shown 
above:  
• is not materi ally correct and is not a fair r epresentation o f the GHG emissions data and information; and  
• has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2 ), and WRI/WBCSD Gr eenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain 
Accoun ting and Report ing Standard ( Scope 3).  
It is our opinion that American Express  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantita tive data for determination of these GHG emissions f or the stated period and boundar ies. 67 
 
American Express  Page 3 
May 15, 2020  
 
Statement  of independence, im partiality and competence  
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environment al 
management services including assurance with over  30 years history in providing t hese services.   
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification indep endently and to our  knowledge there 
has been no conflict of intere st. 
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards  among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.  
The ve rification team has extensive expe rience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard methodology for the verificat ion of greenhouse gas emissions  data.  
Attestation:  
 
 
      
David  Reilly, Lead Verifier      Trevor Donaghu , Technical Reviewer  
Principal Consultant      Program Manager  
Apex Companies, LLC      Apex Companies, LLC  
Santa Ana, California      Pleasant Hill, California  
 
May 15, 2020  
 
This verification statemen t, including t he opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express  and is solely for the benefit of 
American Express  in accordanc e with the terms of our agreem ent. We consent to the release of this statement by you t o the CDP in 
order to satisfy the terms of CDP  disclosure requirem ents but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part 
to CDP or to any other party who may have access t o this statement.  
68ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Indexes
GRI Index69 GRI INDEX
This report responds to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting guidelines. The table below shows where you can find the 
information required for each Standard Disclosure. While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include: our  
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2020 Proxy Statement, 2019 CDP Climate Change Response and our corporate website.
GRI Standard Code Description Location
General Disclosures
GRI 102: 
General  
Standard 
Disclosures102-1 Name of the organization American Express Company
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019-2020 ESG Report: Company Profile on page 7;  
Form 10-K Item 1  
102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, NY 10285
102-4 Locations of operations 2019-2020 ESG Report: Company Profile on page 7;  
Form 10-K Item 2
102-5 Ownership and legal form Form 10-K Item 1  
102-6 Markets served 2019-2020 ESG Report: Company Profile on page 7;  
Form 10-K Item 1  
102-7 Scale of the organization 2019-2020 ESG Report: Company Profile on page 7;  
Form 10-K Item 1  
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workers2019-2020 ESG Report: Company Profile on page 7 ,  
Backing Our Colleagues on pages 17-27
102-9 Supply chain 2019-2020 ESG Report: Responsible Procurement &  
Supply Chain Resiliency on page 62
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainForm 10-K Item 1  
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact 
our business, our partners, and our communities. Identifying 
risks, engaging with experts and implementing policies are a 
few of the ways we work to proactively manage risks. 
102-12 External initiatives 2019-2020 ESG Report: Advocacy and Membership in  
Key Organizations on page 59
102-13 Membership of associations 2019-2020 ESG Report: Advocacy and Membership in  
Key Organizations on page 59
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019-2020 ESG Report: Letter from the Chairman and  
CEO on page 4
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2019-2020 ESG Report: How We Approach ESG on page 9, 
Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12, Priority Issues on  
page 10; Form 10-K Item 1A   
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior2019-2020 ESG Report: Operating Responsibly on page 57
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics2019-2020 ESG Report: Reporting Ethics Concerns on page 59
102-18 Governance structure 2019-2020 ESG Report: ESG Governance on page 11;   
2020 Proxy Statement on pages 5-23
102-19 Delegating authority 2019-2020 ESG Report: How We Approach ESG on page 9,  
ESG Governance on page 11
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and  
social topics2019-2020 ESG Report: ESG Governance on page 11;  
2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C1.1b)ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Indexes70 GRI INDEX
GRI 102: 
General  
Standard 
Disclosures102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics2019-2020 ESG Report: How We Approach ESG on page 9, 
Priority Issues on page 10, Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12 
102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees2020 Proxy Statement on pages 13-14 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement on pages 13-14 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body2020 Proxy Statement on pages 5, 13-14
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 Proxy Statement on pages 21, 23
102-34 Nature and total number of  
critical concerns2019-2020 ESG Report: Engaging Key Stakeholders on  
page 12, Reporting Ethics Concerns on page 59
102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 Proxy Statement on pages 19, 21, 28-29
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2019-2020 ESG Report: Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements We have a small number of employees which were subject 
to collective bargaining agreements in 2019. We believe that 
relations with our employees are positive.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019-2020 ESG Report: Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019-2020 ESG Report: Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019-2020 ESG Report: Priority Issues on page 10,  
Engaging Key Stakeholders on page 12
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statementsSubsidiaries of the Company
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic boundaries2019-2020 ESG Report: About This Report on page 2
102-47 List of material topics 2019-2020 ESG Report: Priority Issues on page 10
102-48 Restatements of information 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53 and endnotes
102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from the previous  
reporting period.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report on page 2
102-51 Date of most recent report September 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the reportPlease direct questions on this report or topics related to our 
corporate responsibility and sustainability disclosures  
to corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 
the GRI StandardsThis report is in accordance with the GRI Standards  
core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index on page 69
102-56 External assurance We assure report content through an internal review process, 
including executive oversight of subject matter reviews and 
validation. Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to 
conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas 
emissions reported by American Express for the calendar  
year 2019.GRI Standard Code Description Location
General DisclosuresESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Indexes71 GRI INDEX
GRI Standard Code Description Location
Economic Topics
103: Economic 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach Form 10-K Item 1
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance201-1 Direct economic value generated  
and distributed2019-2020 ESG Report: 2019-2020 ESG Highlights on  
pages 14-15
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and  
opportunities due to climate change2019-2020 ESG Report: Identifying Climate-Related Risks 
and Opportunities on page 50; 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response (CC5)
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement plans2019-2020 ESG Report: Helping Colleagues Build Financial 
Confidence on page 26
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019-2020 ESG Report: 2019-2020 ESG Highlights on  
pages 14-15
GRI 205: 
Anti-corruption205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruption2019-2020 ESG Report: Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures on page 58
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures2019-2020 ESG Report: Business Ethics Policies and 
Procedures on page 58
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions takenAnti-corruption standards
GRI 206: 
Anti-competitive 
Behavior206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and  
monopoly practicesForm 10-K Item 3; Code of Conduct
Environmental Topics
103: 
Environmental103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 2019-2020 ESG Report: Moving to a Low Carbon Future  on 
page 45-46, 49; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C1.1b - 
C1.2, C1.2a)
GRI 302: Energy302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response 
(CC11.2–11.5)
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organization2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response 
(CC11.2–11.5)
302-3 Energy intensity 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response 
(CC11.2–11.5)
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2019-2020 ESG Report: Investing in Sustainable Operations 
pages 46-47; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (CC3)
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services2019-2020 ESG Report: Maintaining Efficient Data Centers  
on page 47
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents303-1 Water withdrawal by source 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53
GRI 305: 
Emissions305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response  
(CC8, CC9)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response  
(CC8, CC10) 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary on page 53; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (CC14)  
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (CC12)
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2019-2020 ESG Report: Reducing Our GHG Emissions on 
page 47; 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (CC12)
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 53ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Indexes72 GRI INDEX
GRI Standard Code Description Location
Social
103: Social103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 2019-2020 ESG Report: ESG Governance on page 11;  
Enterprise, Inclusion, Diversity and Business Engagement 
Strategy on page 19
GRI 401: 
Employment401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employees2019-2020 ESG Report: Prioritizing Colleague Health,  
Safety & Well-being on page 24
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 
management-worker health and safety 
committees2019-2020 ESG Report: Prioritizing Colleague Health,  
Safety & Well-being on page 24
GRI 404: Training 
and Education404-1 Average hours of training per year  
per employee2019-2020 ESG Report: 2019 Learning and Development 
Highlights on page 27
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs2019-2020 ESG Report: Providing Learning and Development 
Opportunities on page 27
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews2019-2020 ESG Report: 2019 Learning and Development 
Highlights on page 27 , 2019 Leadership Academy Highlights 
on page 27
GRI 405:  
Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employees2019-2020 ESG Report: Board of Directors Highlights on page 
60, Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace on pages 
20-21; 2020 Proxy Statement pages on 3, 76-77
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to men2019-2020 ESG Report: Commitment to Pay Equity on page 22
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment412-1 Operations that have been subject  
to human rights reviews or  
impact assessmentsNot reported. Human Rights Statement
412-3 Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights 
clauses or that underwent human  
rights screeningNot reported. Human Rights Statement
GRI 413: Local 
Communities413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programs2019-2020 ESG Report: Backing Our Communities-  
Highlights on page 39ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues IndexesThis Index reflects our report in accordance with Industry Standards Version 2018-10 issued by the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB). Our disclosures under those standards are based on the three SICS industries that are most closely aligned with our mix 
of businesses: Consumer Finance (FN-CF), Commercial Banks (FN-CB) and Software and IT Services (TC-SI). Unless otherwise noted, all 
data and descriptions are reported for American Express Company on a consolidated basis where applicable and not just the businesses 
or segments relevant to the particular industry. We do not currently disclose all metrics included in the standards for these three SICS 
industries but will continue to evaluate them in the future. Our commitment is to provide investors with useful, relevant and meaningful 
sustainability information and we may evolve our disclosures on these SASB topics over time. All reported data is as of and for the year 
ended December 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted. While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include our 2019 
Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2020 Proxy Statement , 2019 CDP Climate Change Response and our corporate website .
SASB Index73 SASB INDEX
SASB Topic Accounting Metric Code Response or Comment
Activity Metric Number of unique consumers with 
an active (1) credit card account and 
(2) pre-paid debit card accountFN-CF-000.A The number of basic cards-in-force worldwide and 
related information are provided in Form 10-K  on pages 
41, 47 , 69. Definitions of this metric can be found on 
page 69 of the Form 10-K. American Express does not 
report a metric for pre-paid debit card accounts.
Activity Metric Number of (1) credit card accounts 
and (2) pre-paid debit card accountsFN-CF-000.B The number of basic and total cards-in-force worldwide 
and related information are provided in Form 10-K  on 
pages 41, 47 , 69. Definitions of these metrics can be found 
on page 69 of the Form 10-K. American Express does 
not report a metric for pre-paid debit card accounts.
Activity Metric (1) Number and (2) value of loans 
by segment: (a) personal, (b) small 
business, and (c) corporateFN-CB-000.B Form 10-K: T able 7 , Selected Credit-Related Statistical 
Information: page 43, and in individual business unit 
segment results sections for Global Consumer Services 
Group: pages 47-48, Global Commercial Services: page 51
Business 
EthicsT otal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, 
anti-competitive behavior, market 
manipulation, malpractice, or other related 
financial industry laws or regulationsFN-CB-510a.1 Form 10-K on page 107 : Note 12: 
Contingencies and Commitments
Description of whistleblower 
policies and proceduresFN-CB-510a.2 2019-2020 ESG Report: Business Ethics 
Policies and Procedures on page 58
Customer 
PrivacyNumber of account holders whose 
information is used for secondary purposesFN-CF-220a.1 
TC-SI-220a.2American Express does not report a metric on the 
bases specified in the standard. American Express’s 
Privacy Policy describes the information we collect 
from our customers and how we use it.
T otal amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with customer privacyFN-CF-220a.2 
TC-SI-220a.3American Express discloses all material 
legal proceedings in our SEC reports. 
Data Privacy 
& Freedom of 
ExpressionDescription of policies and 
practices relating to behavioral 
advertising and user privacyTC-SI-220a.1 2019-2020 ESG Report: Data Privacy and Security on page 61, 
Protecting Our Customers’ Privacy and Security on page 35
Data Security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), (3) 
number of account holders affectedFN-CF-230a.1 
FN-CB-230a.1 
TC-SI-230a.1American Express does not report a metric on the bases 
specified in the standard, but information on cyber 
security regulation, risks and risk management can 
be found in Form 10-K  on pages 12-13, 23-24, 63.
Card-related fraud losses from 
(1) card-not present fraud and (2) 
card-present and other fraudFN-CF-230a.2 Card Member and merchant-related fraud losses are 
included within Other expense, the details for which 
are provided in Form 10-K on page 119: Note 18: Other 
Fees and Commissions and Other Expenses
Description of approach to identifying 
and addressing data security risksFN-CF-230a.3 
FN-CB-230a.2 
TC-SI-230a.22019-2020 ESG Report: Data Privacy and Security on page 61, 
Protecting Our Customers’ Privacy and Security on page 35ESG Approach Introduction Customers Communities Low-Carbon 
FutureOperating 
ResponsiblyIndexes Colleagues Indexes74 SASB INDEX
Environmental 
Footprint of 
Hardware 
Infrastructure(1) T otal energy consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity, (3) percentage renewableTC-SI-330a.4  2019-2020 ESG Report: Environmental 
Performance Data Summary on page 53
Discussion of the integration of 
environmental considerations into 
strategic planning for data center needsTC-SI-330a.5  2019-2020 ESG Report: Maintaining 
Efficient Data Centers on page 48
Number of participants in financial 
literacy initiatives for unbanked, 
underbanked, or underserved customersFN-CB-240a.4 2019-2020 ESG Report: Promoting Financial 
Literacy and Inclusion on page 34
Description of approach to incorporation 
of environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) factors in credit analysisFN-CB-410a.2  2019-2020 ESG Report: Responsible 
Lending and Financing on page 63
Recruiting & 
Managing a  
Global, Diverse 
& Skilled 
WorkforceEmployee engagement as a percentage TC-SI-330a.2 2019-2020 ESG Report: Backing Our Colleagues on page 18, 
Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace on page 20
Percentage of gender and racial/
ethnic group representation for (1) 
management, (2) technical staff, 
and (3) all other employeesTC-SI-330a.3 2019-2020 ESG Report: Fostering an Inclusive 
and Diverse Workplace on pages 20-21
Selling 
PracticesPercentage of total remuneration 
for covered employees that is 
variable and linked to the amount 
of products and services soldFN-CF-270a.1 An explanation of our compensation programs can be found 
in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of 
our 2020 Proxy Statement on pages 40-54; information 
on our stock option and award programs can be found 
in Form 10-K on pages 104-106: Note 10: Stock Plans.
Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) 
pre-paid products for applicants with 
FICO scores above and below 660FN-CF-270a.2 American Express has a global Card Member base and FICO 
scores are not available in all regions or for all customer types. 
See 2019-2020 ESG Report Responsible Lending and Financing 
on page 63 for an explanation of certain credit decision factors.
For the composition of consumer American Express credit 
card accounts and Pay Over Time revolving credit features 
associated with certain American Express credit card 
accounts included in the American Express Credit Account 
Master T rust portfolio as of July 31, 2019 by FICO score 
ranges, see pages A-I-7 to A-I-8 of the Prospectus dated 
September 17 , 2019 . The Card Member loans that have 
been securitized through the T rust do not possess identical 
characteristics with those of the total U.S. Consumer or U.S. 
Small Business Card Member loan portfolios, which include 
securitized and non-securitized Card Member loans.
(1) Average fees from add-on products, 
(2) average APR, (3) average age of 
accounts, (4) average number of trade 
lines, and (5) average annual fees for 
pre-paid products, for customers with 
FICO scores above and below 660FN-CF-270a.3 American Express does not report a metric on the bases 
specified in the standard. See Responsible Lending 
and Financing on page 63 and Lending and Marketing 
Responsibly on page 36 in the 2019-2020 ESG Report for 
related information of responsible lending practices.
1) Number of complaints filed with the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB), (2) percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage 
disputed by consumer, (4) percentage that 
resulted in investigation by the CFPBFN-CF-270a.4 CFPB Consumer Complaint Database
T otal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with selling and servicing of productsFN-CF-270a.5 Form 10-K on page 107 : Note 12: 
Contingencies and Commitments 
Systemic Risk 
ManagementGlobal Systemically Important Bank 
(G-SIB) score, by categoryFN-CB-550a.1 National Information Center – American 
Express  Company RSSD ID: 1275216        
Description of approach to incorporation 
of results of mandatory and voluntary 
stress tests into capital adequacy 
planning, long-term corporate strategy, 
and other business activitiesFN-CB-550a.2 Form 10-K on page 7SASB Topic Accounting Metric Code Response or CommentThank you for reading our 
2019-2020 ESG report. 
We value feedback from our stakeholders. If you would like to get in touch, 
please email corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com.