Page 1 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Energy  
In addition to traditional 
fuels such as coal and 
natural gas, we also see 
transmission, smart grid 
and energy efficiency as 
vital parts of our 
resource mix.  
Learn Mo re  
AEP's CEO on 
Sustainability  
 
 
 Economy  
We are advocating for 
federal resources to assist 
in retooling local 
economies as we also 
explore ways to reuse 
retired coal plants or 
plant sites.  
Learn More   
The Value of Electricity  
 
 
 Environment  
Compliance is the 
foundation of our 
environmental efforts. 
We also set voluntary 
targets. Overall, our 
performance is very 
good.  
Learn More   
AEP Overview  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Play Video  Play Video  Play  Video  Page 2 of 115 
 2013 Corporate Accountab ility Report – Index of Content  
Fast Facts & Reports   
 Reports  
 Challenges, Goals & Progress  
 Service Territory  
 Plant Emissions  
Leadership & Strategy   
 CEO Letter  
 Board Statement  
 Strategic Goals  
 Corporate Leaders & Governance  
 Materiality Assessment  
 Resource Diversity  
 Regulatory & Customer Rate Management  
 Ethics & Compliance  
 Lobbying & Politic al Activity  
Business Performance  
 Financial Performance  
 Energy Reliability & Security  
 Environmental Performance & Compliance  
 Safety & Health  
Opportunities & Risks   
 Opportunities For Gro wth 
 Innovation & Technology  
 Climate Change  
 Managing Risk  
Partnerships & Engagements   
 How We Engage  
 Employees  
 Customers  
 Diversity  
 Strong Communities  
 Sustainable Procurement  
Participate & Discus s  Page 3 of 115 
  Energy E -Cards  
 Subscribe To AEP E -mail Alerts  
 Measure Your Carbon Footprint  
 Contact Us  
Reports  
This is AEP’s fourth integrated report combining the Annual Report to Shareholders with the 
Corporate Sustainability Report. This is our seventh year of reporting our sustainability 
performance. This website — www.AEPsustainability.com  — includes significant data and 
informat ion about AEP’s performance. This report is based largely on calendar year 2012 with 
exceptions for early 2013 data as noted. For more information about AEP, visit www.AEP.com .  
GRI - Gl obal Reporting Initiat ive 
This report was developed according to the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3). The GRI guidelines provide a voluntary reporting 
framework us ed by organizations around the world as the basis for sustainability reporting. We 
are using the G3.1 standards, as well as the Electric Utility Sector Supplement for reporting on 
industry -specific information. AEP self -declares an Application Level A for its 2013 report, 
which reflects a high level of transparency in our reporting.  
 AEP 2013 Corporate Accountability Report - GRI Report  (PDF)  
Audit Review  of This Report  
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of company performance statements contained 
within the Business Performance Section of the 2013 AEP Corporate Accountability Report. 
Financial information was reconciled with AEP's audited finan cial statements, if applicable, or to 
such other sources as deemed appropriate. Processes used in accumulating the significant 
nonfinancial data were reviewed and the data reconciled to the sources(s). The appropriateness of 
the context in which data are p resented was also reviewed. Finally, forward -looking information 
was verified as consistent with other public information disclosed by AEP. Based upon our 
review as of April 19, 2013, we believe the information regarding Business Performance is 
appropriate ly stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and 
nonfinancial information are reasonable.  
 
Richard A. Mueller  
Vice President, Audit Services  
 Page 4 of 115 
 Who We Are  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 115 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 115 
 Statement of The AEP Board o f Director s 
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the 
company’s sustainability initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate 
Governance. This is the fourth year AEP has integrated its sustainability re porting with financial 
reporting. The Committee fully supports this approach. Stakeholders have expressed approval 
and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting.  
Throughout the year, the Committee and company m anagement reviewed the company’s 
sustainability objectives, challenges, targets and progress. The Committee reviewed and 
discussed the final text of this report before recommending its approval by the full Board of 
Directors.  
The AEP Board of Directors rec eives frequent reports both from management and from the 
Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability 
initiatives and from management and Board committees about the company’s financial reporting 
and economic performanc e. Topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at the 
Board and Committee meetings. All members of the Board reviewed the report in detail and at 
the conclusion of this review process the Board of Directors adopted a formal resolution 
approving the report.  
The Board believes this document is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s 
plans and of its environmental, social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized to 
management that it will continue to be evalua ted by its success in executing the company’s 
strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in 
responding to changing circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report.  
 
Thomas E. Hoaglin  
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 9, 2013  
 
 
 
 Page 11 of 115 
 CEO Letter  
Dear Friends,  
It is my privilege to report to you on our business and to sha re AEP’s road map for future 
growth. We’ve come through some difficult times, and we are very well positioned for the future 
and excited about our prospects. AEP has provided its shareholders with dividends for 411 
consecutive quarters. And we are on cours e to continue executing our strategy: creating 
economic value while protecting the environment and improving the lives of those with whom 
we interact.  
Safety is always our top sustainability priority. It was also our proudest accomplishment in 2012, 
when we achieved the best safety performance in AEP’s history. No AEP employee or contractor 
lost his or her life in 2012 during the course of their work. We achieved our lowest recordable 
incident rate ever, and the severity of the injuries that did occur was down significantly. I speak 
for the Board of Directors and for all of our leaders when I say how profoundly grateful I am to 
the men and women of AEP who have honored the company with this accomplishment.  
Our goal remains zero harm – zero fatalities, zero  injuries. We have set our 
sights high, as we always do, and as we get better, the journey to zero gets 
harder. Yet with continued vigilance and determination, and an abiding 
commitment to look out for each other, I am confident we will continue to 
make pr ogress.  
I invite you to learn more about our safety performance . 
The energy business is complex, 
exciting and in the midst of a major 
transformation. We provide a vital 
service that for  more than a century has 
supported commerce, contributed to 
quality of life and strengthened our 
communities. And as the energy 
business changes, so do we. Recently, 
domestic production of oil and natural 
gas has increased, the price of natural 
gas has fal len, and the cost of generating electricity from coal has gone up, a result of 
increasingly expensive environmental compliance requirements. At the same time, energy 
demand has remained stagnant because of weakness in the economy and gains in energy 
effici ency.  
Page 12 of 115 
 These changes have led to some positive outcomes that underpin our sustainable growth strategy, 
including greater fuel diversity, new jobs, grid modernization and a cleaner environment. AEP 
has become a more agile, innovative, adaptive and resilient  company and has thus continued to 
create value for customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. We’ve also worked to 
strengthen our nation’s energy security and its industrial competitiveness in the 11 states where 
we operate and in which we live.  
We would all be well served by a national energy strategy and sound public policies to facilitate 
the generation and delivery of energy. America needs to diversify its fuel sources, invest in 
transmission systems, replace aging infrastructure, stimulate energ y efficiency and finalize a 
long-term solution to the problem of spent nuclear fuel. Such national energy priorities must be 
achieved with due consideration of the economic consequences of each option, with all 
stakeholders having been given a voice in the  decision -making process.  
Energy can accelerate economic growth and create widespread prosperity. But it requires policy 
makers, regulators and industry leaders to come together to make reasonable plans with 
consumers, communities, and other stakeholders who are concerned about the environment, job 
growth, national security and other key issues. Without such plans, the nation’s long -term 
economic health will continue to be at risk.  
Sustainability has many definitions, but at its core is a vision we all sh are: broad prosperity, a 
clean and healthy environment, and vibrant communities in which our families, neighbors and 
children can thrive.  
A Strong Performance In 2012  
With a strong balance sheet, a stable base of investors, solid financial performance in 2012 and a 
sound strategy for the future, AEP is poised to deliver robust financial returns to its investors and 
to help accelerate economic growth for its customers and communities.  
2012 was a year of transition but also one of progress. We have greater c larity about our future in 
Ohio, a sensible transmission growth strategy, regulated utilities that are delivering strong returns 
on our investments, and a sturdy platform from which to invest in our core businesses. That is 
why we are committed to achievin g annual earnings growth of 4 percent to 6 percent.  
In 2012, we also maintained our investment -grade credit ratings, made contributions to our 
qualified pension plan, and began to recover deferred costs that had been mounting in some 
jurisdictions for the  past few years at the direction of regulators. In a decision that reflects 
confidence in our business plan, early in 2013 our Board of Directors increased the target payout 
ratio range of AEP’s dividend to 60 percent to 70 percent of consolidated earnings . This brings 
us more in line with our regulated peers.  Page 13 of 115 
 We took actions last year to identify sustainable cost savings opportunities and improve 
processes, which led to greater efficiencies. Faced with a rapidly changing operating 
environment, we conducte d an organizational review to identify opportunities to be more agile, 
focus more on customer service and allow us to prudently reallocate resources to high -growth 
areas of our business, such as transmission. We will continue to reposition our business to 
accommodate the need for quality customer service and pursue growth in our regulated 
businesses. These are all indicators of our financial strength.  
A strong, healthy organizational culture is imperative to business success. An employee culture 
survey las t year told us that our employees are deeply committed to the company, to its 
customers and to the safety of one another. But it also showed us that we have areas to work on 
if we are to successfully implement our strategy. We held nearly 60 focus group me etings across 
our service territory in early 2013 to seek employees’ ideas and to help us develop a culture that 
will support stronger leadership throughout the organization, strategic alignment across the 
company, employee engagement and more meaningful p erformance recognition.  
We will work hard this year and in the years to come to ensure that employees 
have the skills and tools to keep pace with the dynamic changes happening in 
our business.  
Investing In The Future  
Regulated utilities constitute the l argest 
portion of AEP’s business, producing 
and distributing electricity to more than 
5.3 million customers in 11 states. We 
will use this platform as a growth 
springboard and will invest 
approximately $3.6 billion in 2013 and 
$3.8 billion in 2014 and 2015 , 
respectively, primarily in our regulated businesses. These investments will keep the power on, 
serve new customers and deliver quality service to all of our customers. Our operating 
companies work tirelessly to maintain positive, open relationships with regulators, legislators 
and key stakeholders to ensure that our capital investments are needed and supported.  
We are successfully pursuing a strategy to create separate transmission companies in our 
jurisdictions. These investments along with our transmiss ion joint venture projects, all held 
within AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC (AEPTHCo), improve service and reliability 
for our customers and deliver value to our shareholders. From 2010 through the end of 2015, 
AEPTHCo is forecasted to invest approxi mately $3 billion in its business. And these investments 
Page 14 of 115 
 are having an impact. AEPTHCo contributed $0.09 per share to earnings in 2012, 50 percent 
more than in 2011; this is expected to increase to an estimated $0.36 per share in 2015.  
With greater certai nty about the future in Ohio, we are moving forward with the process of 
separating our Ohio generating assets from AEP Ohio, known as corporate separation. AEP Ohio 
is our largest operating company, representing 29 percent of retail revenues system -wide in  
2012, and is undergoing the biggest transformation among our operating companies. Once 
corporate separation is complete, AEP Ohio will be a “wires only” transmission and distribution 
company. Through 2012, 51 percent of AEP Ohio’s retail customer load had  switched generation 
providers, some of which is now served by our own retail provider. Through our competitive 
retail and wholesale power marketing business and with the eventual availability of more than 
8,000 MW of generation in Ohio on the market, we w ill be a strong contender.  
To comply with new and pending environmental regulations, we expect to retire approximately 
5,500 MW of generation by the end of 2016 and convert to natural gas or install or upgrade 
environmental control systems on nearly 11,00 0 MW of generating capacity. This will cost 
between $4 billion and $5 billion and is in addition to the $7 billion we have spent since 1990 to 
significantly reduce air emissions from our coal plants. We understand the intent of the 
regulations. We also rem ain concerned about grid reliability due to the timing and scope of plant 
retirements across the United States, the need for new or replacement transmission or generation 
to support the grid in the absence of retired coal units, and the need to upgrade and  expand the 
existing transmission system across the country.  
Overall, the scope and timing of these projects represent large costs for our customers to bear, 
and they put the reliability of the bulk power system unnecessarily at risk. We continue to be 
vocal advocates of rational rulemaking that considers the economic impacts of new regulations 
along with the environmental benefits.  
An agreement reached in February 2013 
to modify our 2007 New Source Review 
consent decree will accelerate original 
plans to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions 
on our Rockport Plant in Indiana while 
maintaining our flexibility to choose the 
technology to do it. It also will require 
the retirement or refueling with natural 
gas of other coal units and the addition 
of 200 MW of wind e nergy to serve our 
Indiana Michigan Power customers. This agreement, awaiting court approval, is a win for our 
customers and for the environment because of the flexibility it affords and the reduced 
environmental impacts that will result.  
Page 15 of 115 
 As national disc ussions about climate change continue, we are engaged in the 
United States and internationally. Climate change is a significant sustainability 
concern that carries with it operational and financial risk. Our position that 
this issue must be addressed globa lly has not changed and we continue to 
work toward our goal to reduce our carbon emissions by 10 percent from 
2010 levels by 2020. The retirement of coal -fired units will support these 
reductions, as will the increased diversity of our fuel mix.  
You can l earn more about AEP’s climate policy position and strategy here . 
Resiliency a nd Reliability  
We face increasing challenges to the resiliency of the electric grid. The recent severity and 
frequency of storms has been a blow to our industry and the infrastructure that produces and 
delivers electricity. During AEP’s 107 -year history, 2012 will be remembered as a year when our 
system sustained unprecedented physical damage from weather events. Tornadoes, an 
unexpected hurricane -like wind storm (known as a “derecho”) and Super Storm Sandy crumpled 
thousands of transmission towers and distribution poles, snapped thousands of miles of wire and 
damaged or destroyed other equipme nt, leaving millions of customers in the dark and causing 
hundreds of millions of dollars in damage. I am proud of what our employees accomplished to 
restore customers safely and as quickly as possible in our service territory and across the country. 
The m agnitude of these events is driving an industry -wide research project to improve the 
resiliency of the grid.  
Resource Diversity  
We believe in a balanced resource portfolio to supply our customers’ needs, to mitigate risk and 
to provide for a secure energy  supply in the future. Coal will continue to be a key part of the fuel 
mix, as will natural gas, renewable energy, nuclear, hydro and energy efficiency. Rounding out 
this resource mix are transmission and smart grid. This combination of resources gives us the 
balance and flexibility we need for the future. We have already taken steps to diversify the fuels 
we use to generate electricity and will continue to do so.  
We brought new natural gas and coal plants on line in 2012. In early 2012, the 580 -MW, 
combin ed-cycle natural gas -fired Dresden Plant in Ohio began commercial operation. And in 
December 2012, the 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr. , ultra -supercritical coal -fired plant began 
commerci al operation in southwest Arkansas.  
The Turk Plant is one of the cleanest and most efficient pulverized coal plants 
in the United States, using less fuel and producing fewer emissions compared 
with traditional pulverized coal plants. This is an example of AEP’s leadership Page 16 of 115 
 to further advance coal generating technologies. In addition to contributing to 
a more balanced fuel mix for that region, the plant created 109 new local jobs 
and will generate long -term direct and indirect economic benefits to the 
region.  
We have also increased our use of 
natural gas by 130 percent since 2009 
due to low gas prices and the availability 
of our combined -cycle gas plants. Our 
use of renewable energy has increased to 
nearly 2,000 MW, with more to come. 
Energy efficiency is mak ing strong gains 
in our states, as are demand response 
programs. We are investing in our Cook 
Nuclear Plant in Michigan to ensure that 
it continues operating smoothly for another 20 years. And our 17 hydroelectric and pumped 
storage plants continue to be a  reliable source of emissions -free electricity. Overall, we expect 
our coal -fired generating capacity to be around 46 percent in 2020 compared with 65 percent in 
2012. These are the hallmarks of a more balanced, diverse resource mix that provides real ener gy 
security for the future.  
AEP Continues Strong Record o f Innovation  
As would any organization striving to become more sustainable, we not only stay focused on the 
future, we plan for it and sometimes strive to shape it. Innovation has enabled us to meet  
challenges over and over again that improved our efficiency, our reliability and our customer 
service. We are an innovative and creative organization, and we have thrived for more than 100 
years on the strength of our “intrapreneurs” – the many employees throughout the company who 
create and help deploy new technologies and services or who simply find better ways to do their 
jobs and serve our customers. The construction of the Turk Plant in Arkansas is an example of 
this spirit and commitment.  
Our Trans mission business exemplified 
our innovative spirit in 2012, developing 
a new high -capacity, low -profile 345 -kV 
line design that offers a high capacity 
alternative to conventional 345 -kV or 
higher extra -high voltage lines. Once 
commercialized, the new line will enable 
better use of rights of way than traditional 
345-kV or 500 -kV lines. As a result, the 
Page 17 of 115 
 new design will help to lessen siting challenges and be less costly per megawatt -hour of energy 
delivered. Patents for this new design are pending with the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office.  
In addition, our Transmission team developed ways to accelerate the 
construction and installation of critical electrical facilities to better serve the 
growing demand for electric service from oil and gas producers. These n ew 
technologies and practices enable AEP to serve these customers in an 
expedited manner, supporting local economic growth and job creation.  
I invite you to read more about these and other technology breakthroughs in 
Innovation and Technology . 
Sustaina bility Governance, Reporting a nd Stakeholder Engagement  
We have built on our heritage of innovation to become a company that can respond to, and 
anticipate, the expectatio ns of stakeholders and the public regarding our environmental, social, 
operational and economic performance. Our capacity for positive and dynamic interaction with 
our stakeholders will be increasingly vital to our business success in the years to come.  
Effective engagement occurs when companies and stakeholders disclose important information 
to one another about their activities and future plans. We started to report on our environmental, 
social and economic activities and plans in 2007; and, in 2010, we became one of the first 
companies in the United States to integrate our sustainability report with our annual shareholder 
report. This approach gives a more holistic and comprehensive view of our company and a better 
understanding of the interdependencies of our financial and nonfinancial performance.  
We also began an extensive effort to engage our stakeholders in 2007, meeting with national and 
regional stakeholders at corporate headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, and with local stakeholders 
at some of our pow er plants and operating company headquarters in our service territory. As we 
moved forward, we realized that it is vitally important for us to be able to prioritize and respond 
to the issues that our stakeholders consider important and take those issues in to account 
whenever possible.  
As we have done since 2007, we held a number of meetings and conference 
calls with key stakeholders in 2012, and we also conducted a survey of more 
than 250 internal and external stakeholders. This important work helps us to 
adjust priorities and guides our reporting.  
I invite you to learn more about this assessment . 
 Page 18 of 115 
 Stakeholder engagement, although 
sometimes contentious, has always been 
productive for us. It has helped us to 
expand our thinking in many ways and 
has allowed us to be open and candid 
about our positions and activities in the 
realm of public policy.  
 
 
Board Changes  
We will greatly miss the wisdom and guidance of James Cordes , who was elected to our Board 
of Directors in 2009 and is retiring this year. Jim's decades of experience in the natural gas 
pipeline business have proved invaluable to us. We wish him all the best in his future endeavors.  
Three new directors have joined the board in the past year: Sandra Beach Lin, former president 
and CEO of Calisolar, Inc. (now Silicor Materials); Steve Rasmussen, CEO of Nationwide; and 
Oliver G. "Rick" Richard III, former chairman, president and CEO of Columbia Energy Group. 
Already, t he board has benefited from the range of backgrounds, skills and perspectives that 
Sandy, Steve and Rick bring to our deliberations.  
A Promising Future  
An energy renaissance is under way in America. The nation is becoming more self -reliant on 
indigenous re sources, including a diversity of fossil fuels, renewable energy and conservation. 
Safe, reliable and affordable energy has long been the backbone of the U.S. economy, delivering 
comfort to customers, a competitive edge to businesses and a quality of life to citizens that others 
seek to emulate. But many of us take energy for granted; we assume that power will always be 
there wherever we need it and whenever we want it. We learned during several severe weather 
events in 2012 that no matter how well prepared  we are, this may not always be the case. We 
face harder lessons ahead if we do not gain traction on a national energy policy for the next 
generation.  
Just as customers want price signals to help them use energy more efficiently, our industry needs 
incent ives and changes to electricity markets to encourage the significant, long -term investments 
that are needed for a robust, reliable electric grid in the future. At AEP, we already have the 
future in focus.  
Page 19 of 115 
 We are putting steel in the ground as we rebuild a nd expand our transmission system. We are 
working with regulators to improve the reliability of our distribution system while moving 
forward with new smart grid technologies to increase the efficiency of our system and give 
customers more control of their energy use. We are retiring older coal -fired units, thus reducing 
our environmental impacts. But coal will be part of our fuel mix as well as the nation’s fuel mix 
for the foreseeable future. Our commitment is to ensure that we are using it in the safest a nd 
most efficient way possible with the least amount of environmental impacts. To that end, we 
continue to champion research and development of new technologies and to enhance our 
operating and maintenance practices to continually improve our environmental  performance.  
AEP is a proven industry leader and innovator, and we are putting our knowledge and efforts to 
work helping our businesses, homes and communities to be safe, secure and prosperous. From 
developing new power line designs, to streamlining proc esses that allow us to serve customers 
faster and more cost efficiently, we are helping America’s industry to be more competitive, 
creating new jobs and supporting economic expansion where it is needed most. Energy is 
proving to be the accelerator of econo mic growth America needs.  
I am very proud to lead AEP as we move forward together with a clear sense of 
purpose. We have made much progress, and we have more to accomplish. We 
invite you to join us and to learn more about who we are, what we have 
achieved and our plans for the future.  
 
 
Nicholas K. Akins  
President & Chief Executive Officer  
April 2013  
  
 
   
 
 
 Page 20 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 115 
 Leadership & Strategy  
Lead ership Message  
“The energy business has changed dramatically during the past few years and so has AEP. These changes 
have led to some positive outcomes, including greater fuel diversity, environmental gains, new jobs and 
grid mo dernization.”  
- Nick Akins, President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
AEP’s Board of Directors  
 
 
 
 
 
 
From Left to Right:  
John F. Turner, Lionel L. Nowell III, Steve Rasmussen, Richard C. Notebaert, Linda A. 
Goodspeed, Oliver G. Richard III, Thomas E. Hoagli n, Nick Akins, Michael G. Morris, James F. 
Cordes, Sandra Beach Lin, Richard L. Sandor, Ralph D. Crosby, Jr., David J. Anderson, Sara 
Martinez Tucker  
Our Philosophy  
AEP has been in business for more than a century. Our job is to produce and deliver electr icity 
safely and reliably to more than 5.3 million customers in 11 states. Today, there is no statement 
more relevant in describing our business, our commitment to our customers and our 
contributions to society as that made by George N. Tidd, president of American Gas & Electric, 
in 1934. The company was renamed American Electric Power in 1958. This philosophy 
continues to guide us today.  
Page 22 of 115 
 “Our job is generating electricity and getting it to where it's used. We're in this business because 
it is concerned wit h the supply of a fundamental requirement of modern living, because it's an 
honorable one, because we like it, and because we want to earn a living at it.  
We aim to give one kind of service to everyone... the best that's possible. That means supplying 
our customers with what they want when they want it. It means being courteous at all times and 
maintaining attractive, easy -to-do-business -with offices.  
It means doing everything we can to keep complaints from arising, and it means prompt and fair 
handling of  those that do.  
We are a citizen of each community we serve and take an active part in its affairs. Like any other 
citizen, we want our neighbors to think well of us. Besides, it makes good business sense. We 
prosper only as the community prospers; so we h elp it thrive in every way we can.  
Such is our job as we see it. We are trying to do it well and to do it better all the time.”  
 
Strategic Goals  
Our focus is on executing our strategy to grow and invest in our regulated businesses; deliver 
superior service  to our customers; provide a collaborative, rewarding work environment for our 
employees; develop our competitive businesses; and deliver value to our shareholders. To 
achieve our strategic objective of 4 percent to 6 percent earnings growth, we are execut ing on the 
following goals:  
 Optimize regulated utility returns : AEP’s financial objectives are to earn our allowed 
returns by prudently investing capital for our customers and maintaining our investment -
grade credit ratings.  
 Grow our transmission business : AEP Transmission’s growth strategy depends on 
building and cultivating a portfolio of businesses under the AEP Transmission Holding 
Company. For the year ending Dec. 31, 2013, AEP Transmission Holding Company 
projects it will contribute $67 million in ea rnings. Our portfolio consists of:  
o AEP Transmission Company – A holding company for state -regulated 
transmission companies, or Transcos.  
o Joint ventures – Joint ventures with other utilities are longer -term projects 
offering FERC formula rates and other ra te mechanisms that provide a higher 
return on equity.  
o Transource Energy – A competitive business started in 2012, Transource focuses 
on developing projects within and beyond the AEP service territories, with 
flexibility to add projects and partners as oppo rtunities arise.  Page 23 of 115 
  Transform our generation business : External factors continue to call for significant 
changes in our generating fleet. We will do this by:  
o Diversifying our fuel mix.  
o Complying with environmental regulations by retiring approximately 5,500 
megawatts (MW) by the end of 2016 and refueling or retrofitting nearly 11,000 
MW of coal -fired generation between now and 2020.  
o Improving the operational performance of our generation fleet.  
 Build our competitive business platform : AEP formed a new Energy S upply 
organization in late 2012 to oversee this business unit. Its objectives include:  
o Achieving corporate separation in Ohio by Jan. 1, 2014.  
o Integrating competitive generation with our retail and wholesale businesses.  
o Investing capital conservatively.  
o Mitigating risk and volatility through hedging activity.  
 Improve the health of our organizational culture : Culture is a business imperative to 
successfully execute on our strategy, yet it is abstract and subjective. It’s our job to reach 
out to all of our employees, communicate the strategy and vision, and focus on how each 
business unit can contribute to AEP’s overall strategy and vision so all employees know 
exactly what their roles are.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AEP's Executive Team  
Lana L. Hillebrand, Senior Vice Presid ent and Chief Administrative Officer; David M. Feinberg, 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Nicholas K. Akins, President and 
Chief Executive Officer; Brian X. Tierney, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer; Dennis E. We lch, Executive Vice President and Chief External Officer; Robert P. 
Page 24 of 115 
 Powers, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Lisa M. Barton, Executive 
Vice President, AEP Transmission.  
 
Corporate L eade rs and G overnance   
 
Materiality Assessment  
Materiality is central to disclosure and investment performance. We consider material issues to 
be those that have affected, or that are reasonably likely to affect, the company's r eputation, 
liquidity, capital resources or results of operations. Material issues can also include those that 
stakeholders consider important to their interests and to AEP's sustainability.  
To prepare this 2013 Corporate Accountability Report, AEP conduct ed a materiality assessment  
to ensure that we were reporting on sustainability issues of importance to our stakeholders and 
our business and to identify potential i mprovements in our presentation of information. This 
represents a change in the approach to and engagement of our stakeholders. It provided us an 
opportunity to ensure that issues deemed to be material by our stakeholders align with our 
business strategy a nd risks. Understanding these linkages allows us to be more focused in our 
engagement and to allocate resources where there is the greatest opportunity for sustainable 
growth while mitigating potential risks.  
We sought opinions from more than 250 internal  and external stakeholders. This outreach 
extended to the six -member Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance and the 
Chairman of the AEP Board of Directors, all of whom completed the survey. This committee has 
oversight of AEP's sustainability repo rting and initiatives and was deemed the most appropriate 
Board engagement for this first assessment. In the future, we will engage the entire Board.  
The feedback we received from the survey helped us to prioritize AEP's environmental, social 
and governan ce (ESG) performance and to rank those issues based on their importance to 
stakeholders and to AEP. This report reflects the outcome of this process.  
Although we reached out to many external stakeholders, we did not receive as robust a response 
as we had hoped for. We would have especially liked a greater response rate from customers, 
NGOs and governmental stakeholders and will work harder to engage them in the next survey. 
AEP worked with MetaVu and CRD Analytics on the assessment, which involved an objec tive, 
strategic review of AEP's existing materiality model (issues, stakeholders, methodology, visual 
charts and stakeholder communications, etc.). It was important to us to include an investment 
analyst's perspective in this process, which CRD Analytics r epresented.  Page 25 of 115 
 We also sought to understand key changes in reporting expectations as presented by the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We aligne d those changes in the standards 
with our material risks as identified by management, the Risk Executive Committee and the 
Board of Directors, to assure that we were measuring and reporting in a meaningful and useful 
fashion.  
Shifting Priorities  
In 2012, we reported on more than 80 issues; we condensed that list to 36 issues and, of those, 15 
continued to be issues of high priority for internal and external stakeholders. Those are the issues 
we are focusing on most intently.  
The survey received a 56.3 per cent response rate, which exceeded expectations. Participants 
ranged from AEP Board of Directors members, investors and employees to customers, suppliers 
(fuel and non -fuel), non -government organizations, contractors, labor unions and trade 
organizations.  
Not surprisingly, there are changes in 
priorities among stakeholder groups. 
Some issues, such as environmental 
performance (including climate change) 
remain a high priority for AEP and its 
stakeholders. These issues have long 
dominated many of our conver sations 
with stakeholders and led us to set goals 
to improve and enhance our 
environmental performance and reduce 
CO 2 emissions. Environmental 
performance and regulation uncertainty 
continue to be significant issues to the 
company and to society and thus 
remains a material issue to AEP, as 
reflected by the amount of time, effort 
and financial resources we devote to our 
environmental performance and 
compliance. We have continued to be transparent about our environmental efforts while 
narrowing the focus of o ur reporting.  
 
Page 26 of 115 
 At the same time, other issues have risen to the top. This new assessment shows that energy 
reliability and security, the business value and cost of electricity and innovation and technology 
are also top areas of interest.   We attribute this to the rapidly changing business and operating 
environment, which is driving a major transformation of our company and our industry. It may 
also reflect heightened awareness of reliability issues in the wake of several severe weather 
events in 2012 that ca used massive power outages.  
This assessment was compared with the material risks of the company to validate the relevance 
and importance of each issue to AEP and its stakeholders. This exercise helped us to level -set 
our performance with the expectations o f our many diverse stakeholders as we move forward and 
give greater focus to our performance reporting.  
 
Resource Diversity  
 
A balanced and reliable energy  future  
Our energy security as a nation depends on using multiple sources of energy. A diverse fuel mix 
is an insurance policy in the event that changing conditions or economic circumstances make any 
given fuel source impractical or impossible.  
We project  that our fuel generating capacity will shift from 60 percent coal and 23 percent 
natural gas in 2013, to 46 percent coal and 33 percent natural gas by 2020. The remainder of our 
resource needs will be filled by renewable energy, nuclear, hydroelectric and  pumped storage, 
and energy efficiency and demand response programs. Although demand response and energy 
efficiency capacity does not represent a physical asset, it does represent avoided capacity.  
National electricity consumption is predicted to grow at an annual average rate of 0.7 percent 
between 2011 and 2040, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s  (EIA) 
Annual Energy Outlook 2013 Early Release Overview. Socioeconomic and market factors  as 
well as additional energy efficiency rules, such as new appliance and building efficiency 
standards, may slow the growth of energy consumption somewhat. Despite these forces, energy 
demand is expected to continue its modest growth rate for the foreseea ble future.  
As we seek to balance our fuel mix, we are looking at resources in a different light. In addition to 
traditional fuels such as coal, natural gas, nuclear and hydroelectric power, we also see 
transmission, smart grid and energy efficiency as vi tal parts of our resource mix. This will 
ultimately drive us to using less coal. Although coal is challenged by regulations, it remains an Page 27 of 115 
 important resource to ensure a reliable, secure energy future. Through the development of shale 
gas, the growth of re newable energy, the advancement of smart grid technologies and the 
development of transmission, we now have new and broader resource opportunities.  
Our decision to build the 600 -megawatt (MW) John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant in southwestern 
Arkansas exempli fies our continued commitment to the responsible use of coal as a fuel source. 
The Turk Plant is the first coal -fired plant AEP has built in more than two decades and represents 
the future of coal -based technology that we continue to advance. The Turk Plan t is the only 
operating U.S. power plant to use ultra -supercritical technology and is among the nation’s 
cleanest, most efficient pulverized coal plants. Turk began co mmercial operation in December 
2012  after a variety of regulatory and legal challenges were resolved and was officially dedicated 
in April 2013.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr., Power 
Plant in southwestern Arkansas 
exemplifies our commitment to the 
respon sible use of coal as a fuel source.  
SWEPCo owns 73 percent of the plant’s capacity and operates the facility; its share of the 
construction cost was $1.3 billion of the plant’s $1.8 billion cost. Co -owners are Arkansas 
Electric Cooperative Corp., 12 percen t for its 490,000 members; East Texas Electric 
Cooperative, 8 percent for its 178,000 customers; and Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority, 7 
percent, serving 39 municipal electric systems in the state.  
In addition to providing energy reliability and fuel di versity to the region, the plant created 109 
new, permanent jobs with an estimated annual payroll of $9 million. The plant is estimated to 
provide an additional $6 million in annual school and property tax revenues in southwest 
Arkansas. At the peak of con struction of the Turk Plant, which began in November 2008, the 
project provided up to 2,200 construction jobs.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 28 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 29 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 30 of 115 
 Natural Gas: Game Changer  
Our nation has abundant resources of natur al gas, which has certain environmental and price 
advantages over coal and is capturing an increasing share of the domestic electric generation 
market. Natural gas creates significantly lower amounts of carbon dioxide and other emissions 
when burned than d oes coal. And natural gas prices are expected to remain comparatively low. 
New gas plants or existing coal units modified to burn natural gas will likely replace a portion of 
the energy lost as coal units are retired.  
We have been ramping up our own use o f natural gas largely due to the efficiency of our 
combined cycle gas units and its affordability as part of a balanced portfolio. We have been 
operating four combined -cycle gas plants: the 840 -MW Waterford and 580 -MW Dresden plants 
in Ohio; the 1,200 -MW L awrenceburg Plant in Indiana; and the 543 -MW J. Lamar Stall Unit in 
Louisiana.  
We have increased our use of natural gas 
by about 130 percent since 2009. A mild 
winter (in 2011 -2012) and high levels of 
natural gas production from shale gas 
formations that  led to higher natural gas 
inventories and downward pressure on 
gas prices made power generated by these units more economical.  
Technology advancements in the oil and natural gas industries, through the use of horizontal 
drilling and hydraulic fracturing,  or fracking, are driving significant economic growth and 
potential for future growth in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Ohio, Louisiana, Texas and West Virginia. 
And our companies and customers are benefiting from these advancements. Extraction of gas 
from shale form ations is altering the fuel mix throughout the industry by making gas more 
competitive with other fuel sources. Shale gas is in abundant supply in much of our footprint, 
and extraction with these technologies is producing economic and customer growth oppor tunities 
for much of AEP’s service territory.  
 
 
 
 
The 580 -MW Dresden Plant in Ohio is one 
of AEP's four combined -cycle gas plants.  
Page 31 of 115 
 In Te xas, drilling on the Eagle Ford shale formation has created higher demand for, and the need 
for quick access to, electrical power to operate drilling rigs and processing facilities. Shale gas 
extraction is supporting local jobs, economic growth and electri city demand growth for our 
companies. This increase in demand in Texas and elsewhere requires us to engage in a system -
wide review of capital investment priorities. Our Economic & Business Development team is on 
the ground working with the oil and gas indu stries and in 2012 expanded to the Internet , giving 
oil and gas companies in Texas and elsewhere, a one -stop shop location for the services they 
need. At the same time, AEP Texas  established a special website specifically for the oil and gas 
industry to assist with their development needs in that state.  
We are closely monitoring the risks associated with increased reliance on s hale gas, such as 
concerns related to the possible impacts of fracking on ground water. Production from fracking 
could be far more limited if it becomes subject to more environmental regulations. As supply 
decreases or slows, either from regulations or mar ket forces, prices will rise. Reported seismic 
activity from disposal of fracking fluids poses additional potential for risks. Ohio’s Department 
of Natural Resources  has said it believes that the high -pressure injection of gas drilling 
wastewater into the ground was responsible for a series of earthquakes in the state and recently 
imposed new regulations as a result.  
We support development of shale gas resources as long as it is done in an environmentally  
responsible manner. Without a doubt, shale gas is changing the industry. It is contributing to low 
natural gas prices, but because no one can guarantee low natural gas prices for the foreseeable 
future, and there are many external factors that could cause  the same price swings we have seen 
with natural gas in the past, it is not in the best interest of our nation to become overly dependent 
on it or any single fuel for our electricity generation.  
 
Harmonizing The Gas & El ectric Industries  
The natural gas an d electric utility industries have worked together for years to help grow the 
economy. Utilities are the backbone of our economic growth and prosperity. The electricity 
sector continues to become more reliant on natural gas. In April 2012, natural gas acco unted for 
the same percentage of total U.S. electricity generation as coal for the first time since the Energy 
Information Administration began collecting data in 1973. Along with the growing 
interdependency of the electric and natural gas sectors, concern s have increased about potentially 
disruptive incompatibilities between the two. These concerns must be addressed to maintain and 
increase the reliability and cost -effectiveness of natural gas and electricity supplies.  
Chief among the concerns is the lack  of synchronization between the two industries. For 
example, the natural gas day for securing supplies starts at 9 a.m. Central time, one day and runs Page 32 of 115 
 to 8:59 a.m., Central time, the following day. Conversely, the power market operates on a real -
time, cale ndar-day basis, based on the applicable time zone. The concern is that most gas 
supplies are not guaranteed before the electricity day markets have cleared, creating uncertainty 
in supply reliability, cost and availability.  
In an effort to better understa nd the interdependency of the electric and natural gas industries, the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) asked both industries in 2012 to provide 
information, particularly regarding the role the a gency should play in coordinating the two 
markets. In response, the North American Energy Standards Board created a committee to 
identify and assess potential gas -electric harmonization issues and to make recommendations on 
standards development.  
FERC hel d a series of five technical conferences around the country in late summer 2012, and 
AEP participated in two of them. We also participated in a technical conference in February 
2013. Although our risk is minimal now, we will remain engaged in the dialogue.  
In February 2013, FERC approved an interim information -sharing policy that allows the New 
England grid operator to share operational data from gas -fired power plants with pipeline 
operators to avoid gas shortages on cold days, when both electricity and he ating demand is high. 
If effective, this may become a model for the rest of the nation as more power generators 
increase their use of cleaner -burning natural gas.  
 
Nucl ear & Hydroel ectric Power  
Nuclear power and hydroelectric power will continue to be imp ortant resources in our energy 
portfolio. AEP’s 2,100 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant  in Bridgman, Mich., provides low -
cost, emission -free electricity to Indiana Michigan Power Company’s  (I&M) customers and is an 
important component of I&M’s generation resources. The two units at the Cook Plant produce 
enough energy to power approximately 1.5 million homes and account for 40 percent of I&M’ s 
power generation portfolio.  
The Cook Plant received license extensions from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2005 
that will allow the units to run until 2034 and 2037, respectively – an additional 20 years beyond 
their original operating licenses.  
In February 2013, I&M received approval from the Michigan Public Service Commission 
(MPSC) for its Life Cycle Management (LCM) Project at the Cook Plant. This project will allow 
the plant to continue operating effectively during its 20 -year operating licens e extension.  Page 33 of 115 
 The MPSC granted I&M’s request for a certificate of necessity at the Cook Plant with respect to 
the LCM Project and the ability to recover associated costs. A similar request is under 
consideration in Indiana.  
 
 
 
 
 
AEP operates 17 hydroelectric and pumped 
storage projects in five states.  
AEP operates 17 hydroelectric and pumped storage projects in five states. These projects,  which 
help reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, produce approximately 800,000 MWh of generation 
annually. Renewable energy provides another important form of diversification, and a number of 
state standards calling for it and providing incentives are driv ing part of the market. Learn more 
about  AEP’s renewable energy portfolio . Energy efficiency and demand response programs 
round out what is needed for a balan ced resource mix for the future.  
 
Efficient Use o f Energy  
AEP is proud of the efficiency gains we’ve been able to accomplish over the last several years 
across our service territory, and we have always encouraged our customers to use energy wisely 
and eff iciently. Today, we see achievable levels of energy efficiency and demand response as 
important resources that should be incorporated into our integrated resource planning process.  
Energy efficiency and demand reduction programs have received regulatory s upport in most of 
the states we serve, and appropriate cost recovery will be essential for us to continue to expand 
these consumer offerings. Appropriate recovery of program costs, lost revenues and an 
opportunity to earn a reasonable return ensures that e nergy efficiency programs are considered 
equally with supply side investments, such as power plants. In the future, AEP needs certainty 
and consistency around cost recovery for energy efficiency mandates from our state 
commissions. We need to be treated fa irly and uniformly and have the opportunity to earn a 
return on our investments and recover our costs to comply with those mandates.  
Page 34 of 115 
 “The successful utilities of the future will figure out how to truly make energy 
efficiency a key element of their business  model.”  
- AEP Stakeholder  
 
In 2008, AEP established a goal to reduce demand by 1,000 megawatts (MW) and energy 
consumption by 2,250,000 megawatt -hours (MWh) by the end of 2012 through energy efficiency 
and demand response programs. Since that time, AEP’s  operating companies have implemented 
a wide variety of new consumer programs across most of the states we serve. In fact, more than 
100 energy efficiency and demand response programs are now in place. This allowed us to 
achieve our objective of ramping up  energy efficiency programs where they are supported.  
Preliminary estimates indicate that we exceeded our goal. From 2008 through 2012, AEP 
achieved 3,016,400 MWh of energy reduction and 1,011 MW of demand reduction, or 134% and 
101% of goal, respectively . For the same period, AEP’s operating companies have invested more 
than $368 million in energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. Final results are subject 
to independent third -party evaluation and verification of savings, as required.  
However, w ith increasing efficiency standards, such as enhanced building codes and appliance 
standards, we are concerned that energy efficiency mandates will become more difficult to 
achieve in the future. Regulators in some of our states are rethinking their mandat es in part due 
to cost and achievability. Our concern is that financial penalties could be imposed if we do not 
achieve escalating benchmark requirements, even if a good -faith effort was made.  
Further, certain mandated requirements may be virtually unach ievable from an economic 
perspective. In other words, the cost to attain the participation requirements could be much 
higher than the overall benefits associated with the corresponding impacts. In such instances, 
AEP would be opposed to implementing any pr ograms that are not cost -effective, and AEP 
should not be penalized for not achieving energy efficiency targets.  
Page 35 of 115 
  
We have also made significant investments to enhance the efficiency of many of our coal -fired 
plants, thereby offsetting the energy needed to run emission control technologies. And we have 
taken measures to reduce energy consumption in our office buildings and service centers. We 
reduced our kilowatt -hour (kWh) usage by 23.8 percent by the end of 2012, compared with the 
2007 baseline. The equiva lent accumulated savings from reduced energy consumption at more 
than 400 facilities exceeds $12 million. We achieved these energy consumption reductions 
through equipment investments, such as new heating and cooling equipment, and an employee 
education ca mpaign. By reducing usage, we are able to sell the unused energy in the wholesale 
energy market, or not produce it at all, as well as reduce our impacts to the environment.  
In addition to energy savings in our buildings and power plants, AEP Transmission  installed new 
low-loss transformers at two of its stations in 2012. These new transformers provide more than a 
30 percent reduction in total energy losses compared with the transformers ins talled in previous 
years. The higher efficiency transformers have lower energy losses from the equipment and will 
provide significant cost savings over time.  
 
Regulatory & Customer Rate Management  
 
There are many factors that can affect the price and reliability of energy throughout the country. 
AEP has advocated for years that we need a national energy policy to serve as a road map for 
how our country will generate and deliver electricity in a reliable, cost -effective manner over the 
long term. The key is whether our elected leaders can overcome the political gridlock in 
Washington, D.C., and develop a federal energy policy that supports business and job growth.  
There are some important aspects of an energy strategy that need to be addressed:  
 Preventing overdependence on one fuel/maintaining fuel  diversity  
 Aligning the natural gas and electricity markets to address issues such as pipeline 
capacity and location, pricing and scheduling protocols, which need to be coordinated to 
address reliability concerns  
 Infrastructure investment and transmission development  
 Rational energy and environmental regulations  
Because Congress has not been able to achieve a broad solution to environmental and energy 
policy, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA) may be more aggressive over the next 
four years in initiating new rules that will impact this industry over the long term, enacti ng Page 36 of 115 
 energy policy through regulations. Our industry will make a huge investment through the end of 
the decade just to comply with ne w EPA regulations affecting power plants. For AEP alone, we 
estimate the cost to be $4 billion to $5 billion between now and 2020 to make the remaining coal 
units comply with current and anticipated EPA regulations.  
The regulations coming from the EPA nee d to be as reasonable as possible in the implementation 
timelines to minimize detrimental economic impacts to the states in which we operate and to 
minimize negative reliability impacts on the grid across the nation.  
In addition to environmental complianc e costs, the electric utility industry will need to invest 
approximately $2 trillion over the next two decades to refurbish and replace existing 
infrastructure and to build new facilities to meet the nation’s future energy needs. With 
investments this larg e, it is easy to see why we need a national energy policy to allow our 
industry to plan with more certainty over the long term.  
Regulatory Environment  
The electric utility industry regulatory environment is vastly different from five years ago. A 
combinat ion of slow economic growth, the low cost of natural gas, more stringent and expensive 
environmental regulations and other factors have forced us to be more agile and adaptable to 
ensure our long -term health. We have made significant strides to reduce the time between 
investment and cost recovery from customers (known in the industry as regulatory lag). We have 
done this by collaborating with regulators and other stakeholders to develop rate frameworks that 
balance AEP’s need to recover its costs to maintai n and operate its system with our customers’ 
ability to pay for it.  
 
Current Regulatory A ctivity   
 
Operating Company Mod el  
We have a responsibility to deliver safe, reliable, quality electricity to our customers. In doing 
so, we strive for operational excellence and seek to deliver the best customer service we can. To 
support this compact, we are dependent upon a regulatory framework that determines the rates 
we can charge our customer s to operate and maintain our system and the returns we can earn on 
our investments – unlike most private sector companies.  
Our shareholders lose value and the company’s earnings suffer if we make investments and are 
not allowed to recover our costs or ar e unable to earn a reasonable rate of return. At the same Page 37 of 115 
 time, customers are sensitive to rate increases. To address this issue, we decentralized our 
business operations model, putting more responsibility and accountability in the hands of our 
operating c ompany presidents.  
As a result, operating company presidents  have more autonomy along with greater responsibility 
for their companies’ balance sheets, credit ratings,  liquidity, earnings, capital allocation, rate 
base growth, regulatory relationships and overall performance. They work collaboratively with 
all other business units and with each other to meet the needs of their customers. This local 
approach also strengt hens their relationships with their communities and provides a better 
understanding of what local regulators 
will support.  
This improved line of sight has helped 
us to develop several rate frameworks 
that have enhanced our ability to recover 
costs. We als o have improved many of 
our regulatory relationships, which are 
important as we embark on significant capital investment programs to comply with 
environmental regulations, invest in our transmission infrastructure and maintain the operational 
integrity and  reliability of the entire system.  
In spite of this localized control, our operating companies are challenged by the availability and 
competition for finite capital resources, the demands of operating and maintaining an aging grid, 
more environmental and  reliability regulations, growing retail competition in some states, a 
sluggish economy, and little growth in electricity demand. They must address these competing 
needs while balancing customers’ ability to pay for the increasing costs of maintaining a re liable 
electric system.  
Page 38 of 115 
 The Cost o f El ectricity  
 
Many factors can affect the price and reliability of electricity. The cost of energy is important to 
customers and to the economic conditions of our service territory. High electricity rates have 
particularly affected economic growth in the eastern  part of our service territory due to the large 
concentrations of energy -dependent heavy industry. In energy -intensive industries, such as 
primary metals, paper and chemical manufacturing, where electricity is a major cost of 
production, companies need to be able to plan and budget with some certainty if they are to 
continue operations. Rapidly increasing rates can result in a downward spiral for our regions if 
manufacturers are no longer able to compete and are forced to move elsewhere. Our service 
territo ry consists of many states in which mean household incomes are already below the 
national average. There are very real social and economic concerns to consider as the cost of 
electricity goes up.  
To foster more timely recovery of expenses and greater regul atory certainty, AEP supports the 
use of alternative ratemaking models. The traditional rate case process cannot accommodate the 
scale and speed required for timely recovery of necessary utility investments, which puts upward 
price pressures on our custome rs. More timely recovery reduces regulatory lag, which allows for 
more uniform rate increases.  
Certain state regulators have ordered some costs, such as fuel, to be deferred and collected in the 
future. But the bill eventually comes due and customers must pay for the costs of regulation, fuel 
used to generate their electricity in previous years, or investments that are needed to maintain 
reliability.  
Securitization is a process in which certain regulatory assets, such as deferred fuel costs, are 
converted i nto cash through a sale of securities. Although we believe fuel should be recovered as 
those costs are incurred, securitization can mitigate the adverse impact of a large recoverable 
cost by spreading the cost to customers over several years at a lower int erest rate. For example, 
in Texas, AEP has used securitization to recover state -mandated restructuring and stranded costs 
- costs associated with assets that are no longer in rates. Securitization legislation has been 
passed in other AEP jurisdictions wher e customers may experience similar upward price 
pressures.  
 
 
 Page 39 of 115 
 Market Shifts In Ohio  
More than a decade after Ohio’s governor signed a bill into law deregulating the state’s 
electricity market, the legal and regulatory web of actions implementing deregulati on is still 
being woven. The long and complicated shift toward a competitive market for power generation 
in AEP Ohio’s  service territory moved forward in 2012 but still has several milestones to clear 
before it is completed.  
What happens in Ohio is extremely important to all of AEP. AEP Ohio accounts for almost 30 
percent of the corporation’s customers and owned generation and 29 percent of AEP’s retail 
revenues.  
In 1999, Ohio’s state legislature passed  Senate Bill 3, deregulating the state’s electricity market. 
For the first eight years the bill was in effect, few customers in AEP Ohio’s service territory 
shopped because AEP’s regulated rates were lower than market prices. In 2008, Senate Bill 221 
was p assed, continuing the long and complicated journey to competition for AEP Ohio.  
The company filed its first Electric Security Plan (ESP) in 2008 and it was working well until the 
recession, when customer demand for electricity dropped sharply. At the same  time, natural gas 
prices started to fall, due in large part to shale gas development.  
AEP filed a second ESP in 2011 and received approval in August 2012. While some issues have 
not been finally resolved, AEP Ohio’s service territory is well along the pa th to a competitive 
generation market. This means AEP Ohio must separate its generation business from its 
transmission and distribution businesses, and it expects to complete this process by Jan. 1, 2014. 
AEP Ohio -owned power plants will be moved to the ne w AEP Generation Resources Inc., 
pending FERC approval. Some of the generation will be transferred to other operating companies 
that need the capacity and the energy to serve their customers, pending FERC and state 
regulatory approvals.  
The process also i ncludes the termination of a regional generation pool agreement among AEP’s 
eastern operating companies. The companies historically “pooled” their resources and dispatched 
the most efficient units to meet the combined demand of the companies. This decades -old pool 
agreement has become less effective due to changes in the electricity markets. After corporate 
separation, AEP Ohio will be a fully regulated transmission and distribution company and will 
no longer own generation assets.  
As AEP Ohio moves its ge neration assets to a competitive electricity environment, the company 
will transition toward establishing its generation rates through competitive auctions  for 
customers who have not switched providers. On ce the transition is complete, competitive 
electricity suppliers will bid to provide the electricity supply needed by AEP Ohio’s remaining 
customers. Customers will continue to have a choice of competitive generation providers.  Page 40 of 115 
 Retail Competition  
Competit ion for retail electricity customers among various service providers continued to 
accelerate in Ohio in 2012. The ability to switch suppliers of electricity has been in place in Ohio 
since Jan. 1, 2001, following approval of restructuring legislation appro ved by the Ohio General 
Assembly in 1999. While competition began appearing in some of the higher -priced markets in 
Ohio shortly thereafter, AEP’s low rates made it difficult for competitors to gain a foothold 
through much of the first decade of the 21st c entury.  
“Market competitiveness is a measure of understanding the market, selling 
cost -effective solutions that yield the best possible product for the consumer 
and achieving profitability levels that ensure continued development and 
growth.” - AEP Stakeh older  
A stagnant economy and low power prices, coupled with the PUCO  proactively choosing the 
competitive market model over a cost -based model, opened the door for competition within the 
state of O hio. 
At the end of 2012, customer switching in Ohio had resulted in the generation -related gross 
margin loss of approximately $235 million. That equated to an annual average of approximately 
51 percent of AEP Ohio’s retail customer load being served by an alternative supplier over the 
course of 2012.  
Our competitive energy business, AEP Energy , is a retail 
electricity supplier to residential, commercial and industrial 
customers. AEP Energy, which acqui red BlueStar Energy, 
provides a wide array of energy solutions, including retail 
electric supply and energy management solutions. The company provides electricity supply in 
Delaware, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Washington, D.C., and 
energy management solutions nationwide. AEP Energy is one of the fastest -growing business 
units within AEP. At the end of 2012, AEP Energy had more than 160,000 customers compared 
with 40,000 at the end of 2011.  
A challenge for AEP Energy, in a very c ompetitive marketplace with low energy prices, is to 
profitably grow at a pace that delivers superior financial returns for the associated risk. To 
achieve this, the company is focused on providing customized products, excellent customer 
service and timely  and accurate billing, and developing robust systems to manage significant 
growth.  
Page 41 of 115 
 Ethics and Compliance  
As an organization, we are guided by our Principles of Business Conduct , which require us to 
operate with integrity, fairness, respect, and care. Any employee who raises concerns about 
ethics, safety or compliance issues needs to be able to do so without fear of retributio n. This 
freedom is part and parcel of fostering a risk -aware culture.  
We have made significant progress toward this goal during the past few years, providing 
employees with a variety of safe ways to communicate information and concerns. However, we 
recogn ize that we have more work to do. This is especially true following our recent 
organizational review. As our company changes, if employees are unwilling to report an ethics or 
compliance violation for fear of retaliation, our corporate culture, the financi al health of the 
company and our reputation are put at risk. Consequently, we are redoubling our efforts to 
communicate with and engage employees so that they feel free to communicate concerns. Part of 
this effort will be incorporated into our strategy to develop a stronger, healthier culture.  
 
Lobbying and Political Activity  
 
We actively participate in the political process to advance our long -term business interests and 
the interests of our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. We also lobby 
and work for what we believe is in  the best interests of our communities and the nation. We 
maintain five political action committees (PACs) – one for federal candidates and separate state 
PACs in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Approximately 30 percent of the employees 
eligible to par ticipate in one of our PACs do so. AEP’s federal PAC, the AEP Committee for 
Responsible Government, contributed more than $740,000 to candidates for public office in 2012 
and received about $652,000 from employees. The difference was made up by surplus fun ds 
from previous years. Pursuant to federal and state laws, AEP is permitted to pay expenses of 
operating its PACs. We also have a process whereby political contributions are reviewed 
annually by AEP’s board of directors.  
In 2012, we spent about $7.5 milli on on internal and external lobbying activities at the state and 
federal level. This includes dues to trade or national associations for which a portion is used for 
lobbying. We maintain an office in Washington, D.C., to address issues involving federal 
legislation and regulation. Each of our operating companies has lobbyists who work in their 
respective state capitals.  Page 42 of 115 
 We belong to or participate in several state, local and national organizations, including the 
Edison Electric Institute , the Business Roundtable  and the National Association of 
Manufacturers  (NAM). We do so for a variety of reasons, includi ng staying current on issues, 
learning best business practices from our peers, and strengthening our relationships with our 
customers, many of whom are also members. We disclose our political contributions as well as 
the portion of membership dues to vario us organizations that is used for lobbying purposes on an 
annual basis. For more information see our lobbying policy and our  disclosure for 2012 .  
We believe that, as a general rule, it is more beneficial to AEP to remain involved, even if we 
occasionally disagree, than to withdraw. We believe that we can be far more effective in shaping 
the policies of the organizations from within, rather than sitting on the sideline.  
From time to time, many, if not most, of the organizations to which we belong reach conclusions 
or take positions with which we disagree. If we feel strongly enough, we voice our disagreement 
and work to change  the organization’s position. Sometimes our views prevail, sometimes they do 
not. Many times we are able to reach some sort of compromise.  
We are firm believers in transparency and participating actively in public debate. That belief is 
based on our deeply  held cultural value of collaboration, which we practice both internally and 
externally. We believe that open, candid discussion and a good -faith attempt to reach common 
ground is the best way to do business.  
 Page 43 of 115 
 Business Performance  
Our Performance  
Our suc cess is the sum of our financial and non -financial performance. Both are integral to our 
ability to achieve sustainable growth, keep our environmental and social commitments, and 
deliver safe, reliable and cost -effective electricity to our customers while delivering fair returns 
to our shareholders.  
Zero Harm is Achievable  
 
Safety is a top sustainability priority at AEP. Our goal is  to achieve zero harm -- zero injuries 
and zero fatalities. We are making progress toward this goal every year and while 2012 was our 
best performance in AEP's history, we can do better. During the past 17 years, we have worked 5 
years without work -related  employee fatalities. In 2012, there were no employee or contractor 
fatalities.  
We measure our success based on financial performance, the reliability of our system, our 
environmental performance and compliance, our ability to manage spending and receive 
regulatory support for the investments we make in the grid and the safety of our employees, 
contractors and the public.  
 
Financial Performance  
 
At AEP, we believe sustainability underlies our business strategy and is a key business 
opportunity. Incorporating sustainability throughout our business  enhances our ability to deliver 
profits to shareholders, meet our obligations to lenders and fulfill our environmental and social 
commitments. Improving our environmental and social performance, in turn, contributes to our 
financial well -being.  
Our succe ssful execution of financial and operational goals during 2012 was rewarded in the 
marketplace. AEP shareholders received an 8.22 percent total return, including dividends, which 
was well above the total shareholder return of negative 0.55 percent for the S&P 500 Electric Page 44 of 115 
 Utilities Index. AEP’s historical stock -price discount to our peer companies has effectively been 
eliminated, primarily due to the clarity and risk reduction we have provided our shareholders.  
In 2012, we seized the opportunity 
afforded by low -priced debt capital to 
redeem all of our long -term, parent -
company debt, replacing it with new 
long-term debt at more attractive rates 
that will save a projected $30 million a 
year in both 2013 and 2014. In February 
2013, AEP further strengthened it s 
liquidity capacity by closing on a new $1 
billion, 27 -month term loan agreement 
that matures May 13, 2015. We are using this to fund maturities of senior notes at Ohio Power 
through the corporate separation transition period.  
We reduced our post -employme nt benefit liability by $570 million, or 25 percent, through 
adjustments to our retiree medical benefits. This retirement medical plan was 91 percent funded 
at year -end. 
We made a $200 million discretionary contribution to our qualified pension plan during  2012, 
which was 92 percent funded at the end of the year. Over the past three years, we have 
contributed $1.15 billion to our qualified pension fund.  
AEP ended 2012 with a strong financial profile and is well positioned to achieve its goal of 
attaining 4 percent to 6 percent operating earnings growth (from a 2013 earnings base), 
supported by our regulated operations. These operations also will continue to support the 
dividend. Including dividends, we forecast a total return opportunity for shareholders of 8 
percent to 10 percent.  
 
Execution Remains The Theme In 2013  
Investors have more clarity about what to expect from AEP than they did a year ago, but there is 
still a lot of work to do. While issues around Ohio’s move toward a competitive generation 
busine ss and the corporate separation of generation assets in Ohio are closer to resolution, we 
need to finalize the regulatory approvals for these transactions and complete the separation. We 
also have significant rate activity in our SWEPCo subsidiary in order  to get the Turk Plant into 
rates. We have been successful in doing so in Louisiana and we need to continue to seek similar 
regulatory support in Texas and perhaps Arkansas as well. The financial promise of our 
Page 45 of 115 
 Transmission business and evolving competitiv e business are reasons for optimism in 2013 and 
beyond.  
The repositioning study  that AEP completed last year and began implementing early this year 
will affect how we are structu red and how we operate going forward, and it will help us 
financially well into the future. The study allows us to streamline processes and increase 
efficiencies while also capturing sustainable cost savings that will help us achieve earnings 
growth and re allocate resources to growth areas such as transmission. A Program Management 
Office was formed to ensure the long -term savings and process improvements identified by the 
study are attained and to facilitate future savings opportunities that emerge apart f rom the study. 
Identified cost savings are allowing AEP to keep its operations and maintenance budget flat from 
2012 to 2013, in spite of other increases such as new operations and employee -related costs.  
 
2012 Results  
AEP’s earnings for 2012, based on G enerally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), totaled 
$1.26 billion or $2.60 per share, compared with $1.94 billion or $4.02 per share for 2011. AEP’s 
operating earnings for 2012, GAAP earnings excluding special items, totaled $1.497 billion or 
$3.09 per  share, down slightly from the corresponding 2011 results of $1.504 billion or $3.12 per 
share. Operating earnings were higher than GAAP earnings due to the exclusion of impairment 
charges related to Ohio generating plants, an adjustment charge associated with the Texas cap on 
construction costs of the Turk Plant, a charge relating to our cost restructuring efforts and a tax 
provision associated with U.K. windfall taxes.  
We were able to mitigate unfavorable earnings impacts for 2012, such as customer switch ing in 
Ohio, through disciplined operations and maintenance spending. Other unfavorable earnings 
impacts in 2012 included higher depreciation and amortization expense due to projections for 
shorter lives of some generating units and higher amortization cos ts associated with regulatory 
assets, drought conditions that had a negative impact on AEP River Operations , higher storm 
restoration costs, and lower off -system sales margins stemming mainly from low er power prices.  
Weather -adjusted sales of electricity fell 0.8 percent in 2012 from 2011. The only customer 
segment to show improvement in 2012 was the commercial segment, in which sales increased 
0.3 percent due to strong sales in Texas. The increase in commercial load was the first for that 
segment since the start of the recession in 2008.  
Our liquidity, or access to cash, has increased and our balance sheet remains strong. At year -end 
2012, we had $3.25 billion in credit facility commitments to support our operations. In February 
2013, we refinanced at a lower cost, and increased to $1.75 billion and extended by one year the 
previous $1.5 billion core credit facility due to expire in June 2015. We also refinanced and Page 46 of 115 
 extended by one year the previous $1. 75 billion core credit facility due to expire in July 2016. 
We ended 2012 with a debt -to-total-capitalization ratio of 55.2 percent, which is within our 
target range of the mid -50s. 
Because AEP’s corporate credit ratings are investment grade, BBB from Stan dard & Poor’s 
(S&P) and Fitch Ratings, and Baa2 from Moody’s Investors Service, we expect to continue to 
access the debt capital markets at a reasonable cost. Maintaining these ratings requires close 
attention to spending decisions and a constructive regul atory outlook in the states we serve. In 
September 2012, S&P completed a review of AEP’s credit and declared our business risk profile 
to be excellent. However, in February 2013, Fitch Ratings put AEP on negative outlook, down 
from stable outlook. The agen cy indicated in its opinion that the negative outlook reflects 
uncertainty around increased financial and business risks with the restructuring of AEP Ohio.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 47 of 115 
 Looking To 2013 and Beyond  
Our projected operating earnings range is $3.05 to $3 .25 per share for 2013 and $3.15 to $3.45 
per share for 2014. We expect that success in the regulatory arena, continued cost control and 
increased earnings contributions from Transmission operations will help offset the continued 
effects of customer switch ing in Ohio and other increased expenses.  
Electricity sales are expected to grow 0.5 percent in 2013, driven by projected industrial growth 
of 1.8 percent. In Ohio, West Virginia, Oklahoma and Texas, we anticipate increases related to 
shale gas development  and oil and gas production. Residential load is forecasted to fall 0.4 
percent from 2012 levels with commercial load expected to decline 0.1 percent.  
Growing the dividend for our shareholders remains a priority. In fact, our Board of Directors is 
targetin g a dividend payout ratio (annual dividend divided by operating earnings per share) of 60 
percent to 70 percent of earnings, an increase from the previous 50 percent to 60 percent target. 
The dividend is supported by our regulated operations. AEP has paid a dividend for 411 
consecutive quarters, a feat only a handful of companies can claim. Coupled with the increase in 
the payout ratio, this further indicates the Board of Directors’ commitment to our regulated 
business model and to rewarding AEP’s sharehold ers. 
Our capital plan calls for investments of $3.6 billion in 2013 and an estimated $3.8 billion in 
both 2014 and 2015, supported by cash flows from operations and financing activities. Equity 
financing beyond the existing Dividend Reinvestment Plan and e mployee purchases of company 
stock through 401(k) plans is not anticipated.  
Capital allocation is a subject AEP’s management takes very seriously. The executive 
management team works year -round with our operating company presidents and business unit 
leaders to focus on getting capital to work where customers want it, where regulators support it 
and where we have attractive returns and reduced lag in cost recovery. Based on the above 
criteria, we are moving capital dollars into transmission, nuclear and th e regulated environmental 
component of generation, and this capital investment underpins our earnings growth forecast.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 48 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 49 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AEP was named to the Target Rock Advisors 2013 Sustainable Utility Leaders Index ( SULI), which is a 
stock index for guiding sustainable and socially 
responsible investment decisions. The Index also 
recognizes the work of utilities that have excelled at 
socially responsible corporate citizenship. AEP was one 
of 24 utilities named to the SULI.  
Page 50 of 115 
 Energy Reliability and Security  
 
The U.S. electric grid is a sophisticated, interconnected network of components that work in 
unison to provide a reliable power supply. When one part of the system isn’t functioning 
optimally, a loss of power can occur. When that happens, no matter the reaso n, customers expect 
their service to be restored quickly. If it isn’t, the result may have political, regulatory, economic 
and social ramifications for our customers and communities that can hurt AEP far more than the 
damage to the electrical system itself . 
Reliability refers to our ability to 
provide energy upon demand. We must 
prevent outages to the extent we can and 
restore power as safely and efficiently as 
we can when it does go out. Security 
refers to our capacity to protect the 
supply of energy, und er any 
circumstance, from external and internal 
interruptions. Our ability to secure 
energy and deliver power reliably hinges 
on a variety of regulatory, economic, 
environmental and social factors.  
Operating and maintaining the grid is 
more complex than ev er. We face many 
challenges affecting our ability to 
maintain the existing system while also 
upgrading that system to meet future 
demands. Among these challenges are 
the aging of the current system, the threat of external interruption, the need for greater  capacity, 
the difficulty of siting new facilities, new and pending environmental regulations, and covering 
the cost of needed investments.  
 
System Reliability  
Parts of AEP’s service territory sustained historic damage in 2012 due to severe weather. The 
two most significant weather events were the June 29 derecho  and “Super Storm Sandy” in late 
Page 51 of 115 
 October. The derecho  was part of a fast -moving thunderstorm system that crossed the Ohio 
Valley and Eastern United States with heavy rain, hail, average wind speeds of 60 mph and gusts 
up to 80 to 100 mph – the same as a Category  2 hurricane. Only there was no warning as there is 
with hurricanes.  
With power knocked out on AEP’s system to more than 1.4 million customers of AEP’s 5.3 
million customers at the peak of the outage, governors in Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia 
declared  states of emergency. AEP Ohio  was hardest hit by outages with more than 738,700 
customers without power at the peak – nearly 50 percent of the company’s entire retail customer 
base. More than 400 transmi ssion towers were damaged in Ohio alone. APCo  experienced an 
estimated 570,000 customers without power at the peak, I&M  lost an es timated 118,000 
customers and KPCo  lost an estimated 64,000 customers.  
 
 
 
 
The June 29 derecho knocked out power to 
more than 1.4 million customers of AEP's 
3.5 million customers at the peak out the 
outage.  
Neighboring states were also hit hard with extensive outages by this storm, making it necessary 
to pull restoration crews from greater distances than normal. This added to the challenge of 
quickly restoring power because it took those crews longer to arrive where we needed them. 
Another challenge we faced came from the extreme heat that affected the area. Safety of our 
crews during outages is of paramount importance to us. The heat made it more difficult and 
resulted in some cases of heat exhaustion and dehydration of crew members. Restoration of 
service took more than a week in some areas as new storms swept through the  region nearly 
every day, causing additional outages and limiting crews’ ability to work safely. In some cases, 
restoration took even longer because of the remoteness or extent of the damaged equipment. 
APCo estimated the storm caused approximately $37 mil lion in damage. AEP Ohio’s damage 
tally from the derecho and subsequent storms was an estimated $61.8 million. By comparison, 
the remnants of Hurricane Ike in 2008 led to $30 million in maintenance costs in Ohio. We are 
seeking recovery of these costs from  our state regulatory agencies.  
“As (Super Storm) Sandy has showed, long periods without electricity affect 
every aspect of our society from business to health to personal lives. We are 
Page 52 of 115 
 dependent on reliable and affordable electricity. Cell phones and iPad s don’t 
work if batteries cannot be recharged.” - AEP Stakeholder  
Our communication with customers during the derecho took on a new dimension because of the 
growing use of social media venues such as Twitter , YouTube  and Facebook . We more quickly 
became aware of customer problems and perceptions, and we adapted our respon se plan 
accordingly. A major element of that plan is our “one voice” communication strategy, whereby 
we make sure messages conveyed to those outside AEP – regulators, community leaders, 
customers, the general public and other stakeholders – are uniform and  consistent.  
 
 
 
 
 
AEP's most notable assistance was that 
provided in the wake of Super Storm Sandy.  
In addition to the derecho and Sup er Storm Sandy, KPCo was also adversely impacted by two 
other major storms. In February, more than 34,000 customers – roughly 20 percent of the 
company’s customers – lost power as a result of a snow storm that dumped more than 12 inches 
of wet, heavy snow across the company's service area. A few weeks later, in March, the 
company's service area received national attention when an unprecedented number of tornadoes 
tore across Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin and Martin counties in eastern Kentucky, devastating 
the towns of West Liberty and Salyersville and causing more than 14,000 customers to lose 
power. In both cases, despite widespread damage, KPCo mobilized to restore power completely 
in less than seven days.  
When weather events result in significant widesprea d outages, utilities seek help from other 
utility companies and contractors. This practice of mutual assistance, which dates to the 1950s, 
helps companies in our industry mitigate risks and costs associated with major power 
interruptions by sharing resourc es. The utilities that seek assistance pay the costs of peer 
companies and contractors that provide labor and equipment.  
During 2012, AEP received assistance from utilities around the country to restore power to our 
customers, but we also provided assistan ce to other utilities that needed our help. AEP’s most 
notable assistance was that provided in the wake of Super Storm Sandy. While power was being 
restored to more than 200,000 customers of APCo and KPCo, AEP and contract crews also 
assisted utilities in the Northeast. In fact, about half of all AEP employee and contract line 
Page 53 of 115 
 resources were dedicated to helping other utilities recover from Sandy’s devastating effects. The 
Edison Electric Institute honored AEP with its Emergency Recovery Award for the derec ho and 
an Emergency Assistance Award for the aid we provided to other utilities in the wake of Super 
Storm Sandy.  
In light of recent severe storm events, our industry is considering new ways of thinking about 
grid infrastructure and its resilience, as the risks associated with such events can affect financial 
health, customer satisfaction and our reputation. There is an industry -wide effort under way, in 
collaboration with other organizations, to research ways to make the grid better able to withstand 
extre me weather events, so that less focus is needed on restoration after major damage occurs.  
 
Measuring and Maintaining Reliability  
We use several measures to track our transmission and distribution reliability performance. The 
System Average Interruption Du ration Index (SAIDI) measures how many minutes the average 
customer experiences an interruption in their electric service in a given year. During 2012, the 
AEP System SAIDI was 193 minutes, a 15 percent improvement from 2011, when it was 228. 
While 2012 pr esented its share of challenges with the derecho and Super Storm Sandy, the 
number of smaller weather -related 
outage events declined significantly.  
Another reliability performance metric, 
the System Average Interruption 
Frequency Index (SAIFI), represents  the 
number of interruptions the average 
customer experiences in a year. During 
2012, the AEP system’s SAIFI was 
1.317, an 11 percent improvement over 
the previous year and the second best 
annual performance the AEP system has 
achieved during the past 7 ye ars.  
A third industry -wide reliability metric, 
the Customer Average Interruption 
Duration Index (CAIDI), represents the 
average length of time it takes to restore service when an average outage occurs. AEP's 2012 
CAIDI was 146.6 minutes, a 5 percent impro vement over 2011. While 2012 performance 
improved, AEP's CAIDI has slowly trended unfavorably over the past several years, reflecting a 
long-term rise in the length of time it takes to respond to the average outage. This is due to a 
Page 54 of 115 
 combination of factors,  including a favorable reduction in the number of shorter duration outages 
that historically affected larger counts of customers that skew the metric upward (and 
subsequently resulted in an improvement in SAIDI and SAIFI). It is also due to an increase in 
non-major storm events combined with fewer internal resources available to respond. Vegetation 
management and equipment failure remain the most significant challenges to AEP's service 
reliability.  
 
Right -Of-Way Management  
Managing vegetation on our rights -of-way (ROW) is a key element to maintaining our 
transmission and distribution system reliability. Typical industry practice is to manage the trees 
and vegetation around power lines cyclically. Maintaining a regular tree -trimming cycle is costly 
and direct ly affects customers’ electric bills. During the past four years, AEP has spent about 
$860 million on vegetation management. In 2012, AEP spent $214 million, which is consistent 
with the previous four -year average. The issue of reliability has prompted sev eral states to 
consider or implement more rigorous tree trimming cycles.  
For transmission ROW management, there is additional focus on transmission above 200 kV and 
other critical facilities to meet North Ame rican Electric Reliability Corporation  (NERC) 
reliability compliance standards. AEP has adopted an integrated vegetation management 
program that is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with these standards. This program 
includes a sustainable approach t o ROW management that allows certain species of vegetation to 
grow in the ROW, and stipulates the practices we employ meet NERC standards.  
 
 
 
 
In 2012, AEP spent $214 million on 
vegetation management, which is a key 
element to maintaining our transmission 
and distribution system reliability.  
Page 55 of 115 
  
Fostering a Culture For Reliability Compliance  
Overheated transmission lines, inadequate vegeta tion management, insufficient equipment and 
lack of training were root causes of the 2003 Northeast blackout that left 55 million people in the 
dark in the United States and Canada and slammed the brakes on international travel and 
financial markets. Since  then, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation  (NERC) has 
been authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) to enact and enforce  
rules protecting the U.S. bulk power system. These rules and standards are constantly evolving, 
and they affect virtually everything we do in operating the grid day to day.  
The reliability standards require us to document every process and procedure consi dered critical 
to bulk electricity system reliability. We also must demonstrate a strong culture of compliance, 
including the ability to readily access these documents, which compliance enforcement 
authorities use as key pieces of evidence during audits. N oncompliance with reliability standards 
can lead to serious financial consequences as well as reputational risk.  
In June 2012, NERC completed an audit of AEP’s compliance with FERC Order 693 reliability 
standards. This audit was the largest of the year’s f our NERC audits. Our employees spent nearly 
a year preparing for the audit; more than 100 employees received training that incorporated 
techniques similar to those we use to prepare for state regulatory commission hearings. This 
level of preparation is an ongoing process that helps to heighten compliance understanding and 
awareness. Later in 2012, we participated in three more audits – the Texas Reliability Entity 
(TRE) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) audit of Electric Transmission Texas, the TRE 
Transmission Operations audit of AEP and the AEP Energy audit.  
Overall, our performance in the 2012 audits was good. The positive outcomes were the result of 
significant efforts by many dedicated resources across the company to improve our compliance 
cultu re and to identify and then address compliance issues as they arise. We engage employees at 
all levels of the company by:  
 Establishing centralized coordination of the program by executive and management 
governing committees  
 Providing ongoing education to a ll employees  
 Establishing working groups to develop and implement improvements in areas that need 
attention  
We expect future audits to be more forward -looking and focused on the standards that present 
the greatest risk to the bulk power system.  Page 56 of 115 
 Transmiss ion Remains Priority  
The need for a robust transmission system in the United States is as important as ever. Recent 
historic changes in the transmission industry are presenting opportunities for AEP’s transmission 
business to become a key earnings driver f or the company, and to be a leader in developing a 
modern national transmission system for the 21st century. And by doing so, we will deliver more 
reliable service to our customers.  
AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, is the holding company for our stat e-based 
Transmission Companies (Transcos) and our joint ventures. A linchpin of our transmission 
strategy is the investments we are making through our Transcos to support regional expansion 
and local grid reliability. We have Transcos that have been approv ed in Indiana, Ohio, and West 
Virginia and have conditional approval to operate in Virginia. We also operate Transcos in 
Michigan and Oklahoma. Applications for additional Transcos are pending in Kentucky, 
Louisiana and Arkansas. The Transcos can raise cap ital separately and are able to build new 
transmission without affecting the balance sheet or credit ratings of the operating companies to 
support these investments.  
Read more about our transmission business and strategy in Opportunities & Risks . 
 
Nucl ear Reliability  
Our Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant  in Bridgman, Mich., set a new internal record for the length 
of time its 1,100 MW Unit 1 ran c ontinuously following its 23rd refueling outage on Oct. 26, 
2011. On Friday, Feb. 8, 2013 the unit broke the previous consecutive run record of 471 days, set 
in 1994. Cook provides low -cost, 
emissions -free electricity to AEP’s 
eastern companies.  
 
 
 
AEP’s 2,100 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear 
Plant in Bridgman, Mich., provides low -cost, 
emission -free electricity to Indiana 
Michigan Power Company’ s (I&M) customers.  
Page 57 of 115 
 Environmental Performance & Compliance  
 
Compliance is the foundation of our environmental efforts. We are required to comply with 
hundreds of state and federal regulations at all of our locations, ranging from coal pile storm 
water runoff to hazardous chemical handling and air  emissions from our stacks. Environmental 
agency inspectors often make unannounced visits to our sites to monitor our compliance with a 
wide range of complex regulatory requirements, permit limits and recordkeeping and reporting 
obligations. In 2012, there  were approximately 180 inspections by regulatory agencies in which 
physical structures, procedures and recordkeeping practices were examined.  
Our overall compliance record is very good. We strive for zero formal environmental 
enforcement actions, but rec eived two in 2012. Both have been addressed.  
One enforcement action involved demolition of a coal conveyor without an approved storm 
water pollution prevention permit at a property managed by AEP Kentucky Coal. A $3,390 
penalty was assessed and corrective  actions were implemented. A second event stemmed from 
surface drainage and sediment control issues identified during a Louisiana agency inspection at 
Dolet Hills Lignite Company. A fine of $3,500 was proposed. The issues have been addressed, 
and discussio ns with the agency toward final resolution continue.  
We maintain a voluntary internal Environmental Performance Index for our generation business, 
for which we set annual compliance targets that are tied to compensation. We recorded five 
incidents in 2012,  our best performance since we began tracking it in 2003.  
 
Checks & Balances  
One way we seek continual improvement in environmental performance is the use of a formal, 
integrated environmental, safety and health (ES&H) management system. Based on the succes s 
we achieved in our fossil and hydro generating plants and construction projects, we are 
expanding the initiative to reach mining operations, coal transfer facilities and river operations.  Page 58 of 115 
 We annually conduct internal audits of our environmental manageme nt systems and compliance 
processes. Environmental programs were audited at 18 locations during 2012. Generally, the 
audits confirmed that environmental management programs are in place and effectively 
achieving compliance objectives. Audits are beginning to move beyond simple compliance 
objectives to target risks and controls, assuring that procedures are functioning effectively. For 
example, the Spill Prevention, Control & 
Countermeasure (SPCC) audit in 
Transmission was aimed at determining 
whether existi ng procedures were effectively 
assuring that SPCC plans were being updated 
in a timely manner for new or changed 
facilities. Enhancements to training and 
notification processes occurred as a result. 
The effectiveness of these changes in assuring 
that the p lans are updated and implemented is 
being assessed.  
 
Coal's Changing Rol e  
Coal has long been one of the lowest -cost 
fuels to produce electricity in the United 
States. Not only has coal provided consumers 
with reliable, affordable power, it has also 
spurred economic growth in areas where it is 
plentiful. Most coal -fired plants are located in 
coal-producing regions and are important 
sources of jobs and economic stability.  
But the economics of coal -fired generation are changing. Compliance with new environmenta l 
regulations will be costly. Nearly 11,000 MW of AEP’s generating capacity will need new or 
enhanced environmental controls or to be refueled with natural gas by the middle of this decade. 
Another approximately 5,500 MW of coal -fired units will be retired  before or during 2016. Also 
see our fleet transformation plan.  
 
 
 
Page 59 of 115 
  
 
 
Tanners Creek Plant, located in 
Lawrenceburg, Indiana, is expected to retire 
Units 1 -3 by the end of 2016 as part of 
AEP's transformation plan.  
Environmental Regulations  
The increasing scope and stringency of environment al regulations continues to pose technical 
and financial challenges to the electric utility industry. These challenges are driving decisions to 
upgrade or retire existing coal -fired generating units, and are strongly influencing the planning of 
new generat ion projects. Accordingly, transmission infrastructure must be updated and expanded 
to allow access to new generation resources and to maintain overall reliability of the system. 
Given the number of existing regulations to be implemented and the expected l ikelihood of 
additional new requirements in the coming years, environmental issues will continue to have a 
major impact on the planning and operation of our system.  
Air Regulations  
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has finalized a number of ne w regulatory 
programs in recent years that are focused on reducing air emissions from fossil fuel -fired 
generating units. These rules are driving the electric utility industry, including AEP, to retire, 
refuel and retrofit many existing coal plants.  
MATS  
The most stringent of these programs is the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule, 
which was finalized in 2012. MATS established unit -specific emission requirements for 
mercury, metals and acid gases. April 2015 is the first compliance date, although  there are 
options to extend the deadline for certain units that are in the process of installing emission 
controls or whose shutdown could lead to a transmission reliability concern. Our compliance 
strategy includes installation of emission control system s, unit retirements and possible 
conversion of some coal units to natural gas. Implementation of the strategy is under way with 
permitting and regulatory reviews and engineering and design work.  
Page 60 of 115 
 Grid reliability continues to be a concern 
due to the timing  of the MATS rule and 
the number of compliance -driven unit 
retirements and retrofit projects occurring 
at AEP and across the industry. We 
continue to proactively provide 
leadership in the ongoing dialogue to 
ensure that MATS compliance strategies 
balance t he need to maintain grid 
reliability requirements. These efforts 
require close coordination with state 
utility commissions and environmental 
agencies, the EPA, regional transmission 
organizations, FERC and NERC.  
CSAPR  
Ongoing developments continue on 
EPA’ s efforts to reduce the interstate 
transport of sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and 
nitrogen oxides (NOx) across the eastern 
half of the country. In 2005, EPA 
finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule 
(CAIR), which was overturned in 2008 by the D.C. Circuit Court of Ap peals, but was allowed to 
remain in place until an alternative rule was developed. In 2011, EPA finalized the Cross State 
Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) as a replacement for CAIR. However, CSAPR was vacated by the 
D.C. Circuit Court in August 2012. The EPA and  the Department of Justice requested a 
rehearing, but the court denied the request. Pending additional court or agency action, CAIR 
requirements remain in place.  
NAAQS  
The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to review and, as necessary, revise National Ambient  Air 
Quality Standards (NAAQS). Several NAAQS have been recently revised or are under review 
that could lead to additional emission reduction requirements in the future. Revised NAAQS 
include those for SO 2 and NOx (revised in 2010) and fine particulate mat ter (revised in 2012). 
Revised ozone NAAQS are expected to be proposed in 2013.  
Page 61 of 115 
 Regional Haze  
The EPA’s Regional Haze regulation is 
designed to protect visibility in 
specially designated areas, such as 
national parks. In 2012, AEP’s Public 
Service Compan y of Oklahoma (PSO) 
entered into an agreement with the 
EPA, the State of Oklahoma, and other 
parties to reduce emissions from the 
company’s Northeastern Station to 
comply with the rule. The agreement 
will result in the installation of emission 
controls at one unit and the retirement 
of another unit at the plant, pending 
regulatory approval.  
NSPS  
The EPA continues to move forward 
with a regulatory approach for reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from 
power plant sources. In 2012 the 
agency proposed New S ource 
Performance Standards (NSPS) for new fossil fuel -based power plants. The EPA is expected to 
finalize these standards, although the schedule for a final rule is uncertain. Separate guidelines 
from the EPA for reducing GHGs from existing fossil fuel po wer plants are expected to be 
proposed, but the agency has not announced a schedule.  
 
Fl eet Transformation Plan  
AEP's generating fleet transformation plan is being driven by changing environmental 
regulations, changing fuel supply opportunities and changin g customer demand. As the operating 
environment has evolved, so has our plan to address these issues. By investigating more cost -
effective alternative compliance options, we have reduced by $1 billion to $2 billion our original 
estimated cost of compliance  with regulations. Our plan is designed to meet the needs of our 
customers, maintain the reliability of the grid, diversify our fuel portfolio and comply with new 
regulations. By reducing our estimated capital investment for environmental compliance, we ar e 
able to divert resources to other growth areas of the company.  
Page 62 of 115 
 We reviewed options for every affected 
coal unit, which led to our ability to 
lower our original estimated cost to 
comply. The solutions we are pursuing 
are cost -effective. For example, our 
current plan to transfer a 50 percent 
interest in the Mitchell Generating 
Station will allow for the retirement of 
the 800 -MW Unit 2 of KPCo’s Big 
Sandy Plant in 2015, the same year that 
the 278 -MW Unit 1 is scheduled to be 
retired as a coal -fired generato r. A future 
option for Unit 1 may be to burn natural 
gas; however, a final decision has not 
been made. Originally, we had planned 
to install environmental controls on Big 
Sandy Unit 2, but after further review of 
emerging options (such as the 
availability of the Mitchell Units) we 
decided to pursue the Mitchell plant 
transfer, which will have a lesser rate 
impact on customers.  
Our transformation plan will result in 
carbon dioxide reductions from the existing coal fleet, as natural gas and renewables account  for 
a larger portion of our fuel mix and as we retire coal units. In addition, we are continually 
seeking opportunities to improve the overall efficiency of generating units. Higher unit 
efficiencies will lead to reduced CO 2 emissions on a normalized outp ut basis.  
At this time, we expect to retire approximately 5,500 MW of generation by the end of 2016. In 
addition, we plan to either install or upgrade emissions control systems, or complete natural gas 
conversions, on nearly 11,000 MW of capacity between now and 2020. In 2012, we retired 
approximately 615 MW of coal generation. We estimate the total cost of meeting current, 
pending and proposed environmental requirements at $4 billion to $5 billion from 2012 through 
2020 – on top of the $7 billion spent on  compliance since 1990. This does not include the cost to 
operate and maintain the units once the controls are installed, or future costs of building 
additional replacement generation and incremental fuel cost increases.  
A number of factors have contribute d to significant reductions in AEP's SO 2, NOx and mercury 
emissions. Since 1990, SO 2 and NOx emissions have each been reduced by about 80 percent 
while mercury emissions have declined by nearly 60 percent since 2001. Among the factors that 
Page 63 of 115 
 led to decreased  emissions include the installation of controls, such as scrubbers and SCRs, on 
coal units that also remove mercury; the installation of activated carbon injection at the Rockport 
Plant in Indiana, specifically to reduce mercury; changes in the types of co al we used during that 
time; retirement of coal units; and reduced overall generation from coal plants due to economic 
conditions and low natural gas prices. Mercury emissions information is reported to the EPA 
under the Toxics Release Inventory program .  
Customers who saw their electricity bills increase in the past decade to pay for environmental 
regulations face additional rate increases resulting from AEP’s actions to  comply with the new 
regulations. The effect will be felt the most in our eastern service territory. Regulators and 
customers have become increasingly vocal in their resistance to additional rate increases. We 
continue to work closely with our operating co mpanies, regulators, communities and individual 
customers to address their concerns and to assure that decisions are made collaboratively.  
 
 
 
New Source Review  
In 2007 AEP entered into a court -approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation . 
The original consent decree had specified that AEP would install flue gas desulfurization (FGD) 
systems on the Rockport units, Big Sandy Unit 2 and Muskingum River Unit 5 .  
On Feb. 22, 2013, AEP and other parties to the Consent Decree filed a proposed modification to 
the decree with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. The 
modification would lower a system wide sulfur dioxide (SO 2) emission cap for AEP plants that 
Page 64 of 115 
 becomes increasingly stringent through 2029. The modification also gives us more flexibility in 
how we meet these requirements.  
Under the new agreement, AEP will:  
 Install lower -cost dry sorbent injection (DSI) technology for  SO 2 emission reduction at 
both units of Rockport Plant in Indiana and achieve SO 2 emission reductions sooner than 
required under the consent decree. Other highlights of the pending agreement are:  
 Retire or refuel with natural gas Tanners Creek Unit 4 in Indiana  
 Have the option of retiring or refueling with natural gas Big Sandy Unit 2 in Kentucky  
 Have the option to retire or refuel with natural gas Muskingum River Unit 5 in Ohio. 
Read more about this modification on AEP.com . 
NSR Consent Decree Annual Report Archive  (PDF)  
 2008 NSR Annual Report  
 2009 NSR Annual Report  
 2010 NSR Annual Report  
 2011 NSR Annual Report  
 2012 NSR Annual Report  
 
Coal Ash  
The EPA  proposed a rule in 2010 to regulate coal ash and other coal combustion products 
(CCPs) as either special wastes under the hazardous waste por tion of the Resource Conservation 
Recovery Act, or as a solid waste. AEP favors the solid waste rule pathway.  
State agencies, AEP, and other coal users and consumers of products that use coal ash as a basic 
ingredient for other products objected to the Sp ecial Waste classification. They pointed to the 
enormous cost of disposal, the potential liability attached to products that use coal ash as an 
ingredient, and existing regulations that could achieve the same results at much lower cost. A 
final rule was or iginally anticipated in 2012 but is now expected in late 2013 or later, depending 
on the outcome of a suit filed by environmental activists and how the EPA addresses the 
comments it has received on the proposed rule.  
In 2012, AEP generated about 8.5 milli on tons of coal combustion products (CCPs) and was able 
to beneficially reuse more than 3 million tons, or more than 36 percent. Beneficial reuse of CCPs 
avoided more than $16.7 million in disposal costs in 2012 and generated another $9.6 million in 
revenu es.  Page 65 of 115 
 If the EPA regulates CCPs as a 
hazardous waste, those revenues and 
avoided costs likely will disappear and 
CCP management costs will rise 
dramatically. Our position is that coal 
ash can be handled safely and at much 
less cost without a hazardous wast e 
designation. Labeling this useful product 
a hazardous waste surely will curtail its 
use in products such as concrete, 
gypsum, construction fill and asphalt. It 
will also overwhelm the nation’s 
designated hazardous waste disposal sites 
and cost billions o f dollars annually.  
 
 
Water Resources  
 
Water is vital to producing electricity. It is critical to the operation of most power generating 
facilities, particularly steam electric facilities. Besides cooling, water is used for bottom ash and 
fly ash transport, cleaning, low volume waste transport, an d in the boilers themselves.  
Water quality, availability, use and management are important issues to our industry, which is 
facing new rules related to the Clean Water Act. We are also taking measures to reduce our water 
consumption, improve our water qua lity and address water availability issues in the context of 
existing programs and with the expectation of new requirements in the future.  
The rules that are pending include those for cooling water intake systems, known as 316(b) 
standards, and those that regulate wastewater discharge, known as Steam Electric Effluent 
Guidelines. The EPA  is expected to finalize the 316(b) rule in 2013 and the Effluent Guidelines 
rule in 2014.  
The new 316(b) standards are desi gned to protect fish and other aquatic organisms that come into 
contact with water intakes (more specifically, the screens that protect these systems from debris). 
Impingement occurs when aquatic organisms are drawn against an intake screen by the water 
Page 66 of 115 
 current. Entrainment occurs when small fish, eggs or larvae are drawn into the cooling water 
system through the screen openings and are affected by heat, chemicals or physical stress.  
We own and operate 31 power plants that could be affected by the proposed  316(b) rule. 
Solutions may likely include the retrofit of intake screen systems to reduce the impingement of 
fish and other aquatic organisms. EPA’s approach for entrainment makes it difficult at this time 
to predict if any additional modifications will b e necessary.  
The EPA recognized that its ’ most expensive solution – cooling towers – would not be 
appropriate in many cases and said that it would consider alternatives based on each site. We 
support this approach.  
Adopting cooling towers would be very pro blematic at our western coal plants, which operate in 
regions prone to prolonged droughts. In fact, these plants already use a closed -loop cooling 
system, where the reservoirs at the plants were built specifically to hold and recirculate the water 
used for  cooling. Cooling towers also reduce plant efficiency.  
Part of the Clean Water Act sets national treatment standards for wastewater discharges from 
steam electric generating facilities, and the EPA is expected to propose changes to them in April 
2013. Thi s rule would revise the existing, and add new, national standards for the treatment of 
power plant wastewaters. We are already starting to consider the possible impact this could have 
as we move from wet to dry handling of coal fly ash. In line with the cu rrent treatment standards, 
many of our coal ash ponds provide treatment of the ash wastewater from the plant, as well as 
many other waste streams. If the ash ponds are eliminated, the remaining waste streams from the 
plants would still need to be treated, but the technologies to do that could cost as much as $1 
billion for the entire AEP fleet of coal -fired power plants.  
Because it is so important to understand what will happen to various pollutants as they move 
through different processes and ponds at a po wer plant, we are expanding our use of a computer 
model to help us make these complex assessments. A great deal of information, such as the type 
of coal burned, the boiler type, the chemistry of the water, the size of the treatment ponds, the 
chemical prop erties of various pollutants, chemical reactions, weather conditions, etc., is entered 
into this model. It helps us to predict how changes to the plant will affect the different waste 
streams.  
For example, the model will permit us to better estimate how a dding a new scrubber or 
eliminating an ash pond will affect the wastewater produced by the plant. The model will also be 
used to help with water recycling decisions and to determine if water reuse will affect the final 
wastewater output or any intermediate  water treatment steps through the different processes. The 
model was developed for the Mitchell Plant in West Virginia and will be tailored for site -specific 
conditions at other power plants. The model will also help us to ensure that changes to water 
management within the plant not only meet national effluent guidelines, but also do not create Page 67 of 115 
 unexpected consequences or prevent us from meeting local water quality standards. The 
information generated by this effort will prove useful as we retrofit coal uni ts in the coming 
years.  
In August 2012, representatives from Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky signed the world’s largest 
interstate water quality trading plan. The agreement marks the first time states have joined 
together to approve such a program and AEP was o ne of the first utilities in the nation to 
participate. AEP began working with the Electric Power Research Institute  (EPRI) and other 
partners in 2011 on a market -based approach to improve water quality in th e Ohio River.  
Drought Effects  
A drought in 2012 created low water challenges for the boats and barges of AEP’s River 
Operations that deliver coal to our power plants and other commodities to manufacturers on the 
inland waterways and for export through the Gulf. According to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) , July 2012 was the hottest month on record in the 
continental United States. Along with record heat, the drought covered 61 perce nt of the 48 
contiguous states, according to NOAA’s Drought Monitor . The Midwest reached near -record 
drought conditions, where three -quarters of the nation’s soybean and corn crops are grown.  
Low w ater levels have especially been an issue on the Mississippi River. About 500 million tons 
of cargo, such as coal, grain and fertilizer, move up and down the river each year. Low water 
levels due to the drought affected navigation in some locations on the lower part of the 
Mississippi River, causing some vessels to run aground.  AEP’s River Operations  business 
operates more than 3,000 barges, 60 towboats and 25 harbor boats on the nation’s inland 
waterw ays delivering cargo. But the low water levels in 2012 hampered that business and 
contributed to a decline in earnings compared with 2011.  
The drought also affected operations on AEP’s hydroelectric facilities in 2012. Reservoir levels 
at Smith Mountain  Pumped Storage Project in Virginia were approximately four feet below 
normal, requiring modifications to the water flows discharged from the plant. Following the dry 
summer, this winter’s wet weather created the opposite effect -- high water levels in early 2013 
at the facility. The water levels rose so quickly and with such force that it washed clean the 
riverbanks of tributaries that feed Smith Mountain Lake. APCo has removed more than 1 mill ion 
pounds of debris from the navigational channels on the lake, as required by the plant’s license. 
Learn more about Smith Mountain’s Debris Management Plan  and about the plan t’s shoreline 
management plan.  
 
 Page 68 of 115 
 Managing Waste  
We manage many different types of waste that are created by the business of generating 
electricity, operating office buildings, and repairing and replacing equipment in the field. We 
believe our record of ma naging waste is very good. We continue to make progress reducing 
waste and diverting waste away from landfills either through beneficial reuse or recycling.  
We are also making headway in reducing the amount of PCB -containing equipment used across 
the comp any. PCBs haven’t been used in new electrical equipment for more than 30 years but 
are present in many of our older transformers and other pieces of dielectric material -filled 
electrical equipment. We removed and recycled approximately 44,000 pieces of ele ctrical 
equipment in 2012; approximately 0.7 percent of these items were found to contain greater than 
500 parts per million of PCBs.  
In 2012, the number of transmission and distribution equipment spills increased to approximately 
2,080. This increase wa s due in large part to the greater number and severity of storms that 
caused damage to our equipment. The number of spills containing PCB concentrations of 50 
ppm or greater also increased. This was due to the larger number of spills that occurred overall 
but also due to a change in the method for reporting this category, which now includes spills 
from equipment assumed to contain 50 ppm of PCBs or greater. Each of the spills was cleaned 
up in accordance with all applicable regulatory standards.  
Page 69 of 115 
 The EPA co ntinues to move forward on developing a proposal that may mandate the phasing out 
of various levels of PCB -containing equipment. The rule potentially could be quite costly due to 
the amount of equipment affected and the expense of identifying and replacing  it. 
 
Nuclear Waste  
The federal government is responsible for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and 
assesses fees to plant owners for this disposal. But the federal government has stopped 
development of the Yucca Mountain storage facility in Nev ada, leaving the issue unresolved. 
I&M  owns and operates the two -unit 2,107 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant  in Michigan. 
Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we have a significant future financial commitment to 
dispose of spent nuclear fuel. We need a national solution to this issue, which should be part of a 
comprehensive energy strategy.  
Since 1983, I&M has been collecting a  fee of one mill per kilowatt -hour for fuel consumed after 
April 6, 1983. In 2011, we signed a settlement agreement with the federal government that 
allows I&M to make annual filings to recover certain spent nuclear fuel storage costs incurred 
because of t he government’s delay in accepting it for storage.  
We completed modifications to the spent nuclear fuel storage pool more than 10 years ago and in 
2012 began and completed an initial loading of spent nuclear fuel into dry casks. This consisted 
of 12 casks  containing 32 spent nuclear fuel assemblies within each cask.  
By moving the 384 spent -fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent -fuel pool, we will support an 
additional three years of dual -unit operation at full power. Without removal of the used -fuel 
assem blies, the spent fuel pool would reach capacity in 2014 and force us to shut down one or 
both units of the plant. Cask loading is scheduled for every three years going forward. The first 
phase of the dry -cask facility will accommodate 94 dry casks that wil l contain a total of 3,008 
used fuel assemblies, but the facility can 
be enlarged incrementally as demand 
requires.  
 
In 2012, we be gan and completed an initial 
loading of spent nuclear fuel into dry casks 
at the Cook Nuclear Plant in Michigan, 
which will support an additional three years 
of dual -unit operation at full power.  
Page 70 of 115 
 ESH Policy & Phil osophy  
Environment, Safety & Health Philos ophy  
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ 
needs are met in harmony with environmental protection.  
 
Environment, Safety & Health Policy  
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to 
protect people and the environment by committing to:  
 Maintain compliance with all applicable ES&H  requirements while pursuing the spirit of ES&H 
stewardship;  
 Ensure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H 
responsibilities into their business functions;  
 Support continual improvement of environmental performance and po llution prevention; and  
 Hazard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety 
improvement.  
 
Safety & Health  
 
Working safely is a core value and top sustainability priority at AEP. Nothing is more important 
to us than the safety, health and well -being of our employees, c ontractors and the public. An 
employee culture survey in 2012 validated our belief that our safety culture is very strong. We 
are committed to what we call “zero harm.” While much of the work in our industry can be 
viewed as dangerous, we do not consider i njury inevitable. And we invest significant resources 
and time to protect our workers from harm.  
We have made considerable progress in reducing the number and severity of injuries to our 
employees. No employee lost his or her life while on the job in 2012,  an achievement that last 
occurred in 2010. From 2006 through 2012, there were four employee fatalities.  Page 71 of 115 
 Aiming For Zero Harm  
We take past performance and forward -looking actions into account in measuring our safety 
performance. Our employee recordable in cident rate (as defined by the Occupational Safety & 
Health Administration ) for 2012 was 0.83, the best in company history. The year -end result was 
better than our target for the year of 0.97 and our 2011 pe rformance of 1.00. Our employee 
severity rate last year was 19.24, also better than the target of 19.94 and our 2011 performance of 
23.07. Severity days (lost work days and restricted activity days due to injury) declined from 
4,193 in 2011 to 3,495 in 201 2, a reduction of 17 percent.  
Our 2012 statistics are particularly noteworthy because of the extreme weather conditions our 
employees in the field faced fairly frequently, as well as the distraction of job security concerns 
stemming from the repositioning study. The target recordable rate is 0.94 for 2013 and the 
corresponding target severity rate is 18.64. By setting these goals each year, we get closer and 
closer to zero harm.  
In 2011, we established our second five -year Path to Excellence, demonstrating our commitment 
to continuous safety improvement and our goal of achieving top -decile performance among our 
peers by 2016. Our first Path to Excellence was pegged toward attaining top -quartile 
performance, and we came very close to reaching our goal. Annual  safety and health 
performance is a factor in employees’ incentive compensation, reinforcing that it is key to our 
values and culture and underscoring employees’ accountability.  
Injuries that most commonly result in lost work days continue to be slips, tri ps, falls and being 
struck by objects. Overexertion events also increased in 2012, in large part because of the record 
or near -record heat that scorched much of our service territory in the first half of the summer. A 
heat safety program was developed and implemented in our Distribution business unit last 
summer to address these concerns.  
Focusing on zero harm goes beyond trying to meet or exceed OSHA standards. Many initiatives 
and procedures are in place to help us be proactive. Job Hazard Assessments, ou r Uniform Event 
Analysis process and Human Performance initiative – combined with an evolving safety and 
health event management system to track and trend performance – have contributed to our 
improved performance. We are constantly seeking new ways to con tinually improve our 
performance. Today, we share details about injuries and the measures employees have taken to 
prevent harm across AEP. Our Significant Event Call process elevates serious events to expedite 
system -wide sharing, analysis and mitigation.  
 Page 72 of 115 
 Pilot programs last summer in our distribution operations groups across AEP explored the use of 
smart phones to record and disseminate information from job site observations. This allowed our 
employees in the field to more quickly and easily share infor mation with other work groups in 
other locations. The experience and successes gained through the pilot has led to an effort to 
implement and expand an electronic Job Site Observation (eJSO) process throughout distribution 
and transmission field areas.  
Identifying potential hazards and preventing unintended events are central to reaching zero harm, 
but how management handles such events also is important. “Just Culture,” a structured 
approach to how employees are treated when unintended events occur, is use d to determine 
where management systems failed. AEP is an early adopter of this concept, which helps leaders 
ensure fairness, consistency and shared accountability when performing this analysis. Basically, 
Just Culture is the opposite of a punitive culture  that focuses on finding someone to blame rather 
than figuring out what happened and why it happened.  
Page 73 of 115 
 Zero Harm Is Achievabl e  
We know zero harm is achievable because various AEP locations have done it. In 2012, this list 
included a variety of power plants  (Clinch River, Glen Lyn, Mountaineer, Sporn, Tanners Creek, 
Muskingum River, and most plants owned by Public Service Company of Oklahoma  and 
Southwestern Electric Power Company ) as well as operating companies.  
 
 
 
 
 
We are committed to what we call "zero 
harm " - zero fatalities, zero injuries.  
For PSO, 2012 was its first calendar year without any lost workday events. In fact, it was the first 
year in the company’s 100 -year history that it achieved zero harm. The magnitude of this 
achievement is highlighted by  the intense heat of last summer, when temperatures sometimes 
reached 105 to 115 degrees. Work groups took special measures to ensure safety during this 
period; some departments adjusted schedules to allow employees to start and end their shifts 
earlier to  avoid working during the hottest part of the day.  
Other achievements across AEP included:  
 Three operations managed by our Fuel, Emissions and Logistics organization completed 
2012 with no recordable or severity events.  
 Kentucky Power’s  vehicle fleet group completed 15 years without a recordable event.  
 Indiana Michigan Power’s  Michigan District last November observed fou r injury -free 
years – the first among all AEP operating company districts to claim this distinction.  
 AEP Ohio’s  Line Department in Fremont worked over nine years without a recordable 
event.  
 52 AEP Transm ission employees in Laredo, Texas recorded perfect performance for 
safety in 2012.  
 Flint Creek Power Plant in Arkansas marked 2 million employee hours without a lost 
time accident, a safety milestone set between October 1996 and July 2012.  
Achieving a cult ure where watching out for each other is second nature and employees are 
comfortable reporting potentially unsafe working situations is key to realizing these results.  
Page 74 of 115 
 Checks and Balances  
We continue to implement and refine the management systems in our G eneration business unit 
through the Managing Environment, Safety and Health (MESH) initiative. Several power plants 
now have electronic MESH manuals that link to corporate resources but also are customized to 
address plant -specific processes. These integra ted tools are a sustainable platform for continuous 
improvement.  
 
Internal audits of our safety and health management systems and compliance pro cesses also are 
part of our zero harm efforts. Safety and health programs were audited at 15 locations during 
2012. Although the audits verified that compliance programs are in place and functioning 
effectively overall, recurring audit comments in the Gene ration organization prompted the 
formation of a team to identify and 
create electronic templates for repetitive 
tasks such as inspections and preventive 
maintenance. These templates can be 
integrated into work routines at any 
location to prompt task comple tion and 
help manage through operational or 
personnel changes. Audit comments on 
Fuel Emissions & Logistics (FEL) 
locations also led that organization to 
implement a review of safety programs 
at all FEL facilities to enhance their 
compliance efforts.  
 
Cont ractors Are Partners 
In Safety  
We expect our contractors to observe the 
same safety and health practices as our 
employees, and we challenge them to 
continuously improve. Our contractors’ 
safety performance can affect our risk 
Page 75 of 115 
 profile and our company’s repu tation. Contractor safety performance was exemplary in 2012. No 
fatalities occurred.  
In 2011, we established target OSHA recordable rates through 2015 for our major contractors 
performing construction, maintenance and other physical work. The 2011 target was 1.70 and a 
rate of 1.52 was attained, better than target. The 2012 target was 1.60 and a rate of 1.50 was 
achieved. The proposed target for 2013 is 1.60. Targets also have been developed for contractors 
serving individual organizations within AEP . 
We a re taking steps to instill our safety culture and values in our contractors. At AEP Texas , a 
Safety Hero program was created to recognize contractors who have gone above and beyond 
expectati ons to avoid injuries or operational errors. The program recognizes a contractor each 
month for safety performance. In addition, a contractor safety summit is held annually to bring 
AEP Texas Distribution contractors together to share success stories, less ons learned and discuss 
concerns. Thanks to efforts such as this, the incident rate among our Distribution line crew 
contractors has fallen appreciably since 2009.  
 
Safety Recognition  
Recognizing employees for exemplary safety performance is important, esp ecially in life -
threatening circumstances. The Chairman’s Life Saving Award has been presented to 47 
employees since the award’s inception in 2004. Receiving the award in 2012 were:  
 Michael Walls, a meter electrician in Appalachian Power's  Huntington (W.Va) District 
who alerted sleeping family members that their front porch was ablaze and extinguished 
the fire;  
 Mark Rickman, an AEP Texas  servi ce mechanic who roused a sleeping couple from their 
burning house; and,  
 Shreveport -based Southwestern Electric Power Company  line crew members David 
Behrendt, Cody Teer, Chris Janz and Victor  Verzal, who assisted a disabled motorist who 
was having a heart attack until paramedics arrived.  
The fourth annual John P. DesBarres Safety and Health Excellence Award was presented in 
March 2013 to the Generation business unit. The award, named for a for mer AEP board member, 
is awarded to the AEP organization that best exemplifies the attributes of a sustained "zero harm" 
culture. Generation received the same honor two years ago.  
Public Service Compan y of Oklahoma  was honored for its exemplary performance during 2012 
with the AEP Utilities Safety Performance Award and the AEP Utilities Operational 
Performance Award.  Page 76 of 115 
 Public Safety  
Protecting the public from unsafe contact with our electrical equipmen t is a challenge, as we 
have little control over those whose work or recreational activities bring them close to our 
facilities – or those who choose to trespass on our property.  
We launched a five -year Path to Excellence in 2008, patterned after our inter nal efforts, to 
reduce public fatalities by 20 percent and electrical contacts by 10 percent a year. We had eight 
public fatalities and 32 additional electrical contacts in 2012, compared with six fatalities and 35 
contacts in 2011.  
Four of the eight publi c fatalities and one electrical contact in 2012 resulted from attempted 
copper theft, which continues to be a problem in much of our service area. Our efforts to educate 
the public about the dangers of copper theft and other unsafe practices have intensifi ed through 
use of social media outlets such as Twitter  and Facebook . A new video about the risks of copper 
theft was made available on operating company websites in mid -2012. And our governmental 
affairs teams are working with their state legislators acros s our system to strengthen laws that 
could help curb the practice.  
 
 Page 77 of 115 
 Opportunities & Risk  
Leveraging Growth Opportunities  
New and innovative initiatives are under way across AEP in response to emerging business 
opportunities. These initiatives improve sy stem reliability and performance, result in fewer 
environmental impacts, lower the cost to deliver electricity to customers and reduce by half 
construction time of new facilities.  
Transmission = Growth  
 
AEP Transcos plan to construct nearly $1.9 billion in additional transmission facilities through 2015.  
Nowhere is the use of innovation and technology more evident than in our transmiss ion business 
unit. The need for a robust transmission system in the U.S. is as important as ever. New 
opportunities and changes in the industry give AEP a competitive edge in developing a modern 
national transmission system for the 21st century.  
Opportuni ties For Growth  
Our industry is undergoing restructuring of a magnitude that we have not seen in decades, and 
our business will be affected by these changes. We are repositioning our generation business to 
create a sustainable fuel mix for the future, in p art due to environmental and economic factors. 
Our coal -fired generating capacity is projected to be 46 percent of total capacity by 2020 and 45 
percent by 2026.  
Our earnings strength lies in our regulated operations. A combination of reasonable returns o n 
our rate base and the diversity of our service territory will continue to allow us to optimize the 
investments we make in our regulated business and provide fair returns to our shareholders. AEP 
Ohio , our largest operating company and earnings contributor, is preparing to transfer its 
generating assets to an AEP -affiliated competitive generation company or to other operating 
companies in need of capacity. Ultimately, AEP Ohio will buy its en ergy through auctions 
starting in late 2013 rather than relying on its own generation. AEP Ohio will buy generation 
capacity through auctions beginning in June 2015.  Page 78 of 115 
 We are building our retail energy business to be more competitive in markets where custome rs 
have a choice of generation providers. Our competitive retail business unit, AEP Energy , is 
poised for continued growth with its offerings of retail electricity, natural gas and energy 
services and d emand response programs, strengthening our capabilities and giving us a stronger 
platform for growth.  
 
Transmission = Growth  
Our transmission business continues to be an area of near -term and long -term growth. In 2012, a 
significant portion of our investmen t capital supported our transmission business. Investment in 
transmission will continue because it provides improved grid reliability and customer service, 
while also offering earnings growth and shareholder value.  
We have a three -pronged plan: Invest 
within our service territory through our 
AEP transmission companies  
(Transcos); pursue competitive 
transmission projects inside and outside 
of our service territory through our 
Transource  subsidiary; and continue to 
advance our project -based joint ventures 
with other utilities.  
 
The Transcos develop, own and operate transmission assets that are physically connected to 
AEP’s existing system. They are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
(FERC) and use a formula rate design similar to the operating companies’ FERC rates. The 
Transcos are independent of but overlay the se rvice territories of AEP’s existing vertically 
integrated utility operating companies. They can separately raise capital and are able to build 
new transmission without affecting the balance sheet or credit ratings of the operating 
companies.  
AEP Indiana Mi chigan Transmission Company (IMTCo), AEP Ohio Transmission Company 
(OHTCo), AEP Oklahoma Transmission Company (OKTCo), and AEP West Virginia 
Transmission Company (WVTCo) have been formed. IMTCo, OHTCo and OKTCo currently 
own and operate transmission assets . The Appalachian Power Transmission Company (APTCo) 
has received conditional approval from the Virginia State Corporation Commission, subject to 
project -by-project review and approval. Applications for regulatory approvals for additional 
Transcos are pend ing in Arkansas, Kentucky and Louisiana.  
Page 79 of 115 
 As of Dec. 31, 2012, the Transcos had almost $400 million of assets in service with plans to 
construct nearly $1.9 billion in additional transmission facilities through 2015. With FERC 
approved formula rates that a djust annually, these investments provide additional reliability and 
efficiency while delivering stable earnings and shareholder value.  
In 2012, our transmission business secured $1.7 billion of new investment opportunities through 
the three regional trans mission organizations (RTOs) within which we operate. Of that, $1.25 
billion comes from PJM Interconnection . This is tied directly to the regional coal -fired power 
plant retirements that are planned within th e PJM region. Many of our coal -fired plants play a 
critical role in maintaining regional transmission grid reliability, and without these resources, 
new transmission is needed to support regional reliability.  
Based on approved projects, the infrastructure improvements our transmission business will 
make between 2013 and 2015 will result in approximately 480 new or enhanced stations; roughly 
1,800 miles of new transmission lines; and approximately 3,900 miles of rebuilt transmission 
lines. These investments comprise our long -range plan, which includes transmission investments 
by our operating companies and those made by the subsidiaries of AEP Transmission Holding 
Company.  
We will continue to focus on the joint ventures we formed to build new transmission ass ets 
within and outside of our service territory. These partnerships allow us to leverage both expertise 
and financial assets. We made equity contributions of approximately $99 million in 2012 to 
support construction and other expenditures of these projects . Many of them modernize the grid 
and improve reliability, alleviate congested power corridors and facilitate the development of 
renewable generation.  
In April 2012, AEP became the first traditional regulated utility to form a competitive business 
for tra nsmission with the launch of Transource Energy,  a joint venture between AEP  and Great 
Plains Energ y. Expanding Transmission’s growth strategy portfolio, Transource is a subsidiary 
of AEP Transmission Holding Company, the holding company for the Transcos and joint venture 
projects. Transource proactively positions AEP to pursue projects that result fro m FERC Order 
1000 within the PJM Interconnection, Southwest Power Pool  (SPP) and Midwest Independent 
Transmission System Operator  (MISO).  
FERC Order 1000  
FERC Order 1000, issued in 2011, fundamentally changes how transmission facilities will be 
developed, owned and operated as well as how costs will be supported. We are encouraged by 
and supportive of FERC’s decision to consider public policy in the transm ission planning 
process, including economic and reliability considerations, the facilitation of the integration of 
renewable energy into the grid, and environmental regulations. The order mandates that the 
regional and inter -regional cost allocation method ologies follow six principles and requires Page 80 of 115 
 RTOs and transmission providers to offer evidence of such in their compliance filings. The key 
principles require cost allocation methodologies to be closely tied to the benefits that are 
calculated as part of the  transmission planning process.  
One of the significant changes resulting from Order 1000 is the requirement to remove the Right 
of First Refusal (ROFR) from RTO tariffs. The ROFR language currently provides a right and an 
obligation of local utilities to build the transmission projects within their service territories. In 
the future, transmission owners from outside AEP’s service territory will be able to compete for 
certain new projects within our service area – and, through Transource, we will have more 
opportunities to develop projects outside of our own territory.  
RTOs were created by FERC to manage the nation’s transmission system as an integrated, well -
planned, modern grid that will deliver electricity reliably for generations. AEP’s service territory  
stretches over three of the nation’s seven RTOs. During October and November 2012, the PJM, 
MISO and SPP RTOs made their Order 1000 compliance filings and we expect FERC to issue 
orders on those filings in 2013. AEP remains committed to and has been activ e in ensuring that 
the company’s views and interests are represented in stakeholder discussions and at the FERC.  
Project Highlights Across the United States:  
Electric Transmission Texas (ETT)  
Electric Tra nsmission Texas  (ETT) is a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of AEP and 
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., which operates in Electric Reliability Council of Texas 
(ERCOT) and is an operating utility with a growing rate base. ETT has been assigned 
approximately $1.5 billion in Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ) projects in Texas 
that support the state’s commitment to renewable energy. The projects include seven double -
circuit 345 -kV transmission lines, nine company -owned substations and other equ ipment. The 
CREZ projects are expected to be in service by the end of 2013. As of Dec. 31, 2012, ETT has 
non-CREZ projects in service that include 559 miles of transmission lines and 19 company -
owned substations. In addition, ETT is currently working on no n-CREZ projects totaling more 
than 400 miles of transmission lines and 30 company -owned substations with various in -service 
dates through 2022. The total cost of the non -CREZ projects is $1.6 billion.  
Electric Transmission America (ETA)  
Electric Transmission America  (ETA) is a 50/50 joint venture between AEP and a subsidiary of 
MidAmerican Energy. ETA has a 50 percent ownership interest in Prairie Wind.  
Prairie Wind  
Prairie Wind  is a joint venture between ETA and Westar Energy. It was approved in April 2010. 
This project consists of 345 -kV double -circuit transmission lines, running from a new substation Page 81 of 115 
 in Wichita, Kan. , to a new substation northeast of Medicine Lodge, Kan., and then south to the 
Kansas/Oklahoma border. The approximately $180 million line is needed to enhance the delivery 
of electricity in Kansas and to support the state’s expansion of renewable energy. In June 2011, 
the Kansas Corporation Commission approved the route and engineering, permitting and siting 
activities began shortly thereafter. Construction began in August 2012 and the project is 
scheduled to be in service by the end of 2014.  
RITELine Tran smission Development  
RITELine Transmission Development  (RITELine) is a joint venture between AEP and Exelon 
Corp. to develop a 420 -mile, 765 -kV extra -high voltage (EHV) transmission line that will  extend 
from the Indiana/Ohio border west through Indiana to Henry County, Illinois. The estimated $1.6 
billion project will be built in phases between 2015 and 2019, depending on the timing of 
regulatory approvals. The RITELine project is needed to streng then the Midwest transmission 
system, improve overall system reliability and establish the infrastructure needed to provide 
access to renewable sources of energy.  
Pioneer Transmission  
Pioneer Trans mission  is a joint venture between AEP and Duke Energy. Reynolds -to-Greentown 
is part of a larger, 240 -mile transmission project in Indiana originally proposed in 2008 that 
extends from Duke Energy’s Greentown substation to AEP’s Rockport substation, near  
Evansville, Ind. The total cost of the entire project (including the portion to be built by NIPSCo) 
is estimated at $950 million. In December 2011, the Reynolds -to-Greentown segment of Pioneer 
Transmission’s project was approved as a multi -value project ( MVP) by MISO and included in 
the 2011 Transmission Expansion Plan. The MVPs will collectively enhance regional reliability, 
improve market efficiency, enable public policy mandates and facilitate the integration of new 
generating resources, such as renewab le energy, with the electric transmission grid. In August 
2012, Pioneer filed an Offer of Settlement with FERC in which Pioneer and Northern Indiana 
Public Service Company (NIPSCo) agreed to develop the Reynolds -to-Greentown segment of 
the Pioneer project jointly. The estimated cost of the Reynolds –to-Greentown segment is 
approximately $330 million.  
Potomac -Appalachian Transmission Highline (PATH)  
The Potomac -Appalachian Transmission Highline (PATH) project is a joint venture with 
FirstEnergy. In August 201 2, the PJM Board of Managers removed the PATH project from its 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, based on recommendations made by the PJM staff. The 
PATH companies submitted an abandonment cost recovery filing to FERC in September 2012, 
requesting the recovery of prudently incurred costs associated with the PATH Project. In 
November 2012, the FERC issued an order accepting the PATH companies’ abandonment cost Page 82 of 115 
 recovery filing and set the issue of return on equity and prudency of expenses for settlement 
proceedings. AEP’s equity investment in the PATH companies is approximately $31 million.  
 
Economic and Business Devel opment  
 
Developing and investing in the local communities in which we operate and provide service has 
become increasingly important to us and our communities. A slower -than-expected  economic 
recovery, recent and anticipated coal unit retirements and an increase in shale gas production 
have caused us to rethink how we do business.  
In 2011, AEP formed an Economic and 
Business Developmen t (E&BD) group 
to work with local communities to 
attract and retain businesses. This group 
works strategically with businesses, 
communities and state and local officials 
through our operating companies to 
identify potential sites for business 
relocation a nd expansion.  
 
The E&BD team  provides comprehensive assistance such as property searches and screening; 
custom research on demographics, work force, incentives and geographic information syst em 
(GIS) mapping; electric service plan and rate design; site visits; design, build and maintenance 
services for electrical facilities; and introductions to state, regional and local government 
officials and business leaders.  
In 2012, AEP was named one of  the top 10 utilities in economic development by Site Selection, 
a magazine covering corporate real estate strategy and economic development. The recipients 
were chosen based on an analysis of corporate end -user activity in 2011 in the company's 
territory.  This includes website tools and data; input from site location decision -makers; 
innovative programs and incentives for business, including energy efficiency and renewable 
energy programs; and the utility's own job -creation infrastructure and facility inve stment trends. 
The magazine cited AEP for our site selection services through our seven operating companies, 
and energy efficiency programs for commercial and industrial customers.  
Page 83 of 115 
 AEP has targeted several industries for growth and development opportunitie s within its service 
territory. Qualified data center locations are one area that appears to have the greatest potential 
for growth. It is estimated that, by 2015, there will be a 50 percent shortage of data storage 
availability. AEP’s 11 -state territory p rovides attractive opportunities such as access to 
bandwidth and fiber optics and reduced risk of natural disasters and other hazards, which are 
critical when siting data centers. AEP is currently qualifying locations to become data center -
certified. The q ualification process includes an assessment of market conditions that could lead 
to potential data center locations, selection of potential data center sites, and a detailed analysis 
and site certification process that involves a review of factors that are  most critical to the 
operation of data centers.  
Our plan to close some of our coal -fired units will adversely affect local economies. Power 
plants often provide the highest -paying jobs where they are located and are a source of vital tax 
dollars that hel p pay for schools, roads and other community needs. The plants also support local 
businesses. The loss of jobs, taxes and local employee income related to plant retirements is 
going to hurt these communities.  
In an effort to lessen the impact of coal plan t retirements on local communities, the E&BD team 
is pursuing a two -pronged approach. First, we are advocating for the provision of federal 
resources to assist our communities in retooling their economies to support job -creating 
investment once the plants close. Second, we are exploring effective ways to reuse retired coal 
plants or plant sites, including the existing infrastructure, for other industrial uses. AEP plants 
are located on industrial sites that are already permitted and have a variety of infras tructure in 
place as well as a world -class manufacturing work force. These sites can serve as ideal locations 
for manufacturers. We are actively seeking business opportunities that will be able to use these 
assets while providing economic stability locally .  
 
Responding To The Shal e Gas Boom  
From extraction and production to supply chain, shale gas development provides an opportunity 
for economic growth. Six major shale gas formations are located, in part, across eight of eleven 
states in AEP’s service terr itory, including two of the fastest growing – Utica and Eagle Ford – 
located in Ohio, West Virginia and Texas. AEP’s Economic and Business Development team  
provides expertise and tools for oil  and gas companies and suppliers to explore opportunities for 
relocation and help identify the most cost -effective locations. This collaboration creates mutual 
benefits, including job creation and accessible and efficient supply chain or electric demand 
growth.  Page 84 of 115 
 Shale gas development is a challenge 
and an opportunity for AEP. Oil and gas 
companies are able to build and develop 
pipelines more quickly than we are able 
to build transmission and distribution 
lines to support their facilities. Their 
timelines ar e aggressive, and 
competition to serve these customers is 
high. In many cases, the locations 
require new transmission facilities in 
order to connect these new customers. Quick, reliable service is critical to securing these 
customers, and a coordinated eff ort between AEP and the oil and gas companies is necessary to 
ensure we have the equipment and facilities in place to meet their needs in a timely fashion. In 
West Virginia, Transmission employees and contractors worked around the clock to complete a 
new 1 38-kilovolt service ahead of schedule for critical shale gas customers near Majorsville, 
W.Va. Being innovative and delivering good customer service positions AEP to take advantage 
of emerging business opportunities across our service territory.  
AEP Transm ission installed its first “station in a box” in Catarina, Texas, in 2012, a unique pre -
packaged substation design that can be built in about half the typical construction time frame of a 
traditionally built permanent station. The shale gas development in Oklahoma, West Virginia, 
Texas and Ohio has companies racing to extract the fuel deep beneath the earth’s surface, 
sometimes in very remote locations. The natural gas companies cannot wait the typical 12 to 18 
months for the completion of a traditional sub station.  To serve these customers’ needs quickly, 
AEP Transmission developed a “skid station” – a portable station on a skid that can be installed 
in a matter of weeks before the station in a box can be built for permanent service. By creating a 
basic yet h igh-tech skid -mounted substation, we can deliver power in just four to eight weeks. 
Read more about these innovations in Innovation & Technology . 
AEP’s transmission strategy has sup ported several economic development opportunities 
throughout our service territory. Three steel manufacturers relocated and expanded their 
operations in response to AEP’s growing need for transmission steel poles and lattice towers. 
One steel pole manufact urer expanded its capacity by adding a plant in Hicksville, Ohio, a 
recession -strapped community in AEP Ohio’s service territory. The company secured a suitable 
manufacturing site with a skilled work force, returning more than 200 jobs to Hicksville, and 
AEP secured a large customer and supply line to support our growing transmission business.  
 
 
Page 85 of 115 
 Inland Waterways  
One public policy matter that is not as visible as environmental issues is the deteriorating 
condition of our inland waterways, which are maintained  by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 
The Corps estimates that 47 percent of all main or auxiliary locks on the Ohio River will be in 
poor or failing condition by 2016. Data currently indicates that this risk will rapidly worsen, 
especially in light of the  budget pressures on the Corps’ navigation projects.  
The nation’s inland waterways are of 
strategic economic and military 
importance because the commercially 
navigable waterways connect 41 states, 
providing the capability to move large 
amounts of freight  cargo. These 
waterways carry agricultural 
commodities, chemicals, coal and 
petroleum products to ports across the 
United States. But the infrastructure 
supporting this commerce is past its 50 -year lifespan, according to the Institute for Waterways, a 
unit of the Corps. And according to the Congressional Research Service, only one lock along the 
Ohio River has received funding to be replaced through the 2016 fiscal year.  
Continued lock delay and reduced water levels kept us from fully delivering on our nor mal coal 
deliveries schedule. In 2012, we experienced 176 days of lock delay at the Markland and 
Greenup locks for installation of miter gates, which are used to close the entrance and exit of 
navigation locks to allow passage of vessels between water leve ls in a canal or river system. 
Three sets of miter gates were installed along the Ohio River in 2012. Nine major locks have 
already been scheduled for significant closures for 2013. While it is long overdue, these closures 
will mean further delays in deliv ering fuel, grain and other commodities. These nine closures 
represent a total of 439 days of closures, which can cause significant delays in delivering 
commodities as well as create financial risk.  
AEP continues to support a 20 -year capital development p lan proposed by the Inland Waterways 
Users Board and various trade associations. This plan would increase the fuel tax that 
commercial users of waterways would pay to help fund infrastructure improvements. We expect 
legislation incorporating this plan to b e introduced in Congress in 2013, and we hope it will be 
incorporated into the next Water Resources Development Act as a high priority. However, the 
Washington, D.C., political climate makes passage of any significant legislation in 2013 that 
would enable this program uncertain.  
Page 86 of 115 
 In addition to infrastructure challenges, the drought is posing significant economic as well as 
environmental and social implications. The National Oceanic and A tmospheric Administration 
(NOAA)  reported 2012 was the warmest and most extreme for weather on record in the 
contiguous United States. It was also the 15th driest year on record in the lower 48 states and the 
driest for the nation since 1988.  
American Society of Civil Engineers report card on inland waterways  
 
Innovation and Technol ogy  
 
New and innovative initiatives are under way across AEP in response to emerging business 
opportunities. These initiat ives improve system reliability and performance, result in fewer 
environmental impacts, lower the cost to deliver electricity to customers and reduce by half 
construction time of new facilities. Nowhere is the use of innovation and technology more 
evident than in our transmission business unit.  
“In order to differentiate ourselves in the market, we must be able to monitor 
and gain experience in emerging technologies and be ready to embrace them 
quickly.” - AEP Stakeholder  
 
Trailblazing in Transmission  
AEP Transmission redefined “cutting edge” technology in 2012 when our team developed a new 
and compact extra -high voltage 345 -kV line design. In response to the need to minimize right -of-
way land requirements and increase the functionality of 345 -kV lines and corridors, we 
challenged our employees to develop a new high -capacity 345 -kV line design for long -distance 
applications. Patents are currently pending for the new compact design that, when compared to 
conventional 345 -kV designs, provides more capacity, is  less costly for the megawatts delivered, 
provides greater use of rights -of-way and, with its unique low -profile design, is more streamlined 
in appearance. The new 345 -kV line design is an example of a solutions -oriented culture and 
collaborative leadershi p at AEP.  
 
 Page 87 of 115 
  
 
 
Installation of the Steamtown skid station 
near Summerfield, Ohio this past 
November, is one example of how skid 
stations have enabled AEP to respond to 
rapidly changing market conditions and 
customer expectations.  
In 2011, AEP Transmission developed a pre -fabricated building design called the Drop -in 
Control Module (DICM). This new concept, designed by AEP Transmissi on’s engineering team, 
delivers a control building with pre -built relay panels that replaces the transmission substation 
control buildings constructed on site. The new design cuts required on -site construction time in 
half by pre -fabricating everything ahe ad of time at the manufacturer. It allows us to respond to 
customer needs for power more quickly and affordably. In addition, it has resulted in landfill 
avoidance for the wood that was traditionally needed to package the individual relay panels when 
they were shipped to the substation. More than 28 tons of wood was diverted from landfills in 
2012.  
We also developed a new “skid station” for situations where customers need service even more 
quickly. These temporary stations are self -contained, quick to buil d and flexible enough to 
accommodate a wide range of operating voltages to support transmission and distribution 
customers. By enabling AEP to respond to rapidly changing market conditions and customer 
expectations, skid stations have provided new and emer ging business opportunities for AEP. 
Unlike the temporary stations used in the past, skid stations can simply be picked up and moved 
to the next place they are needed.  
In 2012, AEP Transmission’s engineering team again set precedent when it took the 
prefab ricated design approach a step further and developed the “station in a box” concept. As 
natural gas and oil production ramped up in many of our states, so did the need for the quick and 
reliable substation development to provide power for drilling and proc essing facilities. The 
typical substation takes 12 to 18 months to build and place into service. This unique pre -
packaged “station in a box” can be built in half that time. It not only accelerates the construction 
process, it reduces fuel use by moving all  the materials to the site at one time rather than in 
multiple trips.  
Another breakthrough in transmission is the deployment of three -dimensional (3 -D) design 
software for substations and other facilities. This cutting -edge design approach is expected to 
Page 88 of 115 
 replace traditional dimensional design software currently used in the industry The 3 -D model 
allows users to design structure clearances effectively by allowing them to see all of the 
perspectives of a substation. This new approach results in engineering a nd design savings of 
approximately 10 percent. View a video demo of this new design model . 
AEP Transmission is working with CTC Global and Quan ta Services to complete the largest and 
most complex “ reconductoring  while energized” project in AEP history. The project includes the 
reconductoring  of 240 miles of 345 -kV transmission lines in south Texas using advanced, low -
loss, low -sag conductor, and a live reconducturing technique. These circu its are critical to the 
reliability of the Rio Grande Valley and required minimizing outages. The unique live 
reconductoring technique enables AEP to improve service reliability in the area while 
maintaining service during the work.  
A new central Asset Hea lth Center (AHC) platform to virtually monitor equipment in the field 
and enable "reliability -centered maintenance" of equipment was developed by our Transmission 
team. This first -of-a-kind system allows remote evaluations of asset conditions and maintenan ce 
needs and early warnings for equipment failures, and it prioritizes replacements. As the physical 
infrastructure ages, it is imperative to have this system to manage equipment effectively for 
reliability and customer service.  
 
Distribution Breakthrough s 
AEP’s gridSMART® initiative integrates a host of advanced grid technologies into the existing 
electric network that will improve service quality and reliability, lower energy consumption and 
save money. The new technologies can help us improve our effici ency, identify and respond to 
outages more quickly and better monitor 
and control operation of the distribution 
grid. gridSMART® also provides 
customers with new and innovative 
programs and pricing options that allow 
them to monitor and control their own e nergy use, saving resources and money. We are 
deploying smart grid technologies in several of our jurisdictions with regulatory support.  
Status of Our gridSMART® Projects Now in Progress:  
gridSMART® is designed to demonstrate the potential benefits of the smart grid by integrating 
advanced grid technologies in several jurisdictions with regulatory support.  
 
Page 89 of 115 
  AEP Ohio  is deploying a comprehensive group of smart grid technologies in an 
innovative demonstration project with more than 110,000 customers. The $150 million 
project is being funded through a $75 mil lion federal grant, cost recovery support from 
the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and in -kind contributions from vendors.  
 AEP Texas  is deploying a one -million -meter smart grid network,  along with $1 million in 
energy use display devices for low -income customers. The $308 million project is 
targeted for completion by the end of 2013. We are recovering costs through an 11 -year 
surcharge on customer bills.  
 I&M  has deployed a smart grid network to 10,000 customers. The $7 million project was 
funded pursuant to a settlement agreement approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission. I&M was the first to deploy this te chnology through the gridSMART® 
initiative.  
 PSO has deployed smart meters to more than 31,000 customers, approximately 14,300 of 
whom will be served on circuits equipped with advanced grid manage ment technologies. 
The project is being financed through an $8.75 million American Reinvestment Recovery 
Act low -interest loan from the Oklahoma Department of Commerce. An additional $2 
million in annual revenues for cost recovery was approved by the Oklah oma Corporation 
Commission.  
Applying technology on our distribution system through monitoring and controlling voltage is 
another advancement to reduce the amount of energy that must be produced and delivered to 
customers on demand. Known as Volt/Var Optimi zation, this technology has proven its technical 
viability and energy efficiency potential. Typically, distribution lines deliver electricity at a 
voltage between 114 and 126 volts. Using the full range of voltage (closer to the 126 volts) is 
common practi ce in our industry; it has been a way to ensure the strength of the voltage between 
the point of origin and the customer. But studies and recent experience are showing that 
optimizing voltage – delivering electricity at the lower end of the range – reduces  customer 
energy demand and consumption, and thus lowers their bills.  
Deployment of Volt/Var Optimization began in AEP Ohio as part of the gridSMART® 
Demonstration Project and has since expanded to I&M, KPCo and PSO. AEP’s operating 
companies will be selec tively reviewing options for deploying this technology where conditions 
are favorable.  
Integrated Volt/Var Control installation was one of AEP’s 11 research projects awarded the 2011 
Electric Power Research Institute’s Technology Transfer Award. The award recognizes the value 
of collaborative research to the electricity sector and its customers.  
We continue testing Community Energy Storage technology, but technical challenges have stood 
in the way of making progress. Maintaining power with energy storage i s designed to be 
seamless; customers connected to the systems may be unaware that there has been an outage and 
they are using stored electricity.   Perfecting energy storage would be a significant game changer 
for our industry because it would allow custome rs to store electricity to use when they need it Page 90 of 115 
 most, reducing demand on our facilities using the stored energy during an outage or periods of 
peak demand and, by extension, reducing our operational costs and environmental impacts.  
 
New Technol ogies in Po wer Generation  
While our generation portfolio has shifted over the last decade to include more natural gas -fired 
and renewable generation, we also completed construction of the country’s first ultra -
supercritical coal -fired unit, the John W. Turk, Jr., Pow er Plant in Hempstead County, Ark., last 
year. The Turk Plant’s advanced thermal cycle ranks it among the highest efficiency coal plants 
in the world. This unit was designed to provide low -cost base load power to complement new 
gas generating resources tha t were built in recent years. This supports our intent to diversify our 
fuel mix.  
The Turk Plant represents a new generation of plant design using a higher temperature and 
pressure steam cycle that requires less fuel to produce each megawatt -hour of electr icity. This 
means that all emissions, including SO 2, NOx, mercury and CO 2, are lower than conventional 
coal-combustion processes per unit of electricity produced. Turk began commercial operation 
Dec. 20, 2012. The plant was dedicated in April 2013.  
 
 
 
 
The 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr., Plant in 
southwestern Ark., is among the nation's 
cleanest, most efficient pulverized coal 
plants.  
A notewort hy example of innovation in power generation that we are monitoring closely lies in 
the field of chemical looping technology. Chemical looping is not a carbon capture technology 
nor is it a combustion technology in the way we typically describe combustion today. In one 
application of chemical looping, coal undergoes a flameless chemical reaction with a metal 
oxide, known as an oxygen carrier. The oxide reacts with the carbon in the coal to produce a pure 
stream of CO 2 and the chemical energy in the coal is then transferred to the oxygen -depleted, or 
reduced, metal. The CO 2 can then be compressed and sequestered, or hopefully used for other 
purposes. The reduced metal is sent to an oxidation reactor where air is introduced to re -form the 
Page 91 of 115 
 metal oxide, generati ng enough heat to produce steam to run a power generating turbine. The 
metal oxide is then “looped” back to react again with more coal, and the process starts over.  
With success, this and other new revolutionary technologies will enable our next generatio n of 
power plants to use coal with extremely high efficiency, producing ultra -low emissions and a 
pure stream of CO 2 with no added energy impact. Not only will these concepts revolutionize the 
power generation industry, they can open the vast, yet untapped , oil reserves in this country to 
enhanced oil recovery production by making enormous quantities of low -cost CO 2 available to 
support oil extraction. The potential for chemical looping is significant and is the type of 
purposeful innovation we believe can sustain our company and our industry by leveraging 
existing infrastructure and finding new and better ways to use coal in the future.  
 
Technol ogy Transfer Awards  
The Electric Power Research Institute  (EPRI) recognizes members annually with Technology 
Transfer Awards for their efforts to apply research and development on behalf of their companies 
and the industry at large. AEP received several 2012 EPRI Technology Transfer Awards in three 
sectors – power deliv ery and utilization; environment and renewable energy; and generation. 
AEP was recognized for:  
 Leading one of the first major collaborations between the automotive and utility 
industries on modern plug -in vehicle technology;  
 A case study on AEP’s Smart Gri d project; AEP was part of a multi -company team 
recognized for deploying equipment, collecting data, and conducting analysis;  
 An assessment of the viability of distributed solar photovoltaic generation;  
 Participating in a team effort to lead an analysis of  water withdrawal and consumption for 
electric power generation, how it compares to water use in other industries and how 
conservation options can be used to reduce water consumption;  
 Initiating a project to evaluate the properties of fly ash that will be instrumental in 
supporting design and loading of ash ponds, particularly during pond closures;  
 A broad -based utility collaborative that launched a rapid -response project to identify the 
root cause of severe corrosion in flue gas desulfurization (FGD) syste ms installed in U.S. 
coal-fired power plants and to develop new inspection and mitigation strategies.  
 
 Page 92 of 115 
 Climate Change  
 
Climate change may be one of the most significant long -term sustainability risks for AEP. We 
have continued to take a leadership role on the issue; however, national public policym akers and 
regulators in our 11 states have conflicting views about global warming and the need for 
greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations in the United States.  
AEP has proactively supported a number of proposed climate bills in Congress and made 
significant inv estments in clean -coal technologies. We voluntarily reduced or offset carbon 
dioxide (CO 2) emissions through the Chicago Climate Exchange between 2003 and 2010 and set 
a new 2020 goal for emission reductions. We are proud of the progress we’ve made to redu ce our 
carbon dioxide emissions during the last decade, and the transformation of our generation 
business will further reduce those emissions in the future.  
We are currently focused on taking 
practical, short -term actions to reduce 
our carbon footprint, such as improving 
energy efficiency, investing in the 
development of cost -effective and less 
carbon -intensive technologies and 
evaluating our assets – power plants, 
office buildings, and mobile fleet – 
across a range of reasonable scenarios. 
Longer term, t he transformation of our 
generation business is expected to 
reduce our reliance on coal from 65 
percent of our generating capacity in 
2012 to about 46 percent in 2020. This 
balancing of our fuel resources will also 
keep us on the path to continued carbon 
dioxide reductions, helping us achieve 
our 2020 goal to reduce GHG 
emissions by 10 percent from 2010 
levels.  
We are also actively engaged in many 
different public policy discussions at 
Page 93 of 115 
 the state, federal and international levels to assure that any new prop osed requirements are 
feasible, economical and don’t put our customers at a competitive disadvantage.  
 
AEP’s Position On Climate Change  
AEP believes that moving too quickly with climate change initiatives could impair an already 
struggling economy even fu rther. Any plan for CO 2 emissions must be rational in terms of 
timing, scope and reduction targets to accommodate  continued gr owth of the econom y, mitigate 
costs to customers and achieve the environmental benefits desired.  
Even though the United States la cks a national climate policy, energy -related CO 2 emissions 
have declined since 2007. According to the  Edison Electric Institute  (EEI),  
“preliminary U.S. Energy Information Administration data indicate the U. S. power sector CO 2 
emissions for 2012 will be around 2 billion metric tons. If 2012 trends are confirmed by final 
data, power sector emissions would be at their lowest levels since 1996, and would be 
approximately 17 percent below 2005 levels. This would continue the trend of declining CO 2 
emissions from the power sector.”  
Excerpt from letter from EEI to Congressman Henry Waxman and U.S. Senator Sheldon 
Whitehouse.   
Emissions in the U.S. have decreased in recent years due to several factors: slower -than-expected 
economic growth from the 2008 -2009 recession; fuel switching from coal to cheaper, cleaner 
burning natural gas; increased deployment of renewable resources and energy efficiency 
projects; and increased motor vehicle fuel economy regulations.  
In the  interim, alternative legislative approaches are being discussed. These include:  
 A carbon tax resurfaced in late 2012 in part due to a need for additional government 
revenue to fill the budget deficit. The tax would place a fee on the use of fossil fuels s uch 
as coal, oil and gas, giving an economic incentive to reducing their use and resulting CO 2 
emissions. While a potential source of revenue, its disadvantages for the economy and 
uncertainty of the environmental benefits kept it from becoming a reasonabl e solution.  
 The Clean Energy Standard Act of 2012, a Clean Energy Standard (CES), was proposed 
in the Senate in an attempt to push large retail utilities to generate or use electricity from 
cleaner resources. While the CES moves beyond renewables to includ e other sources 
such as natural gas, nuclear power, hydropower, carbon capture and storage and waste -to-
energy, we do not foresee much progress on this bill over the next few years mainly due 
to political gridlock.  Page 94 of 115 
 Although the U.S. appears to be making st rides toward reducing its CO 2 emissions and meeting 
President Obama’s pledge to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent below 2005 
levels by 2020, our position on global climate change remains the same: We believe it is a global 
issue that requi res a global solution. According to some projections by the Electric Power 
Research Institute, non -OECD (Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development) 
countries, such as China and India, will account for approximately two -thirds of energy -related  
CO 2 emissions by 2020. Emission reductions in these countries will be critical in making real 
progress on climate change.  
 
Greenhouse Gas Regulations  
In the absence of federal legislation to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA) set itself on a course to regulate GHG emissions under 
the Clean Air Act. The EPA has already established a rule requiring the consideration of GHG 
emissions for permitting new sources o r for major modifications of existing sources that would 
trigger a Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit. That rule is undergoing judicial review.  
In April 2012, the EPA proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) regulations for 
CO 2 emission s from new electric generating units under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act. These 
performance standards would apply to most new fossil steam generating and combined cycle 
units. However, as proposed, the rule effectively precludes the construction of new coal-fired 
electric generating units as it establishes a single emission rate standard that is based on a natural 
gas combined cycle unit. Because natural gas is inherently less CO 2 emission -intensive than coal, 
construction of a coal unit will be impossib le without the use of carbon capture and storage, a 
technology that is not yet commercially available.  
AEP is not currently planning to build new coal -fired capacity, but economics, the need to 
maintain fuel diversity, and other factors could lead us down this path in the future. We strongly 
believe that the EPA should not dictate energy policy, and that over -dependence on a single fuel 
with a history of price volatility has inherent risks. Moreover, without greater harmonization of 
the natural gas and elec tricity markets and significant investments in pipelines and infrastructure, 
gas dependency exposes the electricity grid to new reliability risks. AEP has submitted 
comments encouraging the EPA to withdraw or revise the regulations to set different standar ds 
for new natural gas and coal -fired facilities, consistent with its previous practice under the Clean 
Air Act.  
The EPA also made a commitment to issue new NSPS guidelines for CO 2 emissions from 
existing electric generating facilities; however, no timetab le has been announced for these 
regulations. Such guidelines are intended to establish procedures so that states can develop and Page 95 of 115 
 implement the standards through their state implementation plans. If the EPA does move 
forward, it will be important that the p rogram:  
1. Provide maximum flexibility under the Clean Air Act to minimize the economic impacts, 
including evaluating the potential for a market -based trading program and the use of 
greenhouse gas emission offsets;  
2. Take into account the wide range of existin g sources and the limitations in efficiency 
improvements that can be achieved at existing power plants; and  
3. Ensure that any new standard does not force us to abandon the billions of dollars in 
emission control investments already made on the existing fleet  of coal -fueled power 
plants to meet other EPA emission regulations.  
Without a regulatory proposal to address GHG emissions from existing units, AEP is unable to 
speculate on the potential impact of this rulemaking on our operations. We will, however, take  an 
active approach in the regulatory process to ensure the resulting regulations are both realistically 
achievable and cost -effective.  
 
Renewabl e Energy  
As we transition our generation business to a more balanced resource mix, renewable energy will 
becom e a larger part of our portfolio. Seven of our states have laws or regulatory orders that 
establish requirements or goals for renewable and alternative energy sources, such as Renewable 
Portfolio Standards (RPS) or Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards (A EPS): Indiana, Louisiana, 
Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and West Virginia. The requirements in Indiana, Oklahoma 
and Virginia are voluntary; the others are mandatory.  
Without state requirements in place 
and/or a clear path for utilities such as 
AEP to r ecover what are usually above -
market costs for renewables in its rates, 
investing in or committing to additional 
renewable energy can create significant 
financial risk for AEP.  
From 2007 to 2012, AEP’s operating 
companies entered into 1,984 MW of 
long-term wind contracts and 10 MW of 
long-term solar contracts, bringing our 
total to 1,994 MW toward our 2,000 MW goal. Regulatory approval for an additional proposed 
49.9-MW solar project in Ohio was denied by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio in 
Page 96 of 115 
 January 2013. The commercial solar facility, planned to be built on approximately 750 acres of 
reclaimed mine land, would have helped AEP Ohio meet the solar load requirements of Ohio 
Substitute Senate Bill 221, while giving Ohio a unique opportunity to leverage n ew in -state 
manufacturing jobs and make an environmental investment.  
Through a modification of our New Source Review Consent Decree, we will add 200 MW of 
additional wind by the end of 2015 to serve our I&M customers, once the decree is approved by 
the co urt. 
The “fiscal cliff” legislation passed by Congress on Jan. 1, 2013, extended tax credits related to 
renewable energy, energy efficiency and alternative fuel tax credits, one of them being the 
Production Tax Credit (PTC). The PTC, which supports the dev elopment of wind generation and 
other renewables, not only extended the tax credit by one year, but made a policy change that 
allows for the credit to be claimed if construction begins on a renewable energy facility before 
the end of 2013. The Investment T ax Credit (ITC) was also significantly expanded, allowing 
renewable developers to claim a one -time tax credit of 30 percent, which can be claimed if their 
project begins construction during 2013, rather than having to go into commercial service by the 
end of this year, as was previously required. The 30 percent Solar Investment Tax Credit remains 
in effect for projects completed and placed in service by the end of 2016.  
By extending and expanding the PTC and ITC tax credits, Congress has given the renewable  
industry more time and financial stability to complete projects currently under development, 
while securing jobs and helping to make renewables more affordable for utility customers.  Page 97 of 115 
 
 
 
Managing Risk  
We are faced with an array of risks, some well -established and controlled and others emerging 
and not as well -defined. We must effectively manage our risk s and strengthen our risk 
management capabilities, which include our ability to respond successfully to unforeseen risks. 
Our effectiveness at managing risk helps us to identify and prepare for new opportunities that 
may benefit our customers, improve the work environment for our employees and deliver value 
to our shareholders.  
We continuously evaluate our levels of acceptable risk based on internal targets and guidelines 
and external operating conditions. We have created management systems and a culture t hat 
support our abilities to identify, evaluate and manage risk. For example, our culture encourages 
self-reporting if noncompliance is suspected. We have been developing future industry scenarios 
that will enable us to stress -test our business assumptions  and to identify potential game changers 
and risks. Our commitment to comprehensive and forward -looking risk management is reflected Page 98 of 115 
 in our efforts to put a process in place to identify emerging risks or issues that could become 
material risks.  
These acti vities deepen our ties between risk management and strategic planning and give 
management and the board more information to understand, evaluate and respond to all of the 
risks and strategic opportunities facing the company now and to anticipate what could  affect the 
company in the future.  
Our Enterprise Risk Oversight group, led by our chief risk officer, is responsible for developing 
the collective risk assessment of the company. It gathers and analyzes information from 
functional business units at all le vels of the company and reports to the Risk Executive 
Committee, which consists of members of the Executive Council and functional unit 
representatives. The Risk Executive Committee makes recommendations to business unit leaders 
for risk mitigation, where appropriate, and identifies the major risks and material issues on an 
enterprise -wide basis that align with the company’s strategies, which are monitored and reported 
on a regular basis to the Audit Committee of the board of directors.  
Financial risk is in herent in both our business and the regulatory framework in which we operate. 
We sell wholesale and retail electricity, which exposes us to energy commodity price risk and 
counterparty risk. The Market and Credit Risk groups, also led by our chief risk off icer, are 
responsible for managing these risks and provide members of the Commercial Operations Risk 
Committee (CORC) with daily, weekly and/or monthly reports regarding compliance with 
policies, limits and procedures. The CORC is made up of our chief oper ating officer, chief 
financial officer, senior vice president of commercial operations, executive vice president of 
energy supply and chief risk officer. The Market and Credit Risk policies, among numerous 
other policies that govern our actions, are approv ed by the Finance Committee of the board and 
work in concert with the Enterprise Risk Management Policy to ensure that key risk areas are 
appropriately reviewed and managed.  
On the regulatory side, we face significant financial risks: the uncertainty about  rate recovery, for 
example, and the likelihood of more federal, state or local environmental regulations that might 
require significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs. That could, in turn, lead 
to increased liquidity (cash) needs an d higher financing costs.  
 
 
 Page 99 of 115 
 Cyber Security  
 
Protecting operations systems and critical energy infrastructure from cyber -attack is a daily 
critical mission at AEP, with threats coming from all directions. Breaches to the cyber security of 
the grid, or to our system, are potentially disruptive to peo ple, property and commerce and create 
risk for our business, our investors and our customers.  
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis DeVendra, IT Manager, in AE P's 
Cyber Security Operations Center.  
We protect our critical cyber assets, such as our data centers, operational control systems, and 
business network, using multiple layers of cyber security and authentication. We constantly scan 
the system for risks or threats, and we maintain an active threat intelligence function to identify 
emerging threats and vulnerabilities. We continually advance the awareness of our employees 
and contractors to these cyber security threats so that they are better prepared to resp ond 
appropriately to any threat to our company.  
Cyber security has also become a national security issue. During the past year, numerous 
legislative proposals have been submitted in the Congress, and a Presidential Executive Order 
was issued to address ov erall cyber security across the nation's critical infrastructure. Many of 
these initiatives have had common themes to improve cyber security for critical infrastructure, 
including greater threat -sharing information between the government and the private se ctor, and 
improving access for the private sector to government -classified threat intelligence data. The 
electric industry continues to be one of the few critical infrastructure functions with mandatory 
cyber security requirements under the authority of th e Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  
As these national cyber security initiatives have arisen, AEP has partnered with a number of 
other utilities and the Edison Electric Institute  (EEI) to help inform our legislators and regulators 
on the advanced cyber security functions our industry is already performing. We are also sharing 
Page 100 of 115 
 what we learn and the practices that we employ to protect our critical infrastructure, many of 
which exceed what is required.  
But just as the threats to critical infrastructure evolve and increase, so must our defensive 
capabilities and business functions. Consequently, we have partnered with o ur peer utilities, EEI, 
the Electric Power Research Institute  (EPRI), the U.S. Department of Energy  (DOE), and many 
other organizations to address cyber security  capabilities and advanced defenses.  
In 2012, we completed a major milestone with the deployment and operation of our Cyber 
Security Operations Center (CSOC), becoming the first utility in the country to build a CSOC. 
This project was funded through our g ridSMART® program as part of a larger American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act Department of Energy Smart Grid Demonstration Project grant. 
It is designed as a pilot cyber threat and information -sharing center specifically for the electric 
sector.  
The CSOC is now operational, sharing cyber security threat information and other data across a 
number of CSOC member utilities and with the Department of Homeland Security. In 2013, this 
program became functional under the governance of a utility membership steerin g committee, 
funded by its membership base. This is a true government -private sector success, where 
government funding was used to seed the development and deployment of a cyber security tool 
to the private sector.  
We also continue to focus internally on advancing cyber security capabilities. In March 2012, we 
signed a cooperative research and development agreement with the Department of Homeland 
Security’s Office of Cyber Security and Communications, further enhancing our ability to 
directly exchange info rmation about cyber threats. In addition, we continue to partner with a 
number of federal and industry groups to advance the national capabilities of cyber security. We 
also test our defenses internally. In 2012, we held an executive -level tabletop drill t o test the 
security of our systems and response to a cyber -attack against our company and we will conduct 
similar drills again in the future.  
 
Other Business Protections  
In addition to cyber security measures, we have business continuity and disaster reco very plans 
in place. Every business unit has a business continuity plan specific to its needs that addresses 
people, processes, property and other factors. For example, we have plans to respond to a 
pandemic that could cause widespread employee absences an d supply disruptions, affecting our 
ability to serve our customers.  Page 101 of 115 
 We benchmark our business continuity plans against our peers, recently using the Edison Electric 
Institute Business Continuity Benchmark survey. In addition, AEP maintains a 24/7 IT Disas ter 
Recovery Center that makes it possible for us to continue operations in the event of a disaster. 
Although our disaster recovery infrastructure is continuously monitored and is in a state of 
readiness, we will analyze the recovery prioritization of busi ness processes to ensure those 
priorities reflect today’s business environment and needs.  
Since 2008, AEP has been subject to the federal government’s Red Flag legislation, which 
requires financial institutions and creditors to have a personally identifiab le information (PII) 
protection program in place. AEP is considered a “creditor” under this legislation and must 
provide protection for the customer information we collect. In 2012, AEP’s Red Flag team went 
into action when scammers targeted customers with  threats of disconnection unless they 
immediately paid their outstanding bill, using a prepaid money card. Collaboration between the 
Red Flag team and AEP Security identified patterns of the scam that helped determine which 
customers were being targeted an d why. The team also made follow -up calls to customers who 
reported the incidents to inform them of the scam and provide tips to protect themselves from 
harm.  
 
Competing For Capital  
Compliance with new environmental regulations, modernization of the grid, growth of our 
transmission business and the high demand for electrical facilities to support economic 
development and the shale gas boom have thrust capital resources into a tight competition 
between business units and business needs. Our strategic goals k eep us focused to deploy these 
limited resources where they can be most beneficial for customers, cost effectively ensure 
compliance with regulations and support the growth areas of our business.  
At times, however, taking advantage of new business opport unities requires a system -wide 
examination of priorities to ensure capital resources are invested in the optimal areas. In 2012, 
AEP’s Investment Review Committee (IRC) was instrumental in reallocating capital to AEP 
Texas, to allow the company to invest i n infrastructure that supported shale gas development. 
The decisions were collaborative between the companies and other business units in recognizing 
that capital could be more beneficially deployed elsewhere in the company at that point in time. 
The IRC, which meets at least once a year with all operating companies to review their financial 
performance and long -term capital spending plans, is chaired by AEP’s chief financial officer.  
AEP Transmission is engaged in a plan to modernize major infrastructure w ithin the company’s 
service territory. The plan seeks to improve regional and local reliability while lowering 
operations and maintenance costs. It includes building new s tations and lines as well as Page 102 of 115 
 reconductoring and rebuilding existing lines and station s to increase their capacity. Projects are 
prioritized based on available capital and how critical the improvements are to the system.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 103 of 115 
 Partnerships & Engagement  
Our Relationships  
 
Our ability to make sustainable business decisions is enhanced by the relationships we have with 
many different stake holders, primarily our regulators, customers and shareholders but also our 
other stakeholders. Our business has always depended on the strength of our relationships, and 
this is so now more than ever before.  
Calls Received by AEP's Call Centers  
 
Successful relationships require good faith, honesty and transparency about the reasons for our 
decisions. Strategic alliances and business relationsh ips are essential to advance AEP's business 
strategy and support economic growth, improve quality of life and innovation, and lead to fair 
and cost -effective public policies.  
 
How We Engage  
We held or participated in six formal stakeholder meetings or cal ls in 2012. We also changed the 
scope and format of our meetings. Traditionally, we held larger meetings that focused on several 
issues with diverse stakeholders. Over time, that process matured and, based on feedback from 
stakeholders and the conclusions of a stakeholder research project we participated in, we now 
conduct smaller, more issue -focused engagements. This type of engagement allows our 
stakeholders to be more personally involved with our subject matter experts. Many of our 
discussions are focuse d on energy efficiency and demand -side management. We also had 
discussions on environmental issues, coal, supply chain, climate change and water risk issues.  
In February 2012, we held a multi -stakeholder meeting with AEP’s leadership team , led by 
President and CEO Nick Akins . We met with more than 40 customers, analysts, investors, 
environmental organizations , trade groups, coal suppliers and labor leaders. It was Nick’s first 
stakeholder meeting as CEO. He emphasized the importance of these types of discussions and 
encouraged stakeholders to come forward with their ideas and concerns. The dialogue focused Page 104 of 115 
 largely on AEP’s business transformation in response to EPA’s environmental regulations and 
Ohio deregulation.   
Many of our operating compa nies 
conduct local stakeholder meetings that 
generally focus on energy efficiency and 
demand -side management. In March 
2012, AEP Texas led the first Texas 
Energy Efficiency Summit – a 
collaborative effort that included other 
utilities, regulatory staff, ma rket 
participants and energy efficiency 
service providers. This day -long event 
provided an educational forum that was attended by approximately 65 stakeholders. We also 
participate in statewide energy efficiency collaboratives, working closely with public utility 
commissions, non -governmental organizations and other interested stakeholders. For example, in 
Arkansas, SWEPCo participates in a group known as the Parties Working Collaboratively, or 
PWC, which has been working together on energy efficiency rulem aking since 2006.  
There is nothing as important or effective as developing relationships face -to-face, but the pace 
of change requires us to find other ways to engage with our stakeholders and to stay in touch 
more generally. Social media plays a signific ant role in this evolution, although it will never 
replace the personal connections we value.  
We regularly connect with stakeholders using tools such as email, Facebook , Twitter , YouTube , 
LinkedIn  and blog posts , among others . We can engage those who have an interest in our 
business, and we can see what people are saying about us, our activities and our industry. This 
engagement helps us to understand the perceptions some may have and gives us the opportunity 
to respond or engage if we so choose.  
Social media has become a critical tool in our ability to communicate with customers, and they 
with us, especially during stor m restoration efforts. On June 29, the AEP system endured a 
widespread, straight -line windstorm leaving more than 1.4 million customers, about 26 percent 
of AEP’s 5.3 million customers, without power in five states. It was one of the most severe 
storms AEP  has ever seen, leaving customers in the dark for days during a summer heat wave. 
During that time, social media proved to be a lifeline for many customers, allowing us to connect 
them with real -time information and updates on restoration efforts. AEP used  Facebook, Twitter 
and YouTube to share information such as:  
 Estimated restoration times and maps  
 Public safety messages  
Page 105 of 115 
  Photos and videos of the damage and of crews making  
During the restoration effort, Twitter followers and Facebook fans more than do ubled for AEP 
Ohio and Appalachian Power, two of the hardest hit operating companies. AEP and its operating 
companies were mentioned more than 140,000 times. We also saw a dramatic increase in website 
visits, with the majority coming from mobile devices. A lmost 67 percent of AEP Ohio’s Web 
visits were conducted through mobile devices.  
 
Empl oyees  
Our employees define who we are, what we do and how we do it. They bring values, skills, 
diversity and expertise to AEP that make us unique and successful. As we undergo one of the 
biggest transformations in the 107 -year history of our company, we need a work force that is 
agile and ready to seize upon new 
opportunities. In 2012, that meant 
reevaluating our work force needs and 
making some changes.  
Our industry is in the midst of a major 
transformation that will have long -term 
effects on how we run our business. In 
response, we conducted a study in 2012 
to benchmark ourselves with our peers and with other industries. We looked at the size and skills 
of our work forc e as well as the efficiency and cost -effectiveness of processes and practices 
associated with many of our business units. This study allowed us to improve our efficiency by 
putting people in the right positions with the right skills.  
We conducted a separa te study of employee and retiree benefits in parallel with the repositioning 
study. Among the changes resulted from the study are implementation of a cap on the employer 
subsidy for retirees after Jan. 1, 2013, and elimination of retiree medical benefits f or employees 
hired after Jan. 1, 2014.  
Part of this process included an employee culture survey to benchmark AEP’s organizational 
health. The survey identified four pillars of strength:  
 Employees care deeply about the company,  
 Employees are committed to cu stomer service,  
 Employees want to contribute to AEP’s success, and  
 AEP has a strong safety culture.  
Page 106 of 115 
 The survey also identified some opportunities for improvement. In response, management 
identified four areas of initial focus. These include:  
 Strategic al ignment  
 Leadership  
 Employee engagement  
 Performance recognition and accountability  
Through a series of nearly 60 employee focus groups held in early 2013, we collected ideas for 
improvement. For example, some employees said they wanted more face -to-face communication 
and interaction with leaders and to better understand the interdependencies of different 
departments. Others asked for clearer information from management that links the company’s 
goals to their jobs. The focus groups were part of a larger in itiative to strengthen AEP’s culture.  
To encourage employee engagement in AEP’s success, we instituted the AEP Engage to Gain 
program in March 2013, providing a way for employees to share ideas that provide tangible and 
sustainable savings and additional revenues during 2013, and to share potential cash awards. 
Engage to Gain will take place in 2013 and gives AEP employees the opportunity to share in 
cash awards for ideas that are implemented and result in operations and maintenance (O&M) 
savings or increm ental revenue over and above an overall target goal. These savings or revenue 
gains must be sustainable beyond 2013.  
We also held 35 employee webcasts in 2012, many of them focused on the organizational 
restructuring process, led by CEO Nick Akins . 
The AEP Now intranet site is the hub of most communications across the company. Employees 
visited the site approximately 9.2 million times in 2012. A popular feature of the sit e allows 
employees to post comments about corporate news, external news stories or internal blog posts. 
More than 3,000 employees contributed more than 15,000 comments in 2012. Written guidelines 
help ensure the dialogue is constructive and respectful. Emp loyees may choose to comment 
anonymously to site editors or publicly share their comments with all employees.  
AEP faces an aging work force, with the highest percentage of employees now between ages 45 
and 54. We project that approximately 10.7 percent of our work force will retire during the next 
five years, but many employees will not leave until the latter part of that period. In general, 
employees everywhere are choosing to work longer because they are healthier and because 
changes to Social Security  make it financial ly beneficial for them to do so.  Page 107 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diversity In The Work Force  
We value and celebrate the diversity of our work force and of the communities in which we 
operate. To us, diversity is about ethnicity, gender and age as well as th e differences that our 
employees or community members bring in terms of experiences, skills, ideas, culture and 
opinions, all of which help to make the work environment, or community, a richer and better 
place.  
We track the advancement of females and minor ities from craft -level positions to executive 
posts. We made progress in 2012 toward achieving our diversity staffing goals even though we 
continued to have limited staffing opportunities. We will continue to be deliberate in our efforts 
to fill positions,  being mindful that demographics vary greatly across our service territory. 
Page 108 of 115 
 Beyond that, we need to change the ways in which prospective employees view AEP. We want 
to be seen as a career path, not simply as a utility company.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to maintain  diversity in our employee candidate pool, we have established strong 
relationships at universities with large minority and female populations, including Texas A&M 
University, Missouri University of Science & Technology, Howard University, Tuskegee 
Univers ity and the University of Puerto Rico. We also have partnerships with organizations such 
as the Center for Energy Workforce Development and Hard -Hatted Women to assist us with our 
diversity recruitment efforts.  
Employee resource groups (ERGs) are another v aluable asset to help strengthen our work force 
diversity efforts. They support AEP’s values and goals, strengthen communication between AEP 
and its employees, provide a forum for exchanging new ideas and enhance the company’s 
desirability as a prospective  employer. AEP’s ERGs are the Asian American Employee 
Partnership, Hispanic Heritage Employee Resource Group, African American Employee 
Resource Group, AEP Pride Partnership (for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees 
and their allies) and the Mi litary Veterans Employee Resource Group. The last group, the newest 
to be formed, is a company -wide network enabling increased support for military members, 
veterans and their families.  
Human rights in the workplace are an important social issue for all co mpanies. Recognizing the 
evolving diversity of our work force, AEP has changed policies, benefits, training and other 
resources to be more inclusive. The AEP Pride Partnership group worked with the Office of 
Diversity to improve the company’s rating on the  annual Human Rights Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index (CEI). This index has become a benchmarking tool for large U.S. companies in 
terms of fair, nondiscriminatory treatment of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees 
(GLBT) in the workplace. AEP’ s rating improved to 55 on a scale of 1 to 100, compared with a 
previous rating of 15. AEP was one of 688 employers rated in the survey.  
Page 109 of 115 
 Customers  
Electricity is often taken for granted, yet it is essential to quality of life. Unlike many other 
businesse s, we have a profound responsibility to our customers to deliver our product safely, 
reliably and on demand, whenever and wherever it is needed.  
Part of this responsibility relates to affordability. This is a concern to all customers, but 
especially those  living in poverty and who are paying a high percentage of their disposable 
income for energy.  
The recession and slower -than-expected recovery have taken a toll on many individuals and 
businesses that were already struggling. Through grants, we provided a pproximately $67 million 
in federal and private energy assistance in 2012, almost 8 percent less than in 2011. This 
decrease stems largely from lower funding in 2012 of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program, or LIHEAP. The LIHEAP program helps low -income families pay their heating and 
electric bills through cash grants that are paid directly to the utility company. Its funding level 
varies from year to year based on Congressional action. We also provide other types of aid.  
In Ohio, for example, our  Neighbor -to-Neighbor Program  helps customers who are behind on 
their bills but whose incomes disqualify them for government assistance. Th e funds for this 
program come through customer contributions as well as AEP grants. In addition, AEP has a 
self-serve agency web site that provides a convenient way for these agencies to make their 
pledges via the Internet. In 2012, more than 10,000 pledge s were recorded, totaling $1.9 million.  
 
Customer delinquency rates are a barometer of the general health of the economy. Despite the 
slow recovery, we are seeing fewer delinquencies, which is a good sign. Although still higher 
than 2008 and 2009 levels, residential customer delinquencies continue to decline. As of 
December 2012, residential customer delinquencies were down 2.5 percent from December 
2011. For nonresidential customers, delinquent account balances declined 13.2 percent from 
2011. But we did see an increase in the year -end balance of customer payment arrangements year 
Page 110 of 115 
 after year, a trend that remains a concern for AEP. Payment agreements do not guarantee 
ultimate collection of payments and remain an area of focus for our credit and collections  efforts.  
AEP prides itself on quick, responsive and consistent customer service. Last year, our call 
centers received 3.7 million more customer calls than in 2011. The majority of the calls were 
related to customer outages due to storm damage; customers having difficulty paying their bills 
because of the slow economy; questions about higher electric rates; questions about the increased 
gridSMART® activities in Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas; and competition in Ohio. The volume of 
calls always increases during a n outage and, following the derecho in June 2012, our call centers 
received 2.9 million customer calls, setting a new record for the number of calls handled during a 
short period of time.  
Our average speed of answer (how long it takes to answer a call) in creased by 13 seconds from 
2011, while the average length of time on the phone with customers increased by four seconds. 
This increase is directly related to the overwhelming volume of customer calls our customer 
service centers received during and after t he derecho storm. Call volume in 2012 was 19.2 
percent higher than in 2011.  
In 2012, customers conducted more than 3.4 million online transactions with us. Web traffic 
dramatically increased after the derecho storm in June. We experienced a 180 percent in crease in 
overall transactions. We also saw 18 percent growth in paperless billing, with approximately 
609,124 residential, commercial and industrial customers receiving their bills electronically. By 
early 2013, 42 percent of customer bill payments are be ing processed electronically. Online bill 
pay and electronic billing is a sweet spot for us and our customers; it is more efficient and eco -
friendly and enhances customer satisfaction.  
AEP and its national accounts team received the “Award for Outstanding National Key Accounts 
Customer Service – Sustained Excellence” from the Edison Electric Institute (EEI). This award 
is presented on behalf of all national, multi -site customers by the EEI customer advisory group. 
AEP is one of three companies to receive th is award designation, which recognizes multi -year 
success in exceeding customers’ expectations and meeting their unique needs.  
 
Strong Communities  
Being a responsible corporate citizen goes beyond the fence line of our property to the heart of 
the communit ies in which we operate or that we serve. Our investments in our communities 
range from the thousands of hours our employees volunteer locally to corporate financial support 
for important community programs and initiatives. The need for our support is grea ter than ever 
as many areas continue to struggle economically.  Page 111 of 115 
 Corporate philanthropy is also important because it helps enhance quality of life, advances 
education and other worthy endeavors and enriches communities. In 2012, AEP and the AEP 
Foundation d onated more than $17.5 million to support more than 2,400 community 
organizations.  
In Mena, Ark., for example, the AEP 
Foundation  presented a grant for 
$38,000 to the University of A rkansas 
Foundation to fund improvements to the 
Polk County 4 -H Education Center. It 
will support youth and adult education 
and enrichment programs in Polk 
County by providing a versatile space to 
meet many needs in the community. The 
AEP Foundation focuses  on improving 
lives through education from early 
childhood through higher education 
through its ongoing charitable 
initiatives.  
A $150,000 AEP Foundation grant for 
the Indiana Tech Energy Engineering 
Program was used to support 
curriculum, faculty and labo ratory 
development for the university's 
Bachelor of Science in Energy Engineering degree. The program focuses on sustainable energy 
sources such as wind, solar, geothermal, biofuels and fuel cells, and also includes a business 
component. The field of energ y engineering is changing quickly, and support from the AEP 
Foundation will provide Indiana Tech with the flexibility to add and keep existing materials and 
programs relevant, offer faculty training opportunities, and purchase software and equipment for 
students to use in the classroom in a hands -on, real -life experiential way. The gift will enable 
Indiana Tech to continue to increase the number of students admitted into the program and the 
means to educate students about the efficient production, delivery and use of energy.  
Other commitments made in 2012:  
 A $100,000 AEP Foundation grant to the Ohio University Foundation for the Watershed 
Research and Fellowship Program of the George V. Voinovich School of Leadership and 
Public Affairs Center for Energy Wor kforce Development for the 2013. Funding will 
enable student recruitment and improve stream restoration across the region through 
existing and future partnerships.  
Page 112 of 115 
  A $100,000 corporate gift to Living Lands and Waters of East Moline, Ill., for 
environmenta l and educational programs, including river clean -up efforts in the 
Mississippi and Ohio river watershed regions.  
 A $50,000 AEP Foundation grant to the Consortium for Education Research & 
Technology (CERT) of North Louisiana for high school summer camps pr omoting 
energy careers. CERT serves as the intermediary - the convener and facilitator - that links 
five Louisiana post -secondary systems with industry to support work force development, 
technology transfer and economic development in North Louisiana.  
 A $40,000 AEP Foundation grant to the Keystone Center for the Climate Status 
Investigations and Youth Policy Summit Programming. The Keystone Center for 
Education, in partnership with the AEP Foundation, hosted two innovative education 
programs attended by st udents from The Metro Early College Learning High School in 
Columbus, Ohio, and CSI: Climate Status Investigations, a professional development 
training for teachers in Roanoke, Va. The Keystone Center’s Youth Policy Summit 
challenges high school students t o address the critical issue of energy resources in the 
state.  
 A $50,000 AEP Foundation grant to the Texas Tech Foundation for creating the Dick 
Brooks Endowed Graduate Fellowship and non -endowed grant for Smart Grid Energy 
Center.  
 
 
 
 Page 113 of 115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 114 of 115 
 Sustainabl e Procurement  
We work with fuel and nonfuel suppliers to drive continuous improvement and efficiencies 
within the supply chain while improving environmental and safety performance. We ask 
suppliers about their sustainability strate gy and activities through our procurement process, and 
we advise them of opportunities to help them reduce or mitigate their impacts on natural 
resources.  
AEP’s Supplier Development group  performs operational assessments of our key or critical 
suppliers. Since 2008, they have assessed more than 200 manufacturing facilities, evaluating five 
key operational areas: Quality, operational efficiency, responsiveness, health and safety and 
environ mental/sustainability practices. These assessments proved especially beneficial for one of 
our suppliers who used the operational assessment to improve its business and become a 
successful bidder to AEP. The company was open to learning how to address the issues that had 
been identified and a year later made substantial improvements that resulted in winning a larger 
portion of AEP’s business.  
AEP also works directly with its fuel suppliers and surveys its coal suppliers on their 
environmental, safety and he alth performance. We have conducted three surveys of our coal 
suppliers , a commitment we made to stakeholders to better understand the lifecycle of coal, its 
impacts  on the environment, how our suppliers are addressing those impacts and to share leading 
practices.  
“It should always be our value and norm to procure quality that includes 
attributes that reflect resource stewardship, environmental sensitivity and 
fair l abor practices. This is a growing cultural requirement that AEP can 
continue to exercise leadership in our industry and globally.” - AEP 
Stakeholder  
The AEP Sustainability Survey of Coal Suppliers is the only known survey of the coal industry 
that reflects  an assessment of about one -half of the coal mined in the United States and nearly 
every coal basin in the country. The final report on the results of the third survey was issued in 
December 2012, based on 2010 data. Key findings include a high level of sa fety and health 
performance in 2010 along with an increase in the number of coal suppliers issuing annual 
sustainability reports.  
This survey gives us important insights into the environmental, safety and health performance of 
the coal industry - validati ng that we share common values and strive to achieve excellence in 
managing our impacts to the environment and keeping employees safe. We have learned much 
about our suppliers, and they have learned about their own industry through this process. For 
exampl e, a majority of respondents have programs that include training, job safety analysis 
programs, risk assessments and wellness programs.  Page 115 of 115 
 We surveyed the coal suppliers who participated in the survey to ask them how they use the data 
and whether it provides  value to them. The overwhelming response was that the survey provides 
great value, especially regarding environmental performance because it’s the only such 
benchmark of the industry. Some suppliers also said they use the data in their own sustainability 
reports and to help drive continuous improvement within their companies. Our 2013 survey will 
collect data for 2011 and 2012.  
As we diversify our resource mix, we will consider how to engage with other fuel suppliers, 
particularly within the natural gas i ndustry.  
 2011 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2010 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2009 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement – Supplier Matrix   (pdf)  
 
 
 
 
  