AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER
2010 Corporate 
Accountability ReportSERVICE TERRITORY  COMPANY OVERVIEW 2009
American Electric Power has been providing electric service for more 
than 1 00 years and is one of the nation’s largest electric utilities, serving 
5.2 million customers in 1 1 states.    
Revenues (in billion s) $13.5 
Net Income (in million s)  $1,357 1 
Earnings Per Share  $2.96  1 
Cash Dividends Per Share  $1.64
Service Territory  197,500 square miles
Transmission  39,000 miles
Distribution  215,800 miles
Generating Capacity  38,988 MW  2 
Generating Stations  More than 80
Renewable Portfolio (hydro) 364 MW  3
Pumped Storage  586 MW
Renewable Portfolio (wind, sola r) 1,406 MW  4
Total Kilowatt-hour Sales (in million s) 195,312
Total Assets (in billion s) $48.3
U.S. Customers (year-end, in thousand s) 5,220
1  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
2  Represents nominal capacity; includes 270 MW of mothballed  / decommissioned
 generation, AEP’s interest in Ohio Valley Electric Corp., purchased power  
 agreements and renewables
3 Excludes pumped storage; includes owned capacity and purchased power
4 Regulated wind and solar capacity on line or under contract
AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), 
Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Co. (in Arkansas, Louisiana 
and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio.MARKET PRICE  — COMMON STOCK  
 $49.11  
$25.54 
$33.28 
$36.51 
$24.00 
$34.79
 High  Low Year-End  High  Low Year-End
  2008    2009
This report was printed by Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification,  
on 55 percent recycled paper, including 30 percent post-consumer waste, with vegetable-formulated inks. Because it was printed using 100 percent  
wind-generated electricity, 6,507 pounds of greenhouse gases were not emitted into the atmosphere. This is equivalent to 5,645 automobile miles not  
being driven or the planting of 442 trees. 
COVER: The carbon capture unit, center left, at AEP’s Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia
© 2010 American Electric Power Co., Inc.30%TOTAL SYSTEM  — ANNUAL NOx EMISSIONS (in thousand U.S. ton s)
 275 270 266 249 
121
 
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009TOTAL SYSTEM  — ANNUAL SO 2 EMISSIONS (in thousand U.S. ton s)
 900 853 
749 
638 
457
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009
TOTAL SYSTEM  — ANNUAL C O2 EMISSIONS (in million metric ton s) 
 145.1
 143.9  147.7 148.2   
129.7
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009
In 2009, AEP’s CO 2 emissions decreased 12.5 percent. The decline in SO 2 and NOx 
emissions reflects, in part, the success of our environmental programs. Natural Gas  / Oil   22%
 
Coal / Lignite 66%  
 Nuclear 6%
 
 Hydro, Wind, Solar  &  
 Pumped Storage 
 6%AEP GENERATING CAPACITY BY FUEL  AEP ECONOMIC IMPAC T 2009    
Employees (year-en d) 21,673 
Wages   $1.9 billion  
Construction Expense s  $2.8 billion  1 
Local Taxe s $469 million
State Taxes  $308.7  million
Federal Taxe s $123 million
Goods & Service s (does not include fue l) $4.3 billion  
Goods & Service s from Diverse Suppliers  $698 million  
Remaining Value of All Contracts  $4.3 billion  2
Coal Purchased (tons) 75.9 million
Coal Average Purchase Price (per to n) $49.54
Corporate Givin g $11.8 million  
AEP Foundation Grants  $11.6 million
Economic Development Contribution s $1.1 million  3
1 Construction Expenses include those expenses listed in the Cash Flow Statement
2 Supply chain purchased contracts and inventory system
3 Includes all grants and contributions by utility units to support economic developmentINDEX OF TOPICS
 2 A Message From Michael G. Morris  
  Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
 6 Leadership, Management & Strategy 
 10 Business Performance: Financial 
 14 Business Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 
 20 Business Performance: Public Policy 
 24 Environmental Performance: Environment 
 30 Environmental Performance: Climate Change 
 36 Social Performance: Work Force 
 42 Social Performance: Stakeholder Engagement
  
 47 Corporate & Shareholder Information
  
 48 GRI Table of Contents  / Key Indicators
  
  Forward-Looking Information
STATEMENT OF THE AEP BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustain -
ability initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. At two of the Committee’s 
meetings in the past year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability  
objectives, challenges, targets and progress. That Committee supported the integration of sustainability reporting with financial reporting and gave management input and guidance for the proposed approach to this corporate  
accountability report. It reviewed and discussed the final text of this report before recommending its approval by  
the full Board of Directors. The AEP Board of Directors has received periodic reports both from management and from the Committee on 
Directors and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives. Many of the topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at Board and Committee meetings. All members of the Board received copies of this report before it was published, and several directors made suggestions that have been incorporated into the report. Following its review, and upon recommendation of the Committee, the Board of Directors adopted  
a formal resolution approving the report.
 The Board believes this report is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s plans and 
performance and of its environmental, social and financial impacts. The Board realizes that the company must be 
prepared to make frequent adjustments in response to the difficult economic and financial challenges that the nation and the regions we serve are experiencing. The Board is committed to the company’s continuing efforts to increase its transparency and to its sustainability. The Board has emphasized to management that it will be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to changing circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report. 
 
LESTER A. HUDSON, JR.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors 
April 7, 2010
Creating Economic, Environmental & Social ProsperityA Climate of Change:
Our Progress, Our Future
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This accountability report combines AEP’s Annual Report to Shareholders with its 
Corporate Sustainability Report. It is divided into three performance sections —  
Business, Environmental and Social. This printed report is supported by a website —  
www.AEPsustainability.com  — that includes significant additional data and information 
about AEP’s performance. All performance metrics are located on the website.  For more information about AEP, visit 
www.AEP.com .
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
We follow the GRI guidelines for reporting our performance. A complete index of  performance indicators begins on Page 48. All of the data supporting these indicators can be found on our website — 
www.AEPsustainability.com . We also report on electric 
utility industry-specific indicators.
GIVE US YOUR FEEDBACK
We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think about our integrated reporting  approach. E-mail your comments to Sandy Nessing at 
smnessing@AEP.com .
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 1www.AEPsustainability.comand reflects the efforts of thousands of 
people within AEP . We made progress in 2009 and are optimistic about 2010 and beyond. Our financial health is good, we expect steady growth, and our shareholders 
have received quarterly dividends for 100 
years. We continue to provide safe, reliable and affordable electricity to our 5.2 million customers. We have achieved significant 
new technology advancements, and we 
remain deeply committed to keeping people safe and healthy while successfully managing our environmental impacts. 
 We continue to engage and partner 
with stakeholders in each of our states 
on critical issues such as global climate change, the future of coal and energy efficiency. We have learned how we are perceived and what is expected of us, and we have created new opportunities for collaboration and business growth. We will work to strengthen these relationships, and 
we hope that our stakeholders will, too.
BOARD & MANAGEMENT CHANGES
James F. Cordes was elected to our Board 
2 / A Message From The ChairmanDEAR FRIENDS:
I am pleased to share with you American 
Electric Power’s first Corporate Account-ability Report. This report presents our financial, governance, environmental and social performance together for the first 
time. It contains information we believe to 
be important to all of our stakeholders in one integrated report.  During the past decade, many 
businesses have seen how financial, environmental and social performance are connected, and AEP is no exception. Our success is increasingly related to our ability 
to meet environmental responsibilities; 
maintain financial strength; deliver safe, reliable electricity to our customers; safeguard our work force; and deepen relationships with communities and key stakeholders. This report demonstrates  our efforts to be more transparent and to integrate environmental and social risks and opportunities into everything we do.
 We believe that global environmental 
and social forces will increasingly move 
corporations toward considering these issues as part of their routine business decisions. That is one reason I am pleased to serve on the executive committee of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, to learn from and work with 
other CEOs around the world who share 
this vision of the future. Our investors and other stakeholders 
are urging us toward integrated reporting, seeking more information on a much wider range of issues than ever before. We have brought various stakeholders into some of our most important business discussions. This engagement has influenced our 
thinking and our actions and has framed 
our reporting. Our quest to become a more sustainable company is continuous of Directors in 2009. He was formerly the executive vice president of The Coastal Corp., president of American Natural Resources Co. and chairman and chief executive officer of ANR Pipeline Co. Sara Martinez Tucker, former undersecretary 
of the U.S. Department of Education, 
president and chief executive officer of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund and regional vice president for AT&T Global Business Communications Systems, also was elected to the Board in 2009.  The independence of our Board is 
integral to our corporate governance. I am 
pleased to say that, of our 13 directors,  
I am the only director from within AEP . Brian X. Tierney was named executive  
vice president and chief financial officer in 2009. After 41 years of service to AEP ,  J. Craig Baker, senior vice president —  
Regulatory Services, retired. Richard E. Munczinski succeeds him. These appointments were among several 
management changes made last year, 
some of which were part of our succession planning process.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In a year of many uncertainties, AEP outperformed expectations in 2009 and ended the year in a strong financial position. Our $2.97 ongoing earnings per share were well within our guidance range. During the 
year, the management team demonstrated 
its commitment to maintaining the company’s investment-grade ratings by issuing $1.6 billion of equity. Our action  was well received in the market.  We had many regulatory successes, 
securing $725 million of incremental rate increases in 2009 that helped earnings by 
providing cost recovery for environmental 
compliance, tree trimming, energy efficiency A Message From The Chairman
 As the economies in our service 
territories improve, we expect our retail and 
wholesale sales to recover as well.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
We had many successes in 2009, but we also did not meet our expectations in  some important areas. The lowest points of the year were when two AEP employees and two AEP contractors lost their lives 
while on the job. Although we make efforts 
to educate the public about electrical  
safety, nine members of the public also  died after coming into contact with our electrical facilities. 
 There is simply nothing more important 
to me, and to our company, than the safety 
and health of our employees, contractors and the public. We missed critical safety goals, tragically, and everyone at AEP regards this as unacceptable. One reason  the Board of Directors awarded no incentive compensation to me and my senior man-
agement team was because safety is a 
strategic goal we failed to achieve. All other employees also lost a portion of their incentive compensation. We will learn from these experiences 
and take corrective and preventive actions, but the pain of these losses cannot be erased. I am determined that we will achieve 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 3www.AEPsustainability.com
our goal of zero harm. We will not settle  for less; I know our employees feel the same way. Eight employees went above and  
beyond the call of duty in 2009 to protect 
the safety of the public outside of their  
normal jobs. These employees demon- strated the value we place on safety, and we honored them with the Chairman’s Life Saving Award. Maintaining compliance with laws and 
regulations is complex and ever changing. We strive for superior performance and  
recognize that compliance is the cornerstone  
of everything that we do. 
 Our business has significant environ-
mental impacts, and managing them responsibly is both our legal obligation and moral responsibility. We devote significant resources to compliance, we have checks and balances in place to measure our performance, and we think our overall 
record is excellent. We constantly challenge 
ourselves to be best in class, setting the bar at zero for significant enforcement actions from regulators. Given the complexities of our business, this goal is very difficult to meet, but having it helps us to ensure continuous improvement.  We were involved in five significant 
enforcement actions related to landfill issues and wastewater discharges in 2009, among other matters. We have learned from these events and have changed practices or procedures to prevent recurrences. Heightened regulatory focus on coal ash presents potentially significant financial and operational challenges. We must maintain beneficial use of this material or dispose of 
millions of additional tons of coal ash each 
year. We take strong measures to ensure the safe and proper operation of our coal ash impoundments. Even so, we recently programs, construction, and other operating costs. Our customers and investors also benefited as we continue to be among the lowest-cost providers of electric service while delivering a 10.4 percent total return, 
including reinvested dividends, to our 
shareholders. The strength of our balance sheet and 
our liquidity point to our financial health. We are disciplined about our operations and maintenance (O&M) and capital spending. We are moving forward in a financially responsible way, recognizing there are 
many demands and limited resources. Our 
employees did not receive merit increases in 2009. With the exception of senior leadership, whose salaries remain frozen, we will be awarding modest pay increases to most employees in 2010. As part of our commitment to being financially disciplined, we have announced a cost reduction initiative that includes reducing our work 
force by up to 10 percent. 
 We reduced our utility operation’s 
capital budget by $1.4 billion, from  $3.8 billion in 2009 to $2.4 billion in 2009. We plan to hold it at $2 billion in 2010 and 2011. Investments in new infrastructure will increase future earnings strength and potential while allowing us to provide safe, 
reliable electricity to our customers. Our 
anticipated $2 billion in capital investments, factoring in depreciation of $1.3 billion, create potential growth in our rate base of $700 million.  Like many businesses, we faced 
financial challenges. Electricity demand was down significantly, especially among industrial customers in the metals, 
transportation, plastics, rubber and paper 
sectors. Off-system sales volumes – the excess power we sell in the wholesale power markets – dropped by half in 2009. 
AEP TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN   
 
12.3% 19.6%  
13.1%  
– 25.4% 10.4% 
 2005  2006  2007  2008  20094 / A Message From The Chairmanenhanced our monitoring, inspecting and 
auditing performance and will continue to improve these activities. We oppose classifying coal ash as a hazardous waste, but we understand and agree with the 
need for greater oversight. As we move 
toward greater certainty around federal classification of coal ash products and how they affect our facilities, we  will work with neighbors  so they better understand our operations. Our $5.4 billion 
environmental investment program has resulted in the lowest emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and 
nitrogen oxide (NOx) from our system in two decades. We will further reduce our SO
2 and 
NOx emissions through emissions caps we agreed to in our New Source Review consent 
decree. Regulators also 
recognize the importance of this program and have supported it in customer rates.  Our greatest success in 2009 was 
the commissioning of the world’s first fully integrated carbon dioxide capture and storage validation facility at our Mountaineer 
Plant in West Virginia. Our next project is to 
take this technology to commercial scale at Mountaineer and we have been awarded federal funding for 50 percent of the project costs, up to $334 million. We also will seek regulatory support and additional investment partners.   We succeeded in securing the needed 
permits from the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for the construction 
of the 600-megawatt (MW) John W. Turk Jr. Plant in southwest Arkansas. Although legal challenges to our permits are pending, this ultra-supercritical coal plant will be among the most efficient coal plants in the world when it becomes operational in 2012. A new 500-MW natural gas combined-cycle plant 
begins operation in 2010 in Shreveport, 
La., to serve our customers in Arkansas, 
Texas and Louisiana. Both of these plants are critical to meeting the growing demand for electricity in that region and reflect our strategy to use advanced technologies and 
resources that lessen our carbon emissions.
 Our Cook Nuclear Plant Unit 1 came 
back on line at reduced power at the end of 2009, which is good news for customers and the environment. It is expected to return to full power by the end of 2011, after new low-pressure turbine rotors are installed. The scope of the restoration exceeded anything previously attempted in our industry. 
 As we consider ways to reduce our  carbon emissions, we are studying potential 
improvements that would allow us to increase the output of the Cook Plant while operating it safely and reliably for its extended operating life. A separate project is addressing the prospects for long-term  spent nuclear fuel storage, which continues to be a concern and could challenge the 
plant’s long-term operation.
       We rounded out our 
transmission strategy with the creation of AEP Transmission Co. This allows us to pursue new, on-system transmission opportunities within 
our service area while 
preserving the credit quality of our operating companies. Our vision for a national interstate extra-high voltage transmission system, similar to our nation’s interstate highway system, is 
unchanged. We believe 
the modernization of our transmission system is 
imperative to our nation’s energy future and we are continuing to advance this vision.  Our gridSMART
SM initiative received 
significant support last year with additional deployment of “smart” meters and other supporting technologies in four states.  Two of our companies were awarded federal 
aid to support these deployments, which 
help us learn how gridSMART
SM technology 
works, improve the efficiency of the grid  and give our customers more control over their energy use. We set a goal to install  5 million smart meters by 2015, thereby 
further reducing customer demand and 
energy use. This will be very challenging 
The Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia is the site of the world’s first integrated  
carbon capture and storage project.2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 5if our trading partners do not follow and 
participate in a solution. We are encouraged by China’s and India’s participation in the discussions; it is a step in the right direction. The U.S. EPA is moving ahead with 
rules to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, which would affect our power plants. We prefer a legislative solution with an economy-wide cap-and-trade approach, and we  supported the Waxman-Markey bill approved last summer by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill includes several provisions that would help our customers 
and our company transition to a lower-
carbon environment, including the allocation of carbon allowances, use of carbon offsets and incentives for moving carbon capture and storage technology forward. Under EPA regulations, we would lose these benefits for our customers and shareholders. We do not support a sector-by-sector carbon bill because it would unfairly affect customers 
of coal-based electric utilities.
 We are making progress toward 
achieving our goals in energy efficiency  and boosting the use of renewable energy on our system. We have identified the potential for more than 900 MW of energy efficiency and demand-reduction opportunities to help meet our 2012 goal 
and have contracted to add 1,013 MW of 
renewable energy to meet a 2011 goal. These important milestones are an integral part of our carbon reduction strategy. We are considering several options that 
protect the reliability of the electric system while reducing our carbon emissions. The outcome of the global climate change debate is only one factor that will drive 
change in how we operate our business. 
Other considerations include potential new or more stringent regulations on coal plants; the shift toward greater use of natural www.AEPsustainability.com
gas, including shale gas; and the age and efficiency of some of our coal-fired units. But if we are forced to move too quickly in any direction without having sufficient new resources in place, the reliability of our 
electricity system would be jeopardized and 
the economy would be imperiled.
OUR VISION FOR THE FUTURE
We believe that reliable, safe and reason-ably priced energy is a key to the global economic recovery. Through our state legislatures and public utility commissions and with the collaboration of our partners 
and many stakeholders, AEP is helping to 
change the way that electricity is generated, distributed and consumed. We are at the beginning of a new era; we know that bold changes are around the corner, and we embrace them. The men and women of AEP are moving forward. We invite you to join us.
Sincerely, 
 
MICHAEL G. MORRIS 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
April 2010to achieve absent regulatory support but 
is necessary if we want to change how consumers use electricity and to reduce demand. Therefore, we will continue to press forward.
 The reliability of our system improved  
in 2009; there were fewer nonstorm-related 
outages, and they were shorter in duration. Customer satisfaction also improved.  We began evaluating the environmental, 
safety and health performance of our non-fuel suppliers in 2008 and extended that assessment to our coal suppliers in 2009. 
We conducted our first survey of coal sup-
pliers and brought many of them together with environmental groups, regulators and community leaders for an unprecedented stakeholder meeting. It was the beginning of a dialogue on coal issues that we intend to continue.
GLOBAL WARMING 
In the public policy arena, the debate  about global warming continues to domin-ate because of the significant financial and  operational implications it will have on our business and our customers. Global 
warming is a controversial issue, and the 
public policymakers and influencers in Washington, D.C., and in the 11 states we  serve have conflicting views. Regardless of the debate about the science and solutions, our position on this issue has not changed. We are taking actions that make sense for AEP and our customers, such as improving 
energy efficiency, investing in cost-effective 
and less carbon-intensive technologies and evaluating our options across a range of possible outcomes.  We believe that global warming 
requires global action that does not dispro- portionately compromise American jobs  or our economy, which will be the case 
planning process, from the supply side to 
the customer.  Global climate change is one element 
driving this change. We may operate fewer coal units in the future, driven by a 
combination of factors. These include the 
relative age and efficiency of certain units, carbon reduction mandates, new and more stringent environmental regulations, the 
cost of compliance, and the potential for 
increased use of natural gas. 
 We are exploring many different tech-
nology options, such as carbon capture and 
storage and distributed generation. We are also weighing the possibility of retrofitting older, inefficient coal units to natural gas, preparing to operate a grid that supports energy storage and the electrification of the transportation sector, ramping up energy efficiency, modernizing the grid to enable 
greater use of renewable energy, and giving 
customers control over their electricity use. We expect the focus will sharpen in the 
next couple of years. Our challenge will be 
6 / Leadership, Management & Strategy We are a publicly traded electric utility that must protect and enhance the investments of our shareholders. We do this through our mission of bringing comfort to customers, supporting business and commerce, and 
building strong communities. Our duty is  
to provide reliable, safe and affordable electricity for the benefit of the public. This  dual purpose is reflected in our corporate directives, management systems and operations. Our strategy is  
directed toward aligning  
our business, environment- 
al and social performance. We manage this strategy by setting explicit goals and objectives in all three areas and by holding ourselves accountable for meeting them. We also have linked our 
environmental, social and 
governance disclosure to our financial reporting. Affordable, reliable 
energy has been the backbone of the U.S. economy for decades. It will be critical to our country’s economic recovery and 
growth. At the same time, we realize that 
fossil fuel emissions are a growing concern and we are weighing all of our options as we prepare for the future. Our strategy for sustainability is 
grounded in a commitment to meet our customers’ needs as efficiently and  cost-effectively as possible without putting our shareholders at undue risk. Although 
the future is uncertain and there are many 
challenges, it is clear that the electric utility  industry is at the start of a major transforma-tion. This is a consideration in our resource to determine how much and where to invest capital and which technologies to deploy.  At the same time, we have to balance the level of investment our customers are able to afford with the ability of our shareholders 
to earn a fair return on their investment. 
 The actions we are taking today will 
position us to meet these challenges whilecontinuing to provide affordable electricity 
to our customers. These include actions, subject to regulatory approval, to reduce CO
2 emissions; 
invest in new tech-nologies such as  gridSMART
SM, com-
munity energy storage, advanced coal, and carbon capture and storage; expand our use 
of biomass, wind and 
solar power; increase the use of natural gas and nuclear power; and advocate public policies that support modernizing  our transmission system.  
        We are also taking 
steps to ensure that we have a skilled, diverse work force and can attract and retain the best talent to build, operate and maintain today’s technologies as well as the technologies of the future.  We have ongoing dialogue with many 
stakeholders who have an interest in or  are affected by our business. These include shareholders, customers, labor, 
legislators, regulators, policymakers, 
employees, prospective employees, retirees, communities and nongovernment organizations. We will continue working with all of our stakeholders to find common ground on these critical issues.Leadership, Management & Strategy 
The John W. Turk Jr. Plant in Arkansas will begin operations in 2012.2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 7American Electric Reliability Corp. rules, we 
could potentially expose the bulk power supply system to reliability problems and the company to significant fines. Many business units are affected by these rules. 
Therefore, actions to ensure compliance are 
routinely monitored. The potential impact of environmental policies on our coal-fired generating plants is a material risk, and we weigh potential operational challenges such as a reliance on new technologies against potential cost increases to customers and  available resources. For each risk, we 
consider a range of possible actions in order  
to assess and react to them effectively. 
GOVERNANCE
AEP’s commitment to being a profitable, 
sustainable enterprise is led by our chairman and executive management team with oversight from the Board of Directors and is embedded throughout the 
organization through goals, incentive plans, 
measurement and reporting.   The Board’s Committee on Directors 
and Corporate Governance has direct oversight of this report and reviews the company’s sustainability objectives,  strategies, targets and progress. The committee provides input and guidance  
to management and holds it accountable for 
performance. The full Board adopts  and issues a statement to that effect, which we publish.  Management formally reports to the 
Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance twice a year on our progress toward achieving the commitments in this report, but management, the full Board 
and each committee of the Board regularly 
discuss the issues that are most material and pose the greatest risk. Many of these issues are directly connected to our www.AEPsustainability.com
sustainability commitments. The Board has emphasized that it  
will evaluate management by its success  in executing the company’s strategic  
plan to meet stakeholders’ and the  
Board’s expectations, including its agility  in adapting to the current economic envi-ronment while respecting the commit- ments we make.  We are guided by values and by a 
set of Principles of Business Conduct that require us to operate with integrity, fairness, respect and care for others and 
with the highest regard for safety and the 
environment. All employees are bound by these principles, which also help to ensure legal compliance. A confidential 24/7 hotline allows employees to report concerns anonymously and seek guidance on ethics and compliance issues. Our goal is to maintain a supportive working environment in which employees know that 
their concerns are being addressed in a 
respectful and confidential manner.
Scope of This Report
This is our first integrated report, combining  
information about our financial performance with data on our environmental, social and  governance performance. Information contained herein is largely based on calendar  
year 2009, with exceptions for some early 2010 data as noted. Supporting information can be found on our sustainability website at 
www.AEPsustainability.com  or on our 
corporate website at www.AEP.com .
 In 2009, per our commitment to stake- 
holders, we began reporting our progress  twice a year. A full update is provided every  
spring. An update of key commitments is  
published to the Web in the fall at 
www.
AEPsustainability.com .RISK MANAGEMENT
Effective risk management enables us to 
respond confidently in a rapidly changing environment. From safety risks on the job to financial or operational risks that can affect the company’s competitiveness, finances or 
reputation, risk management is an ongoing 
process at all levels of AEP .  The Risk and Strategic Initiatives 
group reviews information about our enter-prisewide risks and helps the company understand the internal and external rela-tionships that influence them. The group produces a material risk report based  
on many information sources, including 
input from the Risk Executive Committee (REC). The REC considers existing and emerging risks and ensures that controls  are in place and mitigation is taken  where necessary.  While it is management’s responsibility 
to identify and manage risks, the Board  of Directors oversees and reviews the  
company’s risk management process to  
help ensure that it is effective and respon-sive to changing circumstances. Some risks, such as changing public policy and potential systemic and catastrophic risk,  are considered primarily at the Board level whereas others are delegated for considera-tion, oversight and recommendation to 
Board committees.
 Under New York Stock Exchange 
standards and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Audit Committee must discuss our policies for risk assessment and risk management, as well as risks that pertain specifically to the company’s operations and controls and disclosures.  We review all risks and devote 
significant time and effort to managing risks that relate to our material issues. For example, if we fail to comply with North 8 / Leadership, Management & Strategy  We define issues material to our 
sustainability as those that: 1) have or may 
have a significant impact on the company’s finances or operations; 2) have or may have a significant impact on the environment 
or society, now or in the future; or 3) can 
substantially influence the assessments, decisions and actions of our stakeholders and shareholders. This report reflects those  
issues we consider material to our business.  
For the first time, internal auditors audited the  
printed report for reliability and consistency.
Financial Performance:  Our ability to 
manage business risks and to maintain a strong financial foundation allows us to deliver returns to our shareholders; provide safe, reliable electricity to our 
customers; and deliver broader economic, 
environmental and social benefits to society. 
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth: 
Our electric generation and delivery systems must be modern, reliable, and able to handle a diverse fuel supply as well as diverse technologies. They also must keep pace with customer demand. Collaboration 
with others is essential to create and 
maintain these systems and to ensure adequate and timely cost recovery.
Public Policy:  We must actively engage 
legislators, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders to ensure that public policy, laws and regulations enable us to continue to serve our customers, 
compensate our shareholders and pursue 
our vision for sustainability.
Environmental Performance:  Although 
environmental laws and regulations are complex and changing, we are committed to compliance at all times. Our challenge is to achieve compliance, to go beyond 
compliance when we can, to reduce our  
impact on the environment and to improve the economic well-being of our communities.
Global Climate Change:  AEP has a major 
role to play in addressing global climate change, including bringing advanced coal and other technologies to commercial scale, securing access to large-scale renewables 
through transmission development and 
increasing energy efficiency through our gridSMART
SM initiative. Our company’s and 
our customers’ economic well-being  requires us to work cooperatively with regu-lators and policymakers, our stakeholders and our communities to reach a reasonable 
global solution that will protect the 
environment and foster economic growth. 
Work Force: Protecting the safety and 
health of our employees and contractors and reducing the severity of work-related injuries and illnesses is a core value. We seek  
a skilled, diverse and highly motivated work 
force to support all aspects of our business.
Stakeholder Engagement:  All of the 
material issues and risks we face and our  
well-being as a company increasingly depend on working closely with our stake-holders, disclosing our intentions, reporting 
on our performance and engaging in active 
and forthright dialogue.
CONTACT INFORMATION
For information about this report, the GRI  information on our website or AEP’s sustainability initiatives, please contact Sandy Nessing at 
smnessing@AEP.com  or 
Jerra Thomas at jmthomas2@AEP.com . nREPORTING PRINCIPLES & GUIDANCE 
AEP follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting principles in terms of data 
quality, report content and organizational boundaries. We use the 
G3 guidelines as well as 
the GRI Electric Utility 
Sector Supplement for reporting on industry-specific information. Our report is reviewed by GRI. This year’s report was validated as an Application Level A, which reflects the high level of transparency in our reporting. 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
& MATERIAL ISSUES
Stakeholder engagement is an increasingly important aspect of our business pro-cesses. We conducted or participated in seven stakeholder meetings during 2009 that provided us with insight and information 
related to a wide range of issues that are 
important to us and to our industry. These meetings helped to shape this report.   Our discussions were candid and 
helped us identify strategies and actions.  This year we focused more deeply on specific issues, such as the future of coal.  Our primary stakeholders are:
• Shareholders, prospective investors and lenders
• Customers, large and small
• AEP employees and retirees
• Labor unions
• Local communities
• Federal and state legislators, regulators, policymakers and other elected leaders
• Prospective employees
• Suppliers and others doing business with AEP
• Nongovernment organizations
• Professionals in industry, government, labor and academiaAEP Board of Directors
Left to right: Ralph D. Crosby, Jr., Lionel L. Nowell III, James F. Cordes, Linda A. Goodspeed, Dr. Donald M. Carlton, John F. Turner, Thomas E. Hoaglin, Sara Martinez 
Tucker, Dr. Lester A. Hudson, Jr., Dr. Kathryn D. Sullivan, E.R. Brooks, Dr. Richard L. Sandor, and Michael G. Morris.
Michael G. Morris
Age 63; Elected 2004Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
E, PThomas E. HoaglinColumbus, OhioAge 60; Elected 2007
Retired Chairman and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  Huntington Bancshares, Inc.D, E, H, PE.R. BrooksGranbury, Texas Age 72; Elected 2000
Retired Chairman and  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  
Central and  
South West Corp.
A, D, P Dr. Donald M. CarltonAustin, TexasAge 72; Elected 2000
Retired President and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  
Radian International, LLC  
H, N, P James F. CordesThe Woodlands, TexasAge 69; Elected 2009
Retired Executive  
Vice President,  
The Coastal Corp. 
H, P Ralph D. Crosby, Jr.McLean, Va.Age 62; Elected 2006
Chairman and retired  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  
Eads North America, Inc. 
H, N, P Linda A. GoodspeedFranklin, Tenn.Age 48; Elected 2005
Vice President, 
Information Systems,Nissan North AmericaA, N, P
Committees of The Board:  
The chairman is listed in (  ).  
A – Audit (Nowell) 
D – Directors and Corporate  
 Governance (Hoaglin)  
E – Executive (Morris)  
F – Finance (Sandor)
H – Human Resources (Hudson) 
N – Nuclear Oversight (Sullivan) 
P – Policy (Carlton)Dr. Lester A. Hudson, Jr.  
Charlotte, N.C.Age 70; Elected 1987Professor, McColl School  
of Business, Queens  
University of CharlotteD, E, H, PLionel L. Nowell III Cos Cob, Conn.Age 55; Elected 2004Retired Senior Vice  
President and Treasurer,
Pepsico, Inc.
A, D, E, F, P Dr. Richard L. SandorChicago, Ill.Age 68; Elected 2000Chairman, Chicago  
Climate Exchange, Inc.
E, F, P Dr. Kathryn D. Sullivan
Columbus, OhioAge 58; Elected 1997Director, Battelle Center  
for Mathematics and  
Science Education Policy, John Glenn School of  
Public Affairs,  
The Ohio State UniversityF, N, P Sara Martinez TuckerSan Francisco, Calif.Age 55; Elected 2009Former Undersecretary,U.S. Department of  
Education, and former President and Chief  
Executive Ofﬁcer,Hispanic Scholarship FundD, F, PJohn F. TurnerMoose, Wyo.Age 68; Elected 2008Managing Partner,Triangle X Ranch,  
and former Assistant Secretary, U.S.  
State DepartmentA, N, P
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 9www.AEPsustainability.comAEP generates, transmits and distributes 
electricity to businesses and homeowners through an interconnected system that operates in several regions of the country. We also sell power to the wholesale 
electricity market, including other utilities, 
municipalities and cooperatives. The rates we charge customers are set by state and federal regulators and are primarily based on the cost of operating the system to provide this service. The rate-setting process gives us the opportunity to earn a reasonable return for our shareholders 
on prudently incurred investments and to 
recover our expenses.  One of our central business challenges 
is to meet our obligation to serve while obtaining recovery of our operating and capital costs — for fuel, environmental 
compliance, energy efficiency programs, labor, construction and other costs — as 
soon as possible and to earn returns that  
are acceptable to our shareholders. In 
recent years, we have succeeded in recovering costs in a more timely manner through approximately 100 rate adjustment mechanisms approved by regulators across our 11 states. These mechanisms increase our revenues to cover our costs and improve our cash flow. 
 In order to keep up with customer 
demand, comply with government 
environmental mandates, and improve the efficiency and reliability of our system, we invest in new or replacement equipment and technology. Our capital investments constitute a large part of our business and financial condition. Our financial success 
is based on our ability to obtain capital on 
favorable terms, which in turn depends on access to the capital markets, the strength of our credit ratings, and prudent management of our balance sheet.  Much of our capital investment is 
related to environmental protection. We are nearing completion of a $5.4 billion environmental program to retrofit nearly 
three-quarters of our coal-fired power plants 
with controls to reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO
2) emissions 
to comply with the Clean Air Act Title IV regulations, the NOx State Implementation Plan, and the Clean Air Interstate Rule. As a result, our SO
2 and NOx emissions 
are at their lowest levels in two decades. We are also developing advanced coal technologies, including carbon capture and storage, to meet anticipated carbon 
emissions mandates, and are investing in 
“smart grid” technologies to improve the efficiency and operational abilities of our system and to give customers more control over their energy use. In general, we consider our overall financial performance to be successful if we  
can provide a reasonable rate of return to  our shareholders, receive timely and appro-priate cost recovery from regulators, and keep electricity affordable for our customers. 
2009 OVERVIEW
AEP had good financial results in 2009, despite the effects of the recession and abnormal weather. During the year, we initiated steps to reduce debt, maintain strong credit ratings, ensure access to 
capital markets, control costs and improve 
our cash flows.   Our GAAP (Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles) earnings per share totaled $2.96. Our debt ratio improved from 62.5 percent of total capitalization at the end of 2008 to 57 .2 percent at year-end 2009. This debt-to-capital ratio improve- 
ment was due to a $1.6 billion equity offer-
ing, debt reduction, and enhanced discipline in our capital expenditure program. Shareholders earned a 10.4 percent 
total return (including reinvested dividends) on their overall investment in 2009. AEP and the electric utility sector did not perform as well as the broader market last year, but our 
10 / Business Performance: FinancialEARNINGS PER SHARE (GAAP)     
 
$2.73 $3.43  
$2.96 
 2007  2008  2009Includes $ 0.42 
dilutive effect  
of additional shares  
issued April 2009Business Performance:
 Financial
TOTAL DEBT  / CAPITALIZATION (GAAP)    
 59.1% 57.2% 59.1% 60.7%  62.5% 
57.2%
 2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009company and the overall market showed 
dramatic improvement from the unfavorable returns of 2008.  AEP’s contribution to local economies 
is important, especially during difficult 
economic times. In most communities 
where we operate power plants, for example, we are the largest or among the largest employers, and these communities benefit from the substantial tax revenue we provide. At the end of 2009, we employed 21,673 across our system, and we paid $901 million in federal, state and local taxes. 
THE IMPACT OF THE RECESSION
Our revenues come from three primary  components: 1) customer electricity usage, 2) retail customer electric rates, and  3) wholesale off-system sales.  The recession hit many of our 
customers hard in 2009, particularly our industrial customers, and resulted in lower sales for the year. Despite our customer counts remaining stable, we experienced a  moderate decline in residential and com-
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 11www.AEPsustainability.com
Miles of overhead and underground  
distribution lines in 11 states 
21 5,800Million customers in  
11 states
5.2   Years AEP has been paying  
dividends 
1 00Total circuit miles  
of 765-kV transmission lines 
2, 1 1 6
mercial sales from 2008 but much sharper decreases in industrial sales, which were off 16 percent. Half of that decline was the result of cutbacks or shutdowns for 10 of  our largest metal-producing customers. 
In addition, our sales of electricity in the 
wholesale market dropped by approximately half in 2009. The recession adversely affected our 
fuel inventory costs and related carrying costs. When our power plants run less than we plan during the year, we often end up with an imbalance between the fuel we 
bought and what we need. Our primary fuel 
is coal, and our coal consumption declined 14 percent from 2008. This caused coal inventories to increase beyond what was needed at our power plants, particularly at our coal plants in the eastern part of our service territory, where demand was down the most. We worked with our coal suppliers to better match deliveries with 
consumption in the future. 
 Weather was also a factor. Cooler than 
normal summer weather affected sales as customers needed less electricity for air conditioning. Damage to our system from storms, although generally recoverable in rates, also was significant. The effect of the recession varied 
from one region to another, which in turn affected our operating companies differently. In our AEP East states, where we serve approximately 3.3 million customers, eco-nomic output declined 5 percent, sending the unemployment rate into double digits. Residential and commercial kilowatt-hour (kWh) sales declined from 2008, even after 
adjusting for weather. Revenues were up 
because of rate increases associated with fuel and capital investments. None of the eight largest industrial sectors we serve in this region increased their electricity use in 2009. Our AEP East footprint consists of portions of Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.   In our AEP West footprint, where we 
serve 1.9 million customers, the impacts varied. AEP Texas, a wires-only business, had lower residential and commercial kWh 
JOE HAMROCK 
President & chief operating officer, AEP Ohio 
“After more than 100 years of serving our customers and returning dividends to our shareholders, we continue to 
adapt to the changing needs of all stakeholders. Today, more than ever, innovation is at the core of AEP’s ability  
to meet the rapidly changing needs of modern society. Through game-changing initiatives such as the Mountaineer carbon capture and storage project and our gridSMART
SM programs, the men and women of AEP are finding new 
ways to meet customer needs with ever cleaner and more reliable methods of producing and delivering electricity.”Lower demand in the retail and wholesale 
markets also resulted in excessive coal inventories and a 50 percent reduction in off-system sales volumes — the electricity 
we sell in the wholesale power market. 
UTILITY OPERATIONS
Utility Operations account for most of AEP’s business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to retail and wholesale customers and others. Income from Utility Operations 
(before discontinued operations and extra-
ordinary loss) increased from $1.1 billion in 2008 to $1.3 billion in 2009 primarily due to rate increases that reflect increased capital investment to provide electricity to our customers. The weak economy, higher depreciation expense, lower customer usage, and higher interest expense due to 
the additional debt we issued partially offset 
the increase. 
AEP RIVER OPERATIONS
Our River Operations business transports coal and dry bulk commodities primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi rivers. It is the second-largest full service, dry-bulk carrier in the nation. AEP River Operations’ 
commercial income decreased from  
$55 million in 2008 to $47 million in 2009 primarily due to lower rates and volumes resulting from a weak import market.  In 2009, our fleet of 2,984 barges,  to maintain the reliability of the system, comply with environmental regulations and cover increases in operating expenses. As these costs are recognized by our operating 
companies, we routinely file rate cases in 
each jurisdiction to earn a fair return on our investments and recover our costs. We received incremental rate increases 
in 2009 totaling $725 million for investments made and costs incurred across most juris-dictions. Our regulatory risk is diversified because we operate in multiple jurisdictions. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In 2009, our net income (before discon-tinued operations and extraordinary loss) was $1.370 billion compared with $1.376 billion in 2008. We ended 2009 with a cash balance of $490 million versus $411 million  
at the end of 2008, primarily as the result  
of favorable tax treatments. We issued  $2.3 billion in long-term debt to pay for  our 2008 draws on credit facilities, fund  our construction program and refinance debt maturities. These refinancings, combined with our issuance of 69 million shares of common stock, supported our 
investment-grade ratings and increased  
our financial flexibility. We raised more than $4 billion in  
debt and equity capital and kept our capital  
expenditures within our $2.5 billion budget, excluding allowances for funds used during construction, which represented a 38 per-cent decrease from 2008 capital spending. We expect to reduce total system capital 
expenditures in 2010 to $2.2 billion. 
Investing capital to build infrastructure, in excess of annual depreciation, increases  our earnings potential. The weak economy and weather-
related loss of customer demand resulted in a revenue decrease of $265 million in 2009. consumption in 2009 but higher revenues due to rate increases. While industrial kWh consumption was down nearly 5 percent  in Texas, the largest sector — petroleum 
refineries — was up slightly from 2008. 
 Southwestern Electric Power Co. 
(which operates in Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma had mixed impacts from the 
recession. Residential and commercial kWh 
consumption was higher in 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, and rate increases caused nonfuel revenue growth to out-pace growth in kWh sales. Industrial sales fell 16 percent, however. The decline in electricity consumption 
and other factors had a positive environ-
mental benefit. Our emissions of carbon 
dioxide, SO
2 and NOx in 2009 were all 
lower than in 2008.
CUSTOMER RATES & COST RECOVERY
In the traditional utility model, a company such as AEP invests capital and operates fixed assets in order to provide electric service. In return, the utility is allowed to earn a reasonable rate of return on its 
investment while recovering its expenses on 
a timely basis. Rate increases are essential 
12 / Business Performance: FinancialLIQUIDITY SUMMARY (in millions)  
  Amount  * Maturity  
Revolving Credit Facility  $1,500  March 2 011
Revolving Credit Facility  $1,454  April 2 012
Revolving Credit Facility  $627  April 2 011 
Total Credit Facilities   $3,581  
Plus 
AEP, Inc. cash and investments  $490   
Less     
Commercial Paper Outstanding  ($119)
Letters of credit issued  ($568)    
Net Available Liquidity  $3,384 
*Actual Dec.  31, 2009   CONSOLIDATED INCOME  
BEFORE DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
& EXTRAORDINARY LOSS (in millions)     
 
$1,153 $1,376 $1,370 
 2007  2008  2009Income Before  
Discontinued Operations & Extraordinary Loss decreased $6 million in 20092010 PROJECTED CAPITAL
INVESTMENT  (in million s) 
Corporate $74 Distribution $689
  
New  
Generation  
$253  
 
 Other
Environmental Generation
$320  $484
Transmission $360
Excludes AFUDC and Joint Venture Transmission Projectsin 2008 of $164 million in after-tax income 
from a litigation settlement of a purchase power and sale agreement.  
2010 OUTLOOK
As the economies in our service territories improve, we expect our retail and wholesale sales to recover as well.   One of our main objectives in 2010 
is to obtain rate increases that are fair to 
both our shareholders and our customers. 
We are seeking rate relief of approximately $320 million across our system this year; by the end of 2009, we had already received approval for half of that amount.  We anticipate our Board of Directors 
will declare our 400th consecutive quarterly dividend in April 2010, marking 100 years of 
paying dividends to our shareholders. 
 We are committed to maintaining our 
credit quality and managing our liquidity conservatively. In 2010, we intend to access the debt capital markets for approximately $1.2 billion and renew our $1.5 billion core credit facility that is due in March 2011.  We are disciplined about our capital 
and operations and maintenance spending. 
We are moving forward in a financially 
responsible way, recognizing there are many demands and limited resources. As part of our commitment, we have initiated a cost 
reduction program that includes reducing 
our work force by up to 10 percent. We anticipate spending $2.2 billion in 
capital in 2010, including approximately  $1.4 billion on our base operations. The capital program is highlighted by the following initiatives:
• New Generation ($253 million): Completion of the Stall Plant in Louisiana and continued construction of the Turk  Plant in Arkansas;
• Environmental ($320 million): This includes scrubber projects at our Amos Plant in West Virginia and Conesville Plant in Ohio, and associated projects such as landfills, among other projects;
• Transmission ($360 million): $240 million will be invested in our operating companies and approximately $120 million through our new transmis-sion company, AEP Transmission, which 
will operate within our existing retail 
service areas; 
• gridSMARTSM ($95 million): 
Investments will be primarily related to projects in Ohio, Texas and Oklahoma.
 n66 towboats and 22 harbor boats delivered more than 70 million tons of cargo, of which  
32.8 million tons were commercial and  37.5 million tons were coal and consum-ables for our power plants. This compared 
with more than 33.9 million tons of com-
mercial freight and 35.3 million tons for the power plants in 2008.
GENERATION & MARKETING
Our Generation and Marketing business includes nonutility generating assets and a competitive power supply and energy trading and marketing business. Income decreased from $65 million in 2008 to  
$41 million in 2009 mainly due to lower 
gross margins at the Oklaunion Power Station in Texas. This reflects lower power prices in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas region and decreased generation from our wind farms. 
ALL OTHER BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Income from all other business operations (before discontinued operations and extra-ordinary loss) decreased from $133 million in 2008 to a loss of $47 million in 2009. Part of this disparity was due to the receipt 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 13www.AEPsustainability.com
UTILITY REVENUES BY CLASS (in millions)    
$3,991 $4,267  $4,405  
$2,906 
$3,116 
$3,171
 
 2007  2008  2009  2007  2008  2009
  Residential    Commercial
 $2,674  $2,954  $2,630 
$2,148 $2,748  
$1,849
 
 2007  2008  2009  2007  2008  2009
  Industrial    Wholesale Having the real-time reporting means I can actively monitor which 
items in my house are the worst energy consumers and do something 
about them, right there.  ” Paul Ross, gridSMARTSM pilot participant, South Bend, Ind.“
14 / Business Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthBusiness Performance:
 Energy Security, Reliability & Growthrates for customers as we scramble 
to secure power in a tight market. Overestimating demand could burden customers with paying for unneeded and underused infrastructure. 
 Planning for long-term generation is 
complicated by the potential for legislative 
and regulatory actions on climate change (see Climate Change). We are uncertain about these possibilities and related future costs. Current environmental regulations are also in a state of flux and could change the way we produce or transmit electricity. It is 
therefore difficult to determine with certainty 
whether we can meet future demand with our own generation or will need a combination of our own generation and electricity we purchase. We are developing tools that will 
help inform this planning process. One component of our gridSMART
SM initiative 
will allow us to evaluate our infrastructure needs from the power plant to the customer meter. This technology, known as a virtual power plant, helps us to better understand 
what we will need if we are to deploy a 
robust smart grid system. It also will allow us to modernize the grid cost-effectively by showing us what we need or don’t need. We already have some generation 
projects under way that anticipate a lower-carbon future, including the 600-megawatt (MW) John W. Turk Jr. ultra-supercritical 
coal plant under construction in southwest Arkansas, which is scheduled to be in service by late 2012. The plant was energy security. This foundation is being built through our gridSMART
SM initiative, 
construction of power plants, diversification of our resources and investments in trans- mission and advanced coal technologies. 
ENERGY SECURITY 
Ensuring an adequate supply of energy at any given time requires determining the  demand for power today, anticipating short- term demand in the days and weeks ahead,  
and predicting long-term demand in the 
years to come. The stakes are high in 
getting this right because of the significant capital and construction costs of new power plants and transmission and distribution systems, not to mention the time it takes for siting new infrastructure and getting regulatory support for cost recovery. Underestimating future demand could 
create power constraints and higher  2009  OPERATING COMPANY 
EARNINGS CONTRIBUTIONS  
Kentucky Power 2% Ohio Power 22%
PSO 5%  
Others 6% 
Texas  CSP 
7% 20%
 
SWEPCO 
9%
Appalachian  Indiana 
Power Company  Michigan Power
13%  16%
CSP (Columbus Southern Power)
PSO (Public Service Company of Oklahoma)
SWEPCO (Southwestern Electric Power Co.)Our business is to produce electricity and 
deliver it over high-voltage power lines to lower-voltage lines that transport it to our customers. We have a responsibility to deliver electricity to our 5.2 million homes 
and businesses safely, reliably and cost 
effectively. While the system we operate is complex and aging, it is vital to the economy and to our quality of life. Demand for electricity is growing 
despite energy efficiency programs, largely due to population growth and the rising number of electronic appliances, industrial 
equipment and other devices that people 
rely on for everything from entertainment to health care. Although the pace of growth has slowed due to the recession, we must plan for these needs. As the demand for electricity increases, so does the expectation that we will deliver power wherever and whenever it is wanted. We  invest significant resources in equipment 
and processes to meet that expectation. 
 We use a variety of fuels to reduce 
emissions and to ensure reliability. Coal is our primary fuel because it is a low-cost, abundant, reliable and secure domestic resource that is often located near our power plants. We also use nuclear, wind, hydro, natural gas, biomass and solar 
power to generate electricity. 
 We have begun to lay the foundation 
to transform our energy delivery system to emit fewer emissions, improve efficiency and reliability, give customers more control  over their usage and costs, and ensure Approximate number of customer  
calls handled each day 
50,000 Million times customers  
logged in to conduct business online
2Consumption of natural gas  
in billions of cubic feet in 2009 
96Customers in AEP Ohio’s gridSMARTSM 
Demonstration Project 
1 1 0,000 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 15www.AEPsustainability.comdesigned to allow for the future installation 
of carbon capture and storage technology. Read more about this plant in Climate Change. Work also continues on the J. Lamar Stall Plant, a 500-MW natural gas 
combined-cycle facility in Shreveport, La., 
that will begin operation in 2010. Our use of natural gas has steadily increased as our gas generation has grown; we consume approximately 100 billion cubic feet per year. Between 2005 and the end of 2010, we will have added 4,600 MW of natural gas to our system, further diversifying our fuel mix. 
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission (FERC) granted a 30-year extension 
of the license for the Smith Mountain 586-MW pumped storage hydroelectric plant on the Roanoke River in Virginia in December 2009. We worked closely with area groups, communities and regulators to address concerns about water level, shore erosion, sediment and endangered species.  
Hydroelectric power is an important part  
of our resource base; we operate 16 hydro- electric plants plus Smith Mountain’s pumped storage facility on six rivers in five states, generating approximately 1,549 gigawatt hours (GWh) each year. Approximately 940 GWh of that is free of carbon emissions. 
 Energy security is increasingly 
important as we become a more energy-dependent nation and seek to guard 
ourselves against the threat of intentional harm. Like all other utilities, AEP is subject to new grid reliability and security 
compliance standards enacted by the 
North American Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC), which has been designated by the FERC to ensure grid security. About two-thirds of our power lines and nearly half of our substations are subject to NERC regulations. Although the bulk of NERC standards apply to our Transmission operations, our Generation, Shared Services 
and Commercial Operations business units 
are also subject to NERC oversight. NERC has identified three areas of high 
risk to the grid: managing the growth of trees or shrubs that could cause outages; system protection and controls, such as maintaining relays, batteries and related equipment critical to the grid; and Critical 
Infrastructure Protection (CIP). CIP entails 
ensuring that critical installations such as control centers and substations are secure from tampering or unintentional damage. New CIP standards went into effect Jan.1,  2010, that significantly increase the number  
of AEP facilities subject to stricter compli-
ance from a handful to approximately 100.  
For example, these new standards require  more controlled access to critical facilities and stricter controls on the ability to man-age certain transmission assets remotely. The intent is to prevent either intentional or unintentional actions that could compromise the nation’s bulk power system.  
 We self-reported grid security-related 
compliance violations that occurred in  
2009 to NERC and expect to pay fines of less than $100,000. Our chairman has since emphasized to all employees the importance of maintaining the security of the bulk power system. If we fail, we could jeopardize system reliability, create financial risk, affect other regions of the country and 
harm our reputation. 
 As we add advanced communications 
capabilities to our system, grid security becomes a more significant and challeng-ing issue. Using U.S. Department of  
Energy (DOE) grant money from the Ohio gridSMART
SM project, we plan to develop 
a Cyber Security Operations Center, the first of its kind in the industry. It will correlate multisource public and private 
16 / Business Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & GrowthHELEN MURRAY
President & chief operating officer, Indiana Michigan Power Co.
“Today’s customers have higher expectations for the reliability and security of energy delivery systems, and that 
means we must find creative solutions. The gridSMARTSM project implemented in South Bend, Ind., is an excellent 
example of how innovative ideas will help us meet customer expectations now and in the future.” 
UTILITY CAPITAL INVESTMENTS (in millions)   
$3,522 $3,914  $3,852  
$2,393 
$2,044 
$1,961 
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011
     (est.) (est.)2009  RETAIL LOAD  
Wholesale* 11%  Residential 32%
 
Commercial  
27%   
  
 
 Industrial  30%
* Wholesale includes sales to municipal and cooperative power    
 systems, other wholesale, and miscellaneous retail salesdata and provide threat and risk mitigation 
information. The data will allow us to identify system vulnerabilities and help prevent network exploitation. We conduct spot checks of our  
NERC-related compliance, meet with managers regularly and provide training to all employees to help ensure compliance with NERC rules. Our recent efforts to enhance grid  
security include co-founding the Transmission Forum, which will develop transmission security and operations 
standards, identify best practices and 
provide support to members in a manner similar to what the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations does for the nuclear energy industry.
ENERGY GROWTH
AEP remains committed to developing an extra-high voltage (EHV) transmission “superhighway” that would facilitate the movement of power among regions of the country. This system would reduce 
congestion and costs and enable the 
transmission of renewable power such as wind and solar from where it is generated to where it is needed. We believe that widespread use of renewable energy depends on the ability of the transmission system to transport it.  One way we are tackling this is 
through a collaborative effort to develop a master plan for transmission that supports the development of renewable energy in the Midwest and enables its delivery to consumers. Electric Transmission America (ETA), a joint venture between AEP and MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., along with five other utilities and transmission operators have begun a comprehensive 
study of the transmission system in the upper Midwest. Called the Strategic 
Midwest Area Transmission Study, it will identify the transmission needed to harvest the vast clean energy resources in areas 
such as Minnesota, the Dakotas and Iowa.
 Phase 1 of the study focuses on 
determining the most reliable alternatives based on predetermined metrics. It will be completed this spring. Phase 2 will measure 
the economic and societal benefits and is due to be completed this summer.  The  sponsors of the study believe that 
an EHV transmission network in the upper 
Midwest will provide significant economic, 
environmental and reliability benefits by ensuring access to new generation sources and strengthening the transmission system in the heart of the nation. This study is part of a process we started in 2008 to develop an EHV transmission system in that region. We formed a wholly owned trans-
mission company to facilitate capital investment within our service areas. The AEP Transmission Co. (AEP Transco) will  construct, own and operate only new trans-mission assets. By setting up a separate company with its own capital structure, we will relieve some of the financing burden on our operating companies because the transmission company ultimately will be able 
to finance transmission projects on its own. The transmission company already has filed 
a proposed rate structure with the FERC.  AEP’s Transco is just one part of  
our transmission strategy. We have  entered into several joint ventures with  other utilities, including two joint ventures with MidAmerican Energy, ETA and  Electric Transmission Texas (ETT ), to  
build transmission.   Although the Potomac-Appalachian 
Transmission Highline project, a joint venture with Allegheny Energy, had filed permits with Maryland, West Virginia and Virginia for permission to build the line, we withdrew the Virginia request in January 2010 based on new information from the regional 
transmission operator, PJM Interconnection. 
The grid operator said that preliminary studies showed the line would not be needed in 2014, as originally planned, because of reduced demand brought on by the recession and energy efficiency projects. We plan to resubmit the request when the results of PJM’s formal planning process warrant the line. 
ENERGY RELIABILITY
Our electric generation and delivery  systems must be modern, reliable and able to handle diverse fuels and technologies.  They also must be able to keep up with customer demand.  
 Overall reliability, as recorded by the 
average number and duration of sustained 
outages on our distribution system, improved systemwide in 2009. Rather than focusing on single-year 
numbers, we have begun using a three-year rolling average, which evens out weather-related outages. We believe this is a more 
meaningful measure that better reflects 
changes in the overall status of the system. The three-year SAIFI average was 1.470 in 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 17www.AEPsustainability.com18 / Business Performance: Energy Security, Reliability & Growth2009, compared with 1.526 in 2008. The 
SAIDI average was 198.1 in 2009 versus 201.0 the previous year. Distribution — the infrastructure and  
the processes that deliver electricity 
from high-voltage transmission lines to 
customers’ homes and businesses — 
continues to improve as we develop better tools and processes to manage our system. Several challenges remain, however. AEP is more than 100 years old, and 
many of our assets are at or near the end of their useful and depreciable life. For 
example, we have more than 5 million 
distribution poles in service, some of which are more than 40 years old, increasing the likelihood of failure when stressed by wind, snow or ice. To prevent this, we have a pole inspection program to continually evaluate the status of all distribution poles. In addition, 21 percent of our distribution station power transformers and 22 percent 
of our distribution line transformers are 
beyond their expected operational life. New, higher efficiency equipment is available that we will use to begin replacing these aging assets while also achieving demand and energy efficiency goals.  Our generation and transmission 
businesses face similar challenges as 
equipment ages.
 We conduct regular operational risk 
audits in our Generation business unit to assure equipment reliability, as well as inspecting, testing and monitoring equipment. However, at no time are we compromising safety and health. We also formed an aging asset task force to develop a long-term plan to address the issue in 
each state in our service territory. 
 New tools and processes enhance our 
ability to manage the system. For example, we began using a Line Equipment Analysis Device (LEAD), an electronic “sniffer” developed in our own labs, that detects interference caused by cracked insulation or other difficult-to-detect failures. Combined with GPS technology, this allows crews  
to check the status of equipment more 
easily and accurately by driving along our lines. The LEAD can find electrical “leaks”  that the human eye cannot, providing us with advance warning about potential imminent failure.  Preventive vegetation management is 
critical to reliability and is one of the most 
proactive measures we take to reduce 
interruptions. Public Service Company of Oklahoma and AEP Ohio adopted four- year trim cycles, and similar requests have been submitted for Kentucky Power, the Texas portion of SWEPCO and in Michigan. In the long run, scheduled tree trimming is more cost effective and provides greater reliability than simply responding to 
overgrown vegetation. Cutting vegetation 
once it is entangled in lines requires more time while increasing the risk of injury and customer outages.  Following an employee-led study of 
outages, we also adopted new maintenance procedures within breaker zones that should lead to increased reliability. The study team 
determined that breaker zones — the initial 
2-to-6-mile segment of a main line coming 
from a substation before it branches off —  
account for 35 percent of the sustained interruptions per customer because outages in those areas affect a large number of customers beyond the interruption. By better maintaining breaker zones, we have been able to improve reliability significantly 
for more customers.
 Early in 2010, ETT, a joint venture 
between AEP and MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., completed installation of a storage technology that will enhance grid reliability in Presidio, Texas, a small town on the Mexican border. The 4.8-MW sodium sulfur, or NaS, battery is part of a $67 million transmission project to improve 
grid performance in a remote portion of 
the state. This is the largest use of battery storage in the nation.  By the end of 2010, we will have 
installed a total of 11 MW of NaS battery storage in Indiana, Ohio, Texas and West Virginia. NaS battery technology provides up to eight hours of backup power in the event 
of a transmission failure and also improves 
power quality. However, NaS technology has become more expensive compared with other storage technologies and we do not plan further installations at this time. The Presidio battery and substation cost approximately $23 million. Future storage projects will center 
on community energy storage, which 
THREE-YEAR ROLLING AVERAGE  
SYSTEMWIDE RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE
  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  
SAIFI1 1.502  1.527  1.547  1.526  1.470
SAIDI2 210.8  202.9  198.9  201.0  198.1 
1 System Average Interruption Frequency Index is the 
average number of interruptions a customer experiences.
2 System Average Interruption Duration Index is the average outage duration for each customer served.
AEP engineer Jason McCullough holds a patent  
on the LEAD fault detector.2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 19www.AEPsustainability.com
uses lithium-ion battery technology. That 
technology is expected to become  less expensive as the batteries become  widely used in Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEV). Read more about this  
in Climate Change.
GRIDSMARTSM
AEP launched an initiative called 
gridSMARTSM in 2007. It is designed to give 
customers greater control over their energy usage and ultimately their bills; improve the  efficiency of the electric grid; reduce overall  demand, energy consumption and emissions;  
and improve customer service and internal efficiencies. The technology is still in the pilot stage, but we expect to achieve all of our goals once it is fully deployed.  The initial gridSMART
SM pilot began in 
2009 in South Bend, Ind., and confirmed much of what we expected. Among the major insights we learned:
• The technology that allows AEP to manage its grid from our back office systems, such as billing, to the meter  and distribution field equipment works. But the technology that goes beyond  
the meter into the customer’s home is  
still evolving.
• Customers who participated in the time-of-day rate plan did shift their demand to different times, as expected. 
• Cost savings from better system man-agement, fewer crew trips, reduced fuel consumption, better theft detection and streamlined billing are being achieved.
• During the cooling season, customers who volunteered allowed us to raise the temperature in their homes using a programmable, communicating thermostat, demonstrating that we can 
control customer usage directly between 
the meter and the home through wire-less technology.
• Greater education of consumers will be needed in future projects. 
 The year-long South Bend pilot involved 
approximately 10,000 meters and was to end after the 2009 cooling season, but  
it has been extended to include the 2010 
cooling season because of some early technical problems. A larger and more comprehensive 
gridSMART
SM demonstration project 
involves 110,000 customers in central Ohio. Paid for in part with a $75 million grant from the DOE, the $150 million project will include smart meters, distribution automation equip-
ment to better manage the grid, community 
energy storage devices, smart appliances and home energy management systems, a new cyber security center, PHEVs, and installation of utility-activated control technologies that will reduce demand and energy consumption without requiring customers to take action. 
 This technology is known as integrated 
voltage/VaR control, a form of voltage con-
trol that allows the grid to operate more  efficiently. By controlling voltage more accurately, we estimate that we can reduce demand by approximately 2 percent  to 3 percent, and energy that is needed to serve existing customer loads by 3 percent 
to 4 percent. This allows us to achieve both 
demand and energy reduction goals.  Meter installation began in December 
2009, and installation of utility-activated voltage/VaR control technologies and distribution automation equipment will begin this year.  Working with major appliance man-
ufacturers, we are also testing smart appliances — devices that react to signals 
from the grid about price and demand —  
in our Dolan Laboratory in Groveport, Ohio. In the Ohio pilot, we will deploy smart appliances in select homes to determine how they work. Based on the parameters that the homeowner sets, the dishwasher may not run until 7 p.m., after the demand 
for power has decreased, or the refrigerator may postpone a defrost cycle until the evening, when demand  — and prices  — are 
lower. Smart appliances have the potential to help residential customers save energy and money and for utilities to save fuel and reduce emissions.  PHEVs, which many expect to be 
widely used in the future, will also be part of the Ohio pilot. Read about gridSMART
SM 
initiatives in Oklahoma and Texas at  
www.AEPsustainability.com . 
 Our gridSMARTSM initiatives support 
our goal to install 5 million smart meters in our service areas by 2015. This goal will be impossible to achieve without regulatory support in all states. However, we believe 
this initiative is critical to modernizing the 
electricity delivery system, reducing demand and changing how customers use electricity. Therefore, we will continue to deploy these technologies where regulators are supportive.
 n
AEP is using Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles to 
validate their performance and see how they will affect our system.20 / Business Performance: Public Policy
Business Performance:
 Public Policy
 We are the most imaginative people in the industry and the cost  
of energy is one of, if not the most important, cost in doing business these 
days. We must stay competitive in this world or we cannot survive. We need a fair playing field with all other businesses in order to compete.  ” Ed Kersey, manager, Pratt Paper plant, Shreveport, La.“Our business is regulated at the federal, 
state and local levels and is therefore heavily influenced by public policy. We need regulatory approval for the rates we charge, the investments we make, the projects we 
undertake, the programs and services we 
can offer to customers, and the actions we must take to protect the environment. For these reasons, we are actively engaged in Washington, D.C., in the 11 state capitals covering our service territory and in the communities where our facilities are located. We strive to work closely with regulators, 
legislators, environmental agencies, and 
environmental and consumer groups. Our involvement includes lobbying activities as well as relationship building at all levels. On the national level, global climate 
change and energy policy are our top public policy issues because of their potentially far- reaching effects. We are also active in our  states on a wide range of issues: building 
support for investments in our system, poten- 
tial nuclear power expansion, renewable energy, transmission siting, eminent domain, smart grid deployment, energy efficiency, and legislation that would enable new technol- ogies such as carbon capture and storage. The recession played a key role in 
policy development during 2009, and 
the expectation that customer rates will 
be higher continued to be a concern in our states. The cost of electricity is increasing due to the need to modernize our infrastructure, the age of much of our transmission and distribution equipment, the need for new plants to meet growing 
customer demand, higher fuel costs and 
environmental compliance.  We work with utility commissions and 
state legislatures on policies and regulatory actions that allow us to be as cost-effective and efficient as possible while recovering our costs in a timely and fair manner. State regulators approved $725 million in rate increases in 2009 to address this. These 
rate increases, while necessary, can cause 
difficulty for our customers, and we work hard to find ways to reduce the burden. 
ALTERNATIVE REGULATION
The electric utility industry requires large amounts of investment to maintain and improve service. AEP is no exception. The Brattle Group, a leading energy think tank, estimates that the industry will spend  $1.5 trillion for capital improvements from 2010 to 2030, not including the cost to address carbon emissions. Our challenge is that we have limited 
resources to meet our financial obligations and our duty to serve our customers. As equipment on our system ages, it will have to be replaced. Environmental mandates also require significant investment, and that could lead to some coal plant retirements. In addition, power reserves — the additional 
capacity needed to cover an abnormally high peak load or provide power to a 
neighboring region — are shrinking across 
the country. The North American Electric 
Reliability Corp. projects that, by 2018, all regions of the country will have fallen below these requirements, and investment is needed to address that capacity shortage.  U.S. electricity demand is growing 
at a slower pace due to the recession 
and improvements in appliance and 
building efficiencies. At the same time, the proliferation of new electricity-consuming devices in home, commercial and industrial applications continues to grow. We expect our customers’ energy consumption to grow modestly in 2010 as the economy 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 21www.AEPsustainability.com
Corporate political contributions  
in 2009  
$229,500 Lobbying portion of trade association 
dues paid in 2009 (in millions)
$1 .2  Approximate number of rate trackers 
in place in our 11 states  
1 00Million megawatt-hours energy 
consumption saved by 2012 
2.25 
CHANGE IN ANNUAL NET INTERNAL SUMMER DEMAND  — CONTIGUOUS U.S.  (in megawatts)  
  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  
Net Internal Demand   692,908  746,470  776,479  766,786  744,151  
Change from Previous Year  – 0.6%  7.73%  4.02%  – 1.25%  – 2.95%  
Source: Energy Information Administration, Electric Power Annual 2008,  January 2010For Ed Kersey at Pratt Paper, the cost of energy is 
one of his most important business considerations.22 / Business Performance: Public Policyrecovers. Energy efficiency programs will 
help offset some of that growth.  Increased investment inevitably leads 
to increased rates. Alternative ratemaking (as opposed to the traditional model) is one 
way we are addressing rising costs. The 
traditional utility model required us to build and operate the infrastructure and then wait for a state utility commission to determine if we could recover costs. This process created financial hardship for three reasons: a) capital costs became exponentially more expensive than they used to be, making 
up-front costs prohibitive; b) the time 
between construction and cost recovery is too long for us to carry those costs; and, c) the possibility that the commission may not approve recovery of any or all of our investment and financial costs was too high a risk for us to bear. These factors made the overall cost of capital too high for us, our shareholders and our customers. We 
cannot keep up with needed improvements 
under the traditional approach. We have been working with regulators 
to develop alternative regulatory frameworks and are already using a number of them. While we support some, we have concerns about others. For a complete list of alternative regulations under consideration, 
go to 
www.AEPsustainability.com .  ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Energy efficiency continues to be a high 
priority for many of our stakeholders and is increasingly important to us. We believe that energy efficiency can be a cost-effective tool for managing demand and reducing energy 
consumption, which creates environmental 
benefits and helps delay the need for new power plants.  When we began conversations with 
stakeholders about energy efficiency four years ago, we did not have a policy or principles to guide us, and programs were in place only in those states with mandates. 
We have since set goals to reduce demand 
and energy consumption by the end of 2012 that led to initiatives within each of our operating companies to assure success. Consequently, we have seen our investments in energy efficiency increase from approximately $13 million in 2008 to a projected $110 million in 2010. We now have a dedicated energy efficiency manager 
in each operating company responsible  
for achieving energy efficiency goals, and  we are working with regulators and others to develop and implement programs.  For example:
• In Texas, we are committed to offset 20 percent of the annual load growth in our service territory, along with a com-mensurate reduction in energy usage.
• In Ohio, our energy efficiency programs will reduce annual energy consumption, starting at 0.3 percent of retail sales in  2010 and increasing to 2 percent in 2019. 
• In Indiana, our energy savings goals start at 0.3 percent of retail sales in 2010 and increase to 2 percent in 2019.
• In Michigan, we are participating with the state’s energy efficiency program administrator to reduce energy sales. The goals start at 0.3 percent of retail sales in 2009 and ramp up to 1 percent in 2012.
• In Virginia, our goal is a 10 percent cumulative reduction of baseline retail sales by 2022.
• In West Virginia, energy efficiency is an eligible source to help meet the state’s alternative renewable energy requirement.
 A state-by-state breakdown of 
energy efficiency programs, goals and 
savings achieved is available at 
www.
AEPsustainability.com .
 We recognize that more progress 
is expected in the long term, and we are 
balancing what may be desirable with what practically can be achieved. We have 
completed market potential studies and 
some of the states we serve are finalizing rules regarding energy efficiency, including cost recovery mechanisms. While our initial energy efficiency goals are a good start, we know that we will need to stretch to achieve even better results in the future.  We are working with regulators to 
ensure that we can recover our energy efficiency investments in rates. So far, we are having good success. We seek approval for three main components when investing in energy efficiency programs: program costs, net lost revenues and an appropriate return on investment.
TRANSMISSION
As global climate change challenges the electric industry and our nation, the role of transmission has been at the forefront of the debate but without resolution. The grid must be transformed soon to ensure that 
energy delivery, including renewable energy, 
is efficient, cost-effective and reliable.  The existing transmission system, 
while functional, is challenged to meet the current demands on the grid and bring large quantities of renewable energy, such TRACK RECORD OF RATE RELIEF (in millions)   
 $450 
$352 
$527 $659  
$320  $340 
     
$153     
$167   
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011
     (est.)  (est.)
• Secured  • Pendin g/Future
Note: Rate relief in this chart excludes revenues 
with offsetting costas wind and solar, from where it can be 
produced most economically to where it is needed. As demand and availability for renewable energy grows, the grid’s limitations become more apparent. At the 
same time, emerging technologies such 
as plug-in electric vehicles and the growth of low-emission power generation further challenge the electric delivery system. Today’s U.S. grid operates transmis-
sion from as low as 23 kilovolts to as high as 765 kilovolts. This indicates the lack of consistent planning to meet the needs of 
every region of the country, including the 
ability to move power from region to region. Any expansion of the system will require more land for rights of way unless planners become more strategic. Siting continues to be a major public concern and an obstacle to upgrading the system. Our ability to be more strategic in our planning becomes increasingly critical if we are to eliminate 
economic disparities or prevent system 
reliability risks.  We have been a long-standing 
advocate for a robust and efficient extra-high voltage grid, one that is planned on the basis of comprehensive and consistent principles. We also support broader regional  
transmission planning and broad-based 
cost allocation. We recognize that wide-
spread cost allocation is controversial, but  we believe it will help create the most effi-cient and cost-effective electric grid. It will also better facilitate integration of renewable resources into our nation’s fuel portfolio.  Read more about our strategy, actions 
and vision for transmission on the Web at 
www.AEP.com/about/transmission .
Industry Activity
LOBBYING
Employee and contract lobbyists in our states and at the federal level advocate on our behalf on legislation that is important to business, leads to better public policy and best serves our customers’ interests. 
Many of the company’s lobbyists have been 
with AEP for many years. They understand our values and abide by our strict rules of ethics. All lobbying expenses are reported as required by law and are available on state and federal websites. According to reports filed with the Clerk of the U.S. House, AEP spent $7 ,297 ,245 lobbying at the federal 
level in 2009.
 We made a commitment in 2007 to 
publish the dues we pay to trade associa- tions that are allocated to their lobbying activities and the political contributions we make. We publish this information at 
www.
AEPsustainability.com . n
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 23www.AEPsustainability.com
STUART SOLOMON
President & chief operating officer, Public Service Company of Oklahoma 
“As a public utility that provides an absolutely essential service, we must be actively engaged with a wide  
number of stakeholders on public policy issues that impact our customers, our employees and our shareholders. 
AEP is committed to working collaboratively with all these parties to craft policies and solutions that benefit everyone. We recognize that if we want to achieve our strategies and goals, including meeting our obligations  
to serve our customers, we must be the leader in public policy dialogues at the local, state and federal levels  
— 
and we’re dedicated to making that happen.”
TRANSMISSION JOINT VENTURE INITIATIVES  (estimated cost in thousands)  
Project  Location  Completion Date  Owners (Ownership  %) Estimated Cost  
ETT Texas  2017 MEHC Texas Transco,  LLC (50%)  $3,097,000 
    AEP (50%)   
PATH  West Virgini a/ To be determined  Allegheny (50%)  $1,800,000 
  Virgini a/Maryland   AEP (50%)   
Tallgrass  Oklahoma  2013  OGE Energy (50%)  $500,000 
    ETA (50%)*   
Prairie Wind  Kansas  2013  Westar Energy (50%) $400,000      ETA (50%)*   
Pioneer  Indiana  2015  Duke Energy (50%) $1,000,000 
    AEP (50%)   
*  Electric Transmission America, LLC (ETA) is a 5 0/50 joint venture with MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. (MEH C) America 
Transco, LLC and AEP Transmission Holding Co., LLC. ETA will be utilized as a vehicle to invest in selected transmission projects 
located in North America, outside of ERCOT. AEP Transmission Holding Co., LLC owns 25 percent of Tallgrass and 25 percent  
of Prairie Wind through its ownership interest in ETA.Environmental Performance:
 Environment
24 / Environmental Performance: Environment Often one of the most challenging parts of my job is trying to explain 
to employees why we do what we do in regard to various environmental 
rules and regulations.  ” Ginger MacKnight, environmental and lab supervisor, Philip Sporn Plant“so far, and we expect we would continue 
to be allowed to do so if new government mandates are imposed.
Compliance Performance 
& Management
Protecting the environment is the foundation 
and focus of our environmental activity  and daily operations. Our performance baseline is to achieve compliance, but we  reach for levels beyond compliance when 
we believe it is in the best interest of our  
customers, shareholders and other constitu-ents. Our commitment to protecting the environment is embodied in a target of zero significant enforcement actions. Although our overall performance was very good in 2009, we did not meet our goal of zero significant enforcement actions.
1 We were 
cited in five enforcement actions involving power plants in Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky and Arkansas. For details, go to AEP produces and delivers an energy resource that is essential to society. Our success is measured by our ability to meet customers’ energy needs while making a profit, do it responsibly, with respect for 
the environment, in compliance with all 
laws and regulations, and by engaging with those who have a stake in our business. We believe that our environmental performance overall is excellent, but we know there is room for improvement.  Our $5.4 billion program to retrofit many  
of our coal-fired power plants with environ-
mental controls is already having significant 
positive impacts on our performance and the environment. Today, our sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions 
are at their lowest levels in two decades. These reductions reflect our compliance with the Clean Air Act (CAA) Title IV regula-tions, the NOx State Implementation Plan 
Call and the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).
 Environmental regulation is in flux: 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is reviewing or rewriting several key regulations pertaining to air emissions, water  
quality and waste storage and disposal. Many potential changes are aimed directly at coal-fired power plants and could adversely  
affect our net income, financial position and the cost of electricity.  If, for example, emission limits become 
more restrictive, or if additional substances are regulated, we would face significant ad- ditional costs to comply. We have obtained  cost recovery for our environmental program www.AEPsustainability.com . 
 We conduct environmental and safety 
and health audits to comply with regulations and improve our performance. In 2009,  we performed 21 environmental audits and  
11 safety and health audits at various 
locations, including generating plants, service  
centers, the Dolet Hills lignite mining operation, the Shreveport Chemical Lab and River Operations. Internal audit findings last year ranged from record-keeping and labeling errors to training for new employees and spill management. The audits also 
identified best practices, including an 
environmental briefing process to document and communicate with plant employees about events and corrective actions. The audit results are shared internally every quarter as “lessons learned” to improve  self-assessment and overall performance. We use an Internet-based system to 
manage, record and report environmental 
information for regulatory compliance. By 
the end of 2010, we will use the system to Number of environmental audits 
performed in 2009 
21 Million gallons of water per year used  
for ash handling at coal plants
181Land owned by AEP subsidiary  
companies covered by forests 
43%Number of AEP facilities that  
are LEED certified
4
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 25www.AEPsustainability.com
1 We de ﬁne a signi ﬁcant enforcement action as one arising from events that are within our control, have more than a minor 
environmental impact, and result in a ﬁne greater than $1,000.
Ginger MacKnight is responsible for the environmental 
systems at the Philip Sporn Plant in West Virginia.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX  (number of incidents per yea r)    
 12 
11 12 
10 10 9
 Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual  
 2007  2008  2009
This internal index sets targets for environmental performance 
that are tied to compensation. It sets goals for opacity, NPDES, and oil and chemical spills at our power plants.2009 COAL COMBUSTION BYPRODUCTS  
Boiler Slag 1%  
 Fly Ash 54% Bottom Ash  
12% 
 
Gypsum  
16%
 
 FGD*  
Material  17%
8,349,267 tons of coal combustion byproducts were produced
*Flue gas desulfurization
26 / Environmental Performance: Environmentmanage air and water regulatory programs. 
 This system complements our efforts 
to conform our plants to environmental, safety and health management systems standards — ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001— to strengthen our compliance 
performance. Ensuring that our policies and procedures are accurately documented enables us to capture the knowledge and practices of our experienced employees, many of whom are nearing retirement. We are in varying stages of implementation at 39 coal, gas and hydroelectric plants across 
the AEP system.
REGULATORY LANDSCAPE CHANGING
The U.S. EPA is considering revising many 
significant regulations that govern our industry. The agency plans to revise the CAIR, develop a new hazardous air pollutant rule for coal-fired power plants, change 
existing standards for water discharges 
from steam electric plants, propose new standards for water intake structures at existing power plants, and develop a new rule for the storage and disposal of coal combustion byproducts.  Protecting the environment and the 
public are our clear priorities. But regulatory 
uncertainty followed by overly aggressive 
compliance deadlines could force us to  close some coal units prematurely, jeopard-izing reliability and forcing us to raise costs to pay for new controls, finance unproven technologies or replace retired units.
Specific Issues
COAL ASH
The December 2008 breach of a coal ash dike at the Tennessee Valley Authority’s (TVA) Kingston Station resulted in 5.4 million cubic yards of ash spilling into a nearby river and onto private properties and prompted 
a federal and state review of laws regulating 
coal ash. Coal ash disposal facilities around the country came under greater scrutiny as regulators took enforcement actions against TVA and stepped up inspections elsewhere. The U.S. EPA is considering whether coal ash should be classified as a hazardous waste, subjecting it to more 
stringent storage and disposal rules under 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. A decision is expected this year. AEP operates 11 large ash impound-
ments, 26 smaller impoundments and seven “in-ground” ponds (ash ponds that do not have dams) used to store fly ash, bottom ash, boiler slag and other byproducts from flue gas desulfurization systems, also called 
scrubbers. The management of many of our 
dry storage facilities includes liners, leachate collection systems and groundwater monitoring. U.S. EPA regulations may lead to entirely dry storage methods, so we are evaluating that possibility and its associated costs, including lost revenue from the sale of coal combustion byproducts. We are in 
the process of converting one of our largest 
ash impoundments from wet storage to dry storage within the next couple of years at a cost of approximately $75 million. The change is the result of the remaining life of the current facilities and the opportunity to address future water quality issues. Our internal impoundment inspection 
program is based on federal dam safety 
guidelines and applicable state and local 
dam safety regulations. We periodically assess and ensure the structural integrity  of our storage facilities. After the TVA event, we conducted an additional review of these facilities with independent technical consultants. This helps us ensure that our management practices are sound and that we are not missing something important. 
These reviews help us improve but also 
provide assurance that our practices are appropriate and conservative. We work closely with state agencies 
to assess risks to the environment and the public and to ensure that we are meeting all permit requirements. We also participate in an industry effort to install groundwater 
monitoring wells even where they are not 
required. And we are adding additional audits of our performance to the inspection schedule in 2010.  While we support greater oversight 
of ash impoundments, we believe that coal ash should not be reclassified as a hazardous waste. Many state regulators and policymakers agree and have shared 
their views with the EPA. We have met with 
the EPA and have testified before Congress 
AEP HISTORICAL & PROJECTED
ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS  (in millions)  
 $994  
$887 
$457 
$322 
$234 
$406 
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012
    (est.)  (est.)  (est.)about our concerns. This is an important 
issue to AEP because of the large number of impoundments we operate. The public is legitimately concerned 
about coal ash impoundments and the 
beneficial use of coal ash. We seek to be 
both transparent and persuasive about the steps we are taking to protect public safety and the environment, and we are developing a plan that will include better and more frequent outreach and dialogue with stakeholders. Approximately 40 percent of AEP’s  
coal combustion byproducts are recycled as raw materials in road construction and concrete. By selling coal ash, we avoid approximately $14 million in disposal costs and net about $8 million in revenues.
AIR QUALITY
The $5.4 billion environmental control construction program at our coal-fired power plants is nearly complete. We began operating two new scrubbers in 2009 at  the Conesville Plant in Ohio and the John 
Amos Plant in West Virginia. We also  
began operating a selective catalytic reduction system to reduce NOx emissions at Conesville.  We met a new limit on total NOx 
emissions that took effect at our eastern coal-burning plants in 2009, and we will also meet a cap for SO
2 that takes 
effect in 2010 as part of our 2007 New Source Review consent decree. Under this agreement, SO
2 emissions from our eastern 
coal plants will be reduced to 174,000 tons  per year by 2019, a reduction of more than  650,000 tons per year compared with emissions prior to the agreement. In 
addition, NOx emissions will be reduced to 
72,000 tons per year, a decrease of 159,000 tons per year prior to the agreement.   Several key regulations the EPA is  
considering for revision would have signif-icant impact on our coal-fired power plants and on our customers. The EPA is 
developing a replacement for the CAIR 
that will reduce SO
2 and NOx emissions 
from our power plants. An earlier EPA decision about the CAIR was remanded to the agency by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2008 but remains in effect during 
the additional rule-making activities. We 
devoted 6.7 million work-hours to CAIR-related construction in 2009. The EPA also is working on a replace- 
ment for the Clean Air Mercury Rule,including collecting detailed information regarding a wide range of hazardous air pollutant emissions for its rule development 
analysis. Twenty-one of our coal-fired 
units are among approximately 500 units nationwide that are providing air sampling information about mercury to the EPA. Although we don’t expect the rule to be final until 2011, we have begun installing mercury monitoring equipment on nearly all of our coal-fired power plants. But the technology is not achieving the needed reliability 
and requires daily technical adjustments. 
Consequently, we slowed the installations until we can resolve the equipment issues. An additional benefit of the SO
2 and NOx 
controls we installed on a number of our larger coal-fired power plants is that they also significantly reduce mercury emissions.  While we don’t know precisely what 
the new rules will require, we continue to work with the EPA to establish requirements that are realistic, achievable and allow enough time to implement. 
WATER ISSUES
For more than 50 years, the federal govern-ment has protected water quality in the United States by regulating discharges into streams and water bodies. Restructured in the 1970s under the Clean Water Act, 
these regulations established the National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program to set discharge limits. This program is administered by state environmental agencies with U.S. EPA oversight. We work closely with regulators to ensure we do not exceed our permit limits. The EPA intends to revamp the Clean 
Water Act’s compliance and enforcement program. The agency also plans to revise the steam electric effluent guidelines, which govern the standards for water discharges at coal-fired power plants, including dis-charges from coal ash ponds, coal piles, air 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 27www.AEPsustainability.com
SO2 & NOx EMISSION TRENDS AT AEP-OWNED PLANTS (measured in U.S. tons)      
 1,828,114  
1,547,525  1,534,502  
1,018,117  1,019,593  
899,994
 
456,670 
 617,832  600,018  613,026  520,328  448,395  
275,171  
121,143
 1980  1985  1990  1995  2000  2005  2009  
 • SO2 • NOx2008 AEP SYSTEMWIDE RELEASES  
TO WATER  (192,639 pound s) 
Other 1% Barium 34%
Chromium 1% 
Chlorine 2% 
Selenium 3%    
Nickel 3% 
Ammonia 
5% 
Arsenic 6%
Manganese 
7%  
Zinc 11% Copper 27%  
28 / Environmental Performance: Environmentpollution control systems and other sources. 
We are committed to working with the agency to assure that any new standards are achievable and affordable. When coal is burned to produce 
electricity, the effects on the environment extend beyond air quality. For example, the installation of scrubbers to remove SO
2 
from air emissions also results in the capture of other pollutants such as mercury and selenium, which end up in the wastewater and scrubber byproduct. The byproduct is 
managed in well-designed landfills, but to 
protect water quality and ensure that we remain compliant, AEP installed wastewater treatment facilities at each power plant with air emission controls. We also are leading an industry effort to develop treatment technologies for removing mercury from power plant wastewater discharges. The Cook Nuclear Plant is effectively 
monitoring tritium levels in groundwater and recently installed five multi-level wells to further improve groundwater monitoring. No tritium levels have been detected at the site that require reporting in accordance with the Nuclear Energy Institute 07- 07 
“Groundwater Protection Initiative.” The outcome of the EPA’s deliberations 
about how to implement Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act is very important to us.  
The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Clean Water Act allows the EPA to use cost-benefit analysis in setting standards related to cooling water intake systems at power 
plants to better protect fish and shellfish. 
That decision paves the way for our industry to protect the environment in ways that take costs into account. The potential price tag may be significant for us, but without this balance of cost and benefit, it could be  cost-prohibitive with limited environmental benefit. We continue to work with the EPA and others to reach a reasonable outcome.
 Stakeholders have raised concerns 
about the amount of water that is needed 
to produce electricity. Our air emissions challenges take higher priority than our water use challenges because our air emissions create greater financial, environ-mental and operational risks. However, water conservation is important to us, and we are investigating new technologies and other conservation opportunities. We formed an internal water study 
group to identify opportunities to address our water use. We also are participating in a three-year research project with the Electric Power Research Institute and 
other utilities to develop, test and deploy 
efficient, advanced cooling technologies. We do not have specific water use metrics for our existing power plants; our focus is on maximizing generating unit operating efficiency to help reduce the amount of  water we use for cooling purposes. Oppor-tunities to incorporate specific water use 
metrics may come with new construction, 
such as replacing older steam electric facilities when they are retired with new facilities. However, new power plants today typically have cooling towers, which reduce overall water use but increase water consumption from local resources. We also consider water consumption in evaluating pollution control technology. For example, 
a “wet” SO
2 scrubber will consume more 
water than a “dry” scrubber. We also are 
studying potential impacts related to carbon capture and storage. Read more online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com . 
WASTE REDUCTION & LAND ISSUES
We seek to reduce and properly manage 
PAUL CHODAK 
President & chief operating officer, Southwestern Electric Power Co. 
“Today’s sustainability challenges require us to work even more closely with customers, regulators, environmental 
groups, legislators and our own employees to achieve the best results. Challenges abound in meeting ever-changing environmental laws and complex regulations, yet our responsibility remains the same as it has been since SWEPCO’s inception in 1912: to support our customers and communities by providing them with reliable, cost-effective power in a responsible and responsive manner. Our goal going forward is to fulfill customer expectations while balancing the needs of all our stakeholders.”
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 29www.AEPsustainability.com
the waste that we produce, including its  
disposal and the remediation of contami-nated land. We extend this vigilance to our suppliers whenever possible. In 2009, we disposed of more than 110,000 pounds of 
hazardous waste and recycled 1.8 million 
pounds of paper, 51 million pounds of metal, 250,000 light bulbs and 1.7 million gallons  of oil. We also recycled or reused approxi-mately 135,000 pounds of electronic equip-ment, such as computers and phones, keep- ing it out of landfills. Read more about this issue at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
Working With Our Suppliers
COAL SUPPLIERS
The life cycle of coal is of great concern to many of our stakeholders because of the full range of environmental impacts, from mining to combustion for energy production to combustion byproducts. As part of our 
stakeholder engagement process, we made 
a commitment in 2008 to begin evaluating the environmental, safety and health performance of our coal suppliers. We conducted our first survey of coal suppliers in 2009, seeking information about their mining practices, environmental and safety and health performance, and contributions to local communities. We also used the survey to help us learn what percentage of our coal supply comes from mountaintop 
removal mining.  
 We hired a mining consultant to help  
develop and conduct the survey and included numerous performance indicators from the GRI’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. Twenty-four of our 31 coal suppliers responded to the survey, representing about half of the nation’s coal production and 82 percent of our 2008 coal 
deliveries. We used the survey results as a 
core component of a stakeholder meeting that brought coal suppliers together with environmental groups, regulators, elected officials, community leaders, academics and AEP executives. We believe this was the first time these groups had met face-to-face to discuss coal production issues. 
 We learned a lot about our suppliers. 
The survey showed that the safety and 
health performance of those responding was better than the national average for their industry. Their environmental performance also was generally good, but in the absence of a national database or other benchmark, we found it difficult to identify important trends or make meaningful 
comparisons beyond those who responded. 
We also confirmed that roughly 7 percent of 
An aerial view of an area surface mine in eastern 
Kentucky; about 7 percent of AEP’s coal supply comes from mountaintop mining operations.our coal comes from mountaintop mining. 
 We discussed the survey results, 
mountaintop mining, the economic importance of mining and the challenges of reducing coal production in light of its 
status as a low-cost fuel. The meeting 
participants agreed that coal is necessary to keep the lights on in this nation, but there was disagreement about how and when to transition to other sources of energy.  We intend to conduct the survey 
annually and our goal is for all suppliers to participate. Through the survey, we 
identified certain companies whose 
environmental, safety and health performance was exemplary. We also identified companies whose performance was below the norm. We intend to reach out to companies from both groups to learn what factors they believe influence their performance. From these discussions, we hope to share nonconfidential information 
with all of our coal suppliers that could help 
improve the overall environmental, safety and health performance of the group. We are initiating conversations with 
public utility regulators in our states to test their receptivity to including environmental, safety and health performance considera-tions in our fuel bid evaluations. In the 
interim, we will revisit the survey to enhance 
it and continue to engage stakeholders on these issues.  Read more about what two stake-
holders have to say about coal mining, in  their own words, in Stakeholder Engagement 
and at 
www.AEPsustainability.com . More 
information about the survey and next steps, along with our work with nonfuel suppliers, is on the Web.
 n
An AEP River Operations tugboat assembles coal 
barges at the Cook Coal Terminal, Metropolis, Ill.30 / Environmental Performance: Climate ChangeEnvironmental Performance:
 Climate Change
 When the United States develops legislation or regulations that require 
a reduction in CO 2 emissions, there is no doubt in my mind that CCS will be 
an integral part of compliance for the coal-fired power generation industry. 
While efficiency improvements to the power generation process can take us part of the way toward a lower carbon footprint, there will be no substitute 
for advanced CCS technology deployment.  ” Gary O. Spitznogle, manager of IGCC and Gas Plant Engineering “A team of employees and contractors completed  
the Mountaineer carbon capture project on time  
and on budget.For more than 100 years, AEP has pro-
duced low-cost electricity by burning coal — a plentiful, domestic and cost-effective 
source of energy. Coal-fired electricity has played a vital role in expanding the 
American economy, creating well-paying 
jobs and assuring the safety, health and well-being of our customers. Nearly half of the nation’s daily electricity comes from coal. We firmly believe that coal will continue to be a significant component of America’s energy mix for the foreseeable future. At the same time, we recognize that 
the carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions created 
through the combustion of fossil fuels, including coal, are a matter of concern. AEP has the largest portfolio of coal-based generation in the United States, so we 
have a responsibility to lead our industry in 
proactively addressing this issue. We are doing so through our investments in clean-coal technology and carbon offsets and in our vocal support for responsible federal legislation, including cap-and-trade policies.  We are leading in terms of our 
measurable, voluntary efforts to reduce our 
carbon emissions and use more renewable 
fuels, and through our efforts to modernize the electric grid, put more control of energy use in consumers’ hands, and increase energy efficiency. And we are leading in the international arena as well, working with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and International Emissions Trading Association, and by participating in 
the international climate treaty discussions in Copenhagen, Denmark.
 We expect the makeup of our gen- 
eration portfolio to change in response to several external factors, including global climate change. The number of coal-fired  units we operate in the future will be 
determined by new or more stringent 
environmental regulations; greater potential use of natural gas, including shale gas; the age and efficiency of some of our coal units; and the outcome of the climate change debate. The transition to other fuel sources will take time and will be expensive, but we are preparing for it.  
STRATEGY & APPROACH
Our strategy is to pursue multiple options,  including renewable energy, new technolo-gies, offsets, natural gas, energy efficiency, and increasing the output of our nuclear units. At the same time, we will continue to 
improve the efficiency of our plants; retire or mothball some older, smaller coal units 
when factors warrant; and complete our environmental retrofit program. Stakeholders have asked us if we 
consider a carbon price when making capital investment decisions. Our assump-tions take into account the many different options being considered for legislating or regulating CO
2 emissions. If CO 2 and 
other emission standards are imposed, SF6 emissions rate of total 
system capacity in 2009 
2%Million metric tons of CO 2 
emissions in 2009 
130 Generating capacity 
from coal  
  66 %Generating capacity from  
renewable energy  
6%
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 31www.AEPsustainability.com
From left, Frances Beinecke, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, AEP Executive Vice 
President Dennis Welch, and Mark Tercek, president and chief executive officer, The Nature Conservancy, discuss deforestation at the United Nations’ climate change conference in Copenhagen, Denmark.2009  AEP GENERATION CAPACITY BY FUEL  
Hydro /Pumped  Coal/Lignite
Storage/   66%
Renewables 
6%  
Nuclear  
6% 
Natural 
Gas/Oil 22%
32 / Environmental Performance: Climate Changethey could require significant increases in 
capital investments and operating costs. We don’t know with any certainty what those might be, but we believe that the costs of compliance would be allowed in customer 
rates, as they have been in the past.
 Our CO
2 emissions in 2010 and 
beyond will be affected by continued changes in our generation portfolio, market prices, the pace and scale of the economic recovery, available capital, weather and 
other factors. We expect that our CO
2 
emissions between 2010 and 2012 will 
remain largely flat despite sales rebounding from the recession lows of 2009. During the next decade, we expect our CO
2 emissions 
growth to decline due to retirements of some older coal units and increased use of renewable energy, among other things. Our capital investment decisions take all of these 
factors, including public policy, risks, cost 
to customers and available resources, into consideration in the planning and decision-making process. We are voluntarily taking actions 
that help us reduce or offset our CO
2 
emissions. As a founding member of the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), AEP committed to cumulatively reduce or offset 48 million metric tons of CO
2 from 
2003 to 2010. Through 2009, we had already reduced or offset more than 70 million metric tons of CO
2. We achieved 
this through the purchase of CO 2 credits 
and verifiable offsets and by improving the efficiency of our power plants; by increasing our renewable, natural gas and nuclear generation; and by retiring less efficient 
fossil units, among other actions.
 Though AEP’s commitment to CCX 
runs only through the end of this year, we expect to continue voluntary actions that help us reduce our carbon emissions in the absence of mandatory legislation or regulations. These voluntary actions could include an extension of our commitment to CCX as an interim solution until mandatory legislation or regulation does take effect, if this is a viable option. As with other voluntary actions, we are working with 
legislators, regulators, policymakers and 
other stakeholders to gain support for regulatory cost recovery. In the long run, when carbon mandates are issued, our early actions will help us comply.
PUBLIC POLICY  
& FEDERAL LEGISLATION
Climate change is a global issue. The United States and its trading partners must take action together, otherwise the U.S. economy will be placed at a competitive disadvantage. It is encouraging that China 
and India have agreed to be part of the Copenhagen Accord, along with other 
developing countries. The accord, reached during international treaty negotiations in Copenhagen in December 2009, sets a nonbinding goal of limiting global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial times. It is a step in the right direction toward a global solution. And 
President Obama’s pledge of a 17 percent 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 for our nation is a signal of where the United States likely is headed.  Read more about our international 
work at 
www.AEPsustainabilty.com .
 We believe that a U.S. climate policy 
should include a federal cap-and-trade system to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs), provide incentives to develop and 
deploy new technologies, create targets for 
emissions reductions that match available technology, and allow for unrestricted use of real, verifiable domestic and international offsets. For more details on our position, please visit 
www.AEPsustainabilty.com .
 Legislation that targets only specific 
sectors of the economy, including the elec-tric utility sector, has been suggested. We do not support this. We do not believe that 
a single industry and its customers should 
shoulder the weight of this global issue.  We supported the American Clean 
Energy and Security Act of 2009 (the Waxman-Markey bill) that was passed by  the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill  included important provisions that addressed  
jobs, costs and the economy. Given the 
large number of future administrative actions 
the bill would create, there is still too much uncertainty about the potential outcomes to be able to predict the impact on electricity rates or the level of capital investment that may be needed. However, we believe that under the current provisions, the bill would 2017 PROJECTED AEP GENERATION 
CAPACITY BY FUEL  
Nuclear  7% Coal/Lignite
 58%Hydro/Pumped 
Storage/ 
Renewables 8% 
 
Natural 
Gas/Oil 27%2010  PROJECTED COAL PROCUREMENT  
Illinois Basin 1% Powder  
Colorado/Utah  River Basin  
1% 39%
 
Lignite 
5% 
Central    
Appalachia  Northern  
21%  Appalachia  
 33%likely drive up costs to our customers 
significantly while also providing important incentives for technology development.
OFFSETS, ALLOCATIONS, AUCTIONS
Emission “offsets” include emission reduc-tions, avoided emissions or sequestration at sources that are not subject to emission reduction requirements under cap-and-trade legislation. Under a flexible cap-and-
trade system, emission offsets can play 
an important role in lowering compliance costs while at the same time assuring the emission reduction goals are met. Offsets are generally less expensive than direct reductions in emissions from power plants, factories or vehicles. They can also deliver  valuable ancillary economic and environ-
mental benefits. We plan to use them to 
assure compliance until new clean-energy technologies are ready for commercial deployment and become more economical. We have voluntarily invested in offsets, 
including forestry and agricultural methane destruction, and purchased credits through the CCX. The offsets we purchase are verified and fully accredited by third parties 
and reputable registries.
 Our position on CO
2 allowance 
allocations and auctions has not changed. The distribution of valuable emission allowances will have serious implications throughout the economy and enormous 
financial consequences for our customers. 
Although we recognize there may be a need for some auctioned allowances from the overall allocation to support complementary climate change efforts, we seek a full alloca-tion of allowances to the electric utility sector  
(equal to the sector’s total share of the U.S. emissions cap) in order to minimize the cost  
and subsequent rate impact on our cus-tomers. Without sufficient allocations, the  effects on local economies struggling to  emerge from the recession would be harsher. Our responsibility to our customers is  
paramount, and we are passionate about seeking a legislative approach that considers the cost and economic impacts upon them. 
POTENTIAL REGULATION  
UNDER CURRENT LAW
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is preparing to regulate GHGs under the Clean Air Act (CAA). In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court found in Massachusetts v.  EPA that GHGs can be regulated as air 
pollutants under existing law. The EPA 
issued a Public Endangerment Finding in December 2009 stating that GHGs are  “reasonably anticipated to endanger public  health and welfare.” In response to concerns  
raised by state agencies and the regulated community that the EPA was moving too  fast, the agency in February 2010 announced  
its intent to phase in the program.  We strongly believe regulating GHGs 
through the CAA is the wrong approach. We support a cap-and-trade legislative approach, similar to the Waxman-Markey bill, and we have advocated this to Congress. Provisions in legislation that allocate allowances, offer incentives for technology development and provide 
other benefits that allow us to continue to cost-effectively transition to a lower carbon 
economy are critical for our customers, our company and our shareholders. When this rule takes effect, GHG 
emissions from stationary sources, such  
as power plants, could be considered  
a “regulated air pollutant” under the CAA’s permitting programs. This could bring  CO
2 and other GHGs into the existing 
regulatory program for stationary sources and require that these gases be considered in permits when building new units or modifying existing ones. 
 The standard would likely trigger a 
requirement to apply best available control 
technology (BACT) to GHGs to meet the regulations. However, it is not yet clear what the BACT for GHGs will be. In addition, the EPA is likely to move forward with the development of New Source Performance standards for electric generating units and 
other stationary sources.
 We have been working with the EPA 
through industry trade associations as well as participating in the agency’s Clean Air Act Advisory Committee, and we are looking closely at how these new rules would affect our ability to continue operating existing coal units that are not already equipped with environmental controls. We are also 
monitoring the development of technologies 
that could be considered in a BACT analysis for our power plants.  Federal and state regulations or 
legislation limiting the emission of GHGs could result in significant increases in capital expenditures, financing and operating costs. This higher level of investment could also 
lead to an increase in earnings because of 
the higher value of our rate base. The cost of additional regulatory requirements would ultimately be borne by consumers through higher prices for energy.
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 33www.AEPsustainability.com34 / Environmental Performance: Climate ChangeTECHNOLOGY
AEP is leading the U.S. utility industry in 
advancing carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies. We successfully captured, transported and geologically stored carbon dioxide emissions from 
an existing coal-fired power plant for the 
first time in October 2009, demonstrating the capability of fully integrated carbon capture and storage technology at our 1,300-megawatt (MW) Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. The project uses Alstom’s patented chilled ammonia technology to capture the CO
2 from a 20-MW portion of 
the plant’s flue gas — a major technology 
achievement. It is the largest integrated CCS demonstration applied to an operating power plant. Approximately 90 percent of 
the CO
2 from the flue gas stream is being 
captured and stored underground. 
CCS  — HOW IT WORKS
To be able to store the CO 2 underground, 
the Mountaineer Plant received West 
Virginia’s first-ever CO 2 storage permit from 
the West Virginia Department of Environ-mental Protection. The permit allows the demonstration facility to inject a maximum of 165,000 metric tons of CO
2 per year 
for up to five years. The next project — to install the nation’s 
first commercial-scale, coal-derived CO
2 
capture and storage system at Mountaineer — will be partially funded through the  
U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Clean Coal Power Initiative. AEP was awarded 
50 percent of the cost of the project, up 
to $334 million. This will reduce the costs to our customers for the first commercial deployment of this technology. We are seeking additional partners to help pay the remaining cost of the project. This commercial-scale project will capture approximately 90 percent of the CO
2 from 235 MW of the plant’s 
1,300-MW capacity. The captured CO 2, 
approximately 1.5 million metric tons per year, would be treated, compressed and stored underground. We intend to begin this commercial-scale operation in 2015; 
if the technology is successful, can be 
commercialized and is cost-effective, we would seek regulatory support to begin retrofitting existing coal plants. For more information about the CCS 
technology at Mountaineer Plant and our project partners, visit our website at 
www.
AEPsustainability.com .
MAKING THE ECONOMICS WORK 
FOR CUSTOMERS  
Developing new technologies such as CCS 
can impose significant costs on customers, particularly in the early development stages. But as the technology matures, the costs 
should decline. For example, Mountaineer’s 20-MW project cost more than $5,000 per 
kilowatt (kW), but the proposed 235-MW  system is estimated to cost less than $3,000 per kW. When the government subsidies are factored in, the cost falls to approximately $1,500 per kW.  We are able to be a first mover of 
technology because of our engineering, technical and construction expertise. First movers always pay an initial premium with respect to cost and risk. However, they also gain valuable knowledge and understanding as the technology develops. This particularly benefits AEP and our customers, but also the industry by being a driving force for cost reductions, increased reliability and 
improved availability for all users. It is not 
clear what the cost-reduction curve will be for CCS technology over time, but we are seeing it head in the right direction as we move past the demonstration phase to full commercial availability in 2020.
OTHER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES
We made significant progress in 2009 on  the 600-MW John W. Turk Jr. ultra-super- critical pulverized coal plant under construc-tion in southwest Arkansas. Southwestern Electric Power Co. successfully secured all 
major construction permits but still faces 
legal challenges to the process used by the Arkansas Public Service Commission to approve construction of the plant. We set a goal two years ago to deploy 
25 MW of sodium sulfur (NaS) battery storage on our system by 2010. Instead, we have a capacity of 11 MW with the 
completion of a project in Presidio, Texas. 
We stopped installing these batteries because the technology became cost-prohibitive. We are now focusing on community energy storage (CES), which uses lithium-ion battery technology — the 
Chairman Mike Morris and U.S. Sen. Jay  
Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) at the Mountaineer CCS 
commissioning event.same type of batteries used in electric 
vehicles — making them more widely 
available and cost-effective. We are installing 2 MW of CES as part of the AEP Ohio gridSMART
SM Demonstration Project. 
Read more about CES online at www.
AEPsustainability.com .
VOLUNTARY ACTIONS MATTER
Wind energy accounts for 2 percent of the total power generation in the United States. The U.S. wind industry installed a record 9,922 MW of generating capacity in 2009, helped by federal tax subsidies. 
 We committed to add 2,000 MW of 
renewable resources between 2007 and the 
end of 2011, assuming regulatory approval. We are making progress. We have secured 1,013 MW of renewable energy through power purchase agreements, including 10 MW of solar power. Our integrated resource plan contains a 10 percent renew-
able energy target by 2020, based on the 
expectation that additional federal or state requirements may be enacted. Renewable energy requirements ranging from 9 percent to 15 percent by 2021 have already been part of federal energy and climate legislation in the House and Senate.  In the states that have renewable 
energy mandates, there is regulatory support 
for cost recovery. This is not necessarily  true in states without such requirements. 
We are working with regulators and policy-makers in service territory states without mandates to help ensure cost recovery; if they approve it, we will move forward, but 
if they don’t, we will not. Read more about 
voluntary actions online at 
www.AEP 
sustainability.com . 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Energy efficiency is a high priority for us and for many AEP stakeholders. We believe energy efficiency is an important, cost-effective way to reduce GHGs and can possibly delay the need to build new power 
plants. We work closely with legislators, 
regulators, environmental groups, technical experts and others to develop and imple-ment efficiency and demand response programs. Despite challenges, we are seeing signs of success. Market potential studies completed 
in 10 states help us identify the technical, 
economic and achievable energy and 
demand reduction potential in homes,  businesses, schools and other facilities.  Our investment in energy efficiency  programs has steadily increased from  about $13 million in 2008 to a projected  $110 million in 2010 and $218 million in 2012. This year, we anticipate more than two dozen regulatory filings in our states. These initiatives, and others we hope 
to implement, will help us to achieve our 2012 goal to reduce demand by 1,000 MW and energy consumption by 2,250,000 megawatt-hours (MWh). We already have identified the potential for more than  900 MW of demand reduction and approxi- mately 2,800,000 MWh of energy reduction.  
We are actively seeking regulatory approval of our plans, which will be necessary if we 
are to meet our goals. We recognize that 
in the longer term more is expected, and we are pursuing additional programs and demand reduction opportunities that may be practical in many of our jurisdictions.  We are also beginning to investigate 
energy efficiency in wholesale markets. Our ability to move forward relies on 
regulatory approval that includes recovery of program costs and lost revenues and a return on investment. Learn more about gridSMART
SM and energy efficiency efforts in 
our states at www.AEPsustainability.com . n
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 35www.AEPsustainability.com
DANA WALDO  
President & chief operating officer, Appalachian Power Co.
“Meeting the challenge of reducing the carbon impacts of the nation’s electric infrastructure will require thoughtful 
engagement with every level of our stakeholders. We must be at the table to help identify, develop and support policy pathways that balance reductions in greenhouse gas emissions with our ongoing commitment to provide reliable, affordable and environmentally responsible electricity to our customers.”
TOTAL COAL DELIVERED TO AEP PLANTS
  2007  2008  2009  
Thousands of tons  72,644  77,054  75,909
Average price per ton  $36.65  $47.14  $49.5436 / Social Performance: Work ForceSocial Performance:
 Work Force
 The (employee) fatality reminded me that an accident can happen at 
any given time, to anyone. It made me change my way of thinking and be 
more aware of my surroundings. Something like this sticks with you.  ” Richard Worsham, heavy equipment operator, Dolet Hills Lignite Mine“The most important aspect of our 
operations is to make sure everyone who works for us returns home safe and sound at the end of each workday. Our health  and safety management systems failed 
tragically in 2009 when two of our 
employees and two contractors working for us were fatally injured on the job. This is unacceptable to us, and our entire company felt these losses.  We have programs and specific meas-
ures in place to avoid injuries, but it is clear that we have much more work to do to 
strengthen our safety culture if we are to 
reach our goal of having no fatalities, no injuries and no occupational illnesses — a 
condition we call “zero harm.” A highly skilled work force that actively pursues zero harm and is deeply committed to mutual care and peer protection is the key to  success. Our Human Performance initiative is dedicated to eliminating hazards and 
human errors that cause accidents. Although  
this culture change is taking hold, we are 
still concerned that productivity takes precedence over safety and health in some cases, and we are working to change that.   Our incentive plan for executive 
management includes a substantial penalty if there are employee fatalities. As a result 
of the deaths that occurred in 2009 and 
other factors, executive management did not receive any incentive compensation. All employees lost a portion of their incentive compensation because of the fatalities. We have other work force challenges, particularly as we reduce our work force to address new economic realities and the 
need to find and retain the best talent to 
meet our future business goals. We must fully engage our employees and find ways to foster an environment that makes people want to work and stay here.  
REACHING FOR ZERO HARM
Two employees and two AEP contractors were fatally injured on the job last year. We deeply regret each of these incidents and the grief they caused for so many.  An employee at our Dolet Hills lignite 
mine in Louisiana was killed in March 2009 while working on heavy machinery, called a walking dragline, used to extract coal. What caused him to fall or to be in the location he was in is unknown. However, we now prohibit employees and contractors from having contact with the dragline when it is in motion. Physical barriers such as gravity gates and safety chains have been installed at all access points, and tripping hazards 
have been removed. Employees are now 
equipped with radios to ensure continuous communication between those on the ground and the equipment operator. A River Operations employee lost 
his life in November when he fell from a barge into the Mississippi River. As a result, teams of employees are evaluating vessel operating practices with the 
goal of reducing deck crew exposure. 
Approximately 1,000 River Operations employees are receiving training in hazard recognition, safe work practices and job safety briefings to enhance awareness and increase focus on job responsibilities. We also are working with marine consultants and engineers to consider installing grab-
bar devices on our barges as another layer 
of protection against going overboard. We will champion barge construction safety standards aimed at reducing the risk of personal injury and fall-overboard events across the industry. Our two contractor fatalities occurred 
in January and July of 2009. One contractor died while unloading pole sections during 
the rebuilding of a transmission line. Another  
contractor was fatally injured while acting as  Average age of AEP employees
 
45.9Number of injuries, illnesses or  
fatalities we strive for
0Work force represented  
 by labor unions 
  28 %Number of employees receiving the  
Chairman’s Life Saving Award in 2009 
8
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 37www.AEPsustainability.com
One of Richard Worsham’s primary responsibilities  
at the Dolet Hills lignite mine is operating the pumps 
that keep the mine dry. a safer place to work.
 Our transmission group improved 
both safety and operational performance by embracing the error-reduction methods of the Human Performance initiative. By 
focusing on reducing errors, we reduced  
the number of recordable injuries as well as customer outages caused by transmission station switching errors.   The Chairman’s Life Saving Award 
recognizes employees for extraordinary efforts in life-threatening situations. It has been presented to 39 employees since 
2004, including eight in 2009. Their acts 
of heroism included rescuing an electrical contact victim who was performing work for a telecommunications company, helping a victim of a head-on vehicle collision who was trapped in her car, and rescuing a boy from a burning apartment building. We also reinforce a zero harm 
environment with programs such as peer-
to-peer coaching, incident reporting, pre-job 
briefings and clear, unmistakable messages about safety. The Human Performance initiative is one of our most important safety and health efforts. It is directed toward building best practices, reducing mistakes and preventing those that do occur from causing injuries.  
 AEP formed a corporatewide Human 
Performance oversight team and steering 
committee in 2008 and expanded the effort a spotter for a backing vehicle. We are working more closely with our contractors to share our safety culture and expectations with them. We hold a contractor safety sum-mit each year that is attended by hundreds of contractors and senior management. 
Our selection process and contract terms 
and conditions also spell out safety and health expectations, and we conduct job site audits to ensure compliance. We have removed contractors from bid lists and job sites for noncompliance. The number of injuries among our  
contractors is declining. We set a contractor  
recordable injury goal for the first time in  2009 that is tied to our executives’ com-pensation, and contractors outperformed it. This goal applies only to contractors working directly for AEP . Public fatalities are more difficult to 
address because we have no direct control 
over what the public does. We use paid 
advertisements, the news media, videos, online learning tools, training sessions and social networks to educate the public about electrical safety. Yet nine people died in 2009 after coming into contact with electrical facilities. We will continue our outreach and public safety education to help us achieve our public safety goals.  
 While we met our employee “Path 
to Excellence” recordable injury target, 
we missed the target when hearing loss incidents are included. Because hearing loss is usually a long-term occurrence, it is not currently in our incentive compensation plans. However, we monitor hearing loss very closely and hold ourselves accountable 
for continually improving our hearing conser-
vation activities. In 2009, our injury severity rate also exceeded our target. Employees incurred more lost work days in 2009 than in 2008 because of slips, trips, falls and incidents of being struck by objects, which continued to be the leading causes of injury. Injuries tend to occur most frequently in late morning and early afternoon, suggesting 
that employees may be distracted before 
and after their lunch break.  We foster a zero harm culture by 
celebrating employees and work groups who demonstrate exemplary safety performance and who provide life-saving assistance. The first John P . DesBarres Safety & Health Award was given in 2010 
to our transmission business unit for 
exemplary safety and health performance. The award honors John DesBarres, an AEP board member who died in December 2008 and was a staunch advocate of making AEP 
38 / Social Performance: Work ForceEMPLOYEE SAFETY & HEALTH  
“PATH TO EXCELLENCE” 
Recordable Injury Rates      
 1.99  
1.76 
1.70 
1.38 
1.45 
1.57 
1.09 
 2007  2008  2009  2010
Recordable injury rate = total deaths + lost work injuries + 
lost work illnesses x 200,000 ÷ hours worked  
Injury Severity Rates      
 
35.38 42.83  
30.07
 26.94  25.56  29.13
 21.73 
 2007  2008  2009  2010  
Average severity rate = lost work days + restricted activity 
days x 200,000 ÷ hours worked
• Annual Targets based on EEI Index  
• Actual PerformanceNUMBER OF RECORDABLE  
INJURIES SYSTEMWIDE CAUSED BY SLIPS  / TRIPS  / FALLS  
 106 
90 
76 
88 
77 
69 
 2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009in 2009. Our focus on error reduction is 
having a measurable impact. The severity rate in our Fossil/Hydro generation business unit improved from 32.3 in 2008 to 19.4 in 2009, but we believe this is just the 
beginning and we intend to continue to 
improve. In our Transmission business unit, a commitment to Human Performance resulted in a decline in the recordable injury rate from 4.0 a decade ago to nearly  1.0 in 2009. We are finding that when we eliminate errors that can cause injuries,  we also eliminate operational errors, which 
improves our overall performance.
 Approximately 2,500 electrical 
distribution line employees who were trained in Human Performance principles are now learning specific ways to prevent errors and  
are sharing their knowledge with their co- workers. These employees are adjusting to  an environment that encourages them to  stop working when they are unsure whether a 
certain practice or working condition is safe.
 As our employees gain a better under-
standing of the risks in their jobs and what they can do to eliminate them, we must overcome a perception that still exists in some parts of the company that productivity is more important than safety and health. We have an obligation to deliver safe, 
reliable electricity to our customers, but 
never at the expense of safety and health. SPECIFIC SAFETY INITIATIVES
Combustible dust can be a significant workplace hazard, and we are being proactive in our efforts to prevent harm.  A U.S. Chemical Safety Board combustible dust hazard study found that nearly 280 
dust fires and explosions have occurred in 
the United States during the past 25 years, resulting in 199 fatalities and more than  700 injuries. Among the types of dust  involved were sugar, paper, aluminum, wood, plastic and coal.  We are working closely with the  
Occupational Safety and Health Adminis-
tration (OSHA) to validate our compliance 
with the agency’s proposed combustible dust restrictions through audits at our power plants. Because we burn coal, we are  aggressively working to comply with the  proposed standard. Elements of OSHA’s program include electrical and fire protec-
tion, ignition control, an emergency action 
plan, personal protective equipment and hazard communication. During the past two years, we 
conducted a study of the potential health hazards of welding, a common task throughout our industry and especially in our power plants. The study, consisting of 555 
air samples from various types of welding, 
is one of the largest ever conducted in the electric utility industry. While study recommendations remain under review, it is apparent that either local exhaust ventilation or respiratory protection will be needed for many of our welding activities in the future. OSHA currently does not have a specific welding exposure regulation, in 
part because of the difficulty in measuring 
exposure fume levels. Mandatory fall restraint devices and  
19 other pole safety recommendations from an employee-led team in 2008 resulted in a 56 percent reduction in incidents related to falls from poles, compared with the previous four-year average.
 We are reducing the probability of 
interactions with threatening animals by 
attaching special codes to customer accounts where such animals are known to be present and with new equipment that 
2009 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 39www.AEPsustainability.com
PABLO VEGAS
President & chief operating officer, AEP Texas 
“AEP Texas employees are the company’s greatest assets. That’s why we place a tremendous emphasis on 
our safety and work cultures. Our safety goal is for every employee to return home in the evening in the same condition in which he or she came to work in the morning. Nothing less will do. Our work culture embraces a skilled, diverse work force. Diversity in all of its varied forms, including experience, ethnicity, age and gender, provides a broader and richer context to our business challenges and opportunities. This, in turn, allows us  
to understand and serve the many and equally varied needs of our customers to the very best of our abilities.”
Cook Plant employees learn control room operations 
in a new exact replica of Unit 1’s control room that opened last fall. gives our employees advance warning.
 To help employees avoid some of the 
common causes of injury, we developed training in safe truck cab and bed access and started a program to prevent slips, trips 
and other walking hazards through error 
reduction methods. One-third of all slips and trips become recordable injuries, and these account for approximately 16 percent of recordable events companywide.  A study of AEP work practices showed 
that if a power line with a safety ground accidentally becomes re-energized, a worker 
could be exposed to hazardous voltage 
levels depending on his or her location in relation to the equipment. Consequently, we have stepped up our efforts to encourage workers to wear rubber gloves in those situations, giving them extra protection. Lifting and rigging practices are 
another area of concern. At AEP , an employee was killed in late 2006 while 
using a crane at a power plant. Our 
analysis found that crane-related policies and new procedures, including training, were inconsistent and outdated across the enterprise. New policies and procedures took effect in January 2010 with a one-year grace period to allow for proper training. We also are strengthening the process 
by which safety and health issues are considered when projects are engineered. This will prevent costly future retrofits to achieve safety and health compliance and will provide protection from the start. AEP’s Safety and Health team works closely with Engineering and other functions to review designs of new construction projects. In addition, several safety- and health-related 
factors have already been incorporated into 
design standards for new construction. The end result will be a safer work environment. A safer environment has resulted from converting boilers at coal-fired power plants that are retrofitted for sulfur dioxide control from forced-draft design to balanced-draft design. Any leaks that occur in the boiler at these plants now introduce outside air into 
the boiler rather than causing gases and ash 
to leak out. The equipment and vicinity do not become contaminated, creating a much safer, cleaner work area. Our effort to conform our power 
plants to environmental, safety and health management systems standards will help us  
move toward zero harm. These systems will  
help ensure that our policies and procedures  
are accurately documented. In so doing,  they will enable us to capture the knowledge  
and practices of our experienced employees,  
many of whom are nearing retirement.
DEALING WITH H1N1
The threat of the H1N1 virus has been a  challenge for AEP as it has been for other  companies. The virus ultimately has had little impact on our operations except for a somewhat higher-than-usual level of 
absences. Cases of the flu— including 
H1N1 and seasonal flu— reached a three- 
year peak in 2009, totaling 947, according 
to AEP’s Human Resources Recovery Center. Seasonal flu vaccines were administered to approximately 13,325 employees, spouses and domestic partners in 2009 during company-sponsored health screenings. We also provided H1N1 vaccines as soon as they became available to us in 2010.
PROTECTING THE PUBLIC
Zero harm includes no harm to the public. Although it is more difficult to reach the  public with safety information, we have initiated a significant outreach and education campaign that we believe will 
move us closer to our goal. We know this 
will take time, and that is why we have set a Path to Excellence for public safety. It is imperative that we succeed: All of the nine public fatalities and 34 electrical contacts that occurred in 2009 could have been prevented had basic electrical safety practices been followed. 
 Copper theft declined in 2009, possibly 
because of declining copper prices and 
increased public education. While none of  the fatalities last year involved copper theft, two of the electrical contacts did. However, we are starting to see an increase in copper theft in some parts of our service territory, and we are stepping up our public educa-tion and outreach efforts to address this. 
40 / Social Performance: Work Force2009  EMPLOYMENT DATA  — EEO-1 (as of Aug. 31, 200 9) 
 Employees  Females (%)  Minorities (%)
Total Employment  21,737  4,013  (18.5%)  3,174  (14.6%)  
Ofﬁcials & Managers  3,629  382 (10.5%)  305 (8.4%)
Professionals  5,544  1,450  (26.2%)  836 (15.1%)
2008  EMPLOYMENT DATA  — EEO-1 (as of Aug. 31, 200 8) 
 Employees  Females (%)  Minorities (%)
Total Employment  22,746  4,119  (18.1%)  3,433  (15.1%)  
Ofﬁcials & Managers  3,711  368 (9.9%)  319 (8.6%)
Professionals  5,625  1,456  (25.9%)  827 (14.7%)2009  AEP WORK FORCE DEMOGRAPHICS  
Traditionalists  Baby Boomers
(1942 & before)  (1943   – 1960)
0.3%  47.9%
Millennials 
(1982  
& after)  
7.3%  
Generation X  
(1961   – 1981)  
44.5%
WORKING TOWARD A  
SUSTAINABLE WORK FORCE
AEP’s future success hinges largely on 
the availability of a skilled, motivated and diverse work force. Many challenges face us, from employee retention and morale to ensuring that employees have the skills 
to perform the required work in an ever-
changing environment. We strive to be certain we have the resources and tools to succeed in the decades ahead despite uncertainty about the economic, policy and regulatory landscape.
ATTRACTING & RETAINING TALENT
Our work force is aging, which increases the risk of a talent shortage in the future. For the past five years, the average age of our retirees has been 60 or 61. Today, the average age of our employees is 45.9 
years. The economic downturn has delayed 
some retirements and reduced hiring and advancement opportunities. Even so, we  expect to reduce our work force by 5 per-cent to 10 percent in 2010 to better align our company to the new economic realities. Elimination of a merit pay increase 
in 2009 and the relatively small increase 
planned for 2010 also could affect our future 
ability to offer a competitive compensation package to prospective and current employees. Given these challenges, we are working to retain an optimal, productive and engaged work force. For employees 
seeking advancement and development, 
we continually explore opportunities to offer job rotations, temporary “job swaps” and developmental tasks that usually are not part of a particular job. We remain hopeful the economic 
recovery will pick up steam and we are seeing some companies begin to hire again. The risk we face is that they may 
try to hire away our best performers. We 
continue to offer employee development programs and to put a strong emphasis on AEP’s Performance Review and Feedback process, which focuses on goal alignment, employee engagement and developing a culture of accountability. Read more about work force develop-
ment at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
VALUING DIVERSITY
We recognize that a diverse work force gives us the best opportunity to succeed. The greater the variety of ages, cultures, backgrounds and skills brought to a project or task, the greater the likelihood the best 
possible decisions will be made. 
 One-third of our employees are 
minorities or females. In 2009 as in past years, we set diversity targets for females and minorities for management, professional and front-line employees. Placement rates in four of the six job categories exceeded target, but two fell short. For the first time ever, we met our placement target for females in front-line jobs, even though the 2009 level of hiring from outside the company was lower than usual. We were just shy of target in that job category for 
minorities. But we were far from target 
in the placement rate for minorities in management-level posts.  Our efforts to increase diversity will 
continue, and we expect the progress we’ve made to be sustainable.
WORK/LIFE BALANCE 
Employees and prospective employees view AEP’s more than 30 work/life programs as an important benefit. Among them are flexible work schedules for some jobs, parental leave, alternative family benefits 
and a wellness program. In the second 
year of our “AEP Wellness … Energy for 
Life” program, approximately 39 percent of eligible employees and their spouses or domestic partners completed health risk assessments. The participants learn about health risks and can take advantage of programs to help address them.
 n
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 41www.AEPsustainability.com
ORGANIZED LABOR AT AEP
Labor Union  Number of Employees   
International Brotherhood 
of Electrical Workers  ........................................ 3,816  
Utility Workers Union of America  ...................... 1,342
United Steelworkers of America  .......................... 525
United Mine Workers of America  ......................... 377
International Union of Operating Engineers  ............... 2Jenny Goodman, an AEP electrical contractor, 
works on the Mountaineer CCS project.Social Performance:
 Stakeholder Engagement
42 / Social Performance: Stakeholder Engagement Federal support for energy assistance and weatherization is at an 
all-time high. But despite our progress, neither the federal and state 
governments nor the utility and nonprofit sectors, by themselves, can solve the problem of unaffordable energy for low-income customers.   ” David Fox, executive director, National Low Income Energy Consortium“As a provider of an essential service, we 
hold a public trust that requires a level of accountability and openness. We operate in a world that is far more interdependent than ever before. Like many companies, we deal 
with controversial and complex issues that 
have a real impact on people’s lives, beyond the power that we provide. Many groups and individuals have  
a legitimate stake in our business. We believe that open, trusting relationships with our investors, our community leaders and other stakeholders are critical to our 
credibility and our business success.  
Our stakeholders make us stronger and more resilient by:
• Keeping us well-informed about issues of concern and interest to people who make a difference to us.
• Providing us with important insights and points of view that we may not have fully considered on our own.
• Giving us an opportunity to discuss our points of view and, in some cases, to be persuasive about them.
• Helping us to find common ground and gain assistance in advancing common objectives.
• Providing us with incentives and additional accountability for commitments and performance.
• Reinforcing our integrity by knowing that what we say and do will be held up to public scrutiny.
 Stakeholder engagement has helped 
us to transform one-way communication into two-way communication, dialogue into  working relationships, and working relation-ships into partnerships. It has changed our culture; we are less inwardly focused and more externally focused. Engagement is considered a core competency and a matter of material import to our company. 
HOW WE ENGAGE
We engage with a number of stake- holders on many levels, from face-to-face meetings to conferences and social networking sites, conference calls and briefings on specific topics. We have a 
dedicated sustainability website (
www.
AEPsustainability.com ) to report on our 
activities, and our operating companies  
also hold stakeholder meetings to address state and local issues. To fulfill a commitment to report 
more frequently about progress on our sustainability issues, we recently published our first Web-based mid-year update on key commitments and will continue to do so semiannually. We are expanding our channels of engagement to enable us to reach many more people who have an interest in our business.  For the past four years, we have 
collaborated with Ceres, a national network 
of investors, environmental organizations 
and other public interest groups working with companies and investors, to address sustainability challenges. Ceres facilitates a multi-stakeholder meeting with AEP executives at our Columbus, Ohio, headquarters. Our discussions typically focus on climate change, the future of 
coal, and energy efficiency. In 2009, we 
expanded our discussions to include water risks. Stakeholders who participate represent environmental organizations, labor, socially responsible investors (SRI) and other public interest groups.  This year marked the team’s fourth 
meeting with AEP , giving us an opportunity to review our progress as well as to discuss 
areas where we still have work to do. We 
talked about our business strategy and how it is evolving as we prepare for a transformation of the electric utility industry. We agreed to further clarify our strategy and to convene a stakeholder conference call later this year to provide an update. We recognize we need to be clearer about 
where we stand on some issues to keep the 
dialogue going and prevent misperceptions.
THE ISSUES ON WHICH WE ENGAGE
We have begun to focus intently on specific Number of stakeholder 
meetings in 2009 
7   Charitable giving in 2009, including 
AEP Foundation (in millions)
$23.4Live employee webcasts to keep  
management connected to employees 
39Approximate number of investors  
we met with during 2009 
400
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 43www.AEPsustainability.com
David Fox of the National Low Income Energy 
Consortium works with utilities, government and nonprofits to address energy affordability issues.STAKEHOLDER PROFILES
We held an unprecedented stakeholder meeting on coal issues and the environmental, 
safety and health performance of our coal suppliers in 2009 as we brought together   
10 coal suppliers, environmental groups, regulators and community leaders. The meeting was based on a supplier survey we conducted, but much of the conversation also focused on mountaintop removal mining. We invited two stakeholders from that meeting 
to share their views about coal in this report. 
BILL RANEY, president of the West Virginia Coal Association
“Coal is truly the answer to America’s long-term security. 
Coal practices have significantly improved over the last  40 years, and that demonstrates our ability and ambition to mine and ship coal in a safe manner while advancing environmental stewardship. If those who oppose coal 
would focus their energy on making coal a better resource, 
the entire world would benefit. Prohibiting mining and coal use would have detrimental effects on our economy.”   
MATT WASSON,  director of programs, Appalachian Voices
“Since the industrial revolution, coal has played a central role in improving the quality of life of Americans and people across the world. Looking ahead, it will continue to play a transitional role as America begins to face the economic and environmental imperative of shifting to a clean energy 
economy. However, we should never call coal ‘clean’ 
without accounting for the huge range of health and environmental costs associated with the complete life cycle of coal, from mining and transportation to the disposal of post-combustion waste. Until the most destructive mining practices like mountaintop removal in Appalachia are eliminated, the subject of coal will remain controversial and polarizing in the debate over America’s energy future.”
Read more about the perspectives shared by these stakeholders at  
www.AEPsustainability.com .
issues that our public policy stakeholders 
have repeatedly said are most important 
to them, including energy efficiency, global climate change, the cost of electricity and conservation. These are high priorities  for us as well. develop energy efficiency programs in 
Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia, Kentucky and 
Texas. In all of our jurisdictions where we are implementing energy efficiency, we have programs designed specifically to target low-income customers. In some programs, we partner with local weatherization agencies that are trained to provide educa-tion and energy efficiency resources directly to customers. AEP Ohio, for example, 
distributed approximately 20,000 energy 
efficiency kits this way.  We are creating an external Energy 
Efficiency Advisory Council of experts from  manufacturing, trade groups, home builders,  
government, nongovernment agencies and others willing to work with us to address this issue. We will report on our progress.
Engagement in Action
ENGAGING OUR INVESTORS
Our success as an investor-owned electric utility includes a track record of 100 years  of paying dividends to our shareholders and is grounded in our ability to continue delivering reliable, reasonably priced 
electricity. Approximately 70 percent of 
our outstanding shares are owned by investors who have an investment horizon of greater than two years. Because of this, we hope that these investors understand our commitment to being a sustainable company is also in their long-term financial interest. Our challenge remains that many  
investors and analysts still focus on quarterly 
earnings rather than long-term performance related to sustainability. Analysts are beginning to pay attention to sustainability issues, particularly environmental issues. However, generally they are not factoring them into their recommendations with any regularity, unlike SRIs. 
44 / Social Performance: Stakeholder Engagement
 We agree that energy efficiency is an 
important tool that can delay the construc-tion of new power plants. We work with state-based collaboratives of utilities, regulators, environmental and community 
groups and customers to identify and  We continue to explain our sustain-
ability agenda with traditional investors while 
also meeting the social objectives of SRIs.  We make an effort to increase AEP’s inclu-sion in various sustainability-focused market 
indexes. In January 2010, we learned that  
AEP was included in the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index (CII) Leaders, which includes the top 100 performers in the Maplecroft CII. This index evaluates and rates company performance in climate-related innovation and carbon management. Read more about our investor outreach at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
CONNECTING WITH CUSTOMERS
Customer communications is a critical issue. Our customer service centers handle approximately 50,000 calls daily; in 2009, we responded to 17.8 million calls. When customers called us in 2009, they waited an 
average of 48 seconds before speaking with 
an AEP representative — up slightly from  
47 seconds in 2008. Many more customers reached us online through our customer service websites. In 2009, registered customers logged in more than 2 million times to conduct business.  We receive quarterly data on customer 
satisfaction from Market Strategies Interna-tional, an independent vendor that conducts benchmarking for a peer group of more than 100 electric and gas utilities. In 2009, five of AEP’s seven operating companies placed in the first quartile relative to the national peer group in residential overall satisfaction; six of our operating companies placed in the first quartile for commercial overall satisfaction.  
 We saw the economic downturn affect 
our customers in 2009. While customer 
consumption of electricity declined, more customers had difficulty paying their bills. Account delinquencies among residential customers increased 6 percent from  2008. The hardship was not so severe for 
nonresidential customers, whose average 
delinquent account balances declined  7 percent from 2008.  As a result, we increased our support 
for low-income energy assistance programs. The primary source of assistance for low-income customers is LIHEAP . In 2009, AEP customers received more than $86 million from these programs. The total assistance 
received by customers was approximately 
91 percent higher than in 2008.   The primary reason for this unusual 
increase was that LIHEAP became fully funded at $5.1 billion for the first time in history during the 2008–2009 heating sea-son. In prior years, funding for this program ranged between $1.8 billion and $3 billion.
ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES
Our employees are our most valuable resource and our most passionate  advocates; we stay connected with them  in many ways — new and old. We now  
host 12 internal blogs — twice what we  
had in 2008  — that give employees an 
additional opportunity to voice their  opinions and that allow our leaders and managers to respond or introduce topics  of their own. One blog is hosted by  Mike Morris, our chairman, president and chief executive officer. He focuses on the 
company’s performance as well as how 
factors such as the economy or global climate change are affecting the company. Other blogs are devoted to sustainability, ethics and compliance, transmission and other business issues.  We held our first employee 
Sustainability Awareness Week in 2009 to 
highlight our material issues and how they 
relate to AEP’s sustainability. More than  60 events at 38 work locations in nine states were held, including test drives of Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles, health screenings, electronic equipment recycling, developing energy efficiency e-cards, and town hall meetings. As a result of these and other activities, 67 percent of employees 
who responded to a follow-up survey 
said they understood AEP’s strategy for sustainability and how they contribute to it. 
ENGAGING OUR COMMUNITIES
Our employees donated more than 78,000 hours of volunteer service to dozens of 
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 45www.AEPsustainability.com
ASSISTANCE PROVIDED IN 2009 TO HELP CUSTOMERS PAY THEIR ELECTRIC BILLS  
Company  Government Programs  Private Programs  Total Funds
Appalachian Power  $35,278,265  $655,129  $35,933,394
Kentucky Power   $4,334,503  — $4,334,503
Indiana Michigan Power   $9,192,443  $52,438  $9,244,881
AEP Ohio   $18,991,427  $2,111,842 $21,103,269
Public Service Company of Oklahoma   $8,451,354  $1,964,409  $10,415,763
Southwestern Electric Power Co.   $4,784,118  $348,461  $5,132,579
Totals   $81,032,110  $5,132,279  $86,164,389
2009  CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RESULTS
  Quartile  
  Ranking vs.
 %  National  
Survey Type  Satisfied  Peer Group
Residential  83.8%  1st
Commercial  90.9%  1st
Manage d/Key Accounts  79.7%  1st
Call Center Transactions  87.4%  NA   and through the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development. Read more about our engagement with policy leaders in Public Policy. 
CONTRIBUTING TO  
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY
We are committed to the prosperity of the 
communities we serve and in which we operate. Our operating companies partner with state and local organizations to provide economic development grants and work 
with communities and other companies  
to create jobs and spur economic growth.  In 2009, we provided more than $1 million to nearly 200 organizations. Learn about  our efforts at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
CHARITABLE GIVING
In addition to economic development grants, in 2009 the company and the American Electric Power Foundation pro-vided more than $23.4 million in charitable giving. These social investments are most  
important during difficult economic times, 
particularly in communities hit hardest by  the recession. We donated $11.8 million  to hundreds of local and nonprofit organ- izations. The AEP Foundation contributed $11.6 million to 111 organizations.
 norganizations and educational institutions on their own time during 2009. We support these activities with $150 AEP Connects volunteer grants to an organization to which an employee has donated at least 40 hours  
during the year. We made 894 grants totaling more than $134,000 in 2009. The hours donated by our employees have an economic value of more than $1.5 million (using the Independent Sector estimated value of volunteer time of $20.25 per  hour) and an indirect contribution that is much greater. 
 Education is an important community 
endeavor, and we provide small grants to 
teachers to support them in the classroom. These Teacher Vision Grants range from  $100 to $500 and are provided to educators  
in grades pre-K through 12 who live or teach in AEP’s service area or in com-munities with major AEP facilities. In 2009, we awarded nearly $53,000 in Teacher 
Vision Grants.
ENGAGING POLICY LEADERS
Being a large, highly regulated electric 
utility requires us to engage frequently with policymakers, legislators and other elected officials as well as regulators. We do so at the federal, state and local levels. We also 
engage internationally through the e8, at the 
international climate change negotiations, 
TIM MOSHER 
President & chief operating officer, Kentucky Power Co.
“Reliability and reasonable pricing are two of the most important aspects of providing service to our customers. 
Our customers expect consistent, safe and reliable service at an affordable price. It is important for us to regularly measure how we’re doing relative to those expectations with satisfaction surveys. Listening to our stakeholders’ perspectives is another excellent way to understand how our performance is perceived. It makes sense for us to do that; to operate in a vacuum would be a colossal mistake.”
46 / Social Performance: Stakeholder EngagementTOTAL PHILANTHROPIC GIVING 
(Corporate and AEP Foundation)  
State  2009
Arkansas  $354,920
Indiana   $2,228,164
Kentucky   $650,000
Louisiana   $421,884
Michigan   $1,257,338
Ohio   $10,434,443
Oklahoma   $843,409
Tennessee   $30,048
Texas   $2,315,510
Virginia   $2,160,028
West Virginia   $1,060,218
Other*   $1,662,209
Total   $23,418,171
* Giving to organizations outside AEP’s service area  
 or those that bene ﬁt multiple states2009 GIVING BY AREA OF FOCUS       
Economic Development  Education  
5%  31%
Youth  6% 
Safety   
& Health 
8%  
United  
Way 8%
 Community  Environment 
9% 12%
  
Arts & Culture 10%  Hunger  & Housing  11%2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Report / 47www.AEPsustainability.com
Corporate Headquarters
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, OH 43215-2373614-716-1000AEP is incorporated in the State of New York.
Stock Exchange Listing:  The Company’s common stock is traded princi -
pally on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AEP .
Internet Home Page:  Information about AEP , including financial docu -
ments, Securities and Exchange Commission filings, news releases, investor 
presentations, shareholder information and customer service information,  
is available at 
www.AEP.com .
Inquiries Regarding Your Stock Holdings:  Registered shareholders 
(shares that you own, in your name) should contact the Company’s transfer agent, listed below, if you have questions about your account, address changes, stock transfer, lost certificates, direct deposits, dividend checks and other administrative matters. You should have your Social Security number or account number ready; the transfer agent will not speak  
to third parties about an account without the shareholder’s approval or ap -
propriate documents.
Transfer Agent & Registrar
Computershare Trust Company,  N.A.
P .O. Box 43078Providence, RI 02940-3078Telephone Response Group:  1-800-328-6955
Internet address: 
www.computershare.com/investor
Hearing Impaired #: TDD:  1-800-952-9245
Beneficial Holders: (Stock held in a bank or brokerage account)  — When you purchase stock and it is held for you by your broker, it is listed with the Company in the broker’s name, and this is sometimes referred to 
as “street name” or a “beneficial owner.” AEP does not know the identity 
of individual shareholders who hold their shares in this manner; we simply know that a broker holds a certain number of shares which may be for any number of customers. If you hold your stock in street name, you receive all dividend payments, annual reports and proxy materials through your broker. Therefore, questions about your account should be directed to your broker.
Dividend Reinvestment & Direct Stock Purchase Plan:  A Dividend 
Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan is available to all investors.  
It is an economical and convenient method of purchasing shares of AEP 
common stock, through initial cash investments, cash dividends and/or  
additional optional cash purchases. You may obtain the Plan prospectus and enrollment authorization form by contacting the transfer agent.
Financial Community Inquiries:  Institutional investors or securities 
analysts who have questions about the Company should direct inquiries  
to Bette Jo Rozsa, 614-716-2840, bjrozsa@AEP .com;  Julie Sherwood, 
614-716-2663,  jasherwood@AEP .com;  or Jana Croom, 614-716-3175, 
jtcroom@AEP .com . Individual shareholders should contact Kathleen 
Kozero, 614-716-2819, klkozero@AEP .com .
Number of Shareholders:  As of Dec.  31, 2009, there were approx-
imately 96,000 registered shareholders and approximately 271,000 share-
holders holding stock in street name through a bank or broker. There were 478,054,407 shares outstanding at Dec.  31, 2009.
Form 10-K:  Upon request, we will provide without charge a copy of our 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec.  31, 2009. A copy can be obtained 
via mail with a written request to AEP Investor Relations, by telephone at 1-800-237-2667 or electronically at klkozero@AEP .com . Corporate & Shareholder Information
COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN
Among American Electric Power Co., Inc., The S&P 500 Index & The S&P Electric Utilities Index    
  
$118 
$145 $178  
$132 
$137
  $112 $134
 $152  
$113 
$125
  $100*
 $105  $121
 $128
 
$81 $102
 December  December  December  December  December  December
 2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009
• American Electric Power Co., Inc.  • S & P 500  • S & P Electric Utilities
* $100 invested on 12/31/04 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends.
 Fiscal year ending Dec. 31.
 ©2010 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Cos., Inc. All rights reserved. CAR 2 010 CAR 2 010GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS  / KEY INDICATORS
48 / GRI Table of ContentsPROFILE
Strategy & Profile
1.1 Statement by the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 – 5
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities  . . . . . . . . . 6 – 8
Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Cover
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.3 Operational structure of the organization . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters  . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.5 Countries in which the company has operations  . . . . . . Inside cover
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
2.7 Markets served  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
2.9 Signi ficant changes in size, structure, or ownership
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period
Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.3 Reporting cycle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3.5 Process for de fining report content  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3.6 Boundary of the report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7– 8
3.7 Speci fic limitations on the scope or boundary of the report
3.8 Reporting on other entities
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations . . .7– 8
3.10 Explanation of the nature and effect of any re-statement  . . . . . . 7– 8
3.11 Signi ficant scope, boundary, or measurement changes 
 from previous reporting period  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7– 8
GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Standard disclosures table  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
3.13 Accuracy and completeness of report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7– 8
GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT4.1 Governance structure of the organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Board is also 
 an executive officer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
4.3 Independence of the Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
4.4 Making recommendations to the Executive Board
4.5 Linkage between performance and executive compensation  . . . . . 3
4.6 Avoiding con flicts of interest
4.7 Quali fications of the Executive Board  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
4.8 Corporate mission and values  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
4.9 Board-level processes for identifying and managing risks 
 and opportunities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance
4.11 How the precautionary approach is addressed . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 – 5
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters
4.13 Memberships in associations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 – 46
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 – 46
4.17 Use of stakeholder engagement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 – 46
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORSDisclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2 – 3, 10  –13
EC1 Direct economic value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 –13
EC2 Financial implications of climate change  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 34
EC3 Defined bene fit plan coverage
EC4 Financial assistance received from government  . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 34
EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage
EC6 Locally based suppliers spending
EC7 Hiring from local community  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
EC8 Public benefit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
EC9 Indirect economic benefits
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Material 
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
EN2 Percentage of materials recycled  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28 – 29
EnergyEN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source . . . . . . . 33, 35
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 
 efficiency improvements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable  
 products and services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22, 34  – 35, 44
EN7  Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption
WaterEN8 – Commentary
 Total water withdrawal by source
EN9 Water sources signi ficantly affected by withdrawal of water . . .27– 28
EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
BiodiversityEN11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent 
 to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  
 protected areas
EN12  Impacts on biodiversityKey: CAR 2010 = Report Page Number 
 EU = Electric Utility Sector Supplement 
Note:  All GRI information and data are on the Web unless noted below CAR 2 010 CAR 2 010
EN13  Habitats protected or restored
EN14  Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation 
 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations
Emissions, Effluents & Waste
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
 by weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
 reductions achieved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31– 32
EN19  Greenhouse gas emissions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EN20  NOx, SOx, and other signi ficant air emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EN21  Total water discharge by quality and destination  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27– 28
EN22  Waste volume by type and disposal method  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 – 29
EN23  Total number and volume of signi ficant spills . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 – 26
EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 
 deemed hazardous  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
EN25  Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 
 discharges of water and runoff  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27– 28
Products & ServicesEN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 
 and services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 – 29
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 
 that are reclaimed by category  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
EN28  Fines for noncompliance with environmental regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
EN29  Impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and work force
EN30  Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 
 by type  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37– 40
LA1 Total work force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover 
LA2 Employee turnover 
LA3 Full-time, temporary or part-time employee benefits
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 
 bargaining agreements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
LA5 Minimum notice regarding operational changes
LA6 Percentage of work force represented in health and 
 safety committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37– 39
LA7 Rates of injury and absenteeism  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
LA8 Serious diseases programs
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
LA10  Average hours of training
LA11  Skills management and lifelong learning programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
LA12  Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews . . . . . . . . . . . 41LA13  Composition of governance bodies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to women
HUMAN RIGHTS
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21, 43
HR1 Human rights clauses in investment agreements
HR2  Human rights screening for contractors
HR3  Human rights policies, procedures and training
HR4  Discrimination incidents and actions taken
HR5  Freedom of association
HR6  Child labor
HR7 Compulsory labor
HR8  Security personnel trained in human rights
HR9  Violations of indigenous people’s rights 
SOCIETYDisclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21, 43
SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs
SO2 Business units analyzed for corruption  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 – 46
SO3  Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption
SO4  Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption
SO5 Public policy positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21– 23
SO6  Contributions to political parties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior
SO8  Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Disclosure on Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6, 15
PR1–  Commentary
 Life cycle stages of products and services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18
PR2 Number of noncompliance incidents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18
PR3 Product and service information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 –18
PR4 Number of noncompliance labeling incidents
PR5 Customer satisfaction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PR6 Programs related to marketing communications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PR7 Number of noncompliance marketing incidents
PR8 Substantiated breaches of customer privacy
PR9 Fines for use of products and services noncompliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 CAR 2 010 CAR 2010
Electric Utility Sector Supplement Index
PROFILE
Organizational Profile 
EU1 Installed capacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EU2 Net energy output  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EU3 Number of accounts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EU4 Transmission and Distribution mileage . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EU5 CO2 permits
ECONOMICS
EU6 Reliability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–19
EU7 Demand-side programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19, 22
EU8 R&D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27– 28
EU9 Nuclear decommissioning
EU10  Planned capacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 –17
EU11  Generation efficiency
EU12  Losses
ENVIRONMENTAL
EN1–  Commentary
 Materials by weight or volume  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33, 35
EN8 – Commentary
 Total water withdrawal by source
EN12  – Commentary
 Biodiversity activities
EU13  Biodiversity offset
EN14  – Commentary
 Biodiversity strategy
EN16  – Commentary
 Greenhouse gas emissions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EN18  – Commentary
 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31– 35
EN20  – Commentary
 Air emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside cover
EN21  – Commentary
 Water discharge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27– 28
EN22  – Commentary
 Waste type & disposal method  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 – 29
SOCIAL
EU14  Work force retention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
EU15  Eligible to retire
EU16  Health & safety policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37-41
LA1 – Commentary
 Total work force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 – 41LA2 – Commentary
 Turnover
EU17  Days worked by contractor
EU18  Percent of health & safety screening  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
EU LA4  Percent of contractors covered by unions
EU LA7  Health & safety of contractors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37– 38
HUMAN RIGHTSHR5  – Commentary
 Freedom of association
SOCIETYSO1–  Commentary
 Community impact programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39, 40  – 41, 45  – 46
EU19  Stakeholder involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 – 46
EU20  Displaced people
EU21  Contingency planning
EU22  Displaced people
EU23  Electricity services programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
EU24  Practices addressing barriers to services
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITYPR1–  Commentary
 Life-cycle stages
EU25  Public injuries & fatalities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38, 40
EU26  Unserved population
EU27  Residential disconnections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
EU28  Power outage frequency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
EU29  Average power outage duration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
EU30  Average plant availabilitywww.AEPsustainability.com
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportThis report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are:FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
• The economic climate and growth in, or contraction within, our service territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns.
• Inflationary or deflationary interest rate trends.
• Volatility in the financial markets, particularly developments affecting the availability of capital on reasonable terms and developments impairing our ability to finance new capital projects and refinance existing debt at attractive rates.
• The availability and cost of funds to finance working capital and capital needs, particularly during periods when the time lag between incurring 
costs and recovery is long and the costs are material.
• Electric load and customer growth.
• Weather conditions, including storms, and our ability to recover 
significant storm restoration costs through applicable rate mechanisms.
• Available sources and costs of, and transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters.
• Availability of necessary generating capacity and the performance of our generating plants.
• Our ability to recover I&M’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Unit  1 
restoration costs through warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.
• Our ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded costs in 
connection with deregulation.
• Our ability to recover increases in fuel and other energy costs through 
regulated or competitive electric rates.
• Our ability to build or acquire generating capacity, including the Turk Plant, and transmission line facilities (including our ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals and permits) when needed at acceptable prices and terms and to recover those costs (including the costs of projects that are cancelled) through applicable rate cases or competitive rates.
• New legislation, litigation and government regulation, including 
requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, 
carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances or additional regulation of fly ash and similar combustion products that could impact the continued operation and cost recovery of our plants.• Timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions (including rate or other recovery of new investments in generation, distribution and transmission service and environmental compliance).
• Resolution of litigation (including our dispute with Bank of America).
• Our ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs.
• Our ability to develop and execute a strategy based on a view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related commodities.
• Changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we 
have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy 
trading market.
• Actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt.
• Volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and other energy-related commodities.
• Changes in utility regulation, including the implementation of ESPs and related regulation in Ohio and the allocation of costs within regional transmission organizations, including PJM and SPP.
• Accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting standard-setting bodies.
• The impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the investments held by our pension, other postretirement benefit plans 
and nuclear decommissioning trust and the impact on future funding 
requirements.
• Prices and demand for power that we generate and sell at wholesale.
• Changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing or alternative sources of generation.
• Other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of terrorism (including increased security costs), embargoes and other catastrophic events.
AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation  
to update any forward-looking information.
2010 AEP Corporate Accountability Reportwww.AEPsustainability.comAmerican Electric Power
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, OH 43215614-716-1000www.AEP.com