American Electric Power
2008 Corporate Sustainability ReportAmerican Electric Power
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, OH 43215614-716-1000www.AEP .comTABLE OF CONTENTS
 2 Leadership, Management & Strategy 
  A Message from Michael G. Morris  
	 	 Chairman,	President	&	Chief	Executive	Officer
  A Message from Dennis E. Welch  
  Executive Vice President, Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities
 6 About This Report
 1 1 Environmental Performance
 2 1 Work Force Issues
 2 9 Public Policy
 3 7 Climate Change
 4 7 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
 5 7 Stakeholder Engagement
 6 2 Glossary
 6 3 GRI Table of Contents
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustainability  
initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. That Committee met twice in the past year with company management to review the company’s sustainability objectives, challenges, targets and progress. That Com-mittee gave management input and guidance for the proposed approach to this report, and then reviewed and discussed the final	text	of	this	report	before	recommending	its	approval	by	the	full	Board	of	Directors. The AEP Board of Directors has received periodic reports both from management and from the Committee on Directors 
and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives. Many of the topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at Board and Committee meetings. Members of the Board all received copies of this report before it was published and several directors made suggestions that have been incorporated into this report. Following its review, and upon recommendation of the Committee, the Board of Directors adopted a formal resolution approving this report. The Board believes this report is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s plans and performance and 
their	environmental,	 social	and	financial	impacts.	While	pleased	with	progress	to	date,	the	Board	expects	and	requires	higher	  
performance in the future. The Board has emphasized to management that it will be evaluated by its success in executing  the	company’s	 strategic	plan	to	meet	stakeholders’	 and	the	Board’s	expectations,	 including	 specifically	 the	commitments	 in	 
this report.
 
Lester A. Hudson, Jr.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors 
April 2008
COMPANY OVERVIEW
American Electric Power has been providing electric service 
for more than 100 years and is one of the nation’s largest 
electric utilities, serving 5 .2 million customers in 11 states.  
  2007 
Revenues (in billions)  $ 13.6 
Net Income (in millions)   $ 1,089 * 
Earnings Per Share  $ 2.73 * 
Service Territory 197,500 square miles
Transmission 39,000 miles
Distribution 213,000 miles
Generating Capacity  37,736 MW ** 
Generating Stations More than 80
Total Assets (in billions) $ 40.4
U.S. Customers (year-end, in thousands) 5,191
Employees (year-end) 20,861 
* Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
** Includes 270 MW of retired/decommissioned generating capacity
AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian 
Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power,  Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio. Coal 68% Natural Gas 23%
 
    Nuclear 6%
   
   Hydro, Wind  
   & Pumped  
   Storage 3%AEP Generation Portfolio Service Territory
The report was printed by Cenveo Anderson Lithograph on 50 percent recycled paper, including 25 percent post-consumer waste, with soy-formulated inks.  
Cenveo	Anderson	Lithograph	was	chosen	because	it	is	an	environmentally	sustainable	printer	that	is	Forest	Stewardship	Council	certified,	has	a	zero	landfill, 	 
100	percent	recycling	policy	for	all	hazardous	and	non-hazardous	production	waste	byproducts,	and	is	the	only	Air	Quality	Management	District	certified 	 
“totally enclosed” commercial print facility in the nation. This results in virtually no volatile organic compound emissions being released from its production 
facilities into the atmosphere.Market Price—Common Stock
 2006 2007  
    $51.24
 $43.13     $46.56
   $42.58
  $41.67
  $32.27
 High Low Year-End High Low Year-End  Working T ogether for  
a Brighter Future
On the cover: Gene Campbell, transmission station manager, AEP OhioDEAR FRIENDS & COLLEAGUES, 
Imagine a world where electricity is assured; 
where technologies enable power plants to  run cleaner and help consumers to use energy  more	efficiently; 	where	nations	come	together	  
to address climate change and where econo- mies and communities prosper and grow. Im-  
agine a world in which you control the amount,  
timing and price of the electricity you use. At American Electric Power (AEP), we  
are not just imagining this world, we are work-  
ing toward it. And sustainability is our road map. Electricity is necessary for a modern society, yet its 
very production has adverse impacts on society. AEP pro-duces more greenhouse gases than most electric companies  in the United States, so we have an increased responsibility  to be part of the climate change solution, internationally,  nationally and locally.  For more than a century, AEP has created new ways to 
provide power for today while preparing for the needs of to-morrow. While others may watch and wait, we move aggres-sively to meet those challenges in new and exciting ways. We maintain our leadership by innovating and by turning respon-sibility	into	opportunity	 through	technology	 and	efficiency.	
 Our employees play a key role in leading us forward 
and their well-being is our paramount concern. We accom-plished a goal in 2007 that had eluded us for 10 years: no AEP employee lost his or her life while working. I am pro-foundly thankful and relieved about this, and I am deter-mined that we continue to do more to prevent fatalities and injuries in this year and in the future.  I am unhappy to report, however, that last year we had 
more recordable injuries and more safety inspections and fines	from	the	Occupational	 Safety	&	Health	Administra-
tion than in 2006. Our goal is to be “best in class” by 2010 and we must intensify our commitment to get there. We also  must insist that our contract work force improve their safety performance, or they will not be allowed to work for AEP.  Safety and health are a personal obligation and a collec- tive responsibility, one that we must embrace  and share. I will never stop making that point.  We must not take shortcuts or unsafe actions  
that	can	have	dire	consequences	 to	us,	our	co- 
workers or our families.  
 We took a major step toward creating a 
sustainable future last year by obtaining a far better understanding of how our stakeholders want us to measure, manage and account for the full range of our impacts, both positive and negative. Technology can and will pro-
vide many solutions, but not without the support and trust of our stakeholders, who have to live with the results of that technology. We must be allowed to test and validate these new technologies and we need their support for this. Stakeholder engagement is making AEP a better com-
pany. This year we engaged many more stakeholders in the  process. These thoughtful discussions gave us a greater un- derstanding of who we are and what is expected of us, much of	which	is	reflected	in	this	report.	 Scientific	 evidence	 has	led	us	to	conclude	 that	human	
activity has contributed to global warming. We will con-tinue to be part of local, national and international efforts to find	a	reasonable,	 achievable	 approach	 to	carbon	controls.	
We are working to develop federal legislation that combines a mandatory cap-and-trade program with provisions to en-sure the participation of all countries. We believe strongly that carbon caps must have broad bipartisan support and not cause serious harm to our economy. Federal climate policy must recognize coal’s vital role in our nation’s energy inde-pendence; we cannot afford to turn our back on this abun-dant,	domestic	 resource.	 We	support	a	more	diversified	 and	
domestic-based	 energy	supply	mix,	increased	 energy	effi-
ciency and greater investment in new energy technologies.  We took a leading role in addressing climate change 
on the international stage last year. AEP was one of 10 glob-al companies that worked with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Electricity Utilities Sector Project to identify short- and long-term technology solu-
Leadership, Management & Strategy2 Leadership, Management & Strategy tions and to call for international public policies to promote 
them. This WBCSD report was presented to leaders from more than a dozen countries at the United Nations’ interna-tional climate negotiations in Bali, Indonesia. For AEP’s part, we are working to bring advanced coal 
technologies, including carbon capture and storage, ultra-supercritical	 pulverized	 coal	and	Integrated	 Gasification	
Combined Cycle (IGCC) to commercial operation. We are pleased that the West Virginia Public Service Commission recently approved our proposed 629-MW IGCC plant, a  decision that recognizes the importance of this technology to our future energy security. We hope for a similar deci-sion from the Virginia State Corporation Commission.  We are disappointed that a recent decision of the Ohio 
Supreme Court on our proposed IGCC plant rejected a PUCO-approved mechanism for timely recovery of future costs of the project. We remain hopeful we can resolve this issue.  Meanwhile, we will complete a validation project for 
carbon capture at our Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia in 2009.	We	plan	to	have	the	equipment	 and	permits	we	need	
this year to drill the underground wells that will permanently store the carbon dioxide. We also received some approvals for one of our advanced clean-coal plants  – the Turk Plant in 
Arkansas  – but, unfortunately, Oklahoma rejected the other. 
 We were disappointed with the Department of Energy’s  
(DOE) decision to end its funding of the FutureGen project  –  
the	first	near-zero	emissions 	coal	power	plant.	The	DOE	has	
restructured the FutureGen project funding, giving us an opportunity to receive funds to support our carbon capture and storage initiatives, and we are pursuing that option. 	 Electricity	 production	 is	only	part	of	the	equation.	 It	is	 
critical to harness new sources such as wind, biomass and  solar and to have the ability to deliver electricity across state and regional boundaries to where it is most needed. We believe an extra-high voltage interstate transmission system regulated at the federal level, similar to natural gas pipelines, is in the nation’s best interest. The existing trans-mission system simply cannot meet the growing demand for energy,	including 	energy	efficiency	 and	renewable	 energy.	 We envision an enhanced electric distribution system, 
giving our customers far more control and choice over their electricity, much like they now decide which mobile phone plan	to	buy.	Freedom	 of	choice	will	be	an	enormous	 benefit	
to our customers, enabling them to reduce consumption, con-trol costs and limit their individual environmental impacts.  This distribution system, part of our gridSMART
SM  
initiative, will also provide data to improve service reliabil-ity,	increase	efficiencies	 on	our	system	and	reduce	customer	
outage times. Our agreement with the General Electric Co. to	deploy	equipment	 and	technology	 programs	 is	an	impor-
tant component of our plan to supply our 5.2 million cus-tomers with “smart meters” by 2015 to give them the infor-mation needed to control their electricity use.  We continue to be challenged by an aging work force: 
18 percent of our employees are eligible to retire today and 10 percent of our employees are likely to do so in the next four	years.	This	is	significant	 because	it	takes	years	to	train	
employees to operate power plants or work on the electric transmission and distribution system. Our employees have shared their concerns about this challenge and we are work-ing to provide more information about our plans. We must con-tinue to have a stable, diverse, knowledgeable and motivated work force in the future in order to meet our business goals.  We see a world in which energy transmission is facili- 
tated and climate change is addressed; a world in which electricity is created from more diverse and cleaner sources and	used	more	efficiently
	wit
h	far	more	control	in	the	hands	
of users. We see a senior management team and work force that is prepared and eager to lead this change, with the abil-ity and commitment to make it happen. Working with oth-ers, we have the power and the talent to make it happen. Thank you for your interest in American Electric Power. 
Sincerely,
Michael G. Morris
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  3
Leadership, Management & StrategyDEAR STAKEHOLDERS, 
At AEP we are trying hard to balance  meet- 
ing the needs of shareholders, customers,  employees, communities, the environment,  public health and the world in which we live.  The better we strike this balance, the better we will do as a business.  We live and work today in an intercon- 
nected world, side-by-side with many differ- ent stakeholders: advocates and community  groups, neighbors, customers, investors, reg- ulators and national and international political leaders. They  often have different points of view from ours and from one another. We are starting to discover that by simply listening to each other and working together, we all make more informed and better decisions. AEP does not have all the answers to climate change or any other issue. But we are more likely to  find	the	right	answers	by	working	closely	with	others	to	 
build knowledge, trust, mutual awareness and respect for each others’ needs. It is also vitally important that each of these groups interact in the same way with us. We have committed to you to be candid and transpar-
ent about our business. Last year we reached out to many of  our stakeholders and collaborated with them throughout the year	about	climate	change,	technology, 	energy	efficiency 	and	
transmission	 siting.	Our	first	sustainability	 report	gave	us	a	
meaningful vehicle for those discussions and we hope this one will as well. What we learn not only helps to shape this  report	but	also	to	influence	 the	decisions	 we	make,	the	pro-
grams and practices we implement and our fundamental un-derstanding of who we are and what we are about.  I cannot emphasize enough that we view this document 
as much more than a “report”; rather, we see it as a road map  for the future, guiding our actions and bringing us closer to our stakeholders.  As a result of these discussions, we have become more 
aggressive about our own energy conservation and have be-gun to reduce the demand for electricity from our customers; we have started to work with our coal suppliers and others to improve their environmental, safety and health practices; we have become more en-gaged internationally, as well as nationally, in	the	drive	to	find	achievable	 solutions	 for	
global climate change; and we continue to engage more of our stakeholders on a wider range of issues. Sustainability is a journey for AEP, but 
it must be a personal journey for our man-agement and our employees, too. One of our continuing challenges is to spread our 
vision for sustainability throughout the company so that we all understand and embrace it and are aware of our personal roles in leading AEP into the future. We are developing a plan that will raise awareness among employees and embed sustainability within training, leadership communications, new employee orientation and day-to-day operations.  Our employees and company have succeeded for more 
than 100 years by being innovative and bringing new tech-nologies forward to address challenges. One of today’s great-est challenges is climate change and the solutions will affect AEP and our industry far into the future. As Mike Morris has  said, we believe that advanced technology combined with an enlightened public and responsible regulation are the es-sential elements in addressing climate change. We are pre-pared to do our part.  If we are to achieve a reasonable solution to global cli- 
mate	change,	we	have	to	significantly	 increase	investments	  
in	new	technologies	 and	energy	efficiency	 programs.	 Our	
job is to convince our customers and regulators that these  investments are necessary and appropriate. We work contin-uously with our federal regulators, state public utility com-  
missions, customers and legislators to convey our message and points of view.  It is gratifying to hear from so many of our stakehold-
ers that they believe we are making progress. But we know our actions speak much louder than any document and we recognize there is much more to do. Our environmental com-pliance performance was excellent in 2007; we made tremen-  
4 Leadership, Management & Strategy dous progress toward achieving our ultimate goal of zero  
environmental enforcement actions. We had fewer incidents of non-compliance last year than in 2006 and, more important-  
ly, when something did occur we reached out to regulators and advocates to work with them to prevent future incidents.  
	 It	would	be	wrong	for	AEP	to	advocate	energy	 efficien-  
cy as part of the climate change solution and not practice  it ourselves. With more than 400 facilities in 11 states, we  have	a	unique	opportunity	 to	be	more	energy	efficient	and	 
to demonstrate the value and cost-effectiveness of “green” buildings, especially in an industrial setting. Through the  Clinton Global Initiative we committed that, as we invest ap-  
proximately 	$100	million	during	the	next	five	years	to	build	  
or update existing facilities, we will do so according to Lead-  
ership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) stan-dards as those opportunities arise. We are also working to- ward	achieving	 greater	efficiencies	 through	more	efficient	  
electrical	 transformers,	 heating	and	cooling	equipment	 and	 
other initiatives.  
 We settled our New Source Review litigation in 2007, 
enabling us to move forward with plans to lessen our envi-ronmental impacts over time. The settlement provides for a broad range of environmental projects: reducing emissions  from	our	coal-fired	 power	plants,	adding	more	hybrid	cars	
and	trucks	to	our	automotive	 fleet,	converting	 our	river	fleet	 
to ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel and developing land conser-vation and restoration programs. The safety and health of our work force, our customers 
and the general public are always our top concern. We are very	grateful	that	we	had	no	AEP	fatalities	last	year	–	the	first	
time since 1997 and only the second time since 1970. We  know we can work safely when we stay focused and look out for each other. Unfortunately, contractors working for us  and members of the public were fatally injured after coming in contact with electrical facilities. We are concerned about the growing number of accident 
near-misses that are occurring within AEP, too. We must work harder to take the “luck factor” out of safety and health and replace it with the “on purpose” factor, which entails  aggressive, relentless preventive action. Our focus on haz-ard recognition is changing how and when employees and contractors think about the risks associated with their jobs. By identifying all hazards and risks associated with any job, we	can	change	tools	or	procedures	 and	influence	 behaviors	
to prevent injuries and occupational illnesses from happen-ing. That sounds easy, but we all know that changing hu-man	behavior	is	often	a	difficult	challenge.	 We have renamed this report the AEP Corporate Sus- 
tainability Report based on stakeholder feedback. While  similar	to	our	first	Corporate
	Responsibility	 Report,
	we	be- 
lieve	the	new	title	better	reflects	its	content	and	orientation.	  
Also, several stakeholders suggested we identify it as the 2008 report, rather than the 2007 report, because we look forward as much as we review past performance. Sustainability is a process of continuous change and im-  
provement. We are on a pathway that bends and turns as we  work with others to address the issues that face us. With hard  work and dedication, we will move forward on that path so that we can be proud of what we have accomplished and give  the next generation the ability to meet its needs.  The constructive tension between non-governmental  
organizations, such as environmental groups, and the business  community has helped each of us to improve who we are as  people, as organizations and as corporations. What’s changed  is	that	we	now	collaborate	 more	frequently	 because	we	are	
more willing to listen to each other and have productive dis-  
cussions on issues of mutual interest.  We enjoy and continue to learn from our ongoing dia-
logue and collaboration with our stakeholders and I thank them for their efforts. To those who are new to us, we wel-come your comments and invite you to join us – and to chal-
lenge us – as we move forward.
Sincerely,
Dennis E. Welch
Executive Vice President, 
Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities
 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  5
Leadership, Management & StrategyOUR CORPORATE VISION 
We seek to maintain our leadership as one of the largest 
generation and transmission companies in the United States and as the largest electric distribution business throughout the regions we serve, and to be a leader in technical innova-tion of power systems, environmental technology, transmis-sion systems and customer service. 
OUR VISION FOR SUSTAINABILITY
American Electric Power enters its second century commit-ted	to	operating	 responsibly,	 efficiently	
and	profitably	 for	customers,	 sharehold-
ers, employees and communities. We will  safely provide reliable, reasonably priced  electric power while working to protect people and the environment. We will en-  
gage stakeholders and continue our role in making people’s lives better today and for generations to come.
MATERIALITY 
Like last year’s report, this report covers  seven	material	issues	identified	 by	man- 
agement and our Board of Directors that  (1)	have	a	significant	 impact	on	the	fi-
nances	or	operation	 of	the	company;	 (2)	have	significant	  
impact on the environment or society now or in the future; or	(3)	substantially	 influence	 the	assessments	 and	decisions	  
of stakeholders.  Our seven material issues are: 
•	Leadership,	 Management	 &	Strategy:	 Sustainability re-  
quires	a	strong	and	committed 	leadership 	team	willing	to	be	 
aggressive and take prudent risks to maintain AEP’s role as  an industry leader, meet the needs of our customers, deliver  value to our shareholders and meet our sustainability vision.
•	Environmental	 Performance:  Although environmental  
laws	and	regulations	 are	complex	and	change	frequently,	  
we	must	comply	at	all	times,	and	we	have	made	significant	  
investments in order to do so. Our challenge is to continually  achieve compliance and to reduce risks to the environment  
and the health of our communities.    
•	Work	Force	Issues:	 Protecting our employees’ safety and  
health and ensuring that we have a skilled, diverse work force to build, operate and maintain new generation, trans-mission and distribution technologies are imperative if we are to remain an industry leader. 
•	Public	Policy:	 We must actively engage policymakers,  
employees, community leaders and other stakeholders to ensure that public policy, laws and regulations allow us to 
continue to serve our customers, reward our shareholders and pursue our vision for sustainability. 
•	Climate	 Change: We are one of the 
largest greenhouse gas emitters in the  Western Hemisphere. Our sustainabil- ity	and	financial	stability,	 and	the	eco-
nomic well-being of our service terri- tory, are at risk if we are not able to  prosper with the proposed passage of  a U.S. climate policy. Our success will be based on our ability to work with  technology providers to bring new  technologies to commercial scale. 
•	
Energy	Security,	 Reliability	 &	Growth:
	Our electric delivery system must be modern, reliable and  keep pace with customer demand with a diverse fuel sup- ply.	This	requires	us	to	collaborate	 with	regulators,	 legisla-
tors and other stakeholders not only to create and maintain  such a system, but to ensure timely regulatory cost recovery. 
•	Stakeholder	 Engagement: We need to work closely with 
our numerous stakeholders, such as investors, customers,  employees, regulators and policymakers. If we are to be  sustainable, we must be transparent and listen to all points of view while measuring and holding ourselves account-able for our impacts.
STAKEHOLDER REVIEW OF THIS REPORT
American Electric Power conducted eight stakeholder meet-About This Report6 Leadership, Management & Strategy 
Rockport Plant, Indiana
•	Prospective employees 
•	Suppliers and others doing  
business with the company 
•	Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
•	Professionals from industry, government, labor  and academia 
REPORTING PERIOD & DEVELOPMENT
This report is based on performance and information for cal- endar year 2007, but also provides available data for 2005 and  2006 to establish trends against which current performance  can be compared. Financial performance is covered in AEP’s  2007 Annual Report to Shareholders. This report contains  forward-looking information about our goals and progress. AEP’s Steering Committee for Sustainable Develop- 
ment,	co-chaired 	by	the	chief	financial	 officer	and	the	ex- 
ecutive vice president of environment, safety & health and  facilities, guides the company’s sustainable development  and participated in creating this report. This executive-level  steering committee represents every business function at  AEP and met periodically throughout the year. The Com- mittee on Directors and Corporate Governance of AEP’s  Board of Directors reviewed the report and its content. The  full Board of Directors also reviewed the report and voted to approve it.  AEP joined SustainAbility’s Engaging Stakeholders 
Program, which conducted a benchmark of last year’s re-port. The benchmark study offered several suggestions for improvement, such as to make a clearer business case for climate change action and to show how sustainability is be-ing integrated within the company. The study also found the report to be comprehensive, candid and transparent. Last year’s report was reviewed by Ethical Corporation  
magazine, which said: [our] “approach to corporate respon-  
sibility reporting is proportionate in size yet without verbosity  or hype.” The review offered thoughtful suggestions for im-  
provement that we considered in developing this report.  ings in the process of preparing this report, enabling us to engage many more stakeholders than in the past. Our oper-ating companies and power plants, as well as senior man-agement, participated in this process.	 We worked with SustainAbility, a highly regarded sus-
tainability	 firm,	to	facilitate	 most	of	our	stakeholder	 meet -
ings. We spoke with state and federal regulators, power plant neighbors, environmental and conservation groups, customers, employees, academia and community leaders. We worked again with Ceres, a network of investors, envi-ronmentalists and other public interest groups that works with companies and investors to address sustainability challenges. Ceres brought together 17 organizations for this process. A group of investors also met with AEP to talk specifically	 about	sustainability	 issues.	Our	discussions	 are	
reflected	throughout	this	report. Our primary stakeholders are: 
•	Shareholders and prospective investors 
•	Customers – large and small
•	AEP employees and retirees 
•	Labor unions 
•	Local communities 
•	Federal and state legislators and regulators 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  7
Leadership, Management & StrategyTop 10 Issues Raised by Stakeholders
•	Safety and health in the workplace – leading  
versus lagging indicators
•	Climate change – policy position, technology
•	Cost of electricity – more consumer education
•	Energy	efficiency	 –	part	of	the	climate	 
change solution
•	Mountaintop mining – position,  
environmental impacts
•	Mercury issues at power plants – CAMR ruling
•	Aging work force – plan to address
•	Transmission growth and the need for it
•	Supply chain performance, accountability
•	Environmental effects/impacts – water, air, wasteOur 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report 
won praise from Corporate Responsibility Officer magazine.CHANGES IN REPORTING 
This report includes metrics for each material issue within 
each section of the report relating to that issue, eliminating the need for an overview section (formerly entitled “Chal-
lenges, Goals, Progress”). Many of our stakeholders asked for a shorter summary report and we will publish one start-ing this year.  AEP is participating in the Global Reporting Initiative  
(GRI) Electric Utility Sector Supplement Pilot designed to  identify relevant performance indicators for the electric util- ity industry globally. This report incorporates more of the Supplement’s indicators than did last year’s report.
COMPLETENESS,  
RELIABILITY & ACCURACY OF REPORTING 
Through AEP’s Enterprise Risk and Insurance Department  
and oversight by the Risk Executive Committee, AEP es- tablished a formal information collection and reporting pro- cess for GRI indicators that allows us to track our progress against our commitments. Reports to the Risk Executive Com-  
mittee are made twice a year and are reported to the Board  of	Directors.	 Each	business	unit	collects	and	verifies	data	for	 
which it is responsible. Some of the data presented are re- quired	to	be	filed	with	other	entities	(e.g.,	Chicago	Climate	  
Exchange,	 U.S.	EPA)	and	are	verified	accordingly.	 We	con- 
tinue to develop a more complete information management  system as part of our sustainable development initiative.
REPORTING PRINCIPLES & GUIDANCE 
We continue to follow GRI’s G3 Reporting Principles in an  effort to provide a balanced and reasonable representation  
of AEP’s sustainability performance. These  principles are materiality, stakeholder inclu-  
siveness, sustainability context, complete-ness, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity, reliability and boundary setting.
CONTACT FOR QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS REPORT 
For additional information about this report, the GRI infor-  mation on AEP’s web site or the company’s sustainability ini-  
tiatives, please contact Sandy Nessing at smnessing@AEP .com . 
Strategy & Management
OUR STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY 
Our corporate Vision, Mission, Strategy & Values state-ments outline the principles that guide our business. Our effort to integrate corporate sustainability with our busi-ness strategy and daily decision-making has prompted us to take a wider view of what a sustainable future looks like for AEP. For more details on AEP’s vision, mission and values, please visit 
www.AEP.com/about .
	 We	strive	to	put	people	first	–	the	health	and	safety	of	our	
employees and contractors working for AEP and the welfare of the communities in which we operate are very important  to us. AEP elevated oversight of environment, safety and  health to the executive vice president level in 2007 to under- score the critical importance of safety and environmental sus-  
tainability to the company’s future and the increasing stature  of AEP as a leader in corporate sustainability.  Our customers and communities rely on us to meet their 
energy	needs	in	ways	that	improve	their	quality	of	life	and	
protect the environment today and for future generations. Our challenge is to help our customers understand the true value of electricity – from the raw materials to the impacts 
on the environment – and offer ways to encourage energy  
efficiency	 and	give	them	greater	control	over	use	and	cost.	 
We	also	have	to	obtain	adequate	and	timely	recovery	 of	 
AEP’s costs and earn a reasonable return for our sharehold-ers on the investments we make in the company.
OUR CHALLENGES & OUR OPPORTUNITIES 
Our	ability	to	address	climate	change	will	require	new	tech-
nology coupled with policies and regulations to support its deployment; legislative and regulatory support for energy efficiency	 programs	 and	initiatives	 to	help	our	customers	 de-
crease their demand and usage; expansion of the transmission grid to facilitate fuel diversity; renewable energy growth and 8 Leadership, Management & Strategy 
reliability; continued availability of greenhouse gas offsets; 
and	additional	 plant	efficiencies.	 Before	we	invest	in	these	  
solutions we collaborate with our stakeholders to ensure that we can recover our costs from these investments while meeting any new mandates.  Our projected earnings growth rate of 5 percent to  
9 percent per year through 2010 is based on making capital  investments and securing timely regulatory recovery. Our  business strategy is based on the idea that sustained capital  investment supports earnings growth. We have delivered on this strategy in 2006 and 2007 and will do so again. Our capital investment outlook presents opportunities  
from the short to the long term. We are investing $2.5 billion  per	year	to	improve	plant	efficiency	 and	reliability	 to	keep	  
our coal plants economically viable. Concurrently, we are  completing	 our	$5.4	billion	environmental	 retrofit	program	  
to comply with current mandates; investing $1.3 billion in  new generation facilities to meet growing demand within  our service territory; and conducting research and feasibility  studies on carbon capture and storage technology. With reg- ulatory approval, we intend to invest $1 billion to $2 billion to modernize our electric distribution infrastructure through gridSMART
SM. 
 Our long-term vision is for an interstate transmission 
system that will minimize environmental impacts, reduce land	use	and	provide	electricity 	more	reliably	and	efficiently.	
We	intend	to	have	a	carbon	retrofit	solution	commercially	
available for our coal plants, have advanced coal plants com-mercially operational, and possibly pursue a nuclear con-struction and operating license within the next decade. For more information, visit 
www.AEP .com/investors/annrep .
MANAGING OUR RISK 
AEP uses an enterprisewide approach for risk management that encompasses all business units and aligns with our ma- jor business functions. Our objective is to review the com- pany’s	total	risk	profile	to	assure	accountability	 for	the	iden-  
tification,	 measurement,	 evaluation	 and	management	 of	risk. 
  The Risk Executive Committee, which includes AEP senior leadership and risk managers, approves and monitors key risk factors and ensures they are integrated in strategic planning. This includes climate change, which we consider to be a potential high-impact risk. The committee determines which	risks	require	an	independent	 assessment	 and	which	
risk factors are best measured through the business units. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regularly receives summary reports regarding the company’s risks.     
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE
AEP’s commitment to high ethical standards comes from the collective ethics, character and integrity of our employ- ees. We are committed to do what’s right, at the right time, all  of the time. We regularly survey and discuss AEP’s ethical  standards with our employees and, while there is opportunity  for improvement, they give the company high marks. Our  employees generally believe that the company’s leaders will  do	what’s	right,	not	just	what’s	profitable.	 Employees	 have	  
also told us that they see AEP managers living the compa- ny’s values of safety, justice and fairness, trustworthiness, responsibility, environmental stewardship, citizenship, re-spect and caring.	 AEP	 requires	all	employees	 to	abide	by	its	Principles of  
Business Conduct. We provide a 24-hour, toll-free anony- mous concerns line for reporting and receiving help with  ethical issues. We communicate the numbers and types of  concerns that are raised and how we resolve them and con- tinually look for new ways to allow employees to raise and  discuss	ethical	questions	 because	we	understand	 that	keep- 
ing our values in the forefront is the key to maintaining an  ethical culture.  Ethics and compliance are areas of ongoing focus for the 
company. We are committed to strengthening our programs  and continuing to instill high standards of integrity and be- havior throughout the company. 
 n 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  9
Leadership, Management & StrategyEnvironmental Performance
Our success as a company is based on many factors, one of 
which is executing excellent environmental programs that address a variety of issues. This section presents those pro-grams	and	their	results	–	of	which	we	are	quite	proud,	but	 
which we constantly seek to improve.	 We	have	recently	taken	first	steps	toward	expanding	
our environmental efforts to include our use of natural re- sources and the activities of our suppliers. From our “green” building initiative announced in conjunction with the Clin-ton Global Initiative to our focus on working with our sup-pliers on sustainable initiatives, we are leveraging our resources and expertise as broadly and deeply as we can.  
COMPLIANCE 
For AEP, compliance is both a legal re-quirement	 and	a	social	responsibility	 –	it	
is a fundamental expression of our re-gard for society. It is unacceptable for us to be out of compliance at any time and we are dedicated to achieving our goal of zero environmental enforcement actions. During 2007, we were cited with two for-mal environmental enforcement actions, compared with nine in 2006. One was re-lated	to	a	landfill	issue	at	our	Mountain- 
eer Plant in West Virginia and the other to our inability to  meet	a	new	water	quality	permit	limit	at	the	Comanche 	Plant	  
in Oklahoma.  
  In 2007, federal, state and local regulatory agencies 
conducted 112 inspections of our power plants, 15 inspec-tions of our utility operations facilities and 344 inspections of our fuel operations facilities. These resulted in one of the two formal enforcement actions received last year. That does not mean we were perfect all but a couple of times; these inspections point out general areas where improvement is needed.	Understanding	 the	requirements	 and	expectations	
of regulatory agencies is a critical part of our environmental program, and these inspections provide an important feed- back mechanism for our employees and executives. We set internal environmental goals each year that are tied directly to the company’s incentive compensation program.  We also conduct our own environmental audits, cover-
ing	both	federal	and	state	requirements.	 In	2007	we	audited	
five	service	centers	and	31	power	plants	to	assess	their	en-
vironmental compliance and capacity to remain in compli-ance. Our internal reviews generally showed our environ- mental programs to be functioning effectively at all locations visited. While overall performance has improved, the audits  
identified	 opportunities	 both	to	correct	  
and enhance our environmental pro-  
grams. By year end, all corrective actions  identified	 were	complete	 or	in	process.	
Our primary challenge now is to com-municate individual audit results more effectively across business units so they can become shared learning, in order to prevent similar occurrences elsewhere.  Managing Environment, Safety &  
Health (MESH) is an initiative to con- form to the international environmental  management system standard ISO 14001,  and to increase knowledge and aware-ness to drive continuous performance im-  
provement. Through MESH, 12 power  
plants	are	improving	 management 	of	their	significant	 envi- 
ronmental aspects. This includes improving heat rates to op- erate	the	plants	as	efficiently	 as	possible	
and	subsequent- 
ly 
reduce air emissions, and improving preventive main-
tenance	on	pollution	 control	equipment	 to	minimize	 envi- 
ronmental impacts. We are also working with regulators  to manage water resources by using water for cooling and  cattle and livestock use. We are improving storm water  outflows	 to	prevent	soil	and	erosion	run-off	and	improv- 
ing	the	identification	 and	management	 of	environmental	  
aspects at our construction sites. (See Work Force Issues to  
read about the MESH initiative’s work to improve safety and health management.)
Environmental Performance 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  11
T	 Tamisha Palmer, chemical lab technician, Dolan Chemistry LaboratoryAEP uses a variety of methods  
to deliver coal, including trucks,  
barges and rail.
 AEP’s underground storage tank (UST) operations are 
a good example of our proactive approach to compliance. 
We own and operate more than 230 USTs that contain large amounts of gasoline, diesel fuel and oil. We inspect them, perform leak detection tests and maintain the tanks on a regular basis. In the last three years, there were 59 routine regulatory inspections with no enforcement actions.  
AIR QUALITY ISSUES
AEP’s program to install emissions-reduction controls on  existing power plants was the largest within the electric util- ity industry in 2007 in terms of capital investment and con-struction. Through this program we installed and brought  online pollution controls to reduce sulfur dioxide (SO
2) emis- 
sions on 3,500 MW of generation. Controls to reduce nitro- gen oxide (NOx) emissions began operating on 1,600 MW  of generation.  
 We have completed more than two-thirds of our $5.4 bil-  
lion investment program to reduce airborne emissions from  our	coal-fired	power	plants	to	comply	with	the	federal	Clean	  
Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) and the recently-vacated Clean  Air	Mercury	Rule.	This	program	significantly	 reduces	emis-  
sions and provides compliance with more stringent environ-mental	requirements	 while	allowing	 these	low-cost	 facili -
ties to continue to meet our customers’ needs for energy.  AEP’s court-approved settlement of the New Source 
Review (NSR) litigation provides us with additional oppor-tunities to reduce our power plant emissions. The complaint by the U.S. EPA and others alleged that AEP had made major	modifications	 at	some	of	its	coal-fueled	 generating	
units without obtaining the necessary permits and without installing	 controls	required	by	the	Clean	Air	Act	to	reduce	
emissions of SO
2, NOx and particulate matter. 
 The settlement encompasses all of the environmental 
retrofits	we	have	already	completed	 as	well	as	those	we	
have planned, while providing for additional controls at our Rockport Plant in Indiana. We also agreed to annual SO
2 
and NOx emissions caps on our 16 coal-fueled power plants in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia. As part of the NOx reductions, AEP will operate its 
selective catalytic reduction systems (SCRs) year-round on generating units at three of our eastern coal plants starting in 2008.	SCR	equipment	 is	currently	 operated	to	reduce	NOx	
emissions only during the May through September ozone season. Additional environmental controls will be added to several other plants by 2019 as part of the CAIR compliance program. 12 Environmental Performance 
AEP NSR Settlement Facts—By the Dollars
•	$4.6 billion settlement. 
•	$15 million for civil penalty.
•	$1.6 billion estimated cost for additional emissions  
control	equipment.
•	$36 million for environmental projects coordinated 
with the federal government. 
•	$24 million to eight states for environmental mitigation.
•	$2.2 million in attorneys’ fees.
•	Balance	for	ongoing	plant	retrofits.
AEP's Annual Emissions Profile  
(SO 2 and NOx in kilotons, CO 2 in million metric tons)
SO2 & NOx  2005 2006 2007 CO2
 1,200
 1,000
 800
 600
 400
 200
 (ktons)              (MMtons)
•  SO2 •  NOx  • CO2
In 2007, AEP's CO 2 emissions increased 2.8 percent while electricity  
demand grew 3.6 percent. The decline in SO 2 emissions reflects the success  
of our environmental programs. 180
 160 
 140 
 120 
 100
 80
 60
 40
 20Cooling towers, like this one, release  
excess heat from a power plant to the air, 
rather than to rivers or lakes.
 Our efforts will eventually reduce SO 2 emissions from  
our	eastern	coal-fired	 power	plants	by	more	than	650,000	  
tons per year and NOx emissions by 159,000 tons per year.  
The agreement includes $36 million for environmental pro- jects coordinated with the federal government and $24 mil- lion to the states that were parties to the agreement. AEP also  paid a civil penalty of $15 million. AEP did not admit to  wrongdoing by agreeing to this settlement. For a full sum-  
mary and schedule of NSR settlement commitments, visit   
www.AEP.com/cr/nsr .
MAKING OUR OWN BUILDINGS  
MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT 
According to the World Business Coun-
cil for Sustainable Development, build-ings use about one-third of the world’s energy and, if this trend continues, will  become the world’s primary energy users  by 2025. AEP operates more than 400  facilities in the United States, giving us an opportunity to demonstrate the value  and	cost-effectiveness	 of	energy	effi- 
ciency within our own buildings.  
 Through the Clinton Global Initia- 
tive, we committed to invest approxi- mately	$100	million	during	the	next	five	 
years to build or update AEP facilities using the U. S. Green  Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design (LEED) building rating system. AEP completed con-  
struction in early 2008 on a new facility in Ohio that will seek  LEED	“silver”	certification	 and	will	use	15	percent	less	en- 
ergy and 20 percent less water than comparable non-LEED  buildings. We will also apply LEED standards to renovations  
or new construction of service centers in Indiana, Texas and  Arkansas. Some stakeholders have asked us to consider Green  Globes as an alternative to LEED, which we will evaluate. 
WATER QUANTITY & QUALITY  
As	the	population	 grows,	water	requirements	 increase.	 In	certain	areas,	domestic	 needs	may	come	into	conflict	with	
the needs of industrial and energy facilities. Climate change can have an adverse impact on water availability. This issue is of great concern to many stakeholders and AEP, so we will be taking a closer look at it going forward.	 AEP	 uses	large	quantities	 of	water	to	operate	our	pow-
er plants – roughly 10.5 billion gallons per day to generate 
steam and to cool plants. Most of it travels through the fa-cility once before nearly all of it is returned to its source, in accordance with our permits. More often than not, the water 
is cleaner when it is returned than when it was withdrawn. Compliance with our water	quality	permits	is	important	 to	
us because they are designed to address known and unintended impacts, includ-ing	water	temperature	impacts	on	fish. We are concerned about potential  
changes in Clean Water Act regulations  – the federal framework that governs our 
water use and our impacts on water re-sources. A court decision issued in 2007  could	require	many	of	the	nation’s	
power plants to replace existing cooling systems with new cooling towers – re-
stricting the U.S. EPA to allow power plants to use cooling systems other than 
cooling towers.  AEP owns and operates 18 power plants that could be 
affected. The EPA estimated the cost to AEP at $193 million  and the cost to the electric industry at billions of dollars to  be spent on new capital investments and increased opera-tion and maintenance costs. We are working with the EPA to develop a revised rule that will keep costs reasonable while	maximizing	environmental	benefits.	
IMPROVING AIR QUALITY CAN  
AFFECT OTHER ASPECTS OF THE ENVIRONMENT 
Environmental	 controls	installed	to	improve	air	quality	can	
create other environmental challenges and managing these 
Environmental Performance 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  13trade-offs	 can	be	difficult.	 In	some	cases,	the	controls	we	
use	to	reduce	air	emissions	 can	adversely	 affect	the	quality	
of our water discharges.
 AEP uses the mineral trona to control sulfur trioxide 
(SO 3)	levels	in	the	flue	gas	on	certain	units,	including	 our	
Mitchell Plant in West Virginia. Unfortunately, when we used	trona	there,	the	pH	of	the	fly	ash	pond	increased	 and	
heavy metal concentrations rose to levels above the permit limits. We are exploring solutions at Mitchell Plant and will apply the lessons learned to other plants as well. 	 Another	 challenge	 is	compliance	 with	fly	ash	pond	dis-
charge limits when SCRs operate year-round. Some of the ammonia used in the pollution control systems ends up in the	fly	ash	ponds.	In	the	summer,	 bacteria	and	algae	in	the	
ponds absorb or chemically alter ammonia, making it less toxic. But when the SCRs run in the winter, when the water is much colder, biological reactions occur very slowly. In these conditions, ammonia levels can remain high. Fortu-nately, ammonia is less toxic in cold water, so AEP has worked with state regulators to increase permit limits dur-ing the winter. Without these increases, operating SCRs year-round to comply with the NSR settlement and Clean Air Interstate Rule could create compliance problems with our state water permits.
WASTE MANAGEMENT 
AEP reduces, reuses or recycles as much of its waste as pos-sible and tries to dispose of the remainder with the least ad-verse effect on the environment. For example, the company has recycled more than 180 million pounds of metal, 5.8 mil- lion pounds of paper, 2.6 million gallons of oil and more  
than	470,000	light	bulbs	during	the	last	five	years.	We	do	not	
track the total weight of our general refuse but we do track  special waste streams, such as hazardous wastes, polychlo- rinated biphenyl (PCB) and other products that have serious environmental	consequences	if	not	properly	disposed.	 We report to the U.S. EPA under the Toxic Release 
Inventory Program (TRI) the transfers and releases of toxic chemicals that occur off-site. For AEP this report typically includes metals found in ash, emissions, waste put in land-fills,	ammonia	 and	acids.	Our	TRI	report	is	available	 on	our	
web site. For a full waste management summary, visit 
www.
AEP.com/cr/GRI .
 One of two waste-related enforcement actions AEP  
received	in	2007	related	to	construction 	of	a
	landfill	at	our	 
Mountaineer	 Plant.	After	substantial	 rainfall,	landfill	run- 
off	inadvertently	 carried	soil	and	fly	ash	from	the	plant	into	
nearby waterways and neighboring properties. There was no	fine	associated	 with	the	Mountaineer	 enforcement	 action.  
 We also self-reported an error we found in how mate-
rial from the Conesville Plant scrubbers had been disposed of and took corrective action. We conducted a root-cause analysis and changed some of our processes in the short-term while we develop a long-term solution to address these issues and prevent future recurrences. 
MERCURY  
Mercury, a toxic heavy metal, is released when coal is burned. The amount of mercury emitted from our power plants depends on the type of coal and the emission control  equipment 	installed.	AEP’s	Pirkey	Plant	in	Texas	was	
ranked as one of the two highest emitters of mercury in the United States last year, for the third straight year (based on 2005 data), because the lignite it burns tends to have higher mercury levels compared with other types of coal. Pirkey’s SO
2	scrubber	 removes	significant	 amounts	of	the	mercury	
in	the	flue	gas. Concerns about the environmental and public health  
implications of mercury emissions led the U.S. EPA to es- tablish the Clean Air Mercury Rule. AEP has been working  toward	meeting	the	requirements	 of	that	rule,	which	had	a	 
compliance deadline of 2010. The necessary emission re- ductions will come largely from installing SO
2 scrubbers 
and NOx SCR systems which, in combination, can achieve significant	 mercury	reductions.	 Additional	 controls	may	be	 
needed as well.  The EPA’s mercury rule was challenged by a number of 
states and environmental groups when it was issued in 2005.  14 Environmental Performance In February 2008, the District of Columbia Circuit Court  
of Appeals sent the rule back to the EPA for reconsidera- tion. The ultimate impact of this ruling is unclear. 
 Even with the uncertainty created by the recent legal  
challenge,	 we	will	still	make	significant	 mercury	emission	  
reductions 	at	our	power	plants	that	have	been	equipped	with	 
scrubbers and SCR systems. We will move ahead with install-ing	the	mercury	monitoring 	equipment 	required	by	the	Clean	
Air	Mercury	Rule.	We	expect	this	equipment	 to	provide	de- 
tailed information on actual emissions – which may assist  
in the development of the new regula-  
tory	requirements.	  
 Once again, there are trade-offs. One  
challenge is that removing mercury from  air emissions results in higher levels of  mercury elsewhere, such as in approved  solid	waste	landfills	and	in	wastewater	  
treatment ponds. AEP’s power plants with scrubber systems must manage an  increased amount of mercury in waste- water within the limits of their water  quality	permits.	In	some	states	we	expect	  
regulators to begin including very low  effluent	limitations	 for	mercury	 in	re- 
newed	or	modified	 wastewater	 permits.	  
We have accelerated our evaluation of  new	technologies	 that	might	meet	these	requirements,	 but	
they are still in very early stages.
PCBs: STILL AN ISSUE
PCBs have been used since the 1930s. However, they are a suspected human carcinogen and are heavily regulated by federal	and	state	agencies.	 AEP	still	has	equipment	 in	use,	
such as transformers and capacitors, that contain PCBs. We are eliminating them through planned phase-outs.   
 Since 2000 we have disposed of more than 12,000 PCB  
and PCB-contaminated transformers and more than 4,500  PCB capacitors. We will continue to replace known PCB  transformers at our power plants during planned outages  and	as	part	of	required	maintenance	 during	the	next	decade.	  
We	have	approximately	 427	pieces	of	
equipment	 to	replace.
	 
We also have approximately 700 PCB capacitors in service  at 11 electrical substations. We are developing plans to re-move them.   
 During all property transactions involving facilities or 
sites where PCBs were known or could be assumed to have  been in use, we conduct a thorough site assessment to deter- mine if there is any PCB contamination. In 2007, AEP con- ducted 27 site assessments that resulted in eight PCB reme- 
diation projects which were completed  without incident.   In 2007, we had approximately 1,625  
documented	 spills	from	oil-filled	electri -
cal	equipment. 	A	small	portion	of	these	  
(6.2	percent)	were	significant	 enough	to	 
be reportable to regulatory agencies and  an even smaller number (2.3 percent)  involved PCBs. Most were small spills  caused	by	downed	electrical	equipment	  
from car accidents, bad weather, van-  
dalism	or	equipment 	failure.	We	clean	  
these in a timely manner and report them, as appropriate.
COAL ASH
AEP burns an estimated 76 million tons of coal per year,  generating	 significant	 quantities	 of	byproducts	 that	need	to	 
be recycled or disposed of. As a member of the Coal Com- bustion	Products	Partnership, 	we	promote	the	beneficial	  
use of coal combustion products. Some of these can, for ex-  
ample, be used to treat acid mine drainage and return sur- rounding land closer to pre-mined condition.  We are working with the Ohio Department of Natu-
ral Resources to use coal combustion products (CCPs) to reclaim a 1950s surface mine that was abandoned, leaving behind acid mine drainage and a dangerous 100-foot-high wall. Acid mine drainage is a liability for AEP. While there are costs associated with this reclamation project, it will re-
Environmental Performance 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  15
AEP conducts thousands of tests  
each year to ensure compliance with 
water quality permits.
16 Environmental Performance 
sult	in	significant 	long-term 	savings	compared 	with	the	cost	
of perpetually treating the runoff. It also will improve the 
water	quality	of	nearby	Wills	Creek.	 In 2006, the most recent year for which data are avail-
able, AEP produced nearly 8.4 million tons of coal ash products. Use of CCPs resulted in approximately $18.6 mil- lion in avoided costs that would otherwise have been  incurred	to	build	and	operate	landfills	for	these	byproducts.	
For more information about coal combustion byproducts and their uses, visit 
www.AEP.com/about/coalCombustion/
projects.htm .
	 Although	 there	are	many	beneficial	 uses	for	coal	com-  
bustion products, we are reminded by stakeholders that envi-  
ronmental impacts also must be considered when determin-ing how and where this ash will be used. We have heard these concerns and we are listening. We will do a better job of  taking these considerations into account.
MANAGING NUCLEAR WASTE 
Nuclear energy will likely play an increasingly important role in the nation’s energy future, especially in a carbon-constrained world. However, the storage of nuclear waste presents	a	significant	challenge.	 For example, AEP’s Cook Nuclear Power Plant in  
Bridgman, Mich., generates emissions-free energy. Cook  Plant has been shipping its low-level nuclear waste to a  storage facility in Barnwell, S.C. However, this option will  no longer be available after June 2008 to companies that are  not part of the Atlantic Interstate Low Level Waste Com- pact.	Consequently,	 Cook	Plant	will	need	to	store	its	low- 
level waste on-site in High Intensity Containers (HICs) built  in the 1990s. Cook currently generates enough low-level waste	to	fill	seven	of	these	HICs	annually,	 on	average,	but	
will implement process improvements designed to reduce the number of HICs needed to four per year, thus reducing our storage needs. Beginning in 2011, Cook Plant will employ on-site dry 
cask spent nuclear fuel storage until a permanent facility becomes available. The Cook on-site storage facility was originally	 designed	 to	hold	five	years	of	 waste;	the	changes	
made recently have extended its life to approximately 20 years – a necessity because a permanent storage facility for 
spent nuclear fuel and other high-level waste remains elusive. We are disappointed and frustrated that the federal 
government	 has	made	no	significant	 progress	 in	meeting	  
its obligation to take and store high-level nuclear waste. Since the enactment of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, we and other nuclear generator operators have paid into a fund administered by the U.S. Department of En-ergy (DOE). In exchange, DOE is responsible for licens-ing, building and operating a permanent high-level nuclear waste storage facility. The DOE has not met its 1998 deadline to begin tak-
ing spent nuclear fuel. We and other utilities have sued the DOE	and	a	court	ruled	in	our	favor.	The	ruling	requires	that	
we prove the amount of our damage claims against the DOE periodically. For nuclear power to be a viable, long-term part of our energy future, the current impasse over permanent storage of high-level nuclear waste needs to be resolved.
ECOLOGICAL STEWARDSHIP & BIODIVERSITY 
The construction and operation of AEP facilities have the  
potential to affect biodiversity if not well-managed. For  example,	the	installation 	of	pollution	control	equipment	  
and	
associated	 landfills	has
	resulted	in	the	loss	of	wetland	
and riparian areas; however, these losses have been mitigat-ed. Some of our hydroelectric facilities operate on waters considered to be of high biodiversity or ecological value. Members of the Eastern Lands Resource Council visit  
AEP's Conesville Plant to learn about the company's land  
management practices.
We have addressed potential impacts through installation  
of	fish	ladders	and	by	shutting	down	operations 	during	
spawning season.	 On	the	flip	side,	many	of	AEP’s	power	plants	and	trans-
mission corridor projects are recognized for the habitat they support. Eight power plants and two transmission line corri-dor	projects	were	recertified	 by	the	Wildlife	Habitat	Council	
last year as Wildlife at Work programs. Flint Creek Plant in  Arkansas received a special award for its pollinator protec-tion efforts. 	 AEP’s	 investments	 in	forestry	not	only	benefit	us	by	
providing carbon storage, they also help to avoid deforesta-tion and provide thriving habitats for endangered species. In the United States, AEP partnered with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and The Conservation Fund to restore bot-tomland hardwood forests in the lower Mississippi River Valley. The project involved more than 18,000 acres and planting more than 3 million bottomland hardwood seed-lings. They will provide habitat for local waterfowl, shore-birds and neo-tropical migratory birds, as well as white-tail deer, cottontail rabbits, river otters and many others. Learn more at 
www.AEP.com/cr/ecological .
ENVIRONMENTAL  
MANAGEMENT—THE CHECKS & BALANCES 
We work hard to measure and manage our environmental 
performance. But how do we keep ourselves in compliance on an ongoing basis? How do we manage and minimize water and energy use, waste and the impact of our daily activities on the environment?  We are implementing an initiative to conform to ISO 
14001, an international standard for managing environmen-tal performance, which will supplement our ongoing envi-ronmental programs. This is important to ensure that our fu-ture work force has the knowledge and access to information needed to maintain compliance. We began implementation of  ISO 14001 at 12 power plants in 2007. Seven power plants and 17 hydro facilities will begin Phase One implementation in 2008 as part of our MESH initiative. (See the Work Force  
Environmental Performance 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  17
Issues section to read about the MESH initiative’s work to improve safety and health.)
DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
We are looking at how we manage our supply chain in terms of environmental and social performance. We are identify- ing opportunities to work more closely with suppliers on a range of issues and have begun discussions with many of them. We place a high priority on safety, health and the  environment	 –	and	we	will	require	our	suppliers	 to	share	
that commitment.
WORKING WITH OUR COAL SUPPLIERS 
Our relationship with our coal suppliers is of particular con-cern to some of our stakeholders. Our choice of suppliers is determined largely by a least-cost procurement process to enhance our ability to receive full cost recovery from regu-lators. Because of this dynamic, we would be dependent on our regulators to accept a decision to buy fuel from certain higher cost suppliers even if the costs were higher as a result  of better health, safety and environmental performance.  We are developing a process with coal suppliers to 
measure and track their safety, health and environmental performance, which we hope to implement in 2010. This type of transparency is new to our industry. We invite our peers to join us in working with the mining industry to adopt similar standards. One issue we have been pressed to address is our posi-
tion on mountaintop mining. As a regulated utility, we have an obligation to provide reliable electricity to our custom-ers while taking steps to minimize cost. We do not make choices	based	on	mining	practices;	 our	focus	is	on	quality	
of coal and cost. However, we expect our suppliers to make every effort to operate in compliance with all regulations that apply to their industry. When our new process is in place, we will have greater transparency of our coal suppli-ers’ mining operations, allowing us to make more informed decisions that we will share with regulators. Because of today’s tight coal market and the duty to serve customers, 18  Environmental Performance 
Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Environmental Performance }
Achieving environmental compliance, preventing 
pollution, improving incident response and foster-ing positive regulatory relationships to enhance performance in an environment of complex regulations.
More stringent internal targets to challenge 
ourselves to go beyond compliance with envi-ronmental performance by tracking measures of air	quality,	water	quality	and	waste	management	through an internal Environmental Performance Index (EPI). Performance is tied to compensation. The EPI sets an annual target of total number of incidents for the index.
To lead by example we must improve our own 
use of energy, reduce or offset emissions from our	mobile	fleet,	improve	the	efficiency	of	our	facilities	and	infrastructure	and	reduce	the	office	waste stream. Zero enforcement actions.
ISO	14001:
Complete phase-in of MESH initiative by end of 2012 in all fossil and hydro power plants. 
Target in 2008 – seven fossil plants and 17 hydro 
plants begin implementation.2008 EPI goal = 12 or fewer incidents at  
generating units:
1. Opacity – measure of visual appearance of  
gas exiting power plant stack and is a rough 
indicator of particulate emissions.
2. NPDES (National Pollutant Discharge  
Elimination	System)	permit	requirements	(wastewater exceptions) – a measure of water 
quality	permit	compliance.
3. Oil and chemical spills – a measure of how  
we respond to and manage spills.
Proactive outreach with regulatory agencies.
Achieve 1,000 MW reduction in demand by  
2012 with 15 percent coming from AEP actions,  85 percent from customer programs.
Reduce	AEP’s	mobile	fleet	consumption	of	
petroleum-based products.Number of enforcement actions:
2007 – 2 
2006 – 9
2005 – 5
ISO	14001:2007 – 12 power plants began Phase 1 implementation.
2006 – four plants began implementation.
EPI set a 2007 target of 12 or fewer incidents; 11 occurred:
Opacity – 1 (2006 – 0)
NPDES – 7 (2006 – 9)
Oil & chemical spills – 3 (2006 – 0)
Ongoing outreach with regulators.Installed meters at 95 percent of our facilities to 
monitor energy usage. Another full year of data will be necessary to have a solid baseline, allowing us to set long-term goals.
Fuel	consumption
2007 – 5.6 million gallons gasoline; 4.9 million  
gallons diesel fuel; 283,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.Challenge Goal Progress To help us achieve our own goals, we have appointed 
a manager of Sustainable Supplier Development, who is or- 
ganizing a process for sharing best practices among utilities  that have a similar interest. We are also visiting manufac- turers	in	China	who	make	some	of	the	parts	for	equipment	
that AEP buys, in order to learn more about their processes and impacts. This focus is still new to the electric industry, but	we	are	enthusiastic	 about	the	opportunities	 to	influence	
our supply chain and about the interest from our peers in collaborating with us. 
 nwe must purchase coal to meet the demand, without exclu-sion. We recognize the concerns about mountaintop mining and have committed to continue discussions with interested stakeholders, 	including	Appalachian 	Voices,	to	find	common	
ground on this issue. 
BEYOND OUR COAL SUPPLIERS
For	the	first	time,	AEP	is	taking	a	hard	look	at	what	we	buy	–	 
from	utility	poles	and	transformers	 to	chemicals	 and	office	  
paper – to see if there are better alternatives with fewer envi- 
ronmental	 impacts.	AEP	was	the	first	electric	utility	to	join	 
the Green Suppliers Network. By the end of 2008 we expect  at	least	five	suppliers	will	have	completed 	the	environmental	  
and technical reviews; three have already signed up. Useful web links: 
www.epa.gov • www.usgbc.org/LEED 
www.greensuppliers.gov • www.wildlifehc.orgEnvironmental Performance 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  19
2006 – 5.5 million gallons gasoline; 4.7 million  
gallons diesel fuel; 324,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.
2005 – 5.5 million gallons gasoline; 4.7 million  
gallons diesel; 4,000 gallons B20 biodiesel.
Mobile	fleet	emissions	offset	through	market-based	
carbon credits purchased through CCX.  
AEP	will	purchase	66	hybrid	cars, 	110	flex	fuel	
vehicles, and 24 hybrid bucket trucks.  
 
Initiated	$100	million,	five-year	commitment	to	  
invest in green building initiatives across AEP  through Clinton Global Initiative. New Transmission Operations Center in Ohio and service centers in  Indiana, Arkansas and Texas will be “green” under  this initiative.
Contract negotiated for systemwide program  
in 2007; program rolled out early 2008 to be  completed by year-end. 
During 2007 installed and brought online  
pollution controls to reduce SO
2 emissions on  
3,500 MW of generation; controls to reduce  NOx emissions began operating on  1,600 MW of generation.
Under AEP’s court-approved NSR settlement,  
additional pollution controls will be installed at  other plants. For a full overview of this agreement, please visit www.AEP .com/cr/nsr.
N/A
Decision made to develop on-site storage facilities  
at Cook Plant. 
Identified	process	improvements	to	reduce	  
storage needs.Ongoing work with policymakers and others to 
achieve a long-term storage solution.
First utility to join Green Suppliers Network.  
Three AEP suppliers agreed to participate.
Began to develop process for evaluating  
environmental, safety and health practices of coal  suppliers. Began discussions with coal suppliers.
Initiated industrywide, monthly best practices  
supply chain conference call.AEP’s	environmental	compliance	requirements	
drive a $5.4 billion program to install environ-mental	controls	on	coal-fired	power	plants	to	meet	requirements	of	the	Clean	 Air	Act	and	EPA’s	NOx	
State	Implementation	Plan	rule	and	initial	require -
ments of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).
The availability of water to make electricity and 
meet society’s needs is increasingly important because of impacts from climate change and  population growth.  
Nuclear energy will play an increasingly important 
role in our nation’s energy future, but managing nuclear	waste	storage	remains	a	significant	  
challenge. 
Sustainable supply chain development is new to 
the utility industry but has become increasingly important as we seek to reduce our environmental impacts; will regulators approve cost recovery when costs may be higher because of performance standards regarding sustainability?Offset	or	reduce	GHG	emissions	from	mobile	fleet,	including corporate aircraft. 
Build	all	new	facilities	and	improve	efficiency	of	
existing buildings using Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (LEED) standards, where  appropriate.	Seek	LEED	certification.
Enhance	and	expand	office	recycling	program	to	
reduce	office	waste.	
Complete environmental compliance program  
by 2010.
Initiate a study to review consumption patterns and 
identify opportunities to set goals to reduce water consumption at AEP facilities. 
Begin on-site dry cask storage of spent fuel at 
Cook Plant, starting in 2011. 
Reduce storage needs.Participate in national effort to develop  
permanent solution.
Work with suppliers on a range of issues, including 
environmental impacts and improving safety and health performance.
Develop a process for evaluating coal suppliers’ 
environmental, safety and health performance  and set expectations. Implement by end of 2010.  Work with stakeholders and industry peers.
Collaborate with industry peers for industrywide 
changes that have positive environmental impacts and/or improve safety and health for suppliers  and for companies.Challenge Goal ProgressWork Force Issues
The health and safety of people is the most important part 
of who we are and what we do. Our employees have re-sponded to this philosophy in the most profound and im-portant way possible: we had no employee fatalities in 2007 . Through collaboration, mutual care, hard work and a deeply shared commitment, we achieved a goal that has eluded AEP for a decade and that we have accomplished only twice in 37 years.  Our safety goal is simple – no fatalities in any year. We 
believe so strongly in attaining this goal that, starting this year, all employee and senior management incentive plans will be directly tied to it. AEP’s continued success re-  
lies on a healthy, happy, skilled  and agile work force that can  
adapt to rapidly changing work  environments without compro- mising safety or service. As we  develop the work force and the  culture we need to meet tomor- row’s challenges, we must retain  our current employees for as long  
as possible by meeting their  needs, too. To this end, we offer 32 different work/life pro- grams, including alternative work schedules. Our new military leave policy is another important  
way to meet our employees’ needs. We allow employees  to take up to 10 days of unpaid leave per year to spend time with family members who are called to or return from  active duty.  Transferring knowledge from retiring to new employ-
ees remains a high priority for AEP and for the rest of our industry. Our employees are staying in the work force lon-ger, which helps. AEP’s average retirement age climbed from 59 in 2003 to 61 in 2007.  Diversity programs also help us grow the strong work 
force that we need. We are attracting more women and mi-norities to AEP than ever before, which is good news for AEP and for our future. SAFETY & HEALTH— 
CHANGING BEHAVIORS, SAVING LIVES
AEP believes in strong safety and health management. We 
focus on the human side of safety and health: preventing harm and protecting health so that every employee and ev -
ery person we work with can return home safely every day. Our goal is detect and prevent rather than react and correct. 	 Accomplishing	 this	requires	good	policies,	 training,	
proper procedures, effective leadership, thorough plan-  
ning, teamwork and hazard recognition  – with reporting  
and corrective preventive actions as the keys to improve- 
ment. When an injury or near- miss event occurs, we analyze it,  learn from it and make changes to prevent it from happening again elsewhere.  Our record, however, is not 
perfect. In January 2007, an ex- plosion occurred when an AEP  supplier was unloading hydro -
gen at our Muskingum River Plant, killing the delivery driver and injuring nine AEP employ -
ees. A pressure relief device failed prematurely, causing 
Work Force Issues 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  21
OSHA Citations (resulting in fines)
 Number of Citations Fine 
2007 6 $ 60,000
2006  3 $ 5,500
2005  1 $ 85,000
2004  6 $ 83,100 
Recordable & Severity Injury Rates 
(AEP versus industry peer group*)
 Recordable  Recordable  Severity Severity 
 AEP Industry AEP Industry 
2007 1.76 N/A 42.83 N/A
2006  1.66 2.57 31.77 29.17
2005  2.35 2.68 43.91 28.59 
* Industry peer group defined by EEI as an electric utility with  
7,000 or more employees.Maintaining and operating our electrical system  
requires years of training and education.
T		 Kevin T. Brisbin, general servicer,  Tulsa, Okla.
the event.
 We eliminated this type of relief  
device, performed a comprehensive evalu -
ation of all hydrogen systems to ensure we are 
controlling the risks better, and developed new procedures 
for	hydrogen	 unloading.	 A	qualified	 AEP	employee	 must	
now observe the unloading process – a step not previously  
required.	 The	corrective	 and	 
preventive actions were com-municated to all AEP power  plants, shared with utilities  across the nation and posted to the Occupational Safety  & Health Administration  (OSHA) web site. AEP settled  the case with OSHA and paid  a	$55,000	fine,	but	the	real	
penalty was the loss of life and injuries it caused.  Although every AEP em-
ployee is accountable for his or her own safety and health, employees are also asked to look out for each other. AEP encourages employees to speak  up when they see unsafe situations in any workplace set-ting and to share information about near-misses, which can help us prevent harm. Unfortunately, our company culture sometimes inhibits people from coming forward and this must change if we are to succeed. We must do more to encourage and support employees to share information, opinions and ideas while showing concern for each other’s safety and health. 	 AEP	 has	initiated	Significant	 Event	conference	 calls	 
with business units and safety and health leaders to en-sure that information is shared across business units when a	significant	 event	or	near-miss	 occurs.	We	conducted	 five	
of these calls in 2007 and found them to be effective in communicating important information to prevent similar events from occurring elsewhere.  Last year we began a welding survey to identify pos-
sible health hazards to employees. Because of the potentially  harmful fumes associated with welding, we expect to pre- scribe	some	control	measures	 for	specific	types	of	welding	  
processes in 2008. Our sampling of various types of welding  processes and metals will help us learn whether these expo-  
sures could create health risks for long-term welders and,  if so, what precautions should be taken.
RECOGNIZING HAZARDS:  
SCAN + IDENTIFY  
+ PREDICT + DECIDE + A C T
If you don’t recognize a haz -
ard, you can’t take action to 
prevent being harmed. That rationale underlies our initia -
tive to empower employees with the skills and tools they need to recognize and elimi -
nate on-the-job hazards. Hazard recognition train- 
ing across AEP helps our em- 
ployees to be proactive and take preventive actions. We  seek to eliminate conditions or situations that could lead to unintended events: machinery left unguarded or poorly 22  Work Force Issues 
“I was really amazed at the candor. I like 
that	you	talk	about	specific	enforcement	
actions, what you learned from them, what 
you did with those lessons and that you 
shared them with other utilities. I would like 
to see more leading indicators, or proactive 
safety activities. Injury and illness rates,  
or lagging indicators, do not give the full 
picture of safety and health performance. ” 
Sandra Taylor, deputy regional administrator, OSHATarget Zero is a safety campaign  
to prevent injuries from happening.
AEP’s Line School provides hands-on, ongoing safety training 
and education to those who maintain our system.
maintained;	 confined	 spaces	that	increase	exposure	 to	er-
gonomic or other health hazards; material handling that 
could lead to slips, trips or falls; long-term exposure to dusty or dark conditions that affect breathing or eyesight; exposure	 to	continued	 noisy	equipment	 and	conditions	 that	
could contribute to hearing loss; and conditions of physical risks related to working around electricity.  As a result of training, we are seeing positive changes: 
employees are identifying hazards they never before con-sidered and are eliminating them. We believe so strongly in	hazard	recognition	 as	a	first-line	 de-
fense against injury that we shared our training with our contractor work force. We are now taking this focus to the next level to include risk assessment and en-suring	the	adequacy	 of	risk	controls	for	
our employees and contractors.  Climbing, loading and digging 
around utility poles present hazards to  utility crews every day. Working with  and around utility poles is a leading  cause of injury: between 2004 and 2006  we had 50 pole-related incidents result-  
ing in 2,500 lost or restricted work days.   Cross-functional teams of front-line  
workers and contractors from our dis- tribution and transmission divisions launched a Pole Safe- ty initiative whose objective is to reduce the causes of  pole-related injuries by 50 percent by the end of 2008 and 100 percent by the end of 2010. Teams analyzed more than 265 recommendations and developed best-practice recom -
mendations, including more training, greater use of fall protection, the use of safety observers and improving job briefings	to	identify	hazards.	
PUBLIC SAFETY & CONTRACTOR SAFETY
Accidents occur not only to our work force but also when  the general public and our commercial contractors come in contact with our electrical facilities. In 2007, a total of  51 non-employees came in contact with our electrical facil- ities,	resulting	in	five	fatalities	(compared 	with	66	contacts	  
and six deaths in 2006). Some of these were related to tres-  
passers attempting to steal copper, despite tougher state laws  in our service areas to prosecute offenders.  Contractor safety remains a key issue as well. We have  
developed 	a	five-year	public	safety	plan	that	includes	educa-  
tion, advertising, outreach and partnerships with our con-tractors and others. In 2007, a new, national one-call num-ber	was	created	that	requires	anyone	doing	work	around	
utility facilities to call ahead to have the utilities marked. We contacted all AEP contractors to relay this informa-  
tion, and developed a safety video about  the new 811 one-call system and about  the	requirement	 to	have	the	utilities	  
marked. Putting more focus on contrac- tor safety paid off during last Decem-ber’s ice storm in Tulsa, Okla. Dozens of  contractors came to help with service res-  
toration but they started no work at any time	without	first	holding	a	safety	brief-
ing. As a result, no one was injured. With the exception of our nuclear organiza -
tion, we do not have safety and health goals	specific	to	contractors,	 but	we	in-
tend	to begin setting them in 2009. 
 
MANAGING PERFORMANCE  
FOR CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
A new Safety & Health Event Management System launched  
in January 2008 that will give us the ability to identify emerging trends and the capability to develop leading in- dicators – all of which will help us improve our health and 
safety outcomes. During our stakeholder meetings, an OSHA representative urged us to develop and measure leading indicators around safety and health and this system will allow us to do that.   Safety and health audits also assist us in identifying One safety initiative at AEP is to eliminate 
pole-related injuries by 2010.
Work Force Issues 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  23issues and improving perfor -
mance. We conducted audit site  
visits at 13 power plants in 2007, including one compre-
hensive audit of Northeastern Station (units 3 & 4) in Okla-
homa and audits of higher-risk safety and health programs at four other plants. Separately, eight plants participated in an audit of OSHA record-keeping and Control of Hazard-ous Energy procedures. We also began a pilot safety and health audit of AEP Ohio. 	 These 	audits	have	identified 	some	common	issues,	  
such as the need for improved training effectiveness, which  we are addressing. And we continue to make progress on  MESH (Managing Environment, Safety & Health) to con- form to the OHSAS 18001 standard by identifying, review- ing and developing programs to address safety and health  hazards. In 2007, AEP expanded the MESH initiative to  encompass	 major	construction	 sites	and	rolled	out	the	first	 
phase of MESH at 12 power plants.  
MEETING TOMORROW’S BUSINESS  
NEEDS WITH THE RIGHT WORK FORCE
Our success as an organization depends on the knowledge, 
experience, diversity and commitment of our people. We rely on our employees to lead us forward in creating and deploying new technologies so we can meet our custom -
ers’ needs. We have an experienced work force and we have been able to attract new employees who complement our long-term employees.  Approximately 23 percent of our workers are age 55  
years or older and 18 percent are eligible to retire; we antic-ipate that 10 percent of our employees will retire by 2012.  In order to encourage our current employees to help us tran -
sition to a future work force, we offer them a program to  work	part-time	with	benefits	at	the	better	full-time	rates.	
This program, known as “Legacy of Knowledge,” gives  them	greater	flexibility	to	transition	into	retirement.	 We have to compete more aggressively for the talent 
and skills we need to operate a 21st century electric utility. To this end we are developing partnerships with techni-cal schools, colleges and universities. For example, Public  Service Company of Oklahoma worked with Oklahoma  24  Work Force Issues 
2007 Employment Data—EEO-1 (as of August 31, 2007)
 Employees Females (%) Minorities (%)  
Total Employment  21,005 4,001  (18.9%)  3,075  (14.0%)
Officials & Managers  3,358 342 (10.2%)   272  (7.9%)
Professionals  5,285 1,367 (25.9%)  734 (13.9%)  
2006 Employment Data—EEO-1
 Employees Females (%) Minorities (%) 
Total Employment  20,541 3,892 (18.9%)  2,868  (14.0%)
Officials & Managers  3,239 307 (9.5%) 255 (7.9%)
Professionals  5,144 1,308 (25.4%)  647 (12.6%)  
For more detailed EEO-1 information, please visit www.AEP.com/cr/GRI   AR, IL, TN, NE, PA, DC & NC
MO                              
LA                      
KY
                              
MI
                         VA                                           OH
                      
                        IN
                           OK
   
                                         TX                WVYear-end 2007 Number of Employees by State
Ohio (7,198) 
West Virginia (2,781)Texas (2,611)Oklahoma (1,673)Indiana (1,410)Virginia (1,274)Michigan (1,199)Louisiana (1,259)Kentucky (510)Missouri (502)Arkansas (235)Illinois (86)Tennessee (61)Nebraska (30)Pennsylvania (24)District of Columbia (6)North Carolina (2)State University in Okmulgee and other power generators 
to launch a new, two-year associate degree program in Power Plant Technology. The companies worked with the university to develop curriculum, offer internship place-ments	and	assist	with	recruitment. 	The	first	class	began	
last fall with eight students. As the complexity of operating power plants increases, advanced education has become a prerequisite	for	even	entry-level	jobs. In Ohio, AEP teamed up with Washington State Com-
munity	College	and	other	organizations	 to	host	the	first- 
ever Women in Engineering Summer Camp for high school girls. Engineering jobs are in high demand; our strategy is to develop and attract the talent we need while increas-ing the diversity of our employees. We also provide our beginning line mechanic training curriculum to technical schools	to	encourage	entry	into	this	career	field. To retain talent we have started offering back-up child 
care for full-time employees when their children are sick and the employee can’t stay home. This program can also be  used for a sick spouse or aging parents. We also offer ben-efits	such	as	flexible	work	schedules	and	telecommuting. Our continued success depends on our next generation 
of leaders. We have created AEP leadership development programs for employees with leadership potential, at all or-ganizational levels. We have a week-long training program that encourages and teaches constructive candor while de -
Work Force Issues 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  25
veloping leadership skills. For the third time in two years, a group of senior executives was reassigned in a corporate succession plan that prepares them and the company for the future by broadening their leadership skills, experience and understanding of our organization. 
HEALTH & WELLNESS PLAYING A LARGER ROLE
The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimate that health care costs in the United States will top $2.8 trillion by 2011, fully 70 percent of which are preventable or can be	reduced.	AEP	spent	$244	million	on	medical	benefits	in	
2006 – a 6.2 percent increase over 2005. 
 To encourage our employees and their families to take 
greater control over their health and wellness, AEP launched a companywide wellness program, including health screen -
ings, personal health coaching, education programs and ex -
ercise programs. Our goal in 2008 is to have 60 percent of	our	employees 	complete 	a	confidential	health	risk 	assess -
ment. This gives employees information needed to make better lifestyle choices. It also tells us, on an anonymous  basis, the types of health issues affecting our employees so that we can target programs and services more effectively. AEP also partnered with the American Heart Asso-
ciation’s START! walking program in 2007 to encourage a culture of physical activity and health through walking. The program spawned walking challenges across the com-pany.	In	2008,	our	goal	is	for	one-quarter	 of	our	work	force	
to participate in the START! heart walk.  Health and wellness include being prepared for the  
worst. As a regulated, critical resource provider, AEP is ob-   60 + (6%) 50s (36%)
 20s (10%) 
 
 
 30s (16%)
 
    40s (32%)
  
    AEP Employee Age Data (average employee age is 46)
AEP Employee Years of Service  
(average years of service is 17)
Number of Employees     
 
 7,000
 6,000
 5,000
 4,000
 3,000
 2,000
 1,000
 
   Less than 5 5 – 9 10 – 19 20 – 29 30 – 39 40 +
    Years of Service26  Work Force Issues 
ligated to plan and prepare to operate during a pandemic.  
Our Avian Flu Task Force was formed in 2006 to address  such a risk. As part of our stakeholder engagement this year,  OSHA told us how important it is for the agency to know we  are prepared. At the end of 2007, many AEP employees received a preparedness kit and information about what to do in the event of a widespread health emergency. 
LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
Nearly one-third of AEP’s work force is represented by  labor unions. Our relationship with our unionized employ-  
ees is extremely important and we value a relationship built  on trust, mutual respect and collaboration.  In 2007, we worked with the leaders of our largest labor 
union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), to develop a joint proposal to address the potential impact of climate legislation on the U.S. economy and the risk of driving jobs overseas. The AFL-CIO joined with us to advocate a climate change solution that does not result in a loss of U.S. jobs. We also collaborate with our labor part -
ners on community projects and an annual United Way cam -
paign. During the process of preparing this report, we in -
vited the IBEW to be part of the review process and received meaningful feedback, including an interest in collaborating more closely on safety and health issues. We are doing this now and will do more in the future, as it makes sense.
THE FUTURE LIES IN A DIVERSE WORK FORCE
From our power plants and distribution centers to the ex-ecutive suite, we need a diverse work force to stay com-petitive, to be sustainable and to succeed. We have created short- and long-range plans to attract, recruit, hire and re-tain a work force of highly skilled individuals with a vari-ety of perspectives from all cultures and backgrounds. Even though close to 40 percent of our hires and inter-
nal promotions in 2007 were minorities and/or females, we continue	 to	have	difficulty	 achieving	 diversity	 targets	for	 
engineering and power plant jobs. These challenges are the result of keen competition for the dwindling number of skilled workers and the remote locations of many of our facilities. We have expanded our outreach to include pre-dominantly black colleges and are working closely with re-cruiting	firms	that	specialize	in	 attracting	 females	and	mi-
norities. We also have developed a new “Adopt-a-School” program to encourage minority and female students at younger ages to consider careers in the power industry. 	 AEP’s 	Diversity	Council	reflects	our	diverse	work	force	
and our commitment to diversity. In addition to tracking compliance 	with	affirmative 	action	programs, 	the	Council’s 	
goals are to raise awareness of AEP’s diversity, celebrate  its many differences and foster a culture of inclusion.  As we develop a more sustainable supply chain, AEP 
remains committed to having a diverse supply base. In 2007, AEP spent $885 million doing business with small or  minority-owned companies; women-owned and veteran-owned businesses; small disadvantaged businesses; and  HUBzone and Service disabled businesses. This represents  19.5 percent of the total amount spent on material and serv-  
ices, excluding fuels. While the overall percentage com-  
pared with 2006 was down (from 21.2 percent), increases were gained in the following areas: women-owned small  businesses (from 1.7 percent to 2.0 percent); and minority- owned businesses (from 0.4 percent to 0.6 percent). The primary challenge is developing small and di-
verse suppliers who can support the large capital projects that represent current growth in our business units. 
 nOrganized Labor at AEP 
(nearly 30 percent of AEP’s work force is represented by labor unions)
Labor Union Number of Employees 
  
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 3,700
Utility Workers Union of America  1,300
United Steelworkers of America 500
United Mine Workers of America  400 
Useful web links: www.osha.gov  • www.ibew.org
www.nafe.com  • www.americanheart.orgWork Force Issues 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  27
Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Work Force Issues }
Achieving 	top	quartile	performance 	within	the	
electric industry by 2010, as measured by record-
able	and	severity	incident	rates,	requires	a	major	
shift at AEP in behaviors and attitudes about safety and health (benchmarking performance against comparably sized EEI companies).
It is imperative we eliminate worker fatalities.  
AEP’s history tells us the risk for job-related  fatalities is high.Recordable	Rate	 –	Goal:
2008 – 1.70
2009 – 1.45
2010 – 1.24
2011 – 1.12
Hazard recognition training incorporates risk assess-ment	and	adequacy	of	controls.	Focus	on	proactive 	
behaviors to prevent harm, detect weaknesses in the safety and health management system, hold people accountable when we fail and reward/recognize  
successes. Every employee, at all levels, has com-pensation tied to safety and health performance.
Explore at least one opportunity to partner  
with OSHA on a meaningful work force issue.Establish leading indicators to measure safety and 
health performance.
Severity	Rate	–	Goal:
2008 – 30.07
2009 – 25.56
2010 – 21.73
2011 – 19.58
OHSAS	18001:Long-term conformance with this standard will be reflected	in	recordable	and	severity	rates.Complete 	first	phase	of	rollout	to	all	power	plants	by	
end of 2012.
Zero AEP employee fatalities.Through greater emphasis on hazard and risk 
recognition, proactive injury prevention activities, sharing best practices and lessons learned from near-misses, we expect and will accept no more than zero fatalities.Recordable	Rate:2007 – 1.76 (goal was 1.99)
2006 – 1.66
2005 – 2.35
2004 – 2.19
Hazard recognition training initiated across  AEP and began to affect overall performance. 
Developed Safety & Health Event Management 
System to track safety and  health performance; identify trends; and adjust training, procedures and implement corrective and preventive actions, etc.  
to prevent injury/harm. Launched Jan. 1, 2008.
Initiated	Significant 	Event	Calls	with	business	  
units	to	share	information 	about	significant	  
events	in	a	timely	way.	Five	Significant 	Event	Calls	  
held in 2007.Muskingum River Plant will submit application for 
OSHA’s V oluntary Protection Program in addition to conforming to OHSAS 18001.
Conducted audit site visits at 13 power plants, 
including a comprehensive audit of Northeastern Station (units 3 & 4); eight other plants audited for OSHA record-keeping and Control of Hazardous Energy procedures. Pilot audit of AEP Ohio started. Among	issues	identified	is	need	to	improve	  
training effectiveness.
Severity	
Rate:
2007 –
 42.83 (goal was 35.38)
2006 – 31.77
2005 – 43.91
2004 – 53.00
Severity rate was high because injuries were 
more serious, resulting in more lost work days or restricted duty days. Slips, trips and falls were main causes of serious injuries.
OHSAS	18001:
Phase 1 rollout at 12 power plants in 2007.  Seven additional plants and all hydro plants will begin implementation in 2008.
Zero	employee 	fatalities	in	2007	–	first	time	in	10	
years; only the second time in 37 years.
2006 – 1 employee fatalityChallenge Goal Progressmunications, Human Resources, our operating compan- 
ies	and	our	Washington,	 D.C.,	office,	among	many	others.	  
We work with organizations such as the National Associa- tion of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, National Confer-  
ence of State Legislatures, American Legislative Exchange  
Council, Council of State Governments, National Gover- nors Association and regional governors associations to  ensure that our positions are responsible, well-articulated and coordinated.  Seven core public policy objectives guide our activi- 
ties as we develop positions that would  further the company’s ability to:
•	Produce electricity safely, reliably and at a reasonable price.
•	Expand and reinforce the transmission  infrastructure to create a robust sys-tem that can be used to support the next generation of electricity supply resources, including renewables. This will also reduce congestion and ener-gy losses, thereby reducing costs. 
•	Meet the growing demand for clean energy.
•	Help our customers manage their con-sumption	 through	 energy	efficiency	
programs designed to balance the im-
	 pact	of	increasing 	fuel	costs,	meet	environmental 	require -
ments and manage infrastructure issues.
•	Increase environmental protection through reasonable and voluntary efforts.
•	Ensure regulatory cost recovery for generation, transmis-sion, distribution and environmental compliance invest-ments in markets subject to regulation.
•	Provide a reasonable total return (including ROE and  market growth) for shareholders, thereby helping to ensure  AEP’s	financial	stability	needed	to	meet	these	policy	goals.  
OUR POLICY WORK AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL
Several issues will remain prominent for the foreseeable  AEP is regulated by the public service commissions in the 11 states we serve, as well as the Federal Energy Regula-tory Commission at the federal level. Regulators review AEP’s costs to ensure we are acting responsibly and pru-dently. In return, we have the opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable return. AEP represents its own as well as its customers’ and shareholders’ interests before Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs), Indepen-dent System Operators (ISOs), Congress and with state and federal agencies. As a company that operates in a 
highly regulated industry, AEP con -
ducts robust public policy activities on  the local, national and international lev- els. These may range from local zoning  questions	 regarding	 the	siting	of	equip-  
ment or facilities to international issues regarding climate change. These issues can	influence	 what	customers	 pay	for	
electricity. Our stakeholders care deeply about 
public policy and want to know more about our involvement. We work with many stakeholders in the public policy process and believe that collaboration is essential if we are to solve complex problems such as climate change. Our stakeholders sug-gested that our public policy positions should be developed more collaboratively with them before we go to regulators or legislators. We agree. For example, the Arkansas Sierra Club asked us to work with them and others to develop a reasonable renewable energy standard for that state. Our Southwestern Electric Power Co. is now discussing this with them.  Our public policy positions are developed with input  
and assistance from many departments, including the Board  
of Directors, the CEO and our Executive Council, Regula-  
tory Services/Public Policy, Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities, Generation, Transmission, Corporate Com-  2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  29
Public PolicyPublic Policy
T	 Sammie Cox, governmental affairs manager, Little Rock, Ark. Our governmental affairs managers 
routinely work with legislators and other 
leaders in their states.
future  – but few more so than climate change. AEP’s climate 
change strategy and policy goals are outlined on Page 37.   
  AEP will continue to participate in national and inter-
national dialogues and will work with all interested parties 
to adopt a federal climate change policy that adheres to our principles. We support federal legislation as opposed to state or regional regulation for several reasons. Climate change is a global issue and the nation can only play an ef-fective role with a national approach; one set of regulations is	the	most	efficient	way	to	address	the	issue;	and	a	na-
tionwide policy will create economies of scale to best facilitate a greenhouse gas allowance cap-and-trade program. AEP, the International Brotherhood 
of Electrical Workers and the AFL-CIO support a provision in federal climate legislation	 that	would	require	other	na-
tions – such as China and India – to buy 
international allowances if they export to the United States and have not tak-en comparable actions to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We strongly believe such a provision is important to protect and retain U.S. jobs by pre-venting a deployment of manufacturing overseas, where environmental costs could be avoided in non-participating countries. Incentives and tax breaks for deploying advanced tech-  
nologies and increasing renewable energy resources are  also important federal priorities. AEP supports a long-term  extension of the federal Production Tax Credit for renew- able energy resources. We also continue to lobby for tax  credits that encourage investments in advanced technolo- gies such as carbon capture and storage and advanced coal  technologies.  
 AEP supports development of a national interstate,  
extra- high voltage (EHV) transmission system – similar to  
our interstate highway system. We believe the best way to  develop this system is through federal encouragement and  oversight. We believe an interstate transmission high- way is imperative to our nation’s energy future and we will  work with the state and the federal government to advance  this	vision.	Specifically,	 we	advocate	 the	federal	govern- 
ment exercise jurisdiction over these EHV facilities (300 kV and higher), similar to how it regulates natural gas pipelines.  
OUR POLICY WORK AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL
No one nation can solve climate change. Our goal is to build coalitions to develop, advocate and support policies 
that address climate change globally.  In addition to ongoing support of the 
Asia-Pacific	 Partnership	 and	the	e8,	we	
joined the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in  2007, an organization of approximate -
ly 200 companies globally that works toward sustainable development. We joined to be part of the world’s busi-ness leadership that is addressing these issues, to learn what others are doing, to share our progress and to further the progress of others. We worked with the WBCSD’s Elec-  
tricity Utilities Sector Project to develop  a road map for achieving a sustainable 
 electricity future. We joined with nine  
global companies to prepare an analysis – Powering A Sus- 
tainable Future – that was discussed at length during the  
United Nations’ climate negotiations in Bali, Indonesia, in  December 2007. The report advocates international collab- oration for public policies that support the:•	development of new technology;
•	development of renewable energy alternatives;
•	energy	efficiency	programs	to	reduce	demand;	and	
•	ensuring affordable electricity worldwide. 
OUR POLICY WORK AT THE REGIONAL LEVEL
AEP owns more than 39,000 miles of transmission lines in  30  Public Policy 
The development of a nationwide  
interstate extra-high voltage transmission 
system remains one of AEP’s primary 
public policy goals. 
the United States, 2,116 miles of which are high-voltage  
765 kV lines that serve as the backbone of the electric inter- connection grid in the Eastern United States. This system  serves our customers in 11 states and electricity markets.  AEP is a member and participates in the organized whole- sale markets administered by regional transmission organ- izations (RTOs) that include PJM in the East and the Elec-tric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) and the South-west Power Pool (SPP), both in the Southwest. A range of technical, market and planning issues emerge 
from our RTO participation. While they vary by RTO, com-mon issues must be addressed, such as regional transmission planning processes, the alloca-tion of costs for construction  of extra-high voltage transmis-sion infrastructure, fostering  market	efficiencies	 and	the	ap- 
propriate use of demand re -
sponse in RTO markets. 
OUR POLICY WORK AT  
THE STATE & LOCAL LEVEL
State and local issues vary widely by jurisdiction, but there  are common issues, such as support and cost recovery for  environmental	 retrofits,	 advanced	 coal	technologies,	 re- 
newable	energy,	energy	efficiency	 and	demand-side	 man-  
agement (DSM) programs and improvements to our distri- bution system.  Among many state issues that AEP addresses are:
•	jurisdictional and territorial boundaries;
•	market structures;
•	water resources;
•	transmission;
•	distribution reliability;
•	siting;
•	eminent domain;
•	state renewable portfolio standards (Ohio, Michigan    and Indiana have introduced legislation); and
•	copper theft.
 From our familiarity with these issues, AEP has cre-
ated the Clean Energy Development Toolkit, an inventory of national and state legislation focused on clean energy. In conjunction with this, AEP developed “model” legislation that states can use to encourage clean energy projects in their own jurisdictions. The toolkit has been distributed at legislative conferences and in trade meetings and is also available through third-party web sites, including the Na-
tional Council of State Legis-latures. It has been recognized by the Edison Electric Institute through its Advocacy Award. In addition, AEP supports 
the state-level version of the carbon capture and storage bill drafted by the Interstate Oil and  
Gas Compact Commission and  has been tailoring the model to satisfy	specific	state	needs.	This	
model bill is being shared with state policymakers in AEP’s  service territory and beyond to  
help establish support for new ways to deal responsibly 
Public Policy 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  31
AEP’s Energy Efficiency/DSM Policy
AEP is committed to actively pursuing the implementation  
of energy efficiency and demand-side management (DSM)  
programs in all our jurisdictions. In order to fulfill this respon-  
sibility, we will engage in active dialogue with our customers,  
legislators and regulators, community leaders, and other in-  
terested parties to explore opportunities, implement solu -
tions, and evaluate results for programs aimed at reducing demand and/or energy. In doing so, we will rely on the follow -
ing principles:
•	Energy	 efficiency	 and	DSM	will	play	crucial	roles	in	meet -
ing our environmental and sustainability goals.
•	Cost-effective	 energy	 efficiency	 and	DSM	are	important	 	
components of our Integrated Resource Plan. 
•	Regulatory	 recovery	 of	investments	 is	a	threshold	 require -
ment to the implementation of DSM programs. “We will do whatever we need to  
do with you to convince regulators of 
why you need to invest in cost-effective 
energy	efficiency.	But	the	company	
needs to come forward with programs 
and incentive mechanisms that  
we can support. ” 
Ashok Gupta, air and energy program director, 
Natural Resources Defense Councileffective programs as a key component of our climate strat-
egy as a resource to keep energy costs affordable, and as a way to potentially delay the need for new power plants. We have	modifi 	ed	our	policy	on	energy	effi 	ciency	and	DSM	to	refl 	ect	this	commitment. One major challenge in this new environment is the difference of opinion among our stakeholders. While some groups advocate for more aggressive programs, our com-mercial and industrial customers tend to see higher rates as the	difference	between	turning	a	profi 	t	and	operating	at	a	loss – or even being forced out of business. It is an example of the tension that exists between those who want us to implement new programs, ahead of regulations, and those who	don’t	want	to	pay	for	programs	that	benefi 	t	others. AEP has set a self-imposed goal of reducing demand by 1,000 MW by 2012 through customer programs and in-ternal	energy	effi 	ciency	improvements.	Each	program	will	32  Public Policy 
with carbon stocks, such as safe underground storage and enhanced oil recovery.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY & DSM
Energy	effi 	ciency	and	DSM	programs	have	long	been	used	by the utility industry and regulators to encourage energy conservation and thereby reduce the need to build new power plants. Because AEP has been a low-cost provider, our customers and regulators have been comparatively slow to embrace these programs as cost-effective. While they may agree in principle with the goal of energy conservation, low	prices	reduce	the	fi 	nancial	incentives	to	act	quickly.	 More recently, however, increasing fuel prices, esca-lating new generation costs, new greenhouse gas concerns and the availability of new technology have combined to bring	greater	interest	and	attention	to	energy	effi 	ciency	and	DSM programs in our 11 states. AEP has embraced cost-
Prices for All Retail Customers (2006, in cents per kWh)
5.43¢8.14¢
6.86¢6.46¢ 7 .71¢
6.97¢5.04¢
5.43¢
6.46¢
6.97¢
10.34¢ 8.30¢7 .30¢
6.99¢What AEP’s retail customers pay versus the average cost of electricity in AEP states:
Arkansas – 6.99¢
SWEPCO – 6¢
Louisiana – 8.30¢ 
SWEPCO – 6¢
Oklahoma – 7.30¢ 
PSO – 7¢
Texas – 10.34¢
SWEPCO – 6¢AEP Texas Central – 11¢AEP Texas North – 12¢
(APCO) Appalachian Power, 
(CSP) Columbus Southern Power, (I&M) Indiana Michigan Power, (PSO) Public Service Company of Oklahoma, (SWEPCO) Southwestern Electric Power Company.
Source: Energy Information Administration, State Electricity Profi  les, November 2007Indiana – 6.46¢
I&M – 5¢
Kentucky – 5.43¢ 
Kentucky Power – 5¢
Michigan – 8.14¢
I&M – 6¢
Ohio – 7.71¢ 
CSP – 7¢Ohio Power – 6¢
Tennessee – 6.97¢ 
APCO – 5¢
Virginia – 6.86¢
APCO – 5¢
West Virginia – 5.04¢ 
APCO – 5¢AEP Wheeling Power – 4¢be	tailored	to	each	state’s	regulatory	 requirements	 and	will	 
be promoted by the individual operating companies. Pro- 
posals to some state regulators began in 2007. We have  committed	 that	15	percent	of	these	efficiencies	 will	come	  
from within – reduced energy consumption at our facilities, 
transformer 	efficiencies, 	etc.	The	remaining 	85	percent	will	
come from customer programs. (For more about AEP’s  position	and	actions	on	energy	efficiency	 and	DSM,	see	the	 
Climate Change  section. For a state-by-state overview of  
where we made progress in 2007, visit 
www.AEP.com/cr/  
energyefficiency .)
LOBBYING
AEP advances its public posi-
tion through the use of state and federal lobbyists, most of whom are full-time employees who have diverse backgrounds in the company. Many have worked in the operations of our companies and understand the physical as well as policy as -
pects of our operations. AEP has employee lobbyists in nearly every state in which we have a presence, as well as in Washington, D.C. Our lobbyists are part of our overall effort to represent AEP’s interests and the interests of our customers.  At the state level, our lobbyists work on such issues as 
taxes, market structure, siting, eminent domain and state  environmental initiatives. They also help manage cost re-covery from a legislative perspective – working to ensure  
that cost recovery regulation is included in all new legis- lative mandates.  
 At the federal level, AEP tracks federal legislation 
through	its	Washington	 office	as	well	as	through	the	work	
of its primary trade associations, including the Edison Electric Institute and the Nuclear Energy Institute. AEP works with all of the members of the congressional delega-tions that represent its service territory, as well as with rel -
evant committee members from outside the service area. With the passage of new federal ethics legislation, AEP  
is reviewing and updating all of its data collection systems  to ensure compliance with enhanced registration and re- porting	requirements	 for	lobbyists.	 In	2007,	AEP	spent	ap- 
proximately $1.7 million to lobby on energy legislation and  
tax credits.  
POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT
AEP endeavors to develop strong working relationships with regulators and policy-makers and encourages em -
ployees to get involved in the political process. We sponsor a  federal political action com -
mittee (PAC), the American Electric Power Committee for Responsible Government, as well as state PACs in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Eli -
gible employees can make vol -
untary contributions. The PACs  
are	employee-controlled	 and	not	affiliated	 with	any	po-
litical party but do make donations to political candidates. AEP pays the administrative expenses of running the PACs to the extent allowed by law, spending approximately $300,000 on PAC support in 2007.	 AEP’s	 federal	PAC	files	monthly	reports	with	the	Fed-
eral Election Commission (FEC). Reports are available at the FEC’s web site at 
www.fec.gov . Reports for AEP’s state 
PACs	are	filed	with	the	respective	 states	and	are	available	
through those states’ web sites. In 2007 we committed to track and report on trade  
association dues and memberships that may be used for  political purposes. That same year, we asked trade asso-ciations	to	which	our	dues	or	payments	 are	significant	 to	
provide us with a breakdown of what portions are used 
Public Policy 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  33
“Have we really kept electricity  
rates too cheap, as you say? If so, that 
tension is missing from your public 
policy strategy and is impacting  
AEP’s ability to maintain and expand 
its infrastructure. AEP’s public  
policy should be a framework to  
direct the short- and long-term vision  
of the company. ” 
Leah Miller, Small Farm Institute, Ohio for expenditures or contributions that, if made directly by 
AEP, would not be deductible under section 162(e)(1) and other applicable subsections of the Internal Revenue Code. Please visit 
www.AEP.com/cr  to see these reports. 
GRASSROOTS CAMPAIGNS
AEP periodically calls on our approximately 21,000 em-ployees	to	voluntarily	 contact	their	elected	officials	about	
an issue that affects the company. Employees have been enthusiastic	 in	the	past	in	responding	 to	such	requests	
and we expect to call on them again when we can col-lectively make a difference. Employee grassroots partici- pation is strictly voluntary and is not monitored for indi-vidual participation.
COALITIONS
AEP supports and collaborates with several coalitions that share common goals. Examples include the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, Americans for Af-fordable Climate Policy, Generators for Clean Air, Con-sumers	United	for	Rail	Equity	(CURE),	 the	Pole	Attach -
ment Group (PAG), American Wind Energy Association (AWEA), International Emissions Trading Association (IETA), Association of Electric Companies in Texas, In-diana Energy Association, Ohio Electric Utility Institute, Edison Electric Institute, Nuclear Energy Institute, Mid-west	Energy	Efficiency	 Alliance	and	many	other	national,	
regional, state and local organizations.	 Some	 advocates	 have	raised	concerns	 about	our	affili- 
ation with some of these organizations. We believe that we  have a positive impact by being part of these groups and  working together to address many complex issues. We be- lieve it is important to have a balanced approach to address- ing these issues. Our participation, and often leadership, in these organizations allows us to do that. For a full overview of 2007 public policy accomplish-
ments, visit 
www.AEP.com/cr/publicpolicy .
OUR PUBLIC POLICY PRIORITIES IN 2008
•	Climate change legislation – see the Climate Change sec-  
tion for full details.
•	Shape Renewable Portfolio Standards with state-by-state goals and appropriate cost recovery.
•	Encourage legislative and regulatory support for energy  efficiency	and	DSM	programs.	
•	Promote federal jurisdiction over transmission siting and approval processes in order to encourage the develop-ment of a robust interstate transmission system.
•	Protect water access rights in several states where they are	in	question.
•	Comply with federal/state enacted reliability and envi-ronmental regulations and standards.
•	Support long-term extension of the federal Production Tax Credit for renewable energy resources. 
 n34  Public Policy 
Useful web links:
www.wbcsd.org  • www.naruc.org
www.nga.org  • www.ncsl.orgWhen appropriate, AEP asks its employees to contact their  
members of Congress about matters important to the company.
Public Policy 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  35
All operating companies developed a plan to address 
this	issue	at	the	state	level	in	an	attempt	to	influence	
federal legislation to support cap-and-trade, impact allocation of carbon credits being discussed in Washington D.C. Contacts commenced in late 2007 and will continue in 2008.
Lobbied	successfully 	for	financial	incentives 	for	
carbon capture and storage in both the Bingaman –  
Specter and Lieberman –Warner climate bills.
Received NIETC status for entire PATH project.Made numerous presentations and published op-ed 
pieces in national publications outlining AEP’s  
vision for national oversight of EHV transmission.
Clean energy bill adopted in Arkansas.Virginia S.1416 includes additional rate of return for 
voluntary RPS and advanced coal technology.
Participated in workshop led by National Council of 
State Legislatures on advanced coal technologies.
Adopted a public policy position on commitment  
to active pursuit of EE/DSM programs in all  AEP jurisdictions.
Implemented EE/DSM activities in the following 
jurisdictions:
Texas	(2002	 -	2007): 250,842 MWh energy savings 
(250.8 GWH). 72,125 MW peak demand reduction. 
$46.2 million investment.  
Texas increased the target for demand growth 
reduction from 15 percent of projected growth to 20 percent by 2009.
Kentucky	(1996	 -	2007): 411,212 MWh energy  
savings (411 GWH). 4.3 MW summer/19.8 winter 
peak savings. $8.7 million investment.
PSO	–	Oklahoma: Filed in December 2007 an 
application seeking approval of comprehensive and 
cost-effective EE/DSM programs. The discovery process is ongoing.
Arkansas: Initiated four programs in fall 2007  
in addition to an all utility-sponsored education/
information program.
Indiana: Filed for approval of programs as part  
of	a	filed	rate	case	in	January	2008.Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Public Policy }
Constructively 	work	to	influence	the	structure	of	a	
federal cap-and-trade program that does not unfairly 
harm the U.S. economy or customers whose electric-ity is derived largely from coal. Convince developing countries they must be part of the solution.
Work with Congress to provide incentives and tax 
breaks for advanced coal technology deployment and improve accessibility and affordability of wind energy and other renewable resources.
Work with federal and state regulators to gain  
support for federal oversight of a national extra-high voltage (EHV) transmission system. 
Gain state-level support for legislation that supports 
and encourages development of clean energy  projects within their own jurisdictions.
Engage in active dialogue with our customers, 
legislators and regulators, consumer advocates, community leaders and other interested parties to explore opportunities, implement solutions and evaluate results for programs aimed at reducing demand and/or energy.Creation of a federal cap-and-trade program that includes a safety valve, provides for a large free allocation 	of	allowances 	and	includes	consequences	
for non-participating countries, as outlined in AEP’s climate policy.
Include incentives prior to or along with passage 
of a federal GHG cap-and-trade program to cost-effectively address climate change.
Ensure Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has 
oversight over EHV transmission, similar to how it regulates natural gas pipelines.
State legislation adopted supporting carbon capture 
and storage, renewables and baseload technologies.
Achieve 1,000 MW reduction in demand by the end 
of 2012 through DSM/EE programs offered  to customers and through internal operations  efficiency	programs.
Develop plans for deployment of an advanced 
metering infrastructure (AMI) with the goal of installing smart meters in all our jurisdictions by the end of 2015, which we believe will enable additional programs/products that will help customers reduce/shift their demand and reduce their energy usage.
Rely	upon	energy	efficiency	and	DSM	for 	 
crucial roles in meeting our environmental and 
sustainability goals.
Make DSM an important component of our  
Integrated Resource Plan.Secure regulatory recovery of investments for 
implementation of EE/DSM and AMI investments.
Advocate for more stringent building codes and 
appliance standards in the states we serve. Challenge Goal ProgressClimate Change
WHERE AEP STANDS ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
The world is poised to make the most dramatic change in 
energy production since the Industrial Revolution. Our collective response to climate change is creating a trans-formation	 that	will	lead	to	profound	 consequences	 for	all	
sectors of the global economy. As one of the largest con-sumers of coal in the Western Hemisphere, AEP recog-nizes the urgent need to balance the growing demand for electricity with the imperative to protect the environment for future generations. 	 The	scientific 	community, 	led	
largely by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has provided sci-entific	evidence	 that	human	activity	has	
contributed to global warming. AEP is helping to lead the discussion nationally and	internationally	 to	find	a	reasonable,	
achievable approach and enact federal energy policy that is realistic in time frame and does not seriously harm the U.S. economy. We also are developing advanced coal technologies so that coal can continue to be the important ener-gy resource it is today. We support the adoption of an economywide, cap-and-trade greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction program that allows us to provide reli-able, reasonably priced electricity to our customers and that fosters the international participation that is necessary to make meaningful progress.  At AEP, we believe that cap-and-trade legislation 
should include:•	A cap that applies to all sectors of the economy and covers  all GHGs.
•	A	framework 	that	maximizes 	flexibility 	and	minimizes	
cost.
•	Phase-in	 of	reduction	 requirements	 that	matches	avail-
able technology. 
•	Unrestricted	 use	of	real	and	verifiable	 domestic	 and	inter-national emissions offsets, such as methane capture and destruction	 from	landfills	and	livestock	 waste	and	inter-
national deforestation protection.
•	Allowance allocations to electric generators and other  sources based on historical emissions. This might in -
clude, if absolutely necessary, a small number of allow-ances (i.e., less than 5 percent) to be auctioned or set aside for public purposes. 
•	Incentives for early voluntary actions or investments made to reduce emissions.
•	Long-term public and private funding to develop commercially viable tech -
nology solutions, such as carbon cap -
ture and storage.
•	Elimination of legal and regulatory  barriers to the use of low- or no-carbon technologies or processes (e.g., carbon capture, nuclear, wind).
•	Regulatory pre-approval of utility cost  recovery	for	effective	energy	efficiency	  
and demand-side management (DSM)  programs.
•	A price ceiling (safety valve) on CO
2 
allowances to limit the economic bur-den on emitters and on the economy as a whole. Companies with compliance
obligations can buy emission allow-
ances from the federal government at the safety valve price.
•	An	appropriate	 trade	measure	to	equalize	the	conditions	  
of global trade should other countries fail to reduce GHGs.
 Cap-and-trade is widely considered the most effective 
system to reduce GHG emissions, although debate contin- ues about whether permits should be allocated or sold at  
Climate Change 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  37
AEP was a founder of CCX in 2003. CCX’s CEO is Richard L.  
Sandor, who has been a member of AEP’s Board of Direc-tors since 2000. Because of the relationship between AEP and CCX, Mr. Sandor is not considered an independent director under New York Stock Exchange rules.
T	 Carl Consalvi, station operator, Northeastern Station, Oklahoma Carbon capture technology similar to  
this, being tested at a Wisconsin  
Energy plant, will be installed at a  
western power plant.
Coal fuels 68 percent of AEP's generating capacity.  
Much of it is delivered to our plants by barge.auction. We favor allowances, based on our experience with  
the Environmental Protection Agency’s Acid Rain Pro- gram and the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), both of  which allocate allowances based on historical emissions  with little or no auction. The EPA program, with only a  3 percent auction of allowances, has been hailed as a major  success because of the affordability it provides in reducing  acid rain-causing emissions.	 A	large	auction	of	allowances	 would	require	emitters	  
to buy allowances to cover all of their emissions. This would  place unfair costs on customers of regulated utilities, espe -
cially those whose electricity comes from coal.  Our stakeholders are divided on having a price ceiling,  
or “safety valve,” in the legislation. The Environmental  Defense Fund, for example, strongly opposes a safety valve and has urged us to abandon our support for that provision. Our customers, however, could be severely affected by es -
calating energy rates if carbon prices were entirely market-based, and would pay more for their energy, through no fault of their own, than customers of utilities that derive less of their power from coal. We believe a safety valve, which sets a ceiling on the cost of CO
2 allowances, would protect the 
economy if carbon prices skyrocket. Some of our stakehold -
ers are frustrated with this position. We have agreed to con -
tinue	to	discuss	this	issue	to	find	common	ground. Some stakeholders have asked why we have not joined 
the United States Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), which provides general recommendations for establishing a mandatory domestic GHG cap-and-trade program that would reduce CO
2	equivalent	 emissions	 by	60	percent	to	
80 percent by 2050. AEP’s decision not to join USCAP is based on several factors, including:1. the proposal’s lack of a price-based safety valve to pre-vent undue economic harm;
2. the recommendation that allowances transition to be fully auctioned instead of freely allocated; and
3. AEP’s belief that near- and intermediate-term emission  reduction targets may be too onerous to be achieved cost-effectively.  We support another GHG cap-and-trade proposal –  
Senate Bill 1966, the Low Carbon Economy Act of 2007, introduced by U.S. Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D – N.M.) and  
Arlen Specter (R – Pa.) that provides the best balance of 
current legislation in addressing these key issues.
THE ROLE OF COAL IN OUR FUTURE 
For all its challenges, coal remains an important energy  resource for the future. It is an abundant, domestic and  relatively inexpensive source of energy. Fully one-half of  America’s daily electricity supply comes from coal and no  other fuel is capable of meeting that need on a cost-effective  basis.	Twenty-five	 of	AEP’s	61	power	plants	burn	coal	to	 
generate electricity, accounting for 68 percent of our total  generating capacity. 	 In	recent	years,	however,	 coal-fired	 power	plants	have	
become	increasingly	 difficult	to	site	and	build.	Our	pro- 38  Climate Change 
 Powder River Basin Northern 
 & Other 43%       Appalachia 33%
 
   Central  
  Appalachia 24%2008 Projected Coal Consumption by Origin 
(AEP burns approximately 76 million tons of coal per year.)
ULTRA-SUPERCRITICAL PULVERIZED COAL 
In 2006, we proposed building two ultra-supercritical pul-
verized coal power plants – in Arkansas and in Oklahoma. 
Ultra-supercritical	 coal	plants	are	more	efficient	than	tradi-
tional coal plants. Because they burn less coal per kilowatt hour produced, they also emit less CO
2 on a per-kilowatt 
hour basis. Arkansas regulators approved the 600-MW  $1.3 billion John W . Turk Plant last year with conditions  we accepted, giving us room to develop technology while meeting our obligation to serve our customers’ needs.  Louisiana regulators approved it in March 2008. (We are awaiting approval from regulators in Texas.) One of the  conditions is that we report annually on our progress on  carbon capture and storage technologies. The plant, to be  built in Arkansas, could serve customers in all three states.  Turk Plant will emit carbon dioxide, which we plan to large- ly offset with reductions elsewhere in the system. 
CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE 
We are working on two different types of carbon capture  technology 	for	coal-fired	power	plants.	The	first	is	a	20-MW	
Climate Change 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  39
posed Oklahoma plant was turned down, one of 59 U.S.  plants that were cancelled, delayed, or abandoned in 2007  because of objections to coal. Such setbacks make it increas-  
ingly likely that demand for electricity will outstrip sup- ply in the next decade. Given the aging infrastructure we  have today, these delays may well cause higher prices and  supply concerns – without creating any major environmen- 
tal	benefits. We believe that climate change will not be solved  
through a single solution, but rather through multiple op-  
tions and public policies to support them. Advanced coal tech-  
nologies	such	as	Integrated	 Gasification	 Combined	 Cycle	  
(IGCC), ultra-supercritical pulverized coal, renewable en- ergy	sources,	energy	efficiency	 and	DSM	programs	 for	con- 
sumers, new nuclear power plants, and new transmission  and distribution infrastructure are all needed to make our  electricity	 system	more	efficient	and	must	all	be	part	of	 
the solution. 
PROGRESS & CHALLENGES WITH TECHNOLOGY 
While we actively support programs to reduce the growth in demand, that still leaves us with a need for new generation capacity – a need that is particularly imminent for our south -
western operating companies. Balancing this need along- side our responsibility to protect the environment will re-quire	the	development	 of	new	technology,	 an	area	in	which	
AEP has excelled.Coal Delivery to AEP’s Power Plants
Rail Direct 40%  .......................  
Barge Direct 28%  .....................
Rail/Barge* 17%  ......................Truck 9%   ............................
Conveyor Belt 6%  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
*Reflects coal delivery by rail and barge.
AEP’s Carbon Capture & Storage Initiative
  
    2009 Validation Project
 
  MOU (Alstom & RWE) 
 Mountaineer Chilled
 Plant (WV)  Ammonia
  CO2 Storage  
  (Battelle)
  
    2012 Commercial Operation
 
  MOU (Alstom)
 AEP Plant Chilled
  Ammonia EOR
   (SemGreen)
  CO2 Storage
AEP will install carbon capture on two coal-fired power plants –  
the first commercial use of this technology.  chilled ammonia process that we are developing in con-
junction with Alstom and RWE (a German utility) at our  Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. The Mountaineer Plant  pilot project, on which we are collaborating with Battelle, would capture up to 100,000 metric tons of CO
2 per year, 
which	would	be	stored	underground 	in	deep	saline	aquifers.	
 Once the chilled ammonia technology is validated our 
plan is to deploy it on a commercial scale at a plant in our  western service territory, delivering the captured CO
2 for  
use in enhanced oil recovery. This will help the region to  recover its natural resources and will defray the high costs of carbon capture technology. We are piloting the second GHG reduction technolo-
gy, an oxy-coal combustion process, with 16 other utilities on a 10-MW scale to verify feasibility and understand the commercial	 issues.	If	it	proves	feasible,	we	plan	to	retrofit	
an existing 150-600 MW unit by 2020. It would result in the capture of 3,000 or more tons of CO
2 per day.
 There is increasing pressure for new coal plants to 
employ these full-scale carbon capture and storage tech-nologies from the start. We feel this is an unrealistic ex-pectation that could delay bringing the technology forward to full commercial scale. We are pushing the technology forward as fast as we can. In the meantime, we are facing a growing demand for energy – one that cannot be met with-
out near-term construction of new plants.
INTEGRATED GASIFICATION COMBINED CYCLE (IGCC) 
In West Virginia, the Public Service Commission approved our 629-MW IGCC plant; we are appealing a negative deci-sion from the Virginia State Corporation Commission. We are ready to begin construction when all approvals are in hand. The plant, estimated to cost $2.23 billion and take up to 48 months to build, would be built in West Virginia but serve customers in two states – West Virginia and Virginia. 
A second IGCC plant proposal in Ohio has regulatory sup-port but faces legal challenges. The Ohio Supreme Court in March ruled against AEP and returned the case to the Pub-lic Utilities Commission of Ohio. Some of our stakeholders  support adding carbon capture to these plants. We are pre-pared to go forward with regulatory aspects of such an action  when the economics of this technology become clearer.  The promise of bringing IGCC technology to com- 
mercial operation gained momentum in 2007 when Indiana  regulators approved a similar proposal by Duke Energy to build a 630-MW IGCC plant – bucking a nationwide regu- 
latory trend against coal-fueled power plants. Although  IGCC plants are more expensive than conventional pulver-ized coal plants, they are considered to be more compatible with carbon capture technology and have fewer negative  impacts on the environment. One stakeholder, the Clean 40  Climate Change 
In its testimony supporting AEP’s  
West Virginia IGCC plant, the Clean  Air Task Force said:
“It is unusual for an environmental  
group to support construction of a new  coal power plant. Current projections  indicate	that	coal-fired	electricity	 generation will continue to grow in  importance, however, over the next  several decades. In fact, recent analysis  by the United States Climate Change  Science Program indicates that global coal-based electricity generation could double or even triple by the year 2050.  Advanced technology will be vital to ensuring that such rapid growth does not threaten the world’s environment. In	particular,	coal	gasification,	a	process	in which the energy stored in coal can be put to productive use while rendering coal’s impurities more benign, offers  a way to bring coal use into the twenty-first	century	without	sacrificing	the	 environment or the economy.
”Air Task Force, supported the Duke proposal and is pub-
licly supporting AEP’s proposed plant in West Virginia.  For more information about these technologies, please 
visit 
www.AEP.com/cr/technologies .
FUEL DIVERSIFICATION
In addition to developing new coal technologies, we are increasing the diversity of the fuels we use to produce elec-tricity. Today, 68 percent of our energy comes from coal. We have not yet determined what the right percentage is, but actions we have taken will drive it lower and develop a more diverse electricity supply. We are building or buying more	natural	gas-fired	 plants	to	meet	peak	demand	peri-
ods, such as the summer cooling season. Natural gas units emit about half the CO
2 compared with similarly-sized 
coal units. However, natural gas is subject to price volatil-ity and supply issues.  In 2007, AEP added 12 gas units with a total capacity  
of 2,020 MW. These plants will emit approximately 8 mil- lion metric tons of CO
2 during the next decade, based on  
projected demand, compared with 16 million metric tons for  the	equivalent	coal-fired	production.	
OUR COMMITMENT TO REDUCE EMISSIONS 
As a founding member of the Chicago Climate Exchange  in 2003, AEP committed to cumulatively reduce or offset  46 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO
2) by 2010.  Through 2007, we have reduced or offset 43 million metric  tons of CO
2, and we are on track to meet our commitment.  
We	have	done	so	by	improving 	the	efficiency 	of	existing	  
plants;	retiring	older,	inefficient	 units;	substantially	 reduc-  
ing	the	leakage	rate	of	sulfur	hexafluoride 	(SF6)	–	a	potent	  
GHG  – from transformers; increasing renewable energy 
resources; and conserving trees and reforested lands in the United States and abroad.  For the future, we have planned improvements to our 
existing power plants that will further reduce GHG emis-sions by more than 400,000 tons per year by 2010. We out-lined	our	post-2010	 strategy	in	our	first	Corporate	 Respon -
sibility Report and predicted our emissions would grow by as much as 10 million to 15 million tons annually between 2011 and 2020 as we build power plants. We committed to offset CO
2 emissions by an additional 5 million tons annu-
ally through offsets, as follows:•	Purchasing an additional 1,000 MW of new wind power  by 2011 and adding some of it in our eastern states. In 2007  
we signed agreements to buy 275 MW of wind energy that  will serve customers in Indiana, Michigan, Virginia and  West Virginia. In January 2008 we began receiving deliv-  
ery	of	the	first	75	MW	of	wind-generated	power.	
•	Investing in domestic offsets. AEP signed an agreement  in 2007 with the Environmental Credit Corp. to purchase  4.6	million	carbon	credits	(one	carbon	credit	is	equal	to	 
reducing one metric ton of CO
2) between 2010 and 2017.  
The credits would be created by capturing and destroy- ing methane on 200 U.S. livestock farms, at least half of  which will be within our 11-state service territory. The  first	two	manure	“lagoons” 	to	capture	methane	were	com-  
pleted on a farm in upstate New York in December. These  credits will offset 0.6 million metric ton of CO
2 between  
2011 and 2017.
•	Increasing our investments in domestic offsets, includ-ing forestry, between 2011 and 2020. As described in the offsets section that follows, investments in new forestry projects have been hampered by the conversion of lands to grow crops, often for biofuels. 
Climate Change 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  41
 Other GHGs (3,591) Methane (605)
 Nitrous Oxide (379) 
  High-GWP  
  Gases* (158)
     Electric  
  Power Sector  
  Carbon Dioxide  
  (2,344)2006 U.S. GHG Emissions (million metric tons)
* High global warming potential gasesSource: Energy Information Administration, November 2007•	Offsetting 0.2 million ton of CO 2 emissions from our  
mobile	fleet	and	aircraft.	We	achieved	 this	goal	in	2007	  
and we took steps to increase the number of hybrid elec- 
tric	vehicles	in	our	11,000-vehicle 	fleet.	Of	542	light-duty	  
vehicles planned for purchase in the coming year, 31 per- cent	will	be	hybrid	or	flex	fuel.	 	
 We remain committed to our post-2010 climate change 
strategy in terms of the overall goals, but our recent experi-ences	demonstrate	 the	need	for	flexibility	 in	how	we	can	
achieve them in a cost-effective manner. Some of the many tactics we are using to reduce our carbon footprint are de-scribed in more detail below.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY & DSM 
AEP is committed to pursuing  energy	efficiency	 and	DSM	
programs in all of the states  in which we operate. We be -
lieve these programs should  
be an important part of our Integrated Resource Plan. The  challenge is that we have some of the lowest electricity rates  in	the	country,	making	it	difficult	for	such	programs 	to	 
pass the “cost-effectiveness” tests that can motivate be-  
havior changes. Reasonable cost recovery is an issue for us,  too, in some jurisdictions. We support greater consistency  across supply-side and demand-side cost recovery treatment  but continue to face a regulatory preference for supply-side  investments in many states.  
 Much to the frustration of some stakeholders, we previ-  
ously	did	not	have	a	clearly	defined	policy	on	energy	effi- 
ciency.	In	2007,	therefore,	 we	clarified	our	policy	and	devel-  
oped a strategy (through our gridSMART
SM initiative) to take  
us	beyond	traditional	 energy	efficiency	 and	DSM	programs.
 We fully support programs that result in additional con-  
servation and reduction – critical components in address-  
ing climate change. We have ongoing programs in Kentucky and Texas, have recently initiated several programs in Ar-kansas,	and	have	requested	 approval	 for	programs	 and	re-
lated cost recovery in Oklahoma and Indiana. As part of our gridSMART
SM initiative we will begin approaching regu- 
lators, customers and other stakeholders in the remaining  states we serve. (For a state-by-state review of energy ef-ficiency	programs	 and	actions	in	AEP’s	service	territory,	
see 
www.AEP.com/cr/energyefficiency .)
	 Energy	 efficiency	 strategy	mu
st	go	far	beyond	chang- 
ing light bulbs and rebates. Our gridSMARTSM initiative  
seeks to put consumers in con-  
trol of electricity usage by  giving them the information about when energy is at peak  demand, and when there is ex- cess capacity in the system – and  
enabling them to adjust their  usage accordingly. Facilitating  informed decisions by our cus- tomers will help us reduce the  number and length of outages,  improve service and postpone  the need for new generation.  (Read more about 
gridSMARTSM  
in the Energy Security, Reliability & Growth section.)	 Overall, 	our	philosophy 	on	demand-side 	efficiency 	is	to	
help our customers understand the true value of electricity, in the belief that they will be motivated to change how they use it  – and be more likely to embrace technologies and rate 
structures that encourage energy conservation. Many of our  stakeholders, including customers, employees and regula-tors, agree with this philosophy and we will continue to work with them to make it not just a philosophy but a reality. 
RENEWABLE ENERGY 
Many consumers are clamoring for clean, renewable energy. We are working to expand the options we can offer our cus -
tomers and help our states meet their clean energy goals. For example, AEP Ohio’s Green Pricing Option program en-42  Climate Change 
“AEP has good intentions but is  
bumping up against challenges it didn’t 
see coming or knows how to address.  
It felt like you just shrugged your  
shoulders and moved on.  
We have to look at unintended  
consequences	and	we	want	to	know	 
that AEP is at the table on these  
policy issues. ”
Laura Belleville, Appalachian Trail Conservancy,
referring to unforeseen challenges.ables	customers	 to	buy	Renewable	 Energy	Certificates	 that	
represent	 power	purchases	 of	wind,	solar	and	landfill	gas. 
 Wind power is the fastest growing source of renewable 
energy, accounting for approximately one-third of all new  
generation capacity in the United States last year  – but solar,  
biomass, geothermal and hydroelectric energy are also in  high demand. Small- to mid-sized renewable energy sources  
are relatively easy to tie into a customer’s facility or the dis-tribution system, but developing large-scale renewable re- sources	presents	significant	challenges. We need dramatic improvements  
in our nation’s electrical infrastructure  (i.e., transmission) capabilities if we are  to deliver on the American Wind En -
ergy Association’s goal of providing 20 percent of the nation’s electricity from wind. This can be achieved only with major investments in a transmis-sion system that can deliver wind en-ergy from where it can be generated to where it is needed.  The full potential of adding signif-  
icant amounts of new large-scale renew-able projects can best be realized through  construction of a new, modern interstate  extra-high voltage (EHV) transmission system that could carry the power from  where it is produced to where it can be  used. A modern EHV transmission system would also lead  to less wasted energy, fewer emissions and greater access to  affordable energy. (Read more about AEP’s transmission vi-  
sion in the Energy Security, Reliability & Growth section.)  
GREENHOUSE GAS OFFSETS 
Credible, enforceable greenhouse gas offsets are needed to  address climate change. AEP is investing in a variety of  offsets – including forestry projects and methane capture,  
and many stakeholders would like us to expand our reach  even beyond our current efforts.  
Climate Change 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  43
  We invest in forestry projects because they support  
biodiversity 	while	serving	as	an	efficient	method	of	carbon	  
storage. We have not, however, been able to meet our 2007 goal to begin tripling our annual investments in forestry  projects due to competition for private lands from crop pro- ducers. Such competition raises land costs substantially,  making forestry offsets less cost-effective than other pro- jects. In addition, the standards for forestry continue to be  in	a	state	of	flux,	so	we	are	seeking	projects	that	will	“count”	
in the regulatory framework of the future.
 By expanding our original focus on for-
estry projects to include other kinds of verifiable	 domestic	 offsets,	we	remain	
on target to meet our post-2010 carbon offset goals. We will continue working through these emerging issues with our stakeholders to resolve differences of opinion to stay on track in terms of total climate change impacts. 
OUR INTERNATIONAL  
EFFORTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
AEP’s involvement with the World Busi-  
ness Council for Sustainable Develop- 
ment (WBCSD) has provided us with an  international forum to share technology,  promote sound policy and identify low- carbon options that provide a secure and  
sustainable electricity future. This is a step in the right  direction to ensure that most of the burden of reducing CO
2  
emissions doesn’t fall unfairly on the United States or on  
any other single nation. (For more information about our  work with the WBCSD, see the Public Policy  section.)
  Our leadership in the San Cristobal Wind Project in 
the Galapagos Islands, and in hosting one of two e8 en-vironmental performance workshops, has facilitated other projects being undertaken through the e8 to share sustain-able energy knowledge and expertise with developing  nations. The United Nations showcased the San Cristobal Through the e8, AEP helped develop  
a 2,400 MW wind project to protect  
a fragile ecosystem in the Galapagos 
Islands. It is certified as a Clean  
Development Mechanism under the  
Kyoto Protocol.
44  Climate Change 
Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Climate Change }
Reduce or offset approximately 46 million metric 
tons	of	carbon	dioxide	equivalent 	emissions	
between 2003 and 2010, in spite of uncertainty how these voluntary reductions will be treated under federal climate legislation.
With no further actions, AEP’s emissions will 
increase by approximately 10 million to 15 million metric tons between 2010 and 2020, as new generat-ing plants come online. Meet our CCX commitment through 2010 through  a broad portfolio of actions:•	Power	plant	efficiency 	improvements.	
•	Renewable generation.
•	Off-system GHG reduction projects,  including forestry.
•	Direct purchase of emission credits through CCX.
Implement our post-2010 strategy to reduce carbon dioxide	equivalent	emissions	by	approximately	5 	
million metric tons per year:•	Bring new carbon capture and storage technology to commercial operation.
•	Invest in other advanced coal technologies, includ-ing IGCC and USC. 
•	Increase renewable energy.
•	Invest in a range of offsets, including methane capture and forestry.
•	Implement EE/DSM programs to reduce  consumption.Through 2007, reduced or offset CO
2 emissions by 
approximately 43 million metric tons through power plant	efficiencies.•	Completed purchase agreement for 4.6 million carbon credits between 2010-2017 from methane capture from livestock. 
•	Did not meet forestry goal due to competing inter -
ests	for	land	that	made	it	inefficient	and	too	costly.
•	Signed three long-term power agreements for 275 MW wind; 75 MW online January 2008 with remainder scheduled to be online December 2008.
•	Mountaineer chilled ammonia carbon capture and storage (CCS) project expected to begin operation in 2009.
•	Commercial operation of CCS at a power plant likely to begin in 2012. This project will reduce emissions by 1.5 million metric tons per year.
•	Arkansas and Louisiana regulators gave condition-al approval to USC plant; Texas approval pending. Oklahoma regulators rejected second USC plant.
•	Proposed IGCC plant in West Virginia approved Challenge Goal ProgressWind Project as a model for other nations and project de-
velopers. The e8 companies agreed to move forward with three more renewable energy projects in developing na-tions involving hydro and solar power.
OUR WORK AT HOME 
AEP is actively engaged in the national discussion to shape climate change legislation. The Chicago Climate Exchange provides a good model for a federal cap-and-trade pro -
gram. We have joined with others to support policies that foster advanced coal technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, at both the federal and state levels.  Our actions on this front include participating in the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Advanced Coal Technology Work Group, which focuses on identifying barriers to and incentives that promote the rapid develop-ment and deployment of coal technologies. 	 AEP’s 	chief	executive 	officer	chairs	the	Business	
Roundtable’s Energy Task Force, which has released a comprehensive vision and action plan for America’s ener-gy future, recognizing the need for a diversity of fuels and for public policies to support technology, reduce emissions and	promote	energy	efficiency. We were disappointed with the U.S. Department of 
Energy’s (DOE) decision to end its funding for the Future-Gen	project	–	the	first	near-zero	 emissions	 coal	power	plant.	
We continue to support this project, and will also support additional funding of carbon capture and storage projects. The DOE has restructured FutureGen funding toward  advancement of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technol -
ogy.	DOE	has	issued	a	Request	for	Information	 (RFI)	on	
this	new	proposal.	 We	have	responded	 and	have	identified	
several carbon capture and storage initiatives that AEP  has undertaken. We look forward to working with the DOE  and are willing to take action on both FutureGen and  CCS projects. 
 n
Useful web links:  
www.chicagoclimateexchange.com
www.awea.org  • www.e8.org  • www.ipcc.ch 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  45
Climate ChangeChallenge Goal Progress
Implement	cost-effective	energy	efficiency	and 	
DSM programs that motivate customers to reduce 
energy consumption.
Reasonable and achievable carbon controls that 
encourage other nations to participate, as described in AEP’s climate change policy. •	Make	efficiency	improvements	to	power	plants 	
and	retire	less	efficient,	older	plants.
•	Offset	corporate	mobile	fleet	and	aircraft	  
emissions.
Collaborate with stakeholders to bring cost-effective EE/DSM programs to regulators, resulting in both MW and MWh reductions, delaying demand for  new generation.
Obtain regulatory support for gridSMART
SM  
initiative, including traditional EE/DSM programs, 
new digital grid and smart metering technology.
Reduce 1,000 MW of demand by 2012  – 15 percent 
to come from AEP; 85 percent to come from 
customer programs.
Deploy 5 million smart meters by 2015, with  
regulatory support.
A market-based federal cap-and-trade program that 
includes all sectors and sources, rewards early  action, allows GHG offsets, supports public and  
private funding for technology development, includes a safety valve on the market price for purchasing allowances that protects the economy, allowances allocated based on historical emissions with only a small number of allowances (less than 5 percent)	auctioned	or	set	aside	for	public	benefit.but rejected in Virginia; legal challenge to       Ohio IGCC sent back to PUCO.
•	Identified	efficiency 	improvements 	to	power	
plants to potentially reduce CO
2 emissions by  
1.1 million tons per year, after 2015. 
•	31 percent of 542 new light-duty vehicles ordered for	2008	are	hybrid	or	flex	fuel.	
•	Reduced	mobile	fleet	emissions, 	including	aircraft,	
through carbon credits.
•	Developed clearer policy on EE/DSM.
•	For complete state-by-state information on 2007 EE/DSM activities, see www.AEP .com/cr/ 
energyefficiency.
•	Kicked off gridSMART
SM initiative that includes 
traditional EE/DSM program development and new technologies. Signed agreement with General Electric Co. to jointly develop and deploy  equipment	and	technology	programs	to	support 	
this initiative. 
•	Working collaboratively with Indiana Utility  Consumer Counsel to implement 10,000-meter pilot in South Bend, Ind.
•	Participation with Leadership Group of National Action	Plan	for	Energy	Efficiency.
•	AEP supports Senate Bill 1766, the Low Carbon Economy Act of 2007, introduced by U.S.  Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D  – N.M.) and Arlen  
Specter (R  – Pa.). 
•	Ongoing discussions with policymakers,  
industry peers and environmental stakeholders. 
•	Supported Business Roundtable Energy Task Force	report	calling	for	diversified,	domestic-based energy supply mix, increased EE/DSM  and more investment in new technologies,  such as carbon capture and storage.
•	Broad support for AEP/IBEW provision for climate change legislation.
•	Through participation in WBCSD, AEP is  
one of 10 global companies to develop report  outlining policies and technologies needed  for sustainable electricity future. Report  presented at U.N. climate negotiations in  Bali, Indonesia. 
•	Hosted e8 coal power plant conference;  
engineers from India and Indonesia participated.
•	Through e8 participation, Galapagos wind  energy project completed and brought online. Wind turbines displace partial need for diesel  fuel for electricity, reducing the risk of fuel  spills and emissions that could harm the fragile ecosystem 	of	the	Archipelago. 	Certified	under	
Kyoto Protocol Clean Development Mechanism. AEP donated and installed 12 photovoltaic  panels and funded training for long-term repairs and maintenance of both the solar and wind equipment. 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  47
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
During 2007, AEP began several breakthrough projects  
designed to put more control in the hands of customers, bol- ster the supply of available energy and strengthen the over- all reliability of our system.	 The	first	is	a	major	initiative	 called	gridSMART
SM that 
will allow customers to better manage energy demand, us- age and cost. We will update and automate our electric  distribution system so that customers will receive more  reliable service while also having more choices about usage;  we will have real-time information about the status of the system; and we will have a greater abil-ity to conserve energy through more  efficient	 operations.	 To	facilitate	 this	
system, we signed an agreement with the General Electric Co. to jointly de-velop	and	deploy	equipment	 and	tech-
nology programs to enable these “smart grid” features. On the energy supply front, we re- 
ceived conditional approval to build a more	efficient	 ultra-supercritical	 coal	
plant in Arkansas and approval to build  a	commercial-scale	 Integrated	 Gasifi -
cation Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant in West Virginia.  Finally, we reorganized our already  
strong transmission operations as we advocate our vision for a nationwide extra-high voltage network that would add reliability and the ability to bring electricity from more di-verse fuels to market. Despite these accomplishments and plans, many chal-
lenges remain. Although the Energy Information Admin-istration’s projected growth in electricity demand has been lowered to 1.3 percent a year through 2030, from the 1.5 percent annual rate projected in 2007, that growth still will require	new	generating	capacity. AEP is examining new rate structures that better link 
prices to the value of electricity at various times. Rates that increase with consumption provide price signals to cus-tomers that encourage energy conservation. Any change in rate	structures	 will	require	investments	 in	advanced	 meter -
ing and approval by state regulatory commissions. Those discussions, including time-of-day rates and others, will be	addressed	 during	regulatory	 filings	this	year.	In	each	
filing,	the	company	 will	consider	the	impact	on	business,	
economic growth or vulnerable customers. 
GRIDSMARTSM
Imagine being able to automatically postpone some energy  
intensive functions, such as running the  air conditioner, hot water heater, pool  functions or a manufacturing line, until  after the hours of peak demand, when the  cost is lower. With gridSMART
SM cus-
tomers will have control in their homes  and in businesses that doesn’t exist to- day,	giving	traditional	 energy	efficiency 
and demand-side management programs a big technological boost. gridSMART
SM is the cornerstone of 
AEP’s energy delivery system of the fu-ture. Not every need or technological in-novation that customers will demand in the future can be envisioned today, but gridSMART
SM is being designed to pro-
vide	a	much	greater	degree	of	flexibility	 than	is	now	pos-
sible. gridSMARTSM	provides	 three	major	benefits:	it	adds	
automation and capabilities to allow customers to better manage their energy use and improve reliability; it allows AEP	to	monitor	and	operate	its	system	more	efficiently	 and	
create fewer emissions; and it prepares the system for new technologies that could greatly affect how power is gener-ated, distributed and consumed.  Smart meters would communicate with an AEP data  
center to indicate the price of power at a given time and how  much energy is being used. Coupled with time-of-day or  
other innovative rates, home or business own-  
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
T	 Maryam Larijani, engineer, gridSMARTSM equipment test labThe Dolan Chemistry Lab processes  
insulating oil samples from electrical equip-
ment for maintenance support.
ers would be able to decide how much they are willing to  
spend to perform a particular task now, versus waiting un-til a lower rate is in effect.  During periods of peak demand, customers might 
choose to cycle their air conditioning in 20-minute periods, for example, rather than run them continuously, or to turn off the pool pump for a few hours. Commercial and indus-trial customers could postpone energy intensive manufac-turing or business operations.  The same technology would also allow AEP to better 
manage its system. Smart meters and distribution system equipment	 would	enable	us	to	connect	customers	 remotely,	
identify overload conditions more easily and reduce energy theft. The result would be more timely service for custom-ers, fewer crews on the road, fuel savings and lower emis-sions. gridSMART
SM would enable us to identify outages 
more	quickly	rather	than	waiting	for	customers	 to	report	
them, and this would help us deploy repair crews sooner.  gridSMART
SM also incorporates more traditional en-
ergy	efficiency	 and	DSM	programs,	 which	could	be	imple -
mented independently of advanced technology. Because electric prices have been so low in our service area, these programs have had little appeal among customers and  regulators alike. Low prices undermine incentives to re -
duce consumption.  Some of our stakeholders, including Natural Resources  Defense Council, Ceres and the American Council for Energy  Efficient	Economies,	 continue	to	press	us	for	programs	 and	 
ideas that result in measurable reductions. At the same time,  
they recognize AEP’s need for the cost of these programs  to be recovered – while we recognize the value of continu-
ing to work with these groups toward achievable solutions.  
 As rates increase because of higher fuel prices, envi- 
ronmental upgrades, new plant costs and related factors,  AEP expects that the appeal of these programs will increase, and that gridSMART
SM	will	magnify	their	benefits	for	our	 
customers. We will also continue to offer traditional pro- grams such as home weatherization, lighting upgrades and  high	efficiency	 upgrades.	 Our	goal	is	to	offset	1,000	MW	
of demand by 2012 through these efforts. gridSMART
SM	will	help	us	to	operate	more	efficiently	
and save energy with programs that range from installing energy management systems in our company buildings to upgrading to new transformers that reduce energy losses. We project that making these improvements to our assets would yield 150 MW of our 1,000 MW goal in demand savings and provide 600 gigawatt hours a year in energy savings by 2012.  The gridSMART
SM initiative also involves technology 
development in the areas of fuel cells, large-scale batteries and other energy technologies. No one can say with cer-tainty how these technologies will be adopted, the rate at which	they	will	be	deployed	 and	what	their	final	impact	
will be on traditional generation systems.  Among the technologies we are leaders in deploying, 48  Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 
AEP’s Systemwide Reliability Performance 
 2005 2006 2007 
SAIFI  1.546 1.51 1.519
SAIDI  197.7 191.4 189.8  
SAIFI indicates the number of sustained outages the average customer 
experienced during the year. 
SAIDI indicates the amount of time the average customer is without service due 
to sustained interruptions during the year, measured in minutes. Target is 186.4AEP's Transmission Operations Center, in  
New Albany, Ohio, is the nerve center of the nation's  
largest electricity transmission system.
G E N E R A T I O N
E N E R G Y  D E L I V E R Y
SU B S TAT I ON
U T I L I T Y
OF F I C E SC O M M E R C I A L /
I N D U S T R I A LS I NGL E -FA M I LY
H O M E SM U L T I - FA M I LY
H O U S I N G
as discussed in last year’s report, are sodium sulfur or NAS 
batteries, which can be deployed to support local circuits and take the strain off substations nearing capacity load. These batteries can support megawatt-sized loads for hours in the event of an outage. Their steady supply of power also helps offset	power	quality	issues.	They	can	delay	the	need	for	ex-
pensive substation upgrades for years, facilitating a better prioritization of capital. Once station upgrades have been completed, the batteries are easily moved to a new location.	 AEP	 installed	 its	first	megawatt-scale	 NAS	battery	
in 2006 and ordered three two-megawatt NAS batteries in  2007, which will be delivered and deployed this year. We  expect to have 25 megawatts of NAS batteries in place by  the end of 2010.	 Another	 technology	 with	significant	 potential	 to	re-
shape the utility business is the plug-in hybrid electric vehicle, or PHEV. We are working with the major auto manufacturers to determine their likely rate of adoption. General Motors, Ford and Toyota have announced plans to introduce PHEVs, which will recharge from 110-volt cir-cuits, before or in 2010.	 Plug-in	 electrics	have	the	potential	 to	significantly	 al-
ter	utility	load	profiles.	The	utility	industry	goal	is	to	en-courage customers to recharge at night, when demand is lower and capacity is available.  More importantly, PHEVs can improve the nation’s en-  
vironmental	 profile.	PHEVs	eliminate	 automobile	 green- 
house gas emissions, which are a major contributor to green -
house gas levels worldwide. Power plant emissions will increase, which will offset some of those gains. However,  power plant emissions come from much fewer sources and  are concentrated, which makes them easier to capture. As  described earlier, AEP and others are developing technol- ogies to capture carbon dioxide from coal plants.  All of these elements are part of gridSMART
SM. De-
ploying the technology will vary by state and is subject to regulatory approval and cost recovery. Each of our operat-ing companies will develop plans to roll out these technol-ogies and will work with their regulators on cost recovery. To support the gridSMART
SM effort, AEP and the Gen -
eral Electric Co. agreed in 2007 to jointly develop and de-ploy	equipment	 and	technology	 programs.	 The	agreement	
calls for two pilot programs to be conducted in two mid-sized	cities	to	test	the	equipment	 and	customer	 response.	
Those	cities	have	not	yet	been	identified.	 A	small	pilot	pro-
gram will be conducted in Indiana as part of a settlement 
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  49
By providing real-time information about 
costs and usage to customers, gridSMARTSM 
will encourage energy conservation and better use of resources. agreement with regulators. AEP’s goal is to have all 5 mil-
lion smart meters in place by 2015, if regulators approve. 
TRANSMISSION
The nation’s existing transmission system is aging and in-sufficient	 to	meet	long-term	 energy	needs.	It	was	built	to	
serve utility load and to enhance reliability among inter-connected utilities – not to facilitate the transfer of energy 
in a competitive marketplace. Nor was it designed to trans -
mit renewable resources, such as wind and solar power, which may be generated far from where it is needed. As de -
mands on our transmission sys -
tem evolve, so too must our ex -
pectations and, ultimately, how  the system is designed. Our ex -
isting 765 kV system provides  
a good foundation for expand-ing the nation’s extra-high volt-  
age (EHV) transmission net -
work to meet near- and long-term energy needs. We support development 
of a national interstate EHV  transmission	 system	–	the	electrical	 equivalent	 of	our	inter-  
state highway system. Such a system would jump-start the  development of a robust, modern electric grid to reinforce  the strength of the existing system and allow us to deliver power where it’s needed, when it’s needed. We believe the best way to develop this system is through federal oversight and to encourage its development through incentives. Such an interstate transmission system is essential to ensuring a sustainable future for the nation. We are committed to this vision and will work with others to advance it. A modern EHV system would eliminate bottlenecks,  
increase	energy	efficiency	 and	congestion,	 and	enable	more	
renewable energy to be brought to market, foster greater competition and improve the system’s reliability. For ex-ample, in a study completed in 2007 in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), the National Renew-able Energy Laboratory, and the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA), AEP determined that a 19,000-mile 765 kV transmission system that overlays the existing net-work could help achieve AWEA’s long-term goal of secur-ing up to 20 percent of the nation’s power from wind.  The system, as proposed, would cost approximately  
$60 billion to build (in 2007 dollars), which represents one-  
third the cost of comparable capacity at 345 kV. It also uses  less	than	one-quarter	 of	the	land	needed	for	a	right-of-way	  
of	an	equivalent	345	kV	system.	 In	addition	to	the	benefits	  
of bringing more renewable  power to market, such a 765 kV  network would free capacity on  lower voltage transmission lines  (such as existing 500 kV , 345 kV  
and 230 kV circuits). This is par-  
ticularly important because this  additional capacity provides  more operational and mainte-  
nance	flexibility 	and	signifi- 
cantly improves reliability and efficiency.	
 Many of our stakeholders generally support new trans- 
mission but are cautious in their support because they want  certainty that AEP will consider factors such as biodiver-sity when siting and building new lines. Some customers have told us the growth of AEP’s transmission system is tied to the growth of their companies because they can only expand and grow where they have access to the elec-tricity needed for their businesses. Our vision for a 550-mile transmission line from West 
Virginia into New Jersey, announced in January 2006, is  becoming	 a	reality.	The	first	step	is	a	joint	venture	with	 
Allegheny Energy to build the 290-mile  Potomac-Appalachian Transmission High- line (PATH). One section of the route –  
244 miles – will consist of 765 kV trans- 50  Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 
“We need a true nationwide  
transmission version of our interstate 
highway system; a grid of extra-high 
voltage backbone transmission  
lines reaching out to remote resources 
and overlaying, reinforcing, and  
tying together the existing grid in each  
interconnection to an extent  
never before seen. ”
Suedeen Kelly, FERC Commissioner, July 23, 2007Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  51
mission lines.
 The project is slated to start at AEP’s Amos substa- 
tion near St. Albans, W.Va., and run to Allegheny’s Beding -
ton substation, near Martinsburg, W.Va. Another 46 miles  will consist of 500 kV transmission lines from Beding- ton to a new station to be built near Kemptown, near Fred-erick, Md. The Kemptown segment will be owned solely  by Allegheny Energy. Siting studies for these projects are  expected to begin in 2008.  
  While PATH has received approval from PJM Inter-
connection LLC, the regional transmission organization responsible for transmission planning for the area, state and local	approvals	 must	still	be	obtained.	 PJM	has	identified	  
the corridor as an area in critical need of additional trans- mission	capacity	and	has	requested	 that	the	new	line	be	in	
service by 2012.  In addition, the PATH project falls within an area that  
has been designated by the DOE as a National Interest Elec-  
tric Transmission Corridor, which recognizes the need to  address reliability and congestion concerns in the region.  AEP believes that completing PATH will improve energy  efficiency	 and	provide	greater	reliability	 while	reducing	
high congestion costs for the eastern PJM region. We also received regulatory approvals to form a joint  venture with MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., known  as Electric Transmission Texas (ETT). We have begun  assigning major transmission projects to ETT and we also  advocated a proposal to build 1,000 miles of transmission  lines in Texas to support the state’s development of its Com-petitive Renewable Energy Zones. We also signed an agree -
ment with ITC Transmission to evaluate the feasibility of extending 765 kV lines through Michigan. In response to the growing importance of these op-  
portunities to expand the nation’s EHV system, the trans -
mission organization was reorganized to report directly to  AEP’s chairman. 
GENERATION & PLANT EFFICIENCY
AEP’s plans to build two ultra-supercritical coal plants met with only partial success. The John W. Turk Plant was ap-proved in Arkansas and Louisiana and now awaits approval in Texas. This facility will use the latest technology to cre-ate	electricity	 more	efficiently	 than	traditional	 coal	plants.	
AEP believes that coal must remain part of the nation’s generation because of its availability, consistent perfor-mance and low cost. This technology is an important part  
345 kV
Six Single-Circuit Towers
900 ft. Right-of-Way345 kV
Three Double-Circuit Towers
450 ft. Right-of-Way765 kV
One Single-Circuit Tower
200 ft. Right-of-Way765 kV Line Footprint
765 kV transmission maximizes land  
use, providing the greatest capacity  increases and requiring the least  amount of land.of our country’s ability to use coal in the future. We will 
continue to develop coal and carbon capture technologies. The second plant, proposed for Oklahoma, was not ap- 
proved. As a result, Public Service Company of Oklahoma  is working with its stakeholders to assess how we will meet growing energy demand in that region. (See the Climate 
Change  section for more information on this topic.)
 AEP also continues to pursue the construction of two 
IGCC coal plants, which convert coal into a gas before combustion.	 IGCC	plants	can	be	highly	efficient	and	can	
be	more	easily	configured	 for	carbon	capture	than	pulver -
ized coal plants. Plants are tentatively planned for West Virginia, which would serve Appalachian Power custom-ers in West Virginia and Virginia; and in Ohio.  The West Virginia Public Service Commission ap- 
proved the 629-MW IGCC plant for Appalachian Power in  March 2008. Unfortunately, the Virginia Public Service Commission 	has	denied	our	request	to	recover	the	cost	
of building the plant. We plan to appeal the decision.  This plant is important to meeting the needs of both states.  Because of the Ohio restructuring law that took effect 
in 2000, the proposed Ohio plant faces legal challenges. The  Ohio Supreme Court ruled in March 2008 that the plant cannot be added to the regulated companies’ rate base and sent the case back to the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. We hope to resolve the issue.  Our stakeholders support adding carbon capture tech-
nology to these plants. We are prepared to go forward with regulatory aspects of such an action when the economics of this technology become clearer.  We are not building only coal plants; other fuels have  
a role to play as well. Natural gas plants continue to be add-ed	to	our	generation	 fleet	because	of	their	favorable	 emis -
sions	profiles,	quick	build	times	and	scheduling	 flexibility.	
In 2007, AEP added 12 gas units with a total capacity of 2,020 MW. Although natural gas has a useful place in our national energy system, it also has its limits due to price volatility and supply issues. In addition to building more generating capacity, we 
are	also	focusing	on	supply-side	 efficiency	 in	order	to	make	
the best possible use of existing generating capacity. Gen-erating	unit	efficiency	 is	expressed	 in	terms	of	heat	rate	
–	the	amount	of	energy	required	to	generate	 one	kilowatt	
hour of electricity. The less energy that is needed, the more efficient	is	the	plant.	 AEP	 has	long	been	a	leader	in	efficiency.	 Our	system-
wide	average	heat	rate	for	AEP-owned	 coal-fired	 units
	was
	
9,962 Btu/kWh in 2007. In 2006, our heat rate was 9,915 Btu/kWh, which is just under 4 percent better than the na-tional fossil fuel average of about 10,300 Btu/kWh. Heat rate increased in 2007 primarily because of the addition of three scrubbers. As additional environmental controls are retrofit	on	plants,	efficiency	 decreases,	 as	reflected	 by	an	
increase in heat rate.	 To	improve	plant	efficiency, 	we	routinely	evaluate	
design improvements and have formed the Generation Performance Team to develop an integrated performance monitoring program for heat rate improvement and to provide guidance for a coordinated, disciplined approach to performance improvement. We also incorporate heat rate targets into the Generation group’s incentive com -
pensation program.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Nuclear energy is again being considered a viable option for  new generation, primarily as a response to climate change.  We believe that nuclear should be among our power options  52  Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 
AEP Chairman Mike Morris (left) leads a tour of the Cook Nuclear 
Plant for U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman (right).
Two severe ice storms tested AEP's resiliency  
in Oklahoma in a 12-month period.
for new generation in the future.
 AEP has operated the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant 
near Bridgman, Mich., since 1975. The Cook Plant received 20-year extensions of the licenses of each of its operating units in August 2005. As a result of those extensions, a number of long-term projects to improve plant reliability and capacity, including the replacement of high-pressure turbines, are being implemented. In 2007, a routine emergency plan siren performance 
test	activated	 sirens	in	23	minutes	in	lieu	of	the	required	15	 
minutes and was counted as a test failure of Cook’s emer-gency	siren	system.	The	plant	staff	identified	 and	corrected	
the	component	 that	failed.	A	subsequent	 Nuclear	Regula -
tory Commission inspection of Cook’s Emergency Plan-ning	Program	 early	in	2008	confirmed	 that	the	issues	that	
led to the failure have been resolved.  We continue to study the possibility of adding more  
nuclear capacity to our system. As prices increase for new coal units and greenhouse gas regulations remain uncer-tain, some state commissions are expressing greater inter-est in nuclear power. We continue to look at all options when considering new generation. While nuclear energy does not produce greenhouse 
gas	emissions,	 the	issue	of	nuclear	waste	storage	is	signifi- 
cant, costly and unresolved. (Please see the Environmental  
Performance  section for a further discussion of this topic.)   
  
TESTING OUR RESILIENCE
As a system that serves 11 states in an area from Virginia to Texas, our resilience is tested routinely. A part of our service territory is often under some sort of	outage	and	AEP	crews	respond	as	quickly	as	
possible to restore power.  We are tested around the clock by storms, 
flood,	lightening 	and	equipment 	failures.	Because	  
of advance planning, companywide coordination  and attention to detail, AEP is able to marshal  resources to restore service in our own areas and  in other utilities’ service areas as well. 
Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  53
 In our own service territory, Public Service Company  
of Oklahoma suffered widespread service interruptions twice in a 12-month span from major ice storms. In Jan-  
uary 2007, an ice storm knocked out power to 100,000  customers. Damage was so extensive that some customers  were	without	power	for	10	days,	despite	an	influx	of	workers	  
from nearby AEP utilities and others. In December 2007,  another ice storm left a total of 260,000 customers without electricity in what some called the worst natural disaster in the state’s history. Most of our customers had electricity service restored within eight days.  The utility industry has an established process in  
which utilities help each other when major events over-whelm their systems. Once that process is activated, we are  capable of sending crews from throughout our system  within hours of a call and even providing food and tempo- rary	quarters	 if	the	need	arises.	Through	 mutual	assis-  
tance agreements, many of those companies have  also helped AEP in dire weather crises. AEP is  routinely recognized by the Edison Electric Insti- tute, the industry’s primary trade association, for our ability to help other utilities. In 2006  – 2007, our crews provided assistance  
to 12 utilities across the United States.  The company’s Business Continuity Plan in- 
cludes planning for a natural or man-made disas-  
ter that destroys or renders unusable the com-  We need timely regulatory approval to site and 
build new utility infrastructure to meet the growing demand for electricity and improve reliability. The challenge lies in issues such as siting, regulatory lag in recovering costs and competing interests among stakeholders.
Our vision for transmission is to develop a national 
interstate transmission grid that would improve  
reliability, reduce wasted energy through lower system losses and bring more renewable and  new-technology energy to market. The challenge  is to work with various stakeholders to advocate Challenge
Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Energy Security, Reliability & Growth }
Meet our obligation to serve customer demand with 
reliable, reasonably priced electricity while remain-ing in compliance and receiving regulatory support.
Work with and listen to all affected constituencies.Execute a transmission plan to achieve best  
practices in reliability compliance, respond to ordered improvements by regional entities, serve our distribution system and other interconnections and	replace	aging	equipment.
Complete construction of PATH transmission  
project	by	2012,	completing 	first	half	of	I	-765	  
project as originally proposed in 2006 and advanc-ing the goal of creating a new interstate transmission system. PATH project recognized as critical to  reliability and regional congestion issues; it falls A Distribution Reliability Strategic Plan, incorporat-ing	infrastructure, 	customer, 	regulatory 	and	financial	
impacts for all of AEP’s distribution system, was  
developed 	and	is	being	incorporated 	into	the	five	-	 
year capital forecast. However, cost recovery in  
future	filings	will	determine	ability	to	implement.
Completed a needs assessment study in Michigan in 
conjunction with International Transmission Corp  and are engaged in joint venture discussions to build the proposed transmission line in the study recom-mendation, with approval from the Michigan Public Service Commission and Gov. Jennifer Granholm’s Energy Policy Task Force.
AEP formed joint venture with Allegheny Energy  
to build 290  - mile PATH line with 244 miles of the  
line to be 765 kV . FERC approved the formula rate that will go into effect March 1, 2008, subject  to refund, pending the outcome of hearing or  settlement discussions.Goal ProgressCustomer Satisfaction 
(national average = 82%)
 2 0 04 2005 2006 2007
  
84.8% 
85.9% 87.4% 87.2%
84.1%  84.1%  83.3% 82.9%
   
   78.0% 80.5%
67.8% 
70.2%
     
• Overall Satisfaction     • Residential      • Small Commercial
 with Utility Customers Customers
Source: Market Strategies International54  Energy Security, Reliability & Growth 
pany’s	headquarters 	or	other	key	facilities, 	or	affects	employ-  
ees and their families. The plan is updated continuously 
and practiced routinely so that key business functions can be carried on without major interruption. Backup locations have	been	identified	 for	key	personnel	 and	functions.	 Af-
fected personnel can be issued laptop computers to continue to work remotely. Plans have been expanded to include pos -sible	epidemics, 	such	as	the	avian	flu,	that	could	render	a	
large number of employees unable to work.  
 In addition to planning for unexpected disasters, AEP 
is also planning for the future leadership of the company. We have a senior management succession plan to ensure the company’s future leadership sustainability. Resiliency is increasingly being recognized as a factor  
in sustainability. According to the Center for Resilience at The Ohio State University, of which AEP is a founding mem -
ber, “the key to sustainability of these systems is resilience, the ability to resist disorder” when referring to the combina -
tion of economic, environmental and social performance. According to the Center, enhancing resilience not only 
strengthens	 a	company’s	 operations	 and	improves	 financial	  
performance, it enhances many intangibles such as reputa- tion, employee motivation and process excellence.  
n
Useful web links: www.ge.com  • www.nrc.gov
www.resilience.osu.edu  • www.ferc.govEnergy Security, Reliability & Growth 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  55
for a national interstate EHV transmission system 
versus	a	series	of	short	-	term	local	fixes.	
To delay the need for new generation, consumers must change how they use electricity and reduce their demand for it. Giving them the tools and information to make informed decisions about how and	when	to	use	electricity	requires	new	technolo-gies	combined	with	traditional	energy	efficiency 	
programs. The challenges include regulatory support for this strategy and educating consumers about the value of electricity to affect their usage.
Having a diverse energy portfolio is critical to a 
secure energy future and strengthens the nation’s ability to reduce its reliance on foreign energy sources. In addition, coal is becoming more of a  global commodity, forcing us to compete interna-tionally for it. within NIETC designation.
Build transmission infrastructure to support long-
range reliability and development of new technology and renewable generation, like the Competitive Renewable Energy Zones (CREZ) in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT). 
Build coalition of public support from industry, 
trade groups, NGOs, policymakers and others to demonstrate need and support for EHV interstate transmission system.
gridSMART
SM initiative provides the platform 
to develop and deploy new technology, develop 
cost-effective 	energy	efficiency 	programs	and	allow	
AEP	to	operate	more	efficiently,	creating	fewer 	
emissions. These changes also position AEP to better manage new technologies such as PHEVs. Achieve full regulatory support to allow deployment of 5 million smart meters by 2015.
In 2008 we plan to complete implementation of a 
10,000-meter gridSMART
SM pilot project in the 
South	Bend,	Ind.,	area,	file	a	multi-year	 Advanced 	
Meter Infrastructure deployment plan in Texas and obtain regulatory approval to demonstrate the ben-efits	of	gridSMART
SM technologies in two model 
city deployments.
Reduce or offset 1,000 MW demand through energy 
efficiency	programs	by	2012,	with	15	percent	to 	
come from AEP and 85 percent to come from customer programs.
Deploy 25 MW of NAS battery storage by the end 
of 2010, with 6 MW installed in 2008.
Increase diversity of fuel portfolio to reduce 
percentage of generation that relies on coal to make electricity.
Add 1,000 MW of wind power by 2011.
Keep nuclear power in the fuel diversity and climate 
change discussions as a carbon emission-free generation source.AEP announced Electric Transmission Texas (ETT), a joint venture with MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., in November 2007. An additional approxi-mately 1,000  - mile, high-voltage, high-capacity 
backbone transmission system proposed to state regulators	and	the	ERCOT.	 The	first	two	stages 	
of the proposed infrastructure would reinforce the ERCOT transmission grid, providing access for up to 10 GW of existing and planned renewable energy projects in north and central West Texas.
AEP announced another joint venture with  
MidAmerican, Electric Transmission America (ETA). ETA will be a 50 - 50 partnership identifying 
and investing in high-voltage transmission projects (345kV or higher) located in North America, outside of ERCOT. Through ETA, the companies intend to invest in transmission projects with a cost of at least $100 million or more.
AEP and General Electric Co. agreed  
to	jointly	develop	and	deploy	equipment 	and	 
technology programs.
Launched comprehensive gridSMART
SM initiative 
to coordinate technology and program development.Ordered three two-megawatt NAS batteries for 
deployment	in	2008.	Identified	locations	where	the 	
batteries can be demonstrated.
Committed to 2008 customer education campaign 
on energy usage through Clinton Global Initiative.
Offered DSM programs in several states.
Added 12 natural gas units in 2007 with total  
capacity of 2,020 MW.
Signed power purchase agreements for 275 MW of  
wind; 75 MW online in December 2007. Remainder  to come online in 2008.
The Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant implemented 
process	and	efficiency 	improvements 	to	ensure	its	
long-term operation. Both units received 20-year license extensions.Challenge Goal ProgressStakeholder Engagement
To be successful we must work with many different stake-
holders on an ongoing basis, not only when we need them. We	face	complex,	 global	issues	that	require	collaboration	
in order to achieve solutions. We must listen with an open mind to build mutually advantageous relationships that are grounded in trust, respect, honesty and a shared commit-ment to collaboration. Whether we succeed will be for oth-ers to determine. In the spirit of living these values, we organized a se-
ries of eight stakeholder meetings in 2007 and 2008 in order to hear different points of view on issues such as environ-mental performance and dis-  
cussions about work force plan-ning and mountaintop mining. We reached out to customers, regulators, employees, com -
munity leaders, environmental groups, labor, conservationists,  educators, investors and neigh-bors of our power plants. Through this process, we learn-  
ed about what we are doing well and received constructive sug-gestions for improvement. This  section	reflects	some	of	what	we	heard	and	how	this	report	
was	influenced	by	our	stakeholder	engagement. To foster neutrality, AEP engaged SustainAbility, a 
London-based	 firm,	to	facilitate	 six	of	the	meetings.	 Stake -
holders and AEP management, including power plant man-agers, senior executives and operating company presidents, had wide-ranging discussions on issues of mutual concern. These discussions will serve as a foundation for integrat-ing stakeholder engagement as an ongoing process within our companies and at our power plants.  Among those we met with were representatives of the  
Indiana Consumer Counsel, the Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA), the Environmental De-  
fense Fund, Arkansas Sierra Club, Virginia Polytechnic  Institute and State University, Oklahoma Sustainability  Network, International Brotherhood of Electrical Work-ers (IBEW), Ceres, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Kimberly Clark Corp., Texas Public Utilities Commission, Ohio University, Whirlpool Corp., Appalachian Trail Conservancy, Small Farm Institute of Ohio, AllianceBernstein Investments, Lord Abbett & Co., a neighbor of our Rockport Plant, Uni-versity of Arkansas and many of our employees.  Many stakeholders were surprised that we invited 
them to participate in this process and welcomed the open-ness it signaled. We asked them to be candid and assured them we were listening with an open mind. We learned a 
lot about how we are perceived, how we can improve, and how to forge relationships we never expected to have. Through this process we  
were able to identify gaps in our  reporting, such as a lack of infor-  
mation on mercury issues. Our  employees expressed concerns  about aging work force issues  and related them to safety risks  for inexperienced workers.  Some employees did not under- 
stand our approach to carbon offsets; one employee said  it sounded like “we can’t live up to all the expectations so  
let’s buy some mulligans.”   One investor told us his clients are increasingly asking  
what companies are doing to be good stewards and recom -
mended we reach out more to socially responsible investors.		 The	language	 and	terminology	 we	use	came	into	ques-
tion at times. One stakeholder asked if we are opposed to mandates we don’t like when we say “reasonable and volun-tary” in talking about regulations. Others asked us to stop using the term “clean coal” because coal is not clean in their eyes. Nearly everyone who participated in these discussions agreed AEP must do more to educate customers, policy- makers and the general public about the true value of elec-tricity and the impact that unreasonable carbon regula-
Stakeholder Engagement 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  57
T	 John Martin, left, chairman of The Images for Conservation Fund, and Julio Reyes, vice president of external affairs, AEP TexasAEP, in partnership with the Columbus Housing  
Partnership, supported construction of this LEED home 
that will be sold to a low-income family. Solar panels  
will provide part of the home’s energy.
WORKING WITH REGULATORS
AEP’s major subsidiaries are regulated utilities that must 
comply with laws and regulations at the federal, state and  local levels. To increase rates or build new facilities, we  must justify the need and obtain approval. Working with  regulators is the only way we can serve our customers’  needs cost-effectively while earning a fair return for our  shareholders.  We have always invested time to strengthen trust and 
credibility with our regulators. During hearings for per-mission to build the John W. Turk Plant in Arkansas, that state’s Public Utility Commission (PUC) asked to visit one of AEP’s plants before rendering a decision. We invited the regulators, the state’s attorney general and the interveners to visit our Flint Creek Plant.  SWEPCO understood the concerns of the local com-
munities that would be affected by the new plant’s con-struction and reached out across its three-state service ter-ritory	to	outline	the	facts	and	answer	questions.	 Months	
after testimony and stakeholder discussions began, the Arkansas and Louisiana PUCs conditionally approved the new	plant	–	a	significant	 milestone	 because	it	came	at	a	
time when other proposed coal plants around the country were being rejected. Our top priority is our employees’, customers’ and con- 
tractors’ safety and health. To improve our safety perfor-mance, we invited OSHA to meet with management and employees and to visit our plants.  Raising customer rates is and will be necessary to keep 
pace with the increasing cost of maintaining and operating AEP’s system. When we needed rate increases in Texas, AEP Texas initiated a campaign to educate regulators and customers about why it was necessary. The Public Utilities Commission of Texas approved rate increases in 2007. In the case of Texas North Company (part of AEP Texas), the commission	 required	us	to	make	annual	$50,000	contribu -
tions to the Texas Association of Community Action Agen-cies to help subsidize electricity for low-income customers in its service territory.58  Stakeholder Engagement 
Here are some other comments we heard:
“Do not underestimate how literate college stu-
dents	are	on	energy	issues.	They	are	quite	savvy. ” 
Sonia Marcus, Sustainability Coordinator, Ohio University 
“Pushing the envelope can be more challeng-
ing in a regulated utility environment. However, 
utilities that do can drive innovation and creativity throughout the industry.
” 
Kevin Christ, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
“The way we talk about cost recovery for envi-
ronmental performance comes across as an excuse. It adds to the public mistrust of the company.
” 
Dave Pinson, unit operator, Big Sandy Plant
“This section of the report is very positive;  
of all of them, this is the one that demonstrates corporate responsibility, ethical behavior and  concern for society where AEP operates.
” 
J.D. Strong, chief of staff, Secretary of Environment, State  
of Oklahoma, talking about Stakeholder Engagement  section
“People really want to know how we are connect -
ing with and giving back to our communities and how we treat our employees. This is a good start but we need to see more of it in future reports.
” 
Judy Litherland, administrator, Rockport Plant 
“It seems odd that we talked about celebrating  
a year with no AEP employee fatality when we  did have contractor and public fatalities.
” 
Janet Smith, manager, Economic Development, 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
“We have to be responsible for our share and do 
something about what we can control and be respon-  
sible. If the world doesn’t survive, we won’t either. ” 
Margarete Burch, technician, Utility  Operations–West, talking about climate change
tions will have on prices and on the economy. We were 
also	questioned	 why	there	were	not	more	young	people	in-
volved because they will be living with and paying for the decisions made today for a sustainable energy future. WORKING WITH ADVOCATES
After working with Ceres to develop the 2006 Corporate  
Responsibility	 Report,	we	pledged	to	hold	quarterly	 stake -
holder	briefings.	 Although	 not	quite	quarterly,	 we	did	hold	
periodic meetings with Ceres, the Pew Center for Global Climate Change, the NRDC and the Environmental De-fense Fund to discuss our climate change strategy and plans for carbon capture and storage. Our CEO and Chair-man, Mike Morris, led most of these meetings.  We continued to touch base with the Ceres stakehold-
er team (17 organizations) throughout the year. For exam-ple, we briefed them when the New Source Review (NSR) settlement was being announced, and when we decided to support the Bingaman/Specter climate bill in Congress. In November	 2007,	we	organized	 a	stakeholder	 briefing	call,	
led by AEP Chairman Mike Morris. We also worked with other groups throughout the year, including The Great Plains Institute, the Clean Air Task Force, ACEEE and the National Wild Turkey Federation on various initiatives. When the Oklahoma Corporation Commission opened 
a notice of proposed rulemaking for development of energy efficiency	 programs,	 AEP	seized	the	opportunity	 to	work	
with stakeholders, including Ceres and the NRDC, on this issue of mutual concern. While they did not agree com-pletely with our position, the dialogue we had was produc-tive. We learned more about what is important to them in establishing	 energy	efficiency	 programs	 and	they	learned	
how AEP recovers its costs for such programs.
WORKING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES
We believe that our vision for an interstate transmission system is necessary for America’s energy future, but not everyone agrees. AEP’s original 550-mile 765 kV trans-mission line proposed to run from West Virginia to New Jersey raised concerns among national park managers in the	region.	At	the	request	of	stakeholders,	 we	met	with	40	
national park superintendents in Gettysburg, Pa., to explain the proposed project and the potential impact on the many national parks in the area. We also shared our approach to working with communities, affected landowners and agen-cies, such as the National Park Service. The session was well-received and we pledged to keep the group informed as the project develops. Our employees are often engaged in forming relation-
ships between AEP and the communities in which we op-erate.	Habitat	for	Humanity, 	for	example,	receives	signifi -
cant volunteer support from our employees. In 2007, AEP sponsored and built a two-story home in Columbus, Ohio, through more than 2,400 hours of donated work. In anoth-er volunteer effort, employees at the Welsh Plant in Texas  set up a fund to help less fortunate families and to provide local children with Christmas gifts. Last year, the employ-ees	made	home	repairs,	installed	 new	energy-efficient	 ap-
pliances and donated gifts for a family faced with family medical hardships. 
STAYING CONNECTED WITH  
OUR EMPLOYEES & CUSTOMERS
We take seriously our responsibility to keep our employees 
informed and engaged. We stay connected to our employ-ees with an Intranet site (“AEPNow”) that provides tools, information and resources; a monthly employee newslet-ter (“Inside AEP”) that is mailed home to ensure we com-municate	 with	all	employees;	 quarterly	 employee	 webcasts	
scheduled around earnings announcements and other spe-
Stakeholder Engagement 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  59
AEP management routinely participates in  
webcasts for employees to discuss earnings and  
significant company announcements.
60  Stakeholder Engagement 
cialized communications.
 In 2007, we launched an internal blog that allows em-
ployees to sound off on a range of issues important to them. “Open Mike” is another employee forum that meets pri-vately and regularly with the CEO. Participation in Open Mike rotates to allow for broader participation; 25 employ-ees are part of this program each year.  One of our challenges is employee understanding of 
sustainability, especially as it relates to their jobs day-to-day. During our employee stakeholder meetings we heard that if it had not been for their participation in this process, many employees would not have known about the report or AEP’s sustainability strategy. Clearly, we have to change this view. We are develop- 
ing a cross-functional team to create an action plan for routinely incorporating sustainability into training, new employee orientation and individual goal development. We  have begun a communications initiative, called “Sustainabil- ity in Action,” that will regular -
ly use existing newsletters and web-based tools to identify  examples of what sustainability means to AEP and how it  affects employees and the company’s business strategy. Our customers are also part of our stakeholder engage-
ment process. We communicate with them in many ways, including monthly bill inserts, customer newsletters, me-dia	advertising,	 web	sites,	customer	 call	center	agents,	field	
representatives and account managers. Our customer ser-vice employees and call center representatives have direct contact with customers on all aspects of our business. We survey	our	customers	 quarterly	 and	last	year	we	saw	cus- 
tomer satisfaction increase from 83 percent in 2006 to  83.7 percent in 2007. AEP ranks 10th among 60 utilities nationally in customer satisfaction. 
PHILANTHROPY
Our corporate giving program has a special emphasis on improving lives through education from early childhood through higher education. Other areas of focus are protect-ing the environment; providing basic human services in the areas of hunger, housing, health and safety; and enriching  the	quality	of	life	through	art,	music	and	cultural	heritage.	
Support for each of these is critical for successful com-munities. In 2007 AEP’s philanthropic investments totaled $15.6 million.  While corporate giving is often measured in dollars 
and cents, it doesn’t always take money to improve some-one’s	quality	of	life.	For	example,	 Indiana	Michigan	 Power	
Co. sponsored a Habitat for Humanity house in Fort Wayne, Ind., that is now home to a refugee family from Myanmar (formerly Burma). The company also donated computers to provide family learning experiences and laptops for at-risk pregnant women who are bedridden. The computers allow  them to stay in touch with loved ones and access informa- tion about their health. For more information about AEP’s  corporate giving, please visit www.AEP.com .
Mark Dempsey, front, vice president of external affairs  
for AEP in West Virginia, and Frank Brown, who lives along  
Morris Creek, stock trout in the creek, which was dead to aquatic 
life at the beginning of the century. AEP worked with local  
residents to restore the creek so it could support life.AEP Chairman and CEO Mike Morris listens to a question 
 while visiting the University of Arkansas, one of six campuses  
on the Future of Energy Listening Tour.
Stakeholder Engagement 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  61
Challenges, Goals, Progress {  Stakeholder Engagement }
We must engage our various stakeholders regularly 
to build our relationships in the communities and states where we operate. We need to be more than a good neighbor; we need to be actively involved with all of our stakeholders.
Without continued employee involvement in the 
community, AEP’s message may not be heard and relationships would not be as strong.
Continue philanthropy and corporate giving, even 
in economic downturns when the support is needed Further develop stakeholder outreach plan, in part-nership with business units that can be integrated with existing community outreach activities and create shared value of sustainable development objectives. 
Hold	regular	stakeholder	 briefings	with	environmen-
tal, social and community- based NGOs. 
Integrate inclusive stakeholder process with  
development of annual corporate sustainability report.
Continue $150 grant award opportunities to AEP 
employees for community involvement.Joined SustainAbility’s Engaging Stakeholders program to learn best practices that could be  implemented at AEP.
Developed stakeholder plan for 2008 corporate 
sustainability report in collaboration with business units, tapping their stakeholder base as the source  of this outreach.
Held	regular	meetings/briefings	with	leaders	of 	
Ceres, NRDC, Pew and Environmental Defense 
Fund	on	various	issues.	Full	stakeholder 	briefing	
held in the fall on several issues, including NSR settlement,	climate	change	and	energy	efficiency.
Collaborated with Clean Air Task Force, Great 
Plains Institute, NRDC, Ceres and others on  a range of issues throughout the year. Regular discussions held. 
In 2007, 908 grants of $150 each were made on 
behalf of more than 750 active and retired employees, who collectively performed more than 138,000 hours of volunteer service.
$15.6 million donated through corporate giving  
in 2007.Challenge Goal ProgressAMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER FOUNDATION
The American Electric Power Foundation was created in Useful web links: 
www.sustainability.com  • www.ceres.org
www.habitat.org  • www.sciotomile.com2005 to provide a permanent, ongoing resource – independ- 
ent	of	our	financial	performance	 –	for	charitable	 initiatives.	
This stability allows us to make multi-year commitments 
within and outside of the communities we serve. One of the Foundation’s largest commitments is to the Columbus Downtown Development Corporation. The Foundation will match up to $10 million of the city’s contributions to transform the Scioto River waterfront into a modern park, located	near	AEP’s	corporate	 headquarters.	 The	Founda -
tion donated $11.5 million to 68 organizations in 2007. For more information about the American Electric Power Foundation, please visit www.AEP.com . 
 n62  Stakeholder Engagement 
Advanced Coal Technologies: Includes supercritical, ultra-super-
critical,	circulating	 fluidized	 bed	and	integrated	 gasification	 combined	 cycle	
(IGCC) technologies.
Cap-and-Trade:  A market-based system of limiting emissions in which a 
limited number of emissions permits are issued in the aggregate (cap); these 
permits are then freely exchanged in markets (trade). 
Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS): The capture, compression, trans-
port and storage of CO 2 emissions.
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2): A colorless, odorless, non-poisonous gas that 
is a normal part of Earth’s atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is a product of fossil 
fuel combustion as well as other processes and is considered a greenhouse gas because it traps heat radiated by the earth into the atmosphere.
Climate Change: Changes in climate that depart from normal variability, 
representing	significant	changes	in	averages	and/or	extremes.	Congestion: A	condition	that	occurs	when	insufficient	transfer	capacity	is	
available to implement all of the preferred schedules for electricity transmis-sion simultaneously.
Demand:  Rate at which electric energy is delivered to or by a system or part 
of a system, generally expressed in kilowatts or megawatts, at a given instant 
or averaged over any designated period of time. 
Demand-Side Management (DSM): The planning, implementation, 
and monitoring of utility activities designed to encourage consumers to modi-
fy their patterns of electricity usage. 
Emissions: Anthropogenic releases of gases to the atmosphere. In the con-
text of global climate change, they consist of greenhouse gases.Extra-High Voltage (EHV): The electric utility industry generally con-
siders EHV to be any voltage of 345 kV or higher.Greenhouse Gas (GHG): Collective term for gases such as carbon diox-
ide that trap heat in the atmosphere and contribute to climate change. 
Grid: An interconnected network of electric transmission lines and related 
facilities.Megawatt (MW): One	million	watts	of	electricity.	 A	unit	of	power	equal	
to 1,000 kilowatts. Plant Efficiency: The percentage of total energy content of a power 
plant’s fuel that is converted into electricity. The remaining energy is lost to 
the environment as heat.
Portfolio Standards: Guidelines	 or	requirements	 that	total	electricity	
supply include one or more minimums for particular sources, such as renew-  
able energy. Reliability: The degree of performance of the elements of the bulk electric 
system that results in electricity being delivered to customers within accepted 
standards and in the amount desired. 
Renewable Energy Resources: Energy resources that are naturally 
replenishing but limited in the amount of energy that is available per unit of 
time. They include biomass, hydro, geothermal, solar, wind, ocean thermal, wave action and tidal action. 
Sustainable Development: Coined by the Brundtland Commission as 
development that “meets the needs of the present generation without compro-
mising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” Generally, means development that includes environmental sustainability, economic sus-tainability and social-political sustainability.
Transmission System: An interconnected group of electric transmis-
sion	lines	and	associated	 equipment	 for	moving	or	transferring	 electric	energy	
in bulk between points of supply and points at which it is transformed for de-
livery over the distribution system lines to consumers, or is delivered to other electric systems. Glossarymost. Our support is critical to having successful 
communities	and	improving	quality	of	life.
Continue to grow support for United Way and other 
forms of giving, even in economic downturns when support is needed most.Continue partnership with IBEW for United Way campaign and other community service initiatives.Contributed $2.87 million in support of colleges  and universities. This included matching dollar  - for -  
dollar gifts of more than 760 active and retired employees to 300 institutions of higher learning and related foundations.
During last decade sponsored 230 teacher work-
shops and partnered with more than 90 schools, colleges and educational organizations to reach more than 4,400 teachers and 352,000 students. Contributed more than $3.1 million to programs targeting K-12 grades.
AEP Foundation donated $11.5 million to  
68 organizations in 2007.In 2007, employees contributed $2 million to United 
Way; AEP added $1 million.Challenge Goal Progress 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  63
GRI T able of ContentsStrategy & Profile
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization . 2-3
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities .............. 4-5
Organizational Profi le
2.1 Name of the organization .................................. Cover
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services .........  Inside Back Cover  ... CW
2.3 Operational structure of the organization  ............................. CW
2.4	 Location	of	organization’s	headquarters	 ..........  Inside Back Cover .... CW
2.5 Countries in which the company has operations ........................ CW
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
2.7 Markets served  ...............................  Inside Back Cover  ... CW
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ...............  Inside Back Cover  ... CW
2.9	 Significant	changes	in	size,	structure,	or	ownership	 ..................... CW
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  .............................. CW
EU1 Installed capacity (MW) by regulatory regime ......................... CW
EU2 Number of residential, industrial and commercial customer accounts  . . . . . . CW
EU3 Length of transmission and distribution lines by voltage ................. CW
Report Parameters
3.1 Reporting period ............................................  7
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ......................  7
3.3 Reporting cycle .............................................  7
3.4	 Contact	point	for	questions	regarding	the	report	 ..................  8
3.5	 Process	for	defining	report	content	 ...........................  6-9
3.6 Boundary of the report .....................................  6-9
3.7	 Speci fic	limitations	on	the	scope	or	boundary	of	the	report	 .......  6-9
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 
 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities  ..................... CW
3.9	 Data	measurement	techniques	and	the	bases	of	calculations	 ......  6-9
3.10 Explanation of the nature and effect of any restatement ............  7
3.11	 Significant 	scope,	boundary, 	or	measurement 	changes	  
 from previous reporting period ................................  7
GRI Content Index
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report   63-64
3.13 Acc
uracy and completeness of report .......................... 7-8
Governance
4.1 Governance structure of the organization  ............................. CW
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance  
	 body	is	also	an	executive	officer	 ..................................... CW
4.3 Independence of the Executive Board  ................................ CW
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide  
 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ............ CW
4.5 Linkage between organization's performance and compensation 
 for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 
 and executives .................................................... CW
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 
	 con flicts	of	interest	are	avoided	 ...................................... CW
4.7	 Process 	for	determining 	the	qualifications 	and	expertise	of	
 the members of the Executive Board  ................................. CW
4.8 Corporate mission and values  .................................  6  ... CW
4.9 Board-level processes for identifying and managing risks 
 and opportunities  .........................................  6-9
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 
 own performance  ................................................. CWGRI Table of Contents  { Key Indicators } 
Key: CS	2008 = Report Page Number     CW  = Corporate Web Site     EU = Electric Utility Sector Supplement 
  CS 2008 CW  CS 2008 CW
4.11 Whether and or how the precautionary approach or principle  
 is addressed by the organization .............................  2-3
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 
 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 
 subscribes or endorses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
4.13 Memberships in associations .................................  34  ... CW
4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  ............  7, 57-61
4.15	 Identification	and	selection	of	stakeholders	 .................  7, 57-61
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement .....................  57-61
4.17 Use of stakeholder engagement .........................  6-7, 57-61
Economic
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach ..........................  2-5 / 29-35  ... CW
EU5 Short- and long-term reliability planning .....................  47-55  ... CW
EU6 Demand-side management programs .................  31-32 / 42-43
EU7 Research and development activity .............  31-32 / 35, 45, 47-55
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ....................... CW
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
 for the organization’s activities due to climate change .........  37-45  ... CW
EC3	 Coverage	of	the	organization’s	de fined	benefit	pl
an	obligations	 ........... CW
EC4	 Significant	fi nancial	assistance	received	from	government	  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared 
	 to	local	minimum	wage	at	signi ficant	locations	of	operation	 .............. CW
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on  
 locally based suppliers ......................................  26  ... CW
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and  
	 services	provided	primarily	for	public	benefit	 ................  45-55  ... CW
EU9 Long-term planned capacity  ...............................  51-53
EU10 & EU11          MW and MWh saved through demand-side management .. 35
EU12	 Average	generation	efficiency	 ................................  52
EU13	 Transmission	and	distribution	efficiency	 .....................  47-51  ... CW
Environmental
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach ...............................  11-19
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume .................................. CW
EU-EN1 In-use inventory of PCBs ....................................  15
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ............  38
EN5	 Energy	saved	due	to	conservation	and	efficiency	improvements	 .. 18-19
EN6	 Initiatives 	to	provide	energy-efficient 	or	renewable 	energy	
 based products and services  ........................  31-32 / 42-43
EN8 & EN10          Total water withdrawal by source  ......................  13  ... CW
EU-EN8 Water used for processing, cooling and consumption .................... CW
EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal  .........................  11  ... CW
EU11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, 
 or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
 value outside protected areas .................................  16  ... CW
EU14 Biodiversity of replacement habitats  ................................. CW
EN12  Impacts on biodiversity  ...................................  16-17  ... CW
EN13  Habitats protected or restored  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17  ... CW
EN14 & EU-EN14          Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity  ...  16-17  ... CW
EN15 IUCN Red List species and others with habitats in areas  
 affected by operations  ............................................. CW
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  .....  12  
...CW
EU-EN16  CO2e per MWh by regulatory regime  ................................ CW
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight .......  12  ... CW
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved  ..37-4564  GRI Table of Contents 
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  ............................. CW
EN20	 NOx,	SOx,	and	other	signi ficant	air	emissions	 ..................  12  ... CW
EN21	&	EU-EN21										Total	water	discharge	by	quality	and	destination	 ............ CW
EN22 & EU-EN22 & EN24          Waste volume by type and disposal method  ........ CW
EN23	 Total	number	and	volume	of	significant	spills	 ...................  15  ... CW
EN25	 Water 	bodies	and	related	habitats	significantly	affected	by	
 discharges of water and runoff  .............................  14-16  ... CW
EN26 & EN30          Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 
 of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation  .......  11-19
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that  
 are reclaimed by category  ...................................  14
EN28 Fines for non-compliance with legal environmental regulations ....  11
EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products  ................  41
Labor Practices & Decent Work
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach ..............................   21-27
EU15 Retention and renewal of skilled work force  .................  24-25
LA1 Total work force by employment type, employment contract, 
 and region  ....................................................... CW
EU16 Total subcontracted work force ...................................... CW
EU17  Contractors and subcontractors that have undergone health  
 and safety training  .........................................  23
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 
 gender, and region  ......................................  24-25  ... CW
LA3	 Benefits 	provided	to	full-time	employees 	that	are	not	provided	  
 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations  ............... CW
LA4 & EU-LA4          Percentage of employees covered by collective 
 bargaining agreements   ......................................  26
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes,  
	 including	whether	it	is	speci fied	in	collective	agreements	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CW
LA6 Work force represented in formal joint management–worker  
 health and safety committees  .............................  25
-26
LA7 & EU-LA7          Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region .... 21-23
LA8 Programs in place to assist work force members, their families,  
 or community members regarding serious diseases . ...........  25-26  ... CW
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 
 with trade unions  .......................................  25-26
LA11  
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
 support the continued employability of employees and assist 
 them in managing career endings   ..................................... CW
LA12  Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
 and career development reviews ..................................... CW
LA13  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 
 per category ............................................  24-26  ... CW
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ............. CW
Human Rights
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach ........................  21-27 / 57-61
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken  ............ CW
HR5	 Operations	identi fied	in	which	the	right	to	exercise	freedom	of 	
	 association	and	collective	bargaining	may	be	at	signi ficant	risk	  . . . . . . . . . . . CW
HR8  Security personnel trained in policies or procedures concerning 
 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations . .................. CW
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights 
 of indigenous people and actions taken  ............................... CWSociety
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach .................................  57
EU18  Participatory decision making processes with 
 stakeholders and outcomes  ................................ 57-61
EU20 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency plans 
 and recovery/restoration plans  .........................  53-54 / 26
SO1 & EU19          Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of  operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting ..... CW
EU21  Number of people displaced by operations  ............................ CW
SO2 & SO3 & SO4          Percentage and total number of business units   analyzed for risks related to corruption  ............................... CW 
SO5 Public policy positions ...................................  29-35
SO6 Total value of contributions to political parties ...............  32-33
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
 monopoly practices and their outcomes ............................... CW
SO8	 Value 	of	significant	fines	and	total	number	of	non-monetary	
 sanctions for non-compliance  ................................  21
EU22 Programs to improve or maintain access to electricity services  ........... CW
EU23  Practices to address language, low literacy and disability 
 related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity services .......... CW 
Product Responsibility
Disclosure	on	Management	Approach ..............................  33-36
PR2 Inc
idents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 
 codes concerning health and safety  ...........................  21
EU24 Injuries and fatalities to the public  ............................  23
PR3	 Type	of	product	and	service	information	required	by	procedures	 .......... CW
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 
 voluntary  codes concerning product and service information and labeling  . .CW
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 
 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  .................  52-53
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 
 related to marketing communications  ................................ CW
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 
 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications ................. CW
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 
 of customer privacy and losses of customer data ........................ CW
PR9	 Monetary	value	of	signi ficant	fines	for	non-compliance	with 	
 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 
 and services ............................................  21 / 27
EU26 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment .................. CW
EU27	&	EU28										Power	outage	frequency	and	average	outage	duration	 ....  48  CS 2008 CW  CS 2008 CWTABLE OF CONTENTS
 2 Leadership, Management & Strategy 
  A Message from Michael G. Morris  
	 	 Chairman,	President	&	Chief	Executive	Officer
  A Message from Dennis E. Welch  
  Executive Vice President, Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities
 6 About This Report
 1 1 Environmental Performance
 2 1 Work Force Issues
 2 9 Public Policy
 3 7 Climate Change
 4 7 Energy Security, Reliability & Growth
 5 7 Stakeholder Engagement
 6 2 Glossary
 6 3 GRI Table of Contents
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustainability  
initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. That Committee met twice in the past year with company management to review the company’s sustainability objectives, challenges, targets and progress. That Com-mittee gave management input and guidance for the proposed approach to this report, and then reviewed and discussed the final	text	of	this	report	before	recommending	its	approval	by	the	full	Board	of	Directors. The AEP Board of Directors has received periodic reports both from management and from the Committee on Directors 
and Corporate Governance about the company’s sustainability initiatives. Many of the topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at Board and Committee meetings. Members of the Board all received copies of this report before it was published and several directors made suggestions that have been incorporated into this report. Following its review, and upon recommendation of the Committee, the Board of Directors adopted a formal resolution approving this report. The Board believes this report is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s plans and performance and 
their	environmental,	 social	and	financial	impacts.	While	pleased	with	progress	to	date,	the	Board	expects	and	requires	higher	  
performance in the future. The Board has emphasized to management that it will be evaluated by its success in executing  the	company’s	 strategic	plan	to	meet	stakeholders’	 and	the	Board’s	expectations,	 including	 specifically	 the	commitments	 in	 
this report.
 
Lester A. Hudson, Jr.
Presiding Director of the AEP Board of Directors 
April 2008
COMPANY OVERVIEW
American Electric Power has been providing electric service 
for more than 100 years and is one of the nation’s largest 
electric utilities, serving 5 .2 million customers in 11 states.  
  2007 
Revenues (in billions)  $ 13.6 
Net Income (in millions)   $ 1,089 * 
Earnings Per Share  $ 2.73 * 
Service Territory 197,500 square miles
Transmission 39,000 miles
Distribution 213,000 miles
Generating Capacity  37,736 MW ** 
Generating Stations More than 80
Total Assets (in billions) $ 40.4
U.S. Customers (year-end, in thousands) 5,191
Employees (year-end) 20,861 
* Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
** Includes 270 MW of retired/decommissioned generating capacity
AEP’s utility units operate as AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian 
Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power,  Public Service Company of Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana and east Texas).
The company is based in Columbus, Ohio. Coal 68% Natural Gas 23%
 
    Nuclear 6%
   
   Hydro, Wind  
   & Pumped  
   Storage 3%AEP Generation Portfolio Service Territory
The report was printed by Cenveo Anderson Lithograph on 50 percent recycled paper, including 25 percent post-consumer waste, with soy-formulated inks.  
Cenveo	Anderson	Lithograph	was	chosen	because	it	is	an	environmentally	sustainable	printer	that	is	Forest	Stewardship	Council	certified,	has	a	zero	landfill, 	 
100	percent	recycling	policy	for	all	hazardous	and	non-hazardous	production	waste	byproducts,	and	is	the	only	Air	Quality	Management	District	certified 	 
“totally enclosed” commercial print facility in the nation. This results in virtually no volatile organic compound emissions being released from its production 
facilities into the atmosphere.Market Price—Common Stock
 2006 2007  
    $51.24
 $43.13     $46.56
   $42.58
  $41.67
  $32.27
 High Low Year-End High Low Year-End  American Electric Power
2008 Corporate Sustainability ReportAmerican Electric Power
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, OH 43215614-716-1000www.AEP .com