A heritage built on service and 
sustained by innovationThe Powerful 
Backing™ of 
American Express
2018–2019  
Corporate Social Responsibility Report2
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index IntroductionTable of Contents
Introduction
3 CEO letter
4 About American Express
6 About this report
How We Approach Corporate  
Social Responsibility
8 Introduction
9 Engaging with our stakeholders
10 Identifying key environmental,  
social, and governance (ESG)  
issues
11 American Express and the  
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
12 Our commitments and  
2018 highlights
14 Our CSR governance structure
Promoting Responsible  
Business Practices 
16 Introduction
17 Business ethics
20 Board of Directors and corporate  
governance framework
21 Risk management and security
23 Advocacy and membership in key 
organizations
Serving Our Colleagues
25 Introduction
26 Our Global Inclusion and 
Diversity strategy
30 Providing learning and development
32 Valuing and supporting our people
36 Supporting colleague recognition  
and engagementDelivering for Our Customers  
and Partners
38 Introduction
40 Putting the customer first 
43 Building a safe and secure network
45 Empowering entrepreneurs
47 Supporting women-owned business
Caring for Our Communities
49 Introduction
50 Charitable giving
51 Serving communities
55 Developing leaders
57 Preserving places
Managing Our Operations
59 Introduction
60 Reducing our carbon emissions
63 Investing in sustainable workplaces
65 Commitment to sustainable 
products, responsible sourcing, and 
supplier diversity
67 Managing our environmental 
performance
68 Endnotes
70 Assurance statement
73 GRI Content IndexCorporate Social  
Responsibility  
Report  
2018–20193
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
A heritage built on 
service and sustained 
by innovation.
We’re a globally 
integrated payments 
company that provides 
customers with access 
to products, insights, 
and experiences that 
enrich lives and build 
business success.CEO Letter
For nearly 170 years, American Express has provided powerful backing to our customers,  
our colleagues, and the communities where we live and work. And for 34 of those years,  
I’ve had the honor of working alongside people with a deep passion to serve. 
We have long recognized that corporations exist because society says they can — and, in 
return, expects them to contribute to the common good. That social compact informs how 
we do business and we are proud of the progress we’ve made on our social responsibility 
objectives.  We are committed to doing more in the years ahead.
Our 2018-2019 Corporate Social Responsibility report provides an update on our progress 
over the last year to live up to that commitment.
Some of the 2018 highlights include:
Becoming a CarbonNeutral® company.1  
Powering our operations2 with 100% 
renewable electricity.
Celebrating the ninth year of Small 
Business Saturday®, a day we created to 
support local businesses that helps create 
jobs, boost the economy, and preserve 
neighborhoods. 
Being named to Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality Index, conducting regular reviews 
of our compensation practices to ensure 
they support pay equality and transparency, 
and facilitating the professional growth of 
women in the workforce . Maintaining a 100% rating on the Human 
Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index since 2004.
Contributing $42 million in charitable 
giving, including grants provided by 
the company, the American Express 
Foundation, our Center for Community 
Development, and colleague gift-matching 
programs.
Increasing our spending with Minority 
and Women-Owned Business Enterprises 
(MWBE) by 17% in the U.S., compared to 
2 0 1 7.
We know that one of the most significant ways we can serve our communities and all of our 
stakeholders is to do our part to protect and preserve the planet we all share. As part of our 
company’s continuing effort to limit our environmental impact, we are committing to achieve 
the following:
Remain a CarbonNeutral® company.
Continue to power our operations with 100% renewable electricity. 
Eliminate single-use plastics across our operations by 2025. 
American Express colleagues work hard every day to deliver on our commitments. In the 
coming years, we will strive to build on our successes and make a positive impact as we back 
our communities and customers.
Sincerely,
4
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index IntroductionOUR MISSION AND VISION
Our vision is to provide the world’s best customer experience every day.
Our mission is to become essential to our customers by providing differentiated 
products and services to help them achieve their aspirations.
WE’RE BUILT ON RELATIONSHIPS
Developing enduring relationships is key to our business and essential to our brand. 
In every interaction and in everything we do, our goal is to provide the world’s best 
customer experience. 
Our service is built on a foundation of trust. Our customers trust us to deliver on our 
promises and make things right if we fall short. They know we’ve got their backs, and 
they reward us with their loyalty.
A BRAND THAT MATTERS
Our brand reflects the way we’ve done business since our founding in 1850. 
We process millions of transactions daily, provide products and services to customers 
around the world, and drive more than $1 trillion in commerce each year. Our unique 
business model depends on the exceptional talent, innovative ideas, and dedicated expertise 
of our colleagues, along with data-driven insights and unparalleled service. These are the 
strengths that set us apart.
DIVERSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We have a diverse product set and a large, global customer base. The products, services, 
programs, and tools we offer help enrich lives, grow and manage businesses, and drive 
commerce. They include:
Charge Card, Credit Card, and other 
payment and financing products.
Merchant acquisition and processing, 
servicing and settlement, and point-of-sale 
marketing and information products and 
services for merchants.
Network services.Other fee services, including fraud 
prevention services and the design and 
operation of customer loyalty programs.
Expense management products and 
services.
T ravel-related services.Company profile
A heritage built on 
service and sustained by 
innovation.
We are a globally 
integrated payments 
company that 
provides customers 
with access to 
products, insights, 
and experiences that 
enrich lives and build 
business success.About American Express5
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index IntroductionAbout American Express
$6.9
BILLION  
net incomeSince 2004, we have been a 
constituent of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series. Created by the global 
index provider FTSE Russell, the 
FTSE4Good Index Series is designed 
to measure the performance of 
companies demonstrating strong  
ESG practices.2018 Facts
(as of or for the year ended December 31, 2018)
NYC   
Headquarters114  
MILLION  
Cards in force
$189  
BILLION  
total assets59,000   
EMPLOYEES$1.2 
TRILLION  
worldwide  
billed business
#14  
FORTUNE 
World's Most  
Admired Companies$40.3  
BILLION  
revenues
Our principal executive offices are located in New Y ork City. Other 
owned or leased principal locations include American Express offices 
in Sunrise, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; Salt Lake City, Utah; Mexico 
City, Mexico; Sydney, Australia; Singapore; Gurgaon, India; Manila, 
Philippines; and Brighton, England; as well as American Express 
data centers in Phoenix, Arizona and Greensboro, North Carolina; 
the headquarters for American Express Services Europe Limited in 
London, England; and the Amex Bank of Canada and Amex Canada Inc. 
headquarters in T oronto, Ontario, Canada6
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index IntroductionThis report covers calendar year 2018 and provides qualitative 
and quantitative information on our approach to managing our 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Several 
initiatives or targets that were launched during early 2019 are 
included in the report because they may be relevant and provide 
more up-to-date information for our stakeholders.
When we use the terms “American 
Express, ” the “Company, ” “we, ” “us, ” or 
“our” in this report, we mean American 
Express Company and its subsidiaries, 
on a consolidated basis, unless we 
state, or the context implies, otherwise.
REPORTING GUIDELINES 
AND CONTENT
During the development of this report, 
we consulted with internal stakeholders 
and conducted a sector benchmark to 
confirm that the results of the priority 
assessment we conducted in 2015 were 
still an accurate reflection of significant 
ESG issues for the Company and our key 
stakeholders. Where appropriate, updates 
were made to reflect the changes.
The results of this assessment and its 
updates are described in this report 
and informed the development and 
content of this report together with 
the Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) 
standard guidelines, leading to the 
structure of the report around the 
following:
Promoting responsible business 
practices
Serving our colleagues
Delivering for our customers and 
partners 
Caring for our communities 
Managing our operations 
responsiblyA GRI Standard Index showing the 
indicators that have been reported  
on can be found in the Appendix of  
this report.
We report on ESG issues annually on 
the American Express Corporate Social 
Responsibility website. Additional 
information can be found through 
submissions to the CDP (formerly 
Carbon Disclosure Project) and in 
our annual, quarterly, and current 
reports and other information on file 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission and available on the 
American Express Investor Relations 
website. Links and references included 
throughout the report provide 
directions on where to find additional 
information and are not considered 
part of the report.
Y ou may also request a copy of these 
documents by writing to us at the 
following address:
American Express Company  
200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, New Y ork 10285  
Attention: Corporate Secretary
This report contains forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of 
the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 that are subject 
to risks and uncertainties. Y ou can 
identify forward-looking statements 
by words such as “believe, ” “expect, ” 
“anticipate, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “aim, ” 
“will, ” “may, ” “should, ” “could, ” 
“would, ” “likely, ” “estimate, ” “predict, ” “potential, ” “continue, ” or other 
similar expressions. Actual results 
may differ from those set forth in 
the forward-looking statements 
due to a variety of factors, including 
those contained in the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2018 and 
the Company’s other filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Y ou are cautioned not 
to place undue reliance on these 
forward-looking statements, which 
speak only as of the date on which 
they are made. We undertake no 
obligation to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements. 
This report includes trademarks, 
such as American Express®, which 
are protected under applicable 
intellectual property laws and are 
the property of American Express 
Company or its subsidiaries. Solely 
for convenience, our trademarks 
and trade names referred to in this 
report may appear without the ® or 
™ symbols, but such references are 
not intended to indicate, in any way, 
that we will not assert, to the fullest 
extent under applicable law, our 
rights or the right of the applicable 
licensor to these trademarks and 
trade names.
Apex Companies, LLC was engaged to 
conduct an independent verification 
of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by American 
Express for the calendar year 2018. 
The Verification Statement and the 
scope of work is included on pages 
70 – 72. All endnotes throughout this 
report can be found on page 68 .About this reportResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
7
HOW WE 
APPROACH 
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
(CSR)
Our approach to CSR is a natural extension of 
both our mission – to become essential to 
our customers by providing differentiated 
products and services to help them achieve 
their aspirations – and our commitment to 
doing what is right.
8 Introduction
9 Engaging with our stakeholders
10 Identifying key environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) issues
11 American Express and the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
12 Our commitments and 2018 highlights
14 Our CSR governance structureResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
8
We deliver value for both our 
business and our communities 
by investing financial and 
human resources in ways 
that address the social, 
environmental, and economic 
needs of our communities, 
customers, colleagues, 
shareholders, and partners.
We view service through many lenses:
Delivering exceptional products, 
services, and experiences.
Enabling commerce and helping 
businesses grow.
Promoting a culture of respect –  
one that fosters inclusion and trust.
Upholding the highest standard of 
integrity.
Safeguarding our customers’ privacy 
and data.
Making a difference in the 
communities where we work and live.
All of this is underscored by disciplined 
risk management that ensures we are 
building a company that will endure as a 
place people want to work for, invest in, 
and do business with.How We Approach Corporate
Social Responsibility
The Powerful Backing of American Express
Managing Our  
Operations Responsibly
We recognize our 
responsibility to help 
preserve natural resources 
for future generations and 
support ethical business 
practices around the globe.
Caring For Our 
Communities
We aim to make 
a difference by 
strengthening the 
communities in which  
we work and live.
Delivering For Our 
Customers And Partners
We use our relationships, 
technology, and data to 
better serve our  
customers and increase 
commerce opportunities  
for our partners.
Serving Our Colleagues
We aim to inspire a 
culture where differences 
are embraced and 
colleagues are enabled  
to reach their full  
potential.
Promoting  
Responsible  
Business Practices
We hold ourselves to 
the highest standards of 
integrity. 
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction9
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Engaging with our stakeholders 
Stakeholder Group How We Engage
Shareholders and 
Socially Responsible 
InvestorsWe provide the investment community with information about  
the Company’s strategy, objectives, and performance on the 
American Express Investor Relations website. 
Colleagues We keep colleagues informed about Company news, priorities, 
performance, and business strategies through a variety of channels, 
including digital and face-to-face communications. Leaders collect 
regular feedback through the Company’s Colleague Experience 
Survey; regular town hall meetings; employee networks; and our 
Amex Ethics Hotline. 
Customers:  
Card Members, 
Businesses and 
MerchantsWe have direct relationships with millions of Card Members, 
businesses, and merchants, actively working to engage with  
them through customer service, direct-to-customer channels,  
and social media. 
Government and 
RegulatorsWe advocate for public policy issues that are significant to our 
business and our ability to serve our customers by providing 
education and context to key decision-makers in government.
Suppliers We develop and support best practices in global supply management 
to support inclusion and ensure the integrity of our third-party 
relationships. 
Community and 
Non-Governmental 
Organizations (NGOs)We mobilize thousands of employee volunteers through our 
Serve2Gether program and offer incentives for our colleagues to 
support their favorite nonprofits through our Give2Gether and gift 
matching programs. We support and collaborate with nonprofits that 
preserve and sustain unique historic places for future generations. 
We also help to develop the nonprofit and social purpose leaders 
of tomorrow and encourage community service through grants, 
conferences, and meetings.
Sustainability 
Research FirmsWe respond to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and 
other ESG requests from rating firms, including Sustainalytics, 
EcoVadis, and MSCI.
Other Financial 
InstitutionsWe engage through industry groups, roundtables, conferences, and 
benchmarking activities to address local and global CSR issues that 
affect the financial sector. We also collaborate in other forums where 
appropriate – for example, we share knowledge of online threats to 
our industry in cybersecurity forums. Our strategy begins 
by identifying our 
key stakeholders, 
then engaging with 
them to understand 
the ESG issues that 
matter to them and 
the impact those 
issues have on our 
business.
We have identified eight 
key stakeholder groups 
based on their impact on 
our business activities and 
our established processes 
for regular engagement 
with them. Our continued 
engagement with these 
stakeholders helps to 
ensure we are meeting 
their expectations and 
advancing our efforts to 
operate responsibly. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction10
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
During the 2015 reporting year, we 
conducted a priority assessment 
in line with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) guidelines. We 
identified the significant ESG issues for 
our Company and our key stakeholders, 
creating a priority matrix. As we 
developed the 2018-2019 CSR Report, 
we consulted with internal stakeholders 
and conducted a sector benchmark, 
using our findings to update the results 
of the 2015 priority assessment. 
We used the results to guide our CSR 
disclosure and to update how we present 
our issues in relation to the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
Among other things, this exercise 
helped us validate the growing 
importance of Inclusion & Diversity 
and Equal Opportunity efforts for our 
stakeholders. See the Serving Our 
Colleagues section (page 24 ) of this 
report for more information about how 
we are emphasizing this issue within 
the Company and the Managing Our 
Operations Responsibly section   
(page 58) to see how we are 
emphasizing it with suppliers.Identifying key environmental,  
social, and governance (ESG) issues
OUR 2018 PRIORITY ISSUES
   PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS PRACTICES
Regulatory compliance:   
Our programs to ensure we are 
complying with applicable laws and 
regulations within the countries and 
regions in which we operate.
Data privacy and security:   
Our efforts to decrease the risk of fraud 
and protect our customers’ data.
Business ethics:   
Our values, principles, standards, 
and norms, as well as programs to 
advise colleagues on ethical and lawful 
behavior and reporting mechanisms for 
incidents of non-compliance.
  SERVING  
OUR COLLEAGUES
Talent attraction and retention:  
Our employee policies and  
benefits, such as parental leave  
and development opportunities,  
among others.
Inclusion and Diversity and equal 
opportunity:   
Our efforts to ensure that our 
employee base has adequate 
representation, and that the issue of 
gender pay equity is being addressed.
  DELIVERING FOR  
OUR CUSTOMERS AND 
PARTNERS
Customer service and relationships:  
Our strategy and programs in place 
to ensure best-in-class customer 
service, strong results from customer 
satisfaction surveys and/or outreach 
mechanisms, and recognition via 
customer service awards.Responsible lending and marketing:  
Our programs and policies that ensure 
fairness in our customer practices, as 
well as efforts to provide customers 
with insights related to our products 
and services.
Environmental and social product 
innovation:   
Products and services designed to have 
positive environmental and/or social 
impacts.
Responsible finance:   
Our strategy and efforts to engage and 
educate our customers, colleagues, and 
the community in managing financial 
resources.
   CARING FOR OUR 
COMMUNITIES
Colleague volunteerism:   
Our programs aimed at motivating 
and enabling our colleagues to serve 
community needs through volunteer 
efforts.
Strategic philanthropy:   
Our strategy for donating and grant-
making to charitable and nonprofit 
organizations.
   MANAGING OUR 
OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY
Physical climate change risks:   
Our programs and policies aimed at 
addressing the physical risks from 
the effects of climate change on 
organizational assets (e.g., real property).
Responsible sourcing:   
Our programs and policies to regularly 
assess suppliers for environmental and 
social risks present in their products 
and supply chains.
Energy use and GHG emissions:  
Efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and increase energy 
efficiency, renewable energy adoption, 
and green building certification for the 
assets under operational control.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction11
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
American Express and the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals
The SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 
targets geared toward solving the world’s 
most pressing problems, including ending 
poverty, achieving gender equality, reducing 
inequality, taking action on climate 
change, achieving food security, protecting 
the planet, and ensuring sustainable 
prosperity for all. Following the adoption 
of the goals, state and local governments, 
NGOs, the private sector, and citizens alike 
have committed to working together in 
partnership to achieve the outlined targets 
and ensure we leave a better planet for 
future generations. 
We mapped the SDG targets to our business 
initiatives and programs.
Based on this analysis, we believe our work 
is most aligned with SDG 3 (Ensure Healthy Lives and Promote Well-Being for All at All 
Ages), SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDG 8 
(Decent Work and Economic Growth), SDG 
11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), 
SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption), SDG 13 
(Climate Action), SDG 14 (Life Below Water), 
and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).
We believe that by giving businesses and 
customers access to financing, securing 
payments among a globally connected 
network of merchants and customers, 
supporting small business growth, raising 
awareness about marine plastic pollution, 
and investing in communities around the 
world, we will contribute to the success of 
these eight SDGs. The United Nations 
Sustainable 
Development Goals 
(SDGs), launched in 
January 2016, are 
intended to frame 
the agendas and 
political policies of 
U.N. member states 
over the next 15 years.
American Express has identified the 
following eight Global Goals as aligning 
with its initiatives and programs:
 3  GOOD HEALTH AND WELL -BEING 
 5  GENDER EQUALITY
 8  DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
 11  SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES  
 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION 
 13  CLIMATE ACTION
 14 LIFE BELOW WATER
 17  PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALSResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction12
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 
OUR COMMITMENTS AND 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
We have identified 
the following eight 
Global Goals as 
aligning with our 
initiatives and 
programs:
 3  GOOD HEALTH AND 
WELL -BEING
 5  GENDER EQUALITY 
 8  DECENT WORK AND 
ECONOMIC GROWTH 
11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIES 
12   RESPONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION
13   CLIMATE ACTION
14   LIFE UNDER WATER
17   PARTNERSHIPS FOR 
THE GOALSPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   
 Maintain the highest standards of ethics 
and integrity
Each colleague is personally 
accountable for fulfilling our Company’s 
mission. Our colleagues receive Global 
Regulatory Learning Enterprise Essential 
T raining to ensure they understand the 
important policies, laws, and regulations 
that govern our industry, guide our 
Company, and protect our colleagues, 
customers, and brand. The learning requirements cover areas such as our 
Code of Conduct, customer privacy and 
data security, anti-discrimination, fair 
lending, and anti-money laundering. 
24/7 Amex Ethics Hotline is available 
online and by phone for colleagues, 
contractors, vendors, suppliers, and 
others to raise ethical or compliance 
concerns, with access to representatives 
who collectively speak more than 200 
languages.
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES:  SDGs  3, 5, 8
Foster a diverse and inclusive culture
90% of colleagues who responded 
to our annual survey said they would 
recommend our Company as a great 
place to work. 
100% score on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index  
since 2004, based on our policies and 
practices that support LGBTQ inclusion. 
Named to Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality Index, based on our efforts to 
create a work environment that supports 
gender equality.  Support our colleagues’ 
professional and personal goals
96% of our colleagues have access to at 
least one Healthy Living program or service.
20 weeks gender-neutral paid parental 
leave for U.S. based regular full-time and 
part-time salaried employees .
More than 85% of our colleagues 
participated in either a personal or a 
professional development experience 
through trainings we offer.
30% of global colleagues had a  
flexible work arrangement . 
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS: SDG 8
Meet the evolving needs of our 
customer base
20% increase in customer  
satisfaction with our service since  
2011, based on Card Member feedback.
More than 11,200 women entrepreneurs 
participated in the workshops hosted by 
the ChallengeHER initiative .
Make our products and services 
better for society
More than $93 million donated from 
2010 to 2018 by U.S. Card Members 
through our Members Give Program to 
benefit charitable causes.
Launched SafeKey 2.0, the next generation 
of our online authentication tool, which 
provides an extra layer of security when an 
American Express Card Member makes a 
purchase online at a participating merchant.Support small businesses across the world
An estimated $17.8 billion reported 
spend by U.S. consumers at independent 
retailers and restaurants on Small 
Business Saturday.3 
More than 4,300 shops from all  
47 prefectures joined the movement  
in Japan.
An estimated £812 million reported 
spend by consumers with small 
businesses across the U.K. on December 
1, 2018 – an increase of 8% from the 
previous year.4Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction13
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OUR COMMITMENTS AND 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES: SDGs  11, 17
Strengthen the communities in 
which we operate     
$42 million in charitable  
giving globally, including  
grants provided by the 
Company, the American Express 
Foundation, our Center for 
Community Development, and 
gift matching programs.
$3.5 million in grants provided 
by our Center for Community 
Development went to 129 
nonprofit community partners 
in support of programs 
including homelessness and 
affordable housing, financial 
literacy, healthcare, economic 
development, and rural 
revitalization efforts . 
 
 
 Engage citizen volunteers
An estimated 7 million 
volunteers engaged in about 
30 million hours of service at 66 
nonprofits supported in part by 
grants from American Express. 
Empower emerging nonprofit 
and social leaders
More than 20,000 nonprofit 
and social sector leaders 
participated in online and 
in-person leadership trainings 
through the support of our grants. 
Promote stewardship of 
historic places
41 historic sites in 11 countries, 
including Argentina, Canada, 
China, France, Italy, Japan, 
Mexico, Spain, the U.K., the U.S. 
and Zimbabwe, were preserved 
with the support of our grants .
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY: SDGs  12, 13, 14, 17
Reduce our environmental footprint 
Zero net carbon emissions for 
our operations.5 
100% renewable electricity 
powered our operations. 
Nearly 50% of our operations 
were green-building certified.6 
Engage our colleagues in 
sustainability
25,000 participants in our Earth 
Month activities.
More than $4.3 million 
provided in support of the 
environment and wildlife 
through gift matching and 
Serve2Gether grant programs.Commit to responsible 
sourcing and product
100% of the paper used in our 
U.S direct marketing efforts was 
certified to be from sustainably 
managed forests.
17% spend increase in the U.S. 
for our Minority and Women-
Owned Business Enterprises 
(MWBE), compared to 2017 .
Committed to eliminating 
single-use plastics across our 
operations by 2025, as well as 
launching the first-ever American 
Express  Card manufactured 
primarily from recovered 
plastic found in the oceans and 
on the coasts in partnership with 
Parley for the Oceans . Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction14
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Our CSR governance structure
Our executive management holds the ultimate responsibility for our CSR progress 
and success; these leaders review and evaluate ESG key performance indicators and 
long-term goals within their business units. We have a robust program in place to assess 
and manage human capital priorities, which we define as talent-related opportunities linked 
to outcomes.
We prioritize employee recruitment and retention while promoting equal opportunity and 
ensuring we have a diverse workforce. Information regarding the colleague metric portion of 
our Company scorecard, which guides us in reporting across talent retention and inclusion 
and diversity efforts, and which are included as metrics in our annual incentive program, is 
included on page 46 of our 2019 Proxy Statement.
At the Board of Directors level, the Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility 
Committee reviews our CSR program, monitors progress against our goals, and provides 
guidance on our efforts. Day to day, our CSR team works with colleagues throughout the 
Company to shape our efforts and monitor progress on key ESG issues.
Additional information on Corporate Governance at American Express can be found in 
our 2019 Proxy Statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and 
available on the American Express Investor Relations website.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
15
PROMOTING 
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS 
PRACTICES
We hold ourselves to  
the highest standards  
of integrity. 
16 Introduction
17 Business ethics
20 Board of Directors and corporate  
governance framework
21 Risk management and security
23 Advocacy and membership in key 
organizationsResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
16
Promoting Responsible  
Business Practices
American Express is the 
world’s largest credit card 
issuer by purchase volume 
– we process millions 
of transactions, driving 
more than $1 trillion in 
commerce annually. 
We have approximately 59,000 
global employees (or “colleagues”) 
who strive to have our customers’ 
backs every day and make each 
customer interaction a positive, 
secure, and convenient experience. 
We hold ourselves to the highest 
standards of ethics and integrity 
and have built corporate citizenship 
into the heart of our Company. 2018 highlights
  Maintain the highest standards of  
ethics and integrity
Each colleague is personally 
accountable for fulfilling our 
Company’s mission. Our colleagues 
receive Global Regulatory Learning 
Enterprise Essential T raining to 
ensure they have an understanding 
of the important policies, laws, and 
regulations that govern our industry, 
guide our Company, and protect our 
colleagues, customers, and brand. 
The learning requirements cover 
areas such as our Code of Conduct, 
customer privacy and data security, 
anti-discrimination, fair lending, and 
anti-money laundering.
24/7 Amex Ethics Hotline is 
available online and by phone for 
colleagues, contractors, vendors, 
suppliers, and others to raise ethical 
or compliance concerns, with access 
to representatives who collectively 
speak more than 200 languages.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction17
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Business ethics
Throughout our history we have reinvented ourselves through innovation, but we 
have never strayed from the core values established by our founders: trust, service, 
and security. 
Our Code of Conduct informs our colleagues of their responsibilities regarding a 
range of key issues and business practices, including anti-corruption, technology 
use, gift giving, travel and entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing 
money laundering, conducting business with foreign governments, and protecting 
customer privacy. Business units also maintain policies relevant to their specific 
functions . 
Adherence to the Code of Conduct is a condition of employment, and violations can 
result in termination. Each colleague must review and sign a copy of the Code of 
Conduct upon joining American Express and confirm receipt every year thereafter.
The Company’s Board of Directors are subject to a separate Code of Business 
Conduct . This code guides each director on appropriate conduct, conflicts of 
interest, and other ethical concerns; provides mechanisms to report potential 
conflicts or unethical conduct; and helps to foster a culture of openness and 
accountability.
WE DELIVER FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS.   
We’re driven by our commitment 
to deliver exceptional products, 
services, and experiences to our 
customers. We value our strong 
customer relationships and are 
defined by how well we take care 
of them.
WE MAKE IT GREAT.  
We deliver an unparalleled 
standard of excellence in 
everything we do, staying 
focused on the biggest 
opportunities to be meaningful 
to our customers. From our 
innovative products to our 
world-class customer service, 
our customers expect the best 
– and our teams are proud to 
deliver it.WE DO WHAT’S RIGHT.   
Customers choose us because 
they trust our brand and people. 
We earn that trust by ensuring 
everything we do is reliable, 
consistent, and with the highest 
level of integrity.
WE RESPECT PEOPLE.  
We are a diverse and inclusive 
company and serve diverse 
customers. We believe we are a 
better organization when each 
of us feels included, valued, and 
able to trust colleagues who 
respect each other for who we 
are and what we contribute to 
our collective success.
WE NEED DIFFERENT VIEWS.  
By being open to different ideas 
from our colleagues, customers, 
and the world around us, we will 
find more ways to win.WE WIN AS A TEAM.  
We view each other as 
colleagues – part of the same 
team, striving to deliver the 
brand promise to our customers 
and each other every day. 
Individual performance is 
essential and valued, but never 
at the expense of the team.
WE CARE ABOUT 
COMMUNITIES.   
We aim to make a difference in 
the communities where we work 
and live. Our commitment to 
corporate social responsibility 
makes an impact by 
strengthening our connections.OUR  
BLUE BOX 
VALUES At the heart of our 
culture is what we call 
our Blue Box Values – 
a set of seven guiding 
principles that every 
employee pledges to 
embrace and work by 
each day. Our Blue Box 
Values reflect who we are 
and what we stand for. Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction18
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Anti-bribery & 
corruptionWe have adopted a zero-tolerance policy for bribery, regardless of where 
we are located. We require colleagues to complete anti-corruption and 
bribery training – tying the requirement to annual compensation – to 
ensure they are informed of applicable laws and regulations. Please refer 
to our Our Code of Conduct for more information.
Anti-money 
launderingT o mitigate financial crime risks, we have established the American 
Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy. We encourage all our 
colleagues to become familiar with the global policy, as well as the 
specific policies within their business units, and ensure they understand 
which actions may be violations of anti-money laundering or terrorist 
financing laws. Potential violations are escalated to Compliance and/or 
Legal staff.
Whistleblower 
policyWe maintain an official whistleblower policy to encourage a culture of 
openness and accountability.
Public policy 
engagement 
and political 
contributionsWe have a clear statement on engagement and political activity in 
the U.S. We believe that active engagement in the public policy arena 
is an important part of responsible corporate citizenship and is vital 
to the democratic process. We identify public policy issues that can 
significantly impact aspects of our business in our Annual Report on 
Form 10-K and our Lobbying Disclosure Act filings.
American Express participates in the political process through the 
American Express Company Political Action Committee (AXP PAC) and 
through corporate political contributions in those jurisdictions where it 
is permissible to do so. AXP PAC files regular reports with the Federal 
Election Commission (FEC) and the relevant state election commissions 
on its receipts and disbursements. Reports filed with the FEC are 
available online to the public. Management reports regularly to our 
Board of Directors’ Nominating, Governance and Public Responsibility 
Committee regarding its engagement in the public policy arena, 
including its fundraising activities and political contributions.
Refer to Policy Engagement and Political Activity for more information, 
including lobbying requirements and annual U.S. political contributions.Business ethics 
policies and 
procedures
Our policies demonstrate 
how we hold ourselves 
accountable to the 
highest legal, ethical, and 
operational standards.REPORTING CONCERNS
The Amex Ethics Hotline provides colleagues, contractors, 
vendors, suppliers, and others with an opportunity to 
report concerns regarding potential compliance or ethical 
matters without fear of retaliation. These matters may 
relate to American Express colleagues and leaders and/or 
to the principles in the Company’s Code of Conduct, such 
as financial reporting and accounting; corruption, fraud or 
other criminal activity; or workplace conduct. The hotline 
is hosted by an independent third party, and reporters can choose to provide the information confidentially or 
anonymously (where allowed by local laws). Reporters 
can access it easily, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 
by phone or online, and reach representatives who 
collectively speak over 200 languages. 
Once submitted, all concerns are forwarded to specially 
trained individuals within American Express who promptly 
review, and, if necessary, investigate the report.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction19
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Responsible 
marketingOur marketing programs go through multiple layers of review to ensure 
that our customers are well informed about our products and services. 
Learn more in the Delivering for Our Customers and Partners section on 
page 37 .  
Equal 
Employment 
Opportunity 
(EEO)American Express seeks to develop and retain a diverse workforce.  
We recognize that a mix of backgrounds, opinions, and talents enriches  
the Company and helps us all achieve success. 
We are committed to our corporate responsibilities, which include 
equal employment opportunities for all individuals based on job-related 
qualifications and ability to perform the job without regard to race, color, 
religion, sex, national origin, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
disability, genetic information, citizenship, marital status, or any other 
basis prohibited by law. This policy extends to all employment decisions, 
and it is also our policy to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the 
law in each of the countries in which we operate. 
In addition, we want our employees and contractors to work in an 
environment that is free from intimidation or harassment of any kind. 
Harassment of employees and contractors by co-workers, supervisors, 
or outsiders is prohibited and may result in disciplinary action, up to and 
including termination of employment or termination of the contractor 
relationship. Complementing existing policies, programs, and training, the 
Company also launched a Global Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy 
Statement to reinforce the Company’s stance against sexual harassment.
Human rights 
and modern 
slaveryWe respect and promote human rights and are committed to leadership 
in responsible workplace practices across our entire organization and in 
all aspects of our business. Our Human Rights Statement and Code of 
Conduct embody our commitment to fair and equal treatment of all people. 
In addition, we remain committed to preventing acts of modern slavery and 
human trafficking from occurring within both our business and our supply 
chain by ensuring we work only with suppliers of the highest standard 
and by running rigorous employment checks. We strive to provide a safe, 
diverse, and equal opportunity workplace, and inhumane practices of 
modern slavery within both our own and our partner organizations will not 
be tolerated. Please refer to our U.K. Modern Slavery Act T ransparency 
Statement for more information.
Code of  
ConductOur Code of Conduct informs our colleagues of their responsibilities regarding 
a range of key issues and business practices, including anti-corruption, 
technology use, gift giving, travel and entertainment expenses, identifying and 
preventing money laundering, conducting business with foreign governments, 
and protecting customer privacy. Business units also maintain policies 
relevant to their specific functions. Adherence to the Code of Conduct is 
a condition of employment, and violations can result in termination. Each 
colleague must review and sign a copy of the Code of Conduct upon joining 
American Express and confirm receipt every year thereafter.BUSINESS ETHICS POLICIES AND PROCEDURESResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction20
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
We have adopted Corporate Governance Principles that, together with 
the charters of the four standing committees of The Board (Audit and 
Compliance; Compensation and Benefits; Nominating, Governance and 
Public Responsibility Committee; and Risk), our Code of Conduct (which 
constitutes our code of ethics for employees), and the Code of Business 
Conduct for Directors, provide our governance framework.
Key governance policies and processes also include our whistleblower policy, our comprehensive 
enterprise-wide risk management program, our commitment to transparent financial reporting, 
and our systems of internal checks and balances. Comprehensive management policies, many 
of which are approved at the Board level, guide the Company’s operations. Our Board, along with 
management, regularly reviews our Corporate Governance Principles and practices to ensure 
that they are appropriate and reflect our high standards and Blue Box Values.Board of Directors and  
corporate governance framework
Diversity of Tenure  (Non-Managemen t Directors)
year s avera ge tenure
avera ge age
63.7 Years7 Year s
1/endash.uc34 /endash.uc6 7/endash.uc10>  10Tw o Femalegender
Three MinoritiesethnicityBoard Highligh ts
Tw o Reside 
Outside the U .S.geographic
location
10 independen tdire ctor 
independenceBoard of Directors 
HighlightsOur Corporate Governance Principles provide that the Board should be diverse, engaged, 
and independent. When reviewing potential Board nominees, the Nominating, Governance 
and Public Responsibility Committee considers the diversity of the Board, including gender 
and race, and does not discriminate on the basis of ethnicity, sexual orientation, culture, 
or nationality. We believe the composition of our Board appropriately reflects a diversity of 
viewpoints, skills, professional and personal backgrounds, and experiences, which enable it to 
effectively lead our Company.
As of March 2019, our Board comprised the following demographics:Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction21
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Precautionary 
approachWe seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact our 
business, our partners, and our communities. Identifying risks, 
engaging with experts, and implementing policies are a few of the 
ways we work to proactively manage risks.
Policy review process We conduct regular reviews of our policies with input from multiple 
governance bodies and our Board. We also review the effectiveness of 
our policies through assessments conducted by our risk management 
team. Our assessments are subject to audit as well as regulatory exams. 
Crisis Preparedness 
ProgramWe maintain a Crisis Preparedness Program (CPP) that addresses 
the recovery of key business operations (and supporting technology) 
in the event of an unplanned business disruption. We provide our 
colleagues with CPP training and awareness and make sure all CPP 
plans are exercised and/or tested. We also routinely check that our 
key service providers comply with the program requirements. In 
addition, our Global Human Resources team maintains Global Crisis 
Management Employee Care Guidelines to assist leaders in providing 
support for colleagues worldwide in a variety of crisis scenarios.RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE
Our emphasis on risk management and governance structure is how we 
keep our promise to our customers and other stakeholders of security, 
integrity, and trust.
We use our comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, aggregate, 
monitor, and manage risks. The program also defines our risk appetite, risk governance, risk 
management culture, and risk capabilities. The implementation and execution of the ERM 
program is headed by our Chief Risk Officer. There are several internal risk management 
committees, including the Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC), chaired by 
our Chief Risk Officer. The ERMC is the highest-level management committee to oversee all 
firm-wide risks, and is responsible for risk governance, risk oversight, and risk appetite. It 
maintains the enterprise-wide risk appetite framework and monitors compliance with limits and 
escalations defined in it. The ERMC reviews key risk exposures, trends, and concentrations.
The Risk Committee of our Board of Directors reviews and concurs in the appointment, 
replacement, performance, and compensation of our Chief Risk Officer and receives regular 
updates from the Chief Risk Officer on key risks, transactions, and exposures. The Risk 
Committee reviews our risk profile against the tolerances specified in the Risk Appetite 
Framework, including significant risk exposures, risk trends in our portfolios, and major risk 
concentrations. The Risk Committee also provides oversight of our compliance with Basel 
capital and liquidity standards, our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, including 
its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) submissions and resolution planning.
For detailed information on our Board and how management oversees risk, please refer to the 
Risk Management Section of our 2019 Proxy Statement . Risk management and security
Risk management 
policies and 
proceduresResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction22
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY 
We value our customers’ trust in our ability to keep their 
data safe and secure, and we have multiple systems in 
place to assure customers’ data and privacy are protected.
Analyzing the transaction data that is processed through 
our closed-loop network enables us to create value for 
Card Members and for our merchant partners. 
T o address an ever-changing data security landscape, our 
Information Security Oversight team within the Global 
Risk Oversight organization works closely with the Chief 
Information Security Officer and ensures an independent 
review and assessment of risk controls. Information 
Security oversees a comprehensive program to help 
predict, protect, detect, respond to, and recover from 
cyberattacks. This includes developing solutions that 
protect our customers, colleagues, and partners from 
increasingly complex attacks.The Privacy organization focuses on handling customer 
and employee data in a manner consistent with our data 
protection principles, and manages our practices around 
the collection and handling of personal data, as well as 
notification, privacy choices, data quality, international 
data transfer, and data access.
For more information about our information security and 
privacy controls, see Building a Safe and Secure Network 
on page 43 . More detailed information is available in our 
2019 Proxy Statement and 2018 Annual Report .Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction23
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
As a leader in our industry, we play an active role in a number of organizations 
that share common business interests. We create long-term strategic 
relationships with these organizations in order to share resources, expertise, 
and distribution networks that help us achieve shared goals.
Below are some of the organizations in which we are a member or partner:
CSR
Better Business Bureau of 
Metropolitan New Y ork
The Business Council 
of New Y ork State
Business for Social 
Responsibility 
Chief Executives for 
Corporate Purpose 
The Conference Board 
Council on Foreign Relations
Council on Foundations
Emerging Practitioners 
in Philanthropy
Forum for the Future 
Independent Sector
Partnership for 
New Y ork City
Philanthropy New Y ork
U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce FoundationPUBLIC POLICY/ADVOCACY
American Bankers 
Association 
Association of National 
Advertisers 
Consumer Bankers 
Association 
Data & Marketing 
Association (Formerly 
known as: Direct 
Marketing Association)
National Association of 
Convenience Stores
Business Roundtable 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
U.S. T ravel Association
Western Bankers 
AssociationHUMAN RESOURCES, 
RESEARCH, AND LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT
Blue Circle Leadership
The Corporate Executive 
Board Company
Council of Urban 
Professionals
Center for Advanced 
Human Resource Studies 
Center for T alent Innovation 
The Executive 
Leadership Council
Hispanic Alliance for 
Career Enhancement
Hispanic Association for 
Corporate Responsibility 
Management Leadership 
for T omorrow
National Association for 
Black Accountants
Open For Business
Women’s Forum for the 
Economy and SocietyAdvocacy and membership in key organizationsResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
24
SERVING OUR 
COLLEAGUES
We provide our colleagues with the 
support to thrive in their careers and 
in their lives.
25 Introduction
26 Our Global Inclusion and Diversity strategy
30 Providing learning and development
32 Valuing and supporting our people
36 Supporting colleague recognition  
and engagementResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
25
Serving our colleagues
We know that the best way 
to back our customers is to 
back our people. We provide 
experiences to become a great 
leader, a world of opportunities 
for career growth, and an 
inclusive culture to help our 
colleagues thrive.2018 highlights
Foster an inclusive and 
diverse culture
90% of colleagues who responded 
to our annual survey said they would 
recommend our Company as a great 
place to work. 
100% score on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index since 2004, based on our 
policies and practices that support 
LGBTQ inclusion. 
Named to Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality Index, based on our efforts 
to create a work environment that 
supports gender equality.
Support our colleagues’ personal 
and professional goals
96% of our colleagues have access to 
at least one Healthy Living program 
or service.
20 weeks gender-neutral paid 
parental leave for U.S. based regular 
full-time and part-time salaried 
employees.
More than 85% of our colleagues 
participated in either a personal or a 
professional development experience 
through trainings we offer.
30% of global colleagues had a 
flexible work arrangement.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction26
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Our Global Inclusion and Diversity strategy
U.S. Colleagues (2018) Total non-minority Total  minority Total women
Senior-level executives 
and managers71% 29% 31%
Mid-level executives and 
managers61% 39% 54%
Professionals* 51% 49% 42%
All others** 49% 51% 70%
T otal U.S. colleagues 54% 46% 55%
* Professionals category includes non-managerial employees, such as analysts, designers, engineers, etc. 
**All others category includes office and clerical roles, sales support, service workers, etc. American 
Express – United 
States Workforce 
DiversityAmerican Express has a long commitment to supporting an inclusive and 
diverse workplace by creating a welcoming environment where all colleagues 
can thrive. Ensuring an inclusive and diverse workplace is at the heart of 
our culture. It is not a destination, but a journey that comes through the 
relationships we build and the actions we take. As American Express continues 
to evolve, we work to elevate our strategy and ensure we are attracting, 
developing, and retaining a talent pool of individuals who bring unique 
backgrounds and perspectives.
Our strategy enables us to differentiate 
the experience at American Express and 
shapes how we support our colleagues and 
promote an inclusive and global culture. 
The American Express Global Inclusion 
& Diversity (I&D) strategy is focused 
on valuing and embracing differences, 
and creating an environment where all 
colleagues are engaged, have a voice, and 
can achieve success. We want to ensure 
that American Express is a global leader in 
inclusivity and a company where colleagues 
know that being yourself matters.American Express’ company values and 
leadership behaviors are an important 
component to our culture and performance 
management. Integral to these are clear 
expectations of all colleagues with regards 
to inclusion and diversity.
Additionally, we hold senior executives 
accountable for incorporating and 
promoting this strategy by including 
diversity goals in our business scorecards.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction27
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
PAY EQUITY
At American Express, pay equity is a fundamental 
expectation, central to our mission to attract and retain 
the best talent. Our compensation philosophy, reward 
structure, and best practices are in place to ensure that 
we compensate employees equitably and free of any 
bias. We advocate for pay equity and regularly review our 
compensation practices to ensure that pay is equitable, 
transparent, and free from bias for all colleagues. 
A recent independent third-party review assessed 
pay based on statistical analysis, taking into account 
a number of factors known to drive compensation, including role, level, geography, performance, and tenure. 
The study shows we have been effectively managing pay 
equity and continue to make progress on this front. The 
results of our pay equity reviews are made available on 
our corporate website.
We are fully committed to pay equity and will continue 
to review our processes and programs to ensure there 
are no systematic biases in our compensation practices 
and that we remain equitable. Where countries have 
disclosure requirements mandated by regulators, we 
make sure that we meet our obligations. 
PAY FOR ROLE
We set pay guidelines 
for roles, independent 
of the people who 
perform them.PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
We compensate our 
employees based on 
performance and other 
business-related critieria 
without regard to gender or 
any other unlawful factor.
PAY PARITY
We compensate employees 
doing the same job 
equitably* and free of any 
unlawful bias.
*All other factors being equal 
(i.e., role, skills, competencies,  
and performance).PAY GOVERNANCE
We hold ourselves fully 
accountable to uphold a 
high standard on pay equity.Pay Equity  
Guiding PrinciplesResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction28
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
DEVELOPING WOMEN LEADERS
We work to engage and retain female colleagues by 
promoting customized learning and engagement 
opportunities through both internal trainings and 
external programming. In addition, through our 
colleague networks and global forums, we aim to build 
stronger and more meaningful relationships that drive 
sponsorship and retention, as well as the continued 
progression of women into leadership roles. 
In May 2018, more than 170 senior female leaders 
from around the globe came together in New Y ork City 
for a two-day conference. The conference, which was 
themed “Make Y our Mark, ” touched on three objectives: 
leadership, ambition, and culture. Since the conference, 
we have continued to drive a robust women’s agenda 
around the conference objectives to ensure that it has 
lasting impact. 
And in early 2019, we brought this group of women 
back together to reflect on our progress, make plans 
for the year ahead, and to celebrate leadership and 
community within this group of leaders.  American Express is Recognized Once Again on 
Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index 
We are proud to share that 
based on our efforts to create 
a work environment that 
supports gender equality, 
we have been named to 
Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality 
Index in 2018.
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction29
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Since 1987, our colleague networks have provided opportunities that support 
personal and professional development, skill building, and career growth. With 16 
networks and more than 100 chapters worldwide, colleague networks encompass 
the full spectrum of diversity at American Express, including disability, ethnicity, 
faith, gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation, and veteran’s status.
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS 
INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP
As we work to amplify our inclusion and diversity efforts, we have rolled out inclusive leadership and 
unconscious bias training for all global leaders at the vice president level and above. This learning 
experience reinforces participants’ understanding of how inclusive leadership advances our ability 
to attract, select, develop, and retain a diverse and inclusive workforce. The training experience 
is based on external research and is organized around the four pillars of inclusive leadership 
– belonging, voice, fairness, and growth. Each pillar has a significant impact on the colleague 
experience and can be directly influenced by our leaders. Beyond just raising awareness about 
unconscious bias, the workshop motivates our colleagues to engage in specific, effective behaviors 
for managing bias, and equips them with the knowledge and skills they need to build inclusive,  
high-performing teams.
LGBTQ INCLUSION 
American Express has consistently scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index since 2004. We are also a member of Open for Business, a coalition of global 
companies making the economic and business case for LGBTQ inclusion in companies around  
the world.
BLACK ENTERPRISE’S 2018 BEST COMPANIES FOR DIVERSITY
We are proud to have been named one of Black Enterprise’s Best Companies for Diversity in 2018. 
The list encompasses a roster of major corporations that have demonstrated best practices 
through diverse representation within their employee base, senior management ranks, corporate 
boards, and supplier pools. 
ADVANCING OUR DIVERSE TALENT
We have been on a multi-year journey to partner with several external organizations that provide 
development experiences for high-potential women and colleagues from underrepresented 
backgrounds. We also launched a new mentorship program in 2018. This year-long, multi-faceted 
program is being offered to high-performing Black and Hispanic colleagues in the U.S. Mentees 
are matched with executive mentors who provide them with skills, knowledge, and a better 
understanding of the organization in a safe learning environment that encourages risk-taking 
and open conversations. In addition, mentees have access to curated professional development 
content based on their individual development areas. The program incorporates monthly 
meetings, quarterly check-ins, feedback, and assessments to drive personalized development and 
accountability, powering behavioral change.Promoting 
inclusion and 
diversity through 
colleague 
networks Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction30
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Our job is to help our colleagues excel at what they do, and to do so we provide 
leadership experiences at all levels to help colleagues to build relationships, 
influence others, and drive results that benefit our customers and our 
Company. With the help of formal programs, thousands of training activities, 
and opportunities for challenging work with a purpose, we develop strong 
leaders who want to make a difference while growing and thriving in their 
careers and lives.
Colleagues are encouraged to take multiple approaches to expanding their experience and 
networks, such as:
 Leadership programs
 Personal development activities Colleague Networks
 Continuing education
In 2018, more than 85% of our colleagues participated in either a personal or professional 
development experience through trainings we offer.Providing learning and development
The American 
Express 
Leadership 
Academy for 
colleaguesWith the vision of becoming the most admired company for growing leaders, we 
created an in-house American Express Leadership Academy to provide our colleagues 
with the best-in-class tools and resources to gain the experiences, skills, and 
capabilities they need to thrive in their careers. Every colleague has the opportunity 
— and is encouraged — to take their personal leadership to the next level. 
LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS
Foundational to the Leadership Academy are 10 Leadership Behaviors that were designed 
and launched in early 2018. We defined these Leadership Behaviors for the entire 
organization to demonstrate what leadership at American Express looks like, regardless of 
role, level, or location. In 2018, we provided support and training on the behaviors for vice 
presidents and above, so our leaders could become experts in the behaviors before they 
were tasked with implementing them across their teams. In 2019, the Leadership Behaviors 
were launched to all colleagues with additional training. 
The Leadership Academy was designed with a three-pronged approach: 
on demand 
leadershipenterprise 
leadershipby invitation 
leadershipResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction31
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
2018 PROGRAM RESULTS
AMERICAN EXPRESS & HARVARD  
CERTIFICATE IN LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCEACCELERATED LEADERSHIP  
DEVELOPMENT (ALD)ACCELERATE YOUR  
GROWTH (AYG)
11,000+
managers, directors, and  
vice presidents completed the 
certificate program.
94%
of participants on average would 
recommend the program to a colleague.224
participants graduated  
from the program between 
2011 and 2018.146
colleagues completed  
the AYG experience. THE AMERICAN EXPRESS LEADERSHIP ACADEMY FOR COLLEAGUES
ON DEMAND LEADERSHIP
On Demand Leadership is a collection of curated content on key leadership topics available for all colleagues to access on our 
intranet at any time. We focus on select topics aligned to our strategic focus on collaboration, innovation, and agile decision 
making, as well as specific content, such as marketing and digital capabilities. On Demand Leadership includes an Executive 
Development Center for vice presidents and above, and the Center offers team experiences and a tool for 360° feedback. 
ENTERPRISE LEADERSHIP
Enterprise Leadership delivers targeted leadership 
development programs to colleagues at specific stages 
of their careers. The American Express & Harvard 
Certificate in Leadership Excellence, the flagship 
program of the American Express Leadership Academy, was 
launched in May 2017 . Three distinct certificate programs 
were launched in 2017: one for senior managers, one for 
directors, and one for vice presidents. 
 
AMERICAN EXPRESS & HARVARD CERTIFICATE IN 
LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCE
The American Express & Harvard Certificate in Leadership 
Excellence Program is targeted to our colleagues at the levels 
of manager, director, and vice president. This customized, 
best-in-class leadership development experience is 
designed to deliver powerful insights and develop behaviors 
rooted in our three dimensions of leadership: Set The 
Agenda, Bring Others With Y ou, and Do It The Right Way. 
New P eople L eader P rogram 
Developed in partnership with Harvard, the New People 
Leader Program is a required offering for first-time 
people leaders up to the director level. The program 
helps develop critical skills needed by participants to 
contribute and grow. 
 BY INVITATION LEADERSHIP
By Invitation Leadership offers select individuals additional 
learning opportunities based on nominations from senior 
leaders. These programs target high-potential and high-
performing American Express leaders at levels from 
manager to vice president.
Accelerated Leadership Development (ALD)
The ALD program is designed to strengthen the 
leadership pipeline by developing select high-
potential and high-performing vice presidents who 
have been recommended to participate. Since 2011, 
224 participants have graduated from the program 
(including 61 in 2018) and are moving into roles with 
increasing responsibility throughout the Company. ALD 
participants are two- to three-times more likely to be 
promoted within five years relative to their peers.
Accelerate Y our Growth (AYG)
AYG is a dynamic six-month development experience 
that targets select high-performing managers and 
directors each year in order to develop and strengthen 
our leadership pipeline. In 2018, 146 colleagues 
graduated from the program.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction32
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS 
HUMAN CAPITAL SCORECARD
We have a robust program in 
place to assess and manage 
human capital priorities – 
identified as talent-related 
opportunities linked to business 
outcomes. Senior human 
resource leaders develop 
human capital priorities 
annually, and track progress 
quarterly against plans. These 
assessments inform annual 
goals that are assigned to senior 
leaders, and performance 
against these goals directly 
affects compensation and year-
end decisions. 
The American Express Human 
Capital Scorecard reports 
across two categories:
Talent Retention 
Develop and retain 
an engaged, high-
performing workforce.
Inclusion & Diversity  
Build and maintain a diverse 
and inclusive workforce.Valuing and supporting our people
Exceptional 
service begins with 
great people, and 
we believe that we 
employ some of 
the best talent in 
the industry.Our colleagues relish the challenge of finding new solutions to meet our 
customers’ needs. They adapt, persist, and champion innovation within their 
teams and across the organization. 
We strive to ensure that our people feel valued, recognized, and backed, and we continually 
measure our progress. Our annual Colleague Experience survey provides insights into 
colleague satisfaction, leadership efficacy, learning opportunities, and career development. 
The survey results help us improve the colleague experience, our culture, and business results. 
As a result of the feedback received through the survey, we have increased our focus on 
collaboration and empowering colleagues at all levels to become involved in decision-making.
Our consistently high colleague satisfaction scores are a testament to the strength of our 
relationships. In 2018, 90% of colleagues responding to the Colleague Experience survey 
said they would recommend our Company as a great place to work. 
WORKING BETTER BY WORKING SMARTER
BlueWork, a redesign of our office 
environments that began in 1998, has 
become the standard for our locations 
worldwide. BlueWork is based on the idea that 
to support our colleagues and the enterprise 
as a whole, our workplace must be:
Connected. BlueWork connects people 
in new ways, both in person and virtually, 
to work together, build camaraderie, and 
drive innovation.
Responsible. BlueWork makes the most 
out of our investment in the workplace 
and reduces our environmental impact.
Effective. BlueWork drives performance 
in the workplace with the right types of 
workspaces and technology to enable 
great work, attract top talent, and drive 
success for American Express.
Dynamic. BlueWork supports a variety 
of activities, styles of working, and 
team structures with flexible space that 
supports collaboration, heads-down work, 
and everything in between.  
With the integration of AmexMeet7 and 
T elePresence,8 colleagues now experience 
a single meeting experience for all 
participants.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction33
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES’  
WELL -BEING
As an organization, we have a passion for taking care 
of people. Our colleagues are just as important as the 
customers they serve and our award-winning corporate 
health and well-being initiative, Healthy Living, reflects this. 
Healthy Living inspires and provides supportive resources, 
enhanced access to care, and incentives that foster a 
healthier lifestyle.
We also take into consideration our colleagues' mental 
well-being with our Healthy Minds program. Healthy Minds 
is a free and confidential counseling service that helps 
colleagues plan for life events, address personal concerns, 
or simply manage everyday events that can affect their 
work, health, and family. At select locations, colleagues 
have access to onsite Healthy Minds counselors, relaxation 
rooms, and meditation classes.
Healthy Minds has won multiple awards, including two major 
American Psychological Association awards: the inaugural 
national Organizational Excellence Award and the Phoenix 
Workplace Excellence Award. It has also won the Employee 
Assistance Society of North America’s Corporate Excellence 
award, the organization’s highest honor.
FLEXIBLE WORKING IN 2018
30%
of global colleagues 
had a flexible work 
arrangement.FLEXIBLE WORKING
Whether it’s a variable schedule or a virtual role, we believe 
it’s important to accommodate a range of work styles. 
We also support colleagues who want to volunteer for the 
causes they care about during work hours, as long as they 
receive approval from their manager.
All full-time and part-time U.S. colleagues who meet certain 
performance requirements can request a flexible work 
arrangement. Their leaders determine whether such an 
arrangement makes sense for the type of role and work 
style of the group. We provide formal channels to guide 
colleagues and leaders on decisions related to flextime, 
part-time, compressed work weeks, job sharing, and 
remote work.HEALTHY LIVING PROGRAMS IN 2018
 96 %
of colleagues had access to at least one 
Healthy Living program or service .
 21 
on-site Healthy Living Wellness Centers 
were available around the world.
 98% 
of the colleague population were covered 
by our Healthy Minds program.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction34
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
HELPING OUR COLLEAGUES WITH FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES 
Supporting our colleagues also means supporting their families. That’s why we offer a number 
of benefits to back our working families: 
Gender-neutral parental leave:
In 2017 , we increased the amount of 
parental leave to 20 weeks for U.S.-
based regular full-time and part-time 
employees. Parents receive full base 
pay for the entire time, regardless of 
whether they are growing their family 
by pregnancy, adoption, or surrogacy. 
Birth mothers are eligible to receive 
an additional six-to-eight weeks of 
paid leave if medically necessary. 
In addition to the extended parental 
leave policy, we have launched a 
Parent Concierge program in the 
U.S., which includes a dedicated 
representative to help colleagues 
understand and navigate their leaves 
and take better advantage of the wide 
array of free resources and programs 
available to them.
Additional benefits: 
Colleagues in the U.S. who grow their 
family through adoption or surrogacy 
can be reimbursed for expenses up 
to $35,000 per child, per event, with 
a lifetime maximum of two events. 
Those who undergo reproductive 
treatments are eligible for up to 
$35,000 in medical assistance. 
Families at American Express  
Colleague Network:
Launched in 2005, this network 
reaches more than 5,000 members 
across nine chapters, providing 
support for families who need help 
balancing personal and professional 
priorities.Backup child care: 
Colleagues throughout the U.S., the 
U.K., France, and Canada can access in-
home or center-based child care when 
their regular arrangements fall through. 
For example, U.S. colleagues receive 20 
days of subsidized backup dependent 
care (in-home or through a child care 
center) per year.
Backup eldercare: 
In the U.S., colleagues have access to 
24/7 care consultants who can help 
arrange in-home care for an adult 
loved one who may need special 
assistance while recovering from an 
illness or unexpected injury. 
Special focus on special needs: 
In the U.S., we provide programs and 
resources for parents of special needs 
children, including free webinars on 
topics such as “Self-Care for Parents 
of Children with Special Needs” and 
“Autism 101. ” We also partner with 
major organizations that help raise 
awareness for the special needs 
community.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction35
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
HELPING OUR COLLEAGUES ACHIEVE FINANCIAL WELLNESS 
Our global Smart Saving programs provide financial education and resources to colleagues at  
specific life stages, including recent graduates entering the workforce, new families, parents 
planning for college, and many others.
In the U.S., Smart Saving includes our 401(k) program; financial planning coaching and 
workshops, including on-site and telephone-based coaching at no cost to colleagues; deals 
and discounts to help colleagues save money on everyday expenses such as commuting; and 
on-demand access to financial education resources.
FINANCIAL WELLNESS
6% 
We increased the Company matching contribution for 
our 401(k) plan from 5% to 6% on January 1, 2017 .
 
91%
As of December 31, 2018, 91% of U.S. colleagues 
were participating in the plan, which is an increase 
from 88% from December 31, 2017 . We also initiated 
automatic enrollment for colleagues hired on or after 
January 1, 2017 .Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction36
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
We recognize outstanding colleague contributions large and small. Everyday colleague 
recognition is especially important because it helps inspire our colleagues to continue 
to do great work.
REWARD BLUE
Our global reward and recognition program, called Reward Blue, acknowledges colleagues 
for their achievements with monetary and non-monetary awards. Reward Blue builds a 
culture of appreciation by encouraging colleagues to praise each other’s everyday efforts, to 
reward exceptional results, and to celebrate important anniversaries. 
SERVING TOGETHER
Our colleagues are active members of their communities. Our flagship programs, 
Serve2Gether, Give2Gether, and Green2Gether, are designed to foster a sense of shared 
purpose and provide an opportunity to give back. Refer to the Caring for our Community 
section on page 48 for more information.
OUR 2018 TOP EMPLOYER AWARDS
Our commitment to be a great place to join, stay, and grow a career continues to earn us 
industry awards and recognition. Here are some of the recognitions from 2018 that make us 
most proud: In 2018, 83% of our 
colleagues received 
recognition or 
appreciation through 
Reward Blue, up from 
78% in 2017.
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to 
Work For – ranked #23
FORTUNE 2018 World’s Most 
Admired Companies – ranked #14
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies 
for Diversity – ranked #18
FORTUNE 100 Best Workplaces 
for Women – ranked #40
Great Place to Work: Best 
Workplaces in Italy – ranked #1
Great Place to Work: Best 
Workplaces in Spain – ranked #2
Black Enterprise: Best Companies 
for DiversityWorking Mother Best Companies 
to Work For – ranked #14
Anita Borg Institute T op 
Companies for Women 
T echnologists
Human Rights Campaign: 
Corporate Equality Index, Rating 
American Workplaces on Lesbian, 
Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender 
Equality – Score: 100%
AON Hewitt Best Employer: 
Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the 
Philippines
Working Families (U.K.): T op 30 
EmployersSupporting colleague recognition and engagement Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
37
DELIVERING 
FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS 
AND PARTNERS 
We use our relationships, technology, 
and data to better serve our 
customers and increase commerce 
opportunities for our partners. 
38 Introduction
40 Putting the customer first 
43 Building a safe and secure network
45 Empowering entrepreneurs
47 Supporting women-owned businessResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
38
Delivering for our  
Customers and Partners 
Our broad and diverse 
customer base spans 
consumers, small and 
midsize companies and large 
corporations, partners who 
issue cards on our network, 
those who work with us to 
create special products 
and experiences, and the 
merchants who welcome our 
Card Members. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
Meet the evolving needs of 
our customer base
20% increase in customer 
satisfaction with our service 
since 2011, based on Card Member 
feedback.
More than 11,200 women 
entrepreneurs participated in 
the workshops hosted by the 
ChallengeHER initiative.
Support small businesses across 
the world
An estimated $17.8 billion 
reported spend by U.S. consumers at 
independent retailers and restaurants 
on Small Business Saturday.3 
More than 4,300 shops from all 47 
prefectures joined the Shop Local 
movement in Japan.
An estimated £812 million 
reported spend by consumers with 
small businesses across the U.K. 
on December 1, 2018 – an increase 
of 8% from the previous year.4
Make our products and services 
better for society
More than $93 million donated 
from 2010 to 2018 by U.S. Card 
Members through our Members Give 
Program to benefit charitable causes.
Launched SafeKey 2.0, the 
next generation of our online 
authentication tool, which provides 
an extra layer of security when an 
American Express Card Member 
makes a purchase online at a 
participating merchant.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction39
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
 CONSUMERS
Our Card Members come from many walks of life. 
We do our best to make it easier for them to pay for 
all their purchases, reward them for their loyalty, and 
help them buy and travel with peace of mind. We offer 
a range of Credit Cards, Charge Cards, and other 
services to suit their needs.  BUSINESS
We issued our first formal Corporate Card in 1966. 
T oday, we are still a leader in the commercial 
payments space. We serve businesses of all sizes, 
from small, independently owned establishments to 
large, global organizations.
 MERCHANTS
Millions of stores, restaurants, travel operators, and 
other establishments around the world welcome 
American Express Cards. We work to make sure their 
experience is as seamless as possible. And we help 
them grow their businesses by connecting them to our 
high-spending customers and by providing marketing 
and other services.  PARTNERS
Airlines. Banks. Retailers. Entertainment venues. 
Hotels. Restaurants. Digital players. We have strategic 
partners in all kinds of fields helping us give our 
customers the rewards and experiences they care 
about. Partners help us give our customers more 
choices when it comes to spending with us.
We have a service network with more than 30,000 
professionals around the globe focused on improving 
customers’ service experiences. This includes the 
Customer Care Professionals who connect with 
our customers directly, as well the colleagues who 
support our service vision in areas such as learning, 
capabilities, fulfillment, and analytics. We maintain 
and publish accessibility requirements for everyone 
who works with our websites and mobile apps.Visually impaired Card 
Members can access braille 
and large-font versions of 
statements and year-end 
summaries. They can also ask 
our Customer Care staff to 
read correspondence and even 
billing statements to them.Customer satisfaction 
with our service has 
increased 20% since 
2011, based on Card 
Member feedback.WHO WE SERVE
HOW WE SERVEResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction40
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
We aim to provide the world’s best customer experience every day. Across our 
global servicing organization, we are committed to putting the customer first 
and to setting the standard for customer care. 
We aim to do this by recognizing and valuing each of our customers, keeping things simple, 
and owning and solving every issue or inquiry.
DELIVERING SERVICE EXCELLENCE 
At American Express, we try to treat every interaction as an opportunity to deepen 
relationships. Everyone at American Express plays a role in delivering our world-class 
customer experience to those we serve. But our frontline colleagues are the ones who bring 
our brand to life every day.
T o show our service team just how much we appreciate the care they provide, we celebrate the 
best of the best with an internal Customer Service Award. Each year, we recognize colleagues 
who provided a specific act of outstanding service in the past year and colleagues who have 
consistently delivered great customer care over time.
OUR 2018 CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS
In 2018, we received recognition for our service ethic and commitment to customers from 
organizations around the world. Our mobile app was ranked #1 in customer satisfaction on the 
J.D. Power U.S. Credit Card Mobile App Satisfaction StudySM. We also earned the top spot in 
the J.D. Power Hong Kong Credit Card Satisfaction StudySM for the third consecutive year and 
have won various awards for service and customer satisfaction in locations that include the U.K.,  
Australia, India, and Singapore.Putting the customer first 
We created GivingExpress® to help our Card 
Members give back. Now known as Members 
GiveSM, the program simplifies charitable giving by 
connecting Card Members to the causes that matter 
to them. Card Members can access more than a 
million worthy organizations online, making donations 
on their American Express Cards or by redeeming 
Membership Rewards® points.From 2010 to 2018, U.S.  
Card Members donated over 
 
$93 million
through our  
Members GiveSM program. CONNECTING CARD MEMBERS WITH CAUSES THEY CARE ABOUTResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction41
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
DEVELOPING MOBILE AND 
DIGITAL PLATFORMS 
Throughout our history, we’ve reinvented how we 
deliver an exceptional service experience to customers, 
whenever and wherever they need it, by leveraging our 
data, technology, and expertise.
From our mobile app and alerts to integrations that 
include American Express and Apple Face ID, American 
Express and FITBIT , and American Express and Mezi, 
we have developed solutions that create meaningful 
commerce experiences for both merchants and 
consumers, doing so in a safe and secure way. Our latest 
innovations include:
American Express and Apple Business Chat:  
Eligible Card Members in the U.S. can chat with 
American Express at any time through the Messages 
app on their iPhone or iPad.
AskAmex: In 2018, American Express acquired  
Mezi, a personal travel assistant app that helps 
consumer and clients of travel management 
companies to plan and book trips. In 2019, we began 
incorporating the new, smart concierge features into 
the Amex® Mobile app and are rolling it out to Platinum 
Card Members in the U.S. 
OFFERING ALTERNATIVES TO 
TRADITIONAL BANKING
We serve a wide range of customers and have innovated 
to provide products and services to meet new needs 
and preferences. We continue to issue our reloadable 
prepaid products, Bluebird® and Serve®, with InComm 
as the program manager and processor. These products 
allow customers in the U.S. who do not have access to 
traditional banking to set up paycheck deposits, access 
bills online, put aside money for the future, send money to 
friends and family, and use tools to manage their money.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY 
We recognize that fairness must be the foundation of our 
customer relationships, and we keep it front and center 
when creating products and services. Our 2019 Code of 
Conduct requires that we are truthful and transparent 
with our customers and make decisions without 
discrimination. We are committed to ethical business 
practices that strive to keep our customers confident and 
loyal. This means marketing our products in a way that is 
clear, transparent, and informative.RESPONSIBLE MARKETING 
AND FAIR LENDING
We seek to fulfill our commitment to fairness and 
transparency with a fair lending program that has 
clear policies and governance, monitoring and testing, 
and strong analytics. We perform root-cause analyses 
of customer complaints mentioning or alleging 
discrimination; review marketing offers and collateral 
for potential discouragement or exclusion of a protected 
class; and conduct statistical analyses to ensure our 
marketing and credit decisions do not adversely impact 
protected classes in violation of fair lending laws.   
GLOBAL CUSTOMER PRACTICES STATEMENT
“ American Express believes that delivering 
products and services in a fair and 
transparent manner is critical to providing 
best-in-class customer service. As part 
of its fundamental commitment to meet 
customer credit needs throughout the 
world, American Express is dedicated to 
engaging in customer practices that embody 
transparency, truthfulness, fairness, and a 
culture of non-discrimination throughout the 
credit lifecycle. The Company manages and 
mitigates customer practices risk through 
dedicated resources and ongoing monitoring, 
testing, and oversight. This also applies to 
third-party vendors and their subcontractors, 
also known as fourth-party vendors.”Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction42
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
AMERICAN EXPRESS CUSTOMER DATA PRINCIPLES
Our customers have the right to request the information 
we collect from them, review it, and make changes.
ELIGE SABER, TIPS FOR YOUR POCKET,  
AND NATIONAL FINANCIAL EDUCATION WEEK
In Mexico, we conduct the following financial education activities: 
Financial Education Guild Program: Through Elige Saber, 
American Express’ Financial Education Program in Mexico, and 
with the support of the Interactive Museum of Economics, we 
promote the Financial Education Guild Union Program developed 
by the Mexican Bank Association. 
Tips for your Pocket: American Express emails monthly 
newsletters to Card Members with content based on the 
CONDUSEF newsletter, “Tips for your Pocket. ” 
National Financial Education Week: The 11th annual National 
Financial Education Week was held from October 4-7 , 2018. 
American Express joined this initiative with the aim of reinforcing 
our commitment to promoting healthy financial habits in the 
general population, as we do with our Card Members and 
colleagues. This past year, we participated with an interactive 
display that addressed the themes of goals, credit, and savings, 
engaging 1,775 people over four days.Center for Community 
Development (CCD)  
Financial Literacy 
efforts
Administered by EverFi, an American 
Express Center for Community 
Development online financial literacy 
program was implemented in 45 
public schools in Utah during the last 
academic year. This program was 
designed to help students learn how  
to achieve their future financial goals. 
The program reached 744 students 
who completed a total of 2,844 
learning modules in 1,791 hours of 
critical skills learning in the areas of 
budgeting, savings, and investments.PROMOTING FINANCIAL HEALTH
We want to help customers make informed choices, avoid financial 
pitfalls, and follow good practices to improve their financial well-being.  
We have supported financial literacy programs in partnership with 
some of the world’s most respected organizations. These programs 
address the financial needs of young people, first-time credit users, 
and experienced credit users who want to improve their financial 
management skills. 
Around the world we support financial literacy programs, working 
with local nonprofits and organizations and sponsoring education 
workshops.Our principles of responsible 
marketing include:
TRA NSPARENCY
Marketing offers should be clear, 
simple, and easy to understand.
Marketers should consider all 
reasonable interpretations from a 
customer’s or prospect’s point of view.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Marketers should think about how 
the offer will work, such as the risks, 
controls, and monitoring associated 
with the end-to-end execution, 
including fulfillment and servicing.
Marketers should create and retain 
documentation, including process 
flows, control measures, monitoring, 
and stakeholder approvals .Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction43
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Building a safe and secure network
Our robust privacy program has clear policies and governance, so our customers know they 
can trust how we collect, use, and protect their personal information.
INVESTING IN A RIGOROUS PRIVACY PROGRAM
Our Global Privacy team helps us protect our customers’ data and develop practical ways to 
manage personal information. The team’s work includes:
Processes and training: Our Data 
Protection and Privacy Principles 
guide how we collect, use, and process 
our customers’ personal information. 
Additional privacy policies and controls 
help our colleagues safeguard this 
information. These principles are 
reinforced through mandatory privacy and 
data security training for colleagues . 
Technology: We have invested in 
technology that ensures our customers 
have control over their privacy choices, 
including opting in or out of marketing 
communications . Privacy Center: Available on 
americanexpress.com, our Privacy Center 
gives consumers in the U.S. information 
about our Data Protection and Privacy 
Principles, provides access to our privacy 
notices, and provides customers with 
information about their privacy choices. 
We work hard to ensure we are transparent 
with customers about our use of personal 
information and their privacy rights, and 
that our disclosures clearly explain how we 
collect and use our customers’ personal 
information. 
This rigorous framework helps to ensure we comply with privacy laws and regulations and 
reflect consumers’ expectations for privacy.
MAINTAINING OUR GLOBAL, INTEGRATED NETWORK 
We maintain direct relationships with both Card Members and merchants by operating an 
integrated network that provides us with information on transactions from both perspectives. 
This gives us the ability to provide both customized marketing to merchants and special offers 
to Card Members with best-in-class risk management. We know that good 
customer service 
means maintaining 
consumer trust. Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction44
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
INVESTING IN DIGITAL FRAUD 
PREVENTION 
Our state-of-the-art monitoring tools, controls, and policies 
help detect and prevent fraud in our operations around 
the world. Our data scientists analyze the data within our 
integrated network to identify suspicious account activity 
and deploy valuable protections – such as fraud alerts – to 
our customers, often in real time. 
T o combat the increasing sophistication and scale of 
fraud attacks, especially in digital channels, we use 
advanced machine-learning algorithms to evaluate 
different data points and make fraud risk decisions 
on every American Express transaction, anywhere in 
the world, within 10 milliseconds. This helps to reduce 
fraudulent spending, in turn reducing chargebacks to 
merchants and providing peace of mind to our Card 
Members, which is core to maintaining an outstanding 
service experience. 
Machine learning models also allow us to delve 
deeply into understanding the unique patterns of our 
customers’ spending and fraudulent episodes. Such 
models have made it easier to detect counterfeit 
and online fraud while minimizing disruption to our 
customers’ genuine activity. We have also partnered 
with merchants to develop advanced techniques 
for detecting compromised Card Member account 
information, as well as deploying advanced digital 
authentication solutions to prevent identity theft. 
As a result, we have experienced the lowest fraud rates 
in the industry for many years, helping us protect our 
Card Members and merchants and delivering on our 
brand promise of trust, security, and service.MAINTAINING SECURE PAYMENTS 
Over the years, we have been investing in, and promoting 
the use of, more secure connections and authentication 
mechanisms across whichever payment channel our Card 
Members select, from in-store and online to mobile wallets.
BEHAVIORAL ANALYTICS
Cyber threats are becoming more sophisticated as more 
of our customers are applying for our products online 
and through mobile devices. T o combat these threats, we 
deployed behavioral analytics technology in 2018 to help 
us identify and stop fraud in our online application process 
for consumers in the U.S. Behavioral analytics have 
helped us effectively predict whether a person is a genuine 
applicant or a fraud risk.
Educating our 
colleaguesSystems and practices for protecting customer information are only as strong as 
the people who implement them. T raining our colleagues and offering best-in-class 
technology are critical to mitigating risk. This includes educating colleagues to learn 
about risks inherent in the payment services industry, providing tools to analyze those 
risks, and ensuring that colleagues know where and how to escalate issues. All colleagues 
participate in mandatory information security and privacy training every year. We also run 
simulations that test our colleagues’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction45
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Empowering entrepreneurs
SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing character, jobs, and investment to 
neighborhoods. We have been dedicated to serving small businesses for more than 25 years, 
and we can make a positive impact on communities when we help them reach their potential. 
For example, our American Express Charge Cards and Credit Cards help small businesses grow 
by facilitating their ability to buy what they need, when they need it. We also offer a suite of 
programs and resources for small business owners, including online resources and live events. 
THE SHOP SMALL® MOVEMENT
The ninth annual Small Business Saturday was held on November 24, 2018 in communities 
across the U.S. and Puerto Rico. American Express founded Small Business Saturday in 2010 
in response to small business owners’ most pressing need: more customers. Small Business 
Saturday provides an opportunity for shoppers to champion favorite local spots that have their 
customers’ backs throughout the year. 
An average two-thirds of every dollar spent at small businesses in the U.S. stays in the local 
community, according to our Small Business Economic Impact Study.4
JAPAN
In 2018, Shop Local returned to Japan for its second year. JCB, our acquiring partner and one 
of the major financial services companies in the country, joined us to support the movement 
by sharing their commitment to local shops and communities. Shop Local grew into a 
nationwide movement with small businesses from all 47 prefectures participating, compared 
to 2017 when the program was hosted in one city. In addition to the several community events 
held in the two major cities of Y okohama and Kobe, there were a series of digital initiatives and 
on-site events that attracted a number of people to participate. During the 2018 program, 
Shop Local social posts resulted in more than 2.1 million impressions, and a significant 
number of people participated locally.
AUSTRALIA 
In 2018, Shop Small returned for its sixth year in Australia. It has become a well-recognized 
movement, aided by the endorsement of the federal government, heads of industry, and small 
business champions. The theme for 2018 was “love where you live, ” encouraging shoppers to 
back the local stores in their neighborhoods. Shop Small 
around the 
worldResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction46
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
U.K.
As the founding sponsor and principal supporter of Small Business 
Saturday, we have championed the day since its U.K. launch in 
2013. The campaign has cross-party political support, as well as 
backing from small business organizations, local authorities, and 
community groups. 
An estimated £812 million4 reported spend by consumers with 
small businesses across the U.K. on December 1, 2018 – an 
increase of 8% from the previous year.
T weets sent on Small Business Saturday reached more than 100 
million people with #SmallBizSatUK and #SmallBusinessSaturday 
trending in the U.K. ’s top five throughout the day. 
The Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the 
Mayor of London, all publicly supported Small Business Saturday.
Thousands of Card Members across the U.K. supported High 
Street by taking advantage of our Shop Small offer and were 
awarded with a £5 statement credit when they spent £10 or more 
at participating small businesses between December 1–16, 2018.
PUERTO RICO
Through a variety of ways, American Express continues to back small 
businesses in Puerto Rico:
In partnership with many local organizations, American Express 
expanded its Small Business Saturday support to the island in 
2018, encouraging people to get out and Shop and Dine Small in 
their communities. Nearly 100 small businesses engaged in the 
day and celebrated with special events.
American Express continued to support local businesses in Puerto 
Rico by providing eligible Card Members with a “Spend $10, Get 
$10” in-store offer at retail and dining small businesses in the San 
Juan Metro Area, between January 11 and February 28, 2019.
U.S.                                            
In 2018, we engaged our partners to create a range of activities 
on Small Business Saturday for consumers and small business 
owners alike. 
Lin-Manuel Miranda joined us to help bring awareness to the Shop 
Small movement and expand its presence in Puerto Rico. 
The Wing helped us support women-owned businesses by hosting 
Shop Small Stations in three cities.
Etsy celebrated online small business owners through holiday 
pop-up markets in four cities. 
We teamed up with Record Store Day to celebrate independent 
record retailers by releasing four limited-edition vinyl, as well as in-
store performances from bands including Ben Folds and Kid Doe.   
THE IMPACT OF SMALL 
BUSINESS SATURDAY®  
IN THE U.S.
$17.8 Billion
T otal estimated spending among 
U.S. consumers who said they 
shopped at independent retailers 
and restaurants on the day.3
$0.67
Approximately two-thirds of every 
dollar spent at a small business 
in the U.S. stays in the local 
community.9
$0.50 
Every dollar spent at small 
businesses creates an additional 
50 cents in local business activity 
as a result of employee spending 
and businesses purchasing of local 
goods and services.9
$4.8 Trillion
U.S. small businesses are 
responsible for $4.8 trillion in GDP , 
equivalent to the third-largest 
economy in the world based on 
2017 IMF data.3
70%
An estimated seven-in-ten 
American adults are aware of 
Small Business Saturday.10Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction47
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Supporting women-owned business
Women started an average of 1,821 new businesses per day in the U.S. based on GDP 
data from Q4 2016 to Q4 2017, according to the eighth annual State of Women-Owned 
Businesses report commissioned by American Express. The number of women-owned 
businesses increased by 31 times between 1972 and 2018, rising from 402,000 in 1972 to 12.3 
million in 2018. During that time, employment for these firms grew 40-fold from 230,000 to 
9.2 million, and revenues rose from $8.1 billion to $1.8 trillion – 217 times greater. T o learn 
more, refer to The 2018 State of Women-Owned Businesses report .
Over the past 11 years, women of color have been the driving force behind the growth of 
women-owned businesses. While the number of women-owned businesses grew 58% from 
2007 to 2018, firms owned by women of color grew 163%, nearly three times that rate.
American Express is committed to empowering women-owned businesses by offering access 
to Credit Cards and loans for women entrepreneurs. On the American Express online platform, 
we share stories of challenge and triumph from our women entrepreneurs with the goal of 
inspiring future generations of women. We are also committed to supporting sustainable 
ventures developed by women entrepreneurs, like the BAGGU Company, which has been 
producing lightweight, durable, and environmentally-friendly shopping bags since 2007 . T o 
read more about this story and others, visit American Express Business T rends & Insights .The case for 
women-owned 
businesses is clear. 
CHALLENGEHER PROGRAM 
In April 2013, Women Impacting Public 
Policy (WIPP), American Express, and 
the U.S. Small Business Administration 
launched ChallengeHER, a national 
initiative to boost government contracting 
opportunities for women-owned small 
businesses. Now in its seventh year of 
programming, ChallengeHER delivers free 
workshops, mentoring, and direct access to 
government buyers. 70+
workshops 
have been held 
as part of the 
ChallengeHER 
initiative.11,200+ 
women entrepreneurs 
have participated in 
ChallengeHER over the 
last six years.2,700+
meetings have been 
facilitated between 
women-owned 
small businesses 
and government 
officials.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
48
CARING FOR OUR 
COMMUNITIES
We aim to make a difference by 
strengthening the communities in 
which we live and work.
49 Introduction
50 Charitable giving
51 Serving communities
55 Developing leaders
57 Preserving placesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
49
Caring for Our Communities
We’re here to serve our 
customers and communities. 
That means lending a hand 
when it’s needed and doing 
our part to enable the 
communities in which we 
live and work to prosper.  
We do this in three ways: providing 
leadership training that empowers 
local social-sector leaders to 
create sustainable change; helping 
citizen volunteers to improve their 
communities; and preserving diverse, 
vibrant historic places.
By providing critical services that 
contribute to economic stability and 
mobility, the nonprofit sector plays a 
vital role in building a healthy society. 
Through our philanthropic and civic 
participation, we serve and empower 
the people and organizations that are 
confronting some of society’s most 
complex issues. 2018 highlights
Strengthen the communities 
in which we operate  
$42 million in charitable giving 
globally, including grants provided 
by the Company, the American 
Express Foundation, our Center for 
Community Development, and gift 
matching programs.
Engage citizen volunteers
An estimated 7 million volunteers 
engaged in about 30 million 
hours of service at 66 nonprofits 
supported, in part, by grants from 
American Express.
Empower emerging nonprofit and 
social leaders
More than 20,000 nonprofit and 
social sector leaders participated 
in online and in-person leadership 
trainings through the support of our 
grants.
Promote stewardship 
of historic places
41 historic sites in 11 countries 
including Argentina, Canada, China, 
France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Spain, 
the U.K., the U.S. and Zimbabwe, 
were preserved with the support of 
our grants.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES50
Charitable giving
Preserving
PlacesDeveloping
Leaders17%
28 %
18% 37%Supporting
Employees*
Serving
CommunitiesCharitable giving has been at the heart of American Express since 
the 1880s, when our colleagues contributed to the fundraising 
effort to build a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. 
In 1954, we created the American Express Foundation, a New Y ork-based 
nonprofit that supports charitable organizations. Since then, American Express 
has provided nearly $900 million to thousands of causes around the world. 
We focus our charitable giving in four areas:
  Serving Communities
We enable charitable organizations to deliver mission-critical services 
by engaging community members and our colleagues as volunteers. 
We also fund immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts to 
help victims of natural disasters.
 Developing Leaders
We develop emerging nonprofit and social purpose sector leaders who 
address society’s most complex issues and strengthen local communities.
 Preserving Places
We support organizations and projects that preserve or help people 
rediscover major historic sites while bringing economic, cultural, and 
social value to local communities.
 Engaging Employees
We support our employees in their charitable and personal endeavors 
through gift matching, grants to nonprofits where they volunteer, and 
scholarships to recognize academic excellence and assist with their 
children’s college costs.
Our colleagues are actively engaged in all four of these areas, and we also 
support them in giving back directly. CELEBRATING INCLUSION & 
DIVERSITY 
Through our philanthropic 
programs, American Express 
provides grants in support 
of a wide range of nonprofit 
organizations that share our 
values of inclusion and diversity, 
including:
Social purpose leadership 
training for ethnic diversity 
organizations, including 
Hispanics in Philanthropy, 
Public Allies, the Council of 
Urban Professionals Institute, 
National Association of Latino 
Arts and Culture, National 
Urban League, and Leadership 
Education for Asian Pacifics. 
Leadership programs 
that focus on the needs 
of women leaders in the 
nonprofit sector, including the 
New Y ork Women’s Foundation 
and She’s the First.
2018 Influence Nation 
Summit, a forum for social 
purpose practitioners about 
the critical trends and issues 
facing next-generation leaders.
The Fund for the City of New 
Y ork for the New Y ork City 
LGBTQ Historic Sites Project 
Walking T ours, which explores 
sites connected to the city’s 
LGBTQ history and culture.
Team Rubicon engages 
military veterans to help 
communities prepare for, 
respond to, and recover from 
disasters.
* Includes Gift Matching, Serve2Gether  Grants,  
Employee Scholarships, and Culture Card Programs .How We GiveColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES51
ENGAGING COMMUNITY MEMBERS  
AS VOLUNTEERS
Volunteers are the heart and soul of communities. The ability 
to effectively engage volunteers can make a tremendous 
difference in nonprofit organizations’ ability to fulfill their 
mission, expand their work, amplify their profile, and grow their 
base of supporters. For community members, volunteering 
is a way to develop skills, practice leadership, build social 
networks, and enjoy a sense of purpose and connection.  
REVITALIZING NEIGHBORHOODS
In 2018, the American Express Center for Community Development 
(CCD) provided $3.5 million in grants targeting low-to-moderate income 
individuals and underserved communities in Utah. The grants went to 
more than 130 nonprofit community partners in support of programs 
addressing homelessness and affordable housing, financial literacy, 
healthcare, economic development, and rural revitalization efforts. 
In addition, CCD invested in the low-income housing tax credit 
program, leading to the development of more than 2,400 new 
affordable housing units with a number of units targeted to special-
need groups, including the formerly homeless, veterans, young adults 
aging out of foster care, and domestic violence victims.
2018 CCD:
$3.5 million 
grants. 2,400 
new affordable housings 
developedServing communities
66
nonprofits supported through 
grants
7 million
estimated volunteers
30 million
hours of service within local 
communities2018 COMMUNITY  
SERVICE IMPACT
Our grants supported 66 
nonprofits that engaged 
an estimated seven million 
volunteers in about 30 million 
hours of service within local 
communities. These volunteers 
improved their communities’ 
access to such critical 
necessities as food, shelter, 
green spaces, and educational 
opportunities. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES52
SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES IMPACTED  
BY DISASTER
When a natural disaster occurs, it’s all-hands-on-deck: American Express 
assists with immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts. And 
we also support preparedness programs that can better equip relief 
agencies to respond to emergencies as they occur. In the last decade, 
American Express has helped the victims of 38 disasters in 32 countries 
by aiding leading disaster relief agencies, such as the American Red 
Cross and International Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, Doctors 
without Borders, International Rescue Committee, Save the Children, and 
the United Nations World Food Program. In 2018, we supported several 
disaster response efforts, including Hurricane Florence in North Carolina, 
South Carolina, and Virginia, Hurricane Michael in the Florida Panhandle, 
T yphoon Mangkhut, and wildfires in California. In addition to providing 
funds for disaster relief, we also work with partners to help disaster 
organizations recruit and engage disaster response volunteers.AMERICAN EXPRESS BACKS THE 
COMMUNITY OF PUERTO RICO 
T o continue to drive prosperity 
for the Puerto Rican economy 
after Hurricanes Maria and Irma, 
American Express committed 
$250,000 in early January 2019 
to the Hispanic Federation, which 
works with both the private and 
public sectors to create jobs, 
rebuild the economy, and promote 
sustainable small business growth 
throughout the island. 
This contribution is in addition 
to the $1 million that American 
Express donated in the fall of 2017 
to assist with immediate relief 
efforts, including shelter and food, 
for hurricane victims in Puerto 
Rico, the Caribbean islands, and 
the mainland U.S.
Disaster 
Relief
MentoringDonations/
MatchingDays of 
Service
EnvironmentPro BonoOur colleagues don’t just work 
here, they are active members 
of their communities. We make 
it easier for them to be involved 
through three flagship programs: 
Serve2Gether, Give2Gether, and 
Green2Gether.
Whether they’re mentoring 
students, caring for the elderly, 
feeding the hungry, protecting 
the environment, or using 
professional skills to help 
nonprofits succeed, many 
thousands of our colleagues  
give their time, talent, and 
donations each year to serve 
local communities.ENABLING OUR COLLEAGUES TO BACK OUR COMMUNITIESColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES53
PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING THROUGH SERVE2GETHER
Each year, thousands of American Express colleagues roll 
up their sleeves and join Company-sponsored community 
projects. Our Serve2Gether volunteer program gives 
colleagues tools that make it easier for them to connect 
with and promote the causes they care about. 
In addition to hands-on and mentoring volunteer 
opportunities, our colleagues can use their professional 
skills to help nonprofits become more efficient and 
effective via Serve2Gether Consulting, our pro bono 
volunteer program.
Our annual Serve2Gether Consulting Challenge provides 
opportunities for colleagues to combine their commitment 
to community service with their business expertise. Over 
the course of this 10-week program, hundreds of colleagues 
apply their expertise to projects that help our nonprofit partners improve their branding and messaging, implement 
new digital media strategies, deepen engagement with 
donors and volunteers, and strengthen their operations. 
At the conclusion of the program, each team presents 
recommendations to address their clients’ specific 
operational challenges and gets a chance to compete 
for a share of $200,000 in seed grant funding from the 
American Express Foundation.
Finally, our Serve2Gether Grants program provides 
micro-grants of $500–$2,500 to organizations where 
our colleagues volunteer 50 or more hours within a 
12-month period. In 2018, the program recognized and 
rewarded the service of over 645 U.S. colleagues by 
awarding 98 Serve2Gether Grants (totaling $131,000) to 76 
organizations where colleagues serve.
23,000
More than 23,000 volunteer opportunities 
provided by our colleagues were equivalent  
to 127 ,000 hours of Company-sponsored 
volunteer service, valued at $4.2 million.1014  countries
Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, 
France, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, 
Mexico, the Philippines, Singapore, the 
U.K., and the U.S.2018 SERVE2GETHER IMPACT INVESTING IN YOUTH MENTORING: STRIVE FOR COLLEGE
In 2018, we joined forces with Strive for College to increase college access for students across the United States. 
Strive for College is a national nonprofit that provides disadvantaged students with mentoring through the college 
admissions and financial aid application process through the UStrive virtual mentoring platform. American Express 
committed $500,000 to the initiative, which engages hundreds of American Express professionals as mentors. 97% 
of Strive for College students enroll in college and 91% complete financial aid applications. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES54
ENCOURAGING GIVING THROUGH 
GIVE2GETHER
Our colleagues want to give to the causes they care 
about, so we do everything we can to make that as easy 
as possible for them. We match their contributions to 
nonprofits up to a maximum of $8,000 a year. In 2018,  
we matched $5.4 million in contributions. 
Each fall, we hold a Give2Gether campaign across 
our workplaces in the U.S., Canada, and India. In 2017 , 
20,345 U.S. colleagues, 1,697 Canadian colleagues and 
5,724 Indian colleagues participated in Give2Gether.  SUSTAINING THE ENVIRONMENT 
THROUGH GREEN2GETHER
Green2Gether gives colleagues another avenue for 
making a difference. Through this initiative, colleagues can 
design and lead environmental initiatives tailored to their 
workplaces and communities. In 2018, more than 25,000 
colleagues participated in our Green2Gether activities 
during Earth Month – resulting in the planting of more 
than 35,000 trees, among other things. 
 
3,800
charities total in Canada, 
the U.S., and India were 
supported through 
Give2Gether campaigns. 
$4.4
million donated by  
colleagues in the U.S. 
$4.3
million matched by  
the Company in the U.S.2018 GIVE2GETHER IMPACTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES55
For more than a decade, we have devoted significant resources to creating and funding 
programs that strengthen leaders within nonprofit and social purpose organizations working 
to solve the world’s biggest challenges. Since 2007 , we have invested more than $80 million to 
develop more than 100,000 social purpose leaders who are tackling some of society’s most 
complex issues.
TRAINING THE LEADERS OF TOMORROW: THE 
AMERICAN EXPRESS LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
Founded in 2008, the American Express Leadership Academy builds the personal, business, 
and leadership skills of emerging nonprofit leaders and social entrepreneurs through multi-day, 
in-person trainings. The initiative has grown to a global program, training world-class leaders in 
the areas of education, the arts, social services, health, the environment, and more. T o date, we 
have hosted 130 Leadership Academy programs across 12 countries, training more than 4,300 
nonprofit and social sector leaders. 
SCALING OUR IMPACT THROUGH DIGITAL LEARNING
We recognize the need to further scale our leadership programs, so in addition to our partner-
led Leadership Academy programs, we support two online leadership development platforms 
for social purpose leaders: +Acumen and Leaderosity.
+Acumen: A nonprofit that seeks to 
bridge the gap between market-based and 
philanthropic approaches to social change, 
+Acumen offers an online course platform 
and global learning community for social 
change leaders. +Acumen shares unique 
leadership tools and guidance on building 
social enterprises through its free and low-
cost, globally accessible online courses. 
The initiative trained over 11,000 leaders in 
2018 and approximately 45,000 since its 
launch in 2013 .Leaderosity: An online leadership 
development platform for social purpose 
leaders. Courses are tailored to each 
participant’s preference and pace 
with added peer-to-peer interactions 
challenging participants to be more 
adaptable and collaborative leaders. This 
networking aspect gives participants the 
opportunity to build lasting local, national, 
and international relationships with a 
community of like-minded people. In 2018, 
Leaderosity trained more than 800 leaders .Developing leaders
We work hard to 
attract, develop, 
and retain top 
talent to build our 
leadership pipeline. 
This commitment 
to identifying and 
developing leaders 
extends to our 
communities.
$10.6M
in grants .750+ 
More than 750 
emerging social 
purpose leaders 
trained through 20 
American Express 
Leadership Academy 
programs in 11 
Academy partners.9 countries
China, France, 
Japan, Kenya, 
Mexico, Senegal, 
Singapore, the U.K. 
and the U.S.20K+  
nonprofit and social sector 
leaders trained through 
the American Express 
Leadership Academy 
and other in-person or 
online trainings through 
our partners, including 
+Acumen and Leaderosity.  2018 SOCIAL PURPOSE 
LEADERSHIP GRANT IMPACTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES56
CONTINUING THE LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
JOURNEY THROUGH NETWORKING PLATFORMS
Leaders have much to learn from each other. And for 
true leaders, the learning never ends. Once emerging 
leaders have completed our programs, we maintain  
our relationship with them and provide them with  
these resources to build and maintain relationships  
with each other: 
We offer ongoing alumni engagement and leadership 
opportunities through the American Express 
Leadership Academy LinkedIn group.
We hosted our fourth annual American Express 
Leadership Academy Global Alumni Summit in 2018.
We continue to support Leaderstories.org, a 
storytelling platform for Academy participants and 
other leaders. The platform features stories, key 
resources, and insights on leadership from innovators 
and experts. The stories inspire, inform, and connect 
emerging leaders across the nonprofit sector.ENABLING NONPROFITS TO 
MAINTAIN THEIR OWN LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
In 2018, we made more than 90 grants to nonprofit 
organizations to create, develop, expand, or maintain 
their own leadership development programs for high-
potential, emerging leaders. Nearly 5,000 leaders 
were trained as a result of grants to organizations as 
diverse as Chicago Foundation for Women (Chicago, IL), 
Berkeley Rep (Berkeley, CA), Dance/USA (Washington, 
DC), CARE. (Atlanta, GA), New Y ork Immigration 
Coalition (New Y ork, NY), and Rainier Valley Corps 
(Seattle, WA). 
American Express’ 
Annual Leadership 
Academy Global 
Alumni Summit In April 2018, we hosted our fourth annual Leadership Academy Global 
Alumni Summit in New Y ork, in partnership with Atlas Service Corps. 
The Summit celebrated the accomplishments of 72 program participants and 
provided them with two days of leadership development training, as well as 
an opportunity to network with alumni and Academy partners from around 
the world.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES57
We understand the cultural and economic 
value they bring to communities, and we 
are committed to backing the continuing 
stewardship of these sites to ensure they can 
be experienced and enjoyed by generations 
to come. 
We support projects that help communities 
preserve or rediscover major historic 
landmarks and public spaces, providing 
sustainable and ongoing access to the 
public, now and in the future. Our emphasis 
is on sites that represent diverse cultures 
and engage the public in unique ways.
Since 1974, we have contributed over $80 
million in support of historic preservation 
efforts around the world. Our funding has 
preserved more than 680 sites, from the 
National September 11 Memorial & Museum 
in New Y ork to the Quixote Fountain in 
Mexico City's Chapultepec Park. 
SAVING THE WORLD’S MOST 
TREASURED PLACES
We are the founding sponsor of World 
Monuments Watch, which draws attention 
to cultural heritage sites around the world 
threatened by neglect, vandalism, armed 
conflict, commercial development, natural 
disasters, and climate change. Over the 
past 50 years, World Monuments Fund has 
implemented more than 600 projects in 90 
countries. The World Monuments Fund’s 
2018 Monuments Watch includes 25 sites 
spanning 30 countries. American Express 
provided $1 million in funding to sites in 
China, France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Spain, 
the U.K., and Zimbabwe.RESTORING AMERICA’S 
HISTORIC LANDMARKS 
AND COMMUNITIES
The National T rust for Historic Preservation 
is a nonprofit organization dedicated to 
protecting and restoring America’s historic 
landmarks and communities. Over a decade 
ago, we joined forces with the National T rust 
to form Partners in Preservation, an initiative 
that helps preserve historic sites in the U.S. 
both directly and by inspiring local citizens 
to get involved with the historic places at the 
heart of their communities. 
Since 2006, we have committed more  
than $28 million dollars to the effort, 
supporting more than 260 historic sites 
in San Francisco, Chicago, New Orleans, 
Boston, Seattle, the T win Cities area,  
New Y ork, and Washington, D.C. 
Our latest effort was Partners in 
Preservation: Main Streets , a community-
based campaign to raise awareness about 
the importance of preserving America’s main 
street districts. This was the second national 
campaign of Partners in Preservation. In 
2018, 20 historic districts, which celebrate 
diversity and the struggle for equality, 
competed in an online popular vote. The 11 
winning main street sites received a total 
of $1.6 million in grants to help fund their 
preservation projects. Additionally, every site 
that competed received a $20,000 grant 
at the outset of the campaign to help raise 
awareness about their preservation needs, 
bringing the total to $2 million in grants.American Express 
has deep roots in the 
travel services industry, 
stretching back to World 
War I. That’s why we feel 
so connected to historic 
sites around the world. 
2018 HISTORIC 
PRESERVATION  
GRANT IMPACT 
 $7M
in grants . 
41
historic sites 
preserved . 
11
countries 
Argentina, China, Canada, France, 
Italy, Japan, Mexico, Spain, the 
U.K., the U.S. and Zimbabwe.Preserving PlacesResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
58
MANAGING OUR 
OPERATIONS 
RESPONSIBLY
We recognize our responsibility 
to help preserve natural 
resources for future generations 
and support ethical business 
practices around the globe.
59 Introduction
60 Reducing our carbon emissions
63 Investing in sustainable workplaces
65 Commitment to sustainable products, 
responsible sourcing, and supplier diversity
66 Partnering with our colleagues
67 Managing our environmental performanceResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
59
Managing Our Operations Responsibly
We know that one of the most 
significant ways we can back 
our stakeholders is to do our 
part to protect and sustain 
the environment on which life 
depends. 
Our approach to environmental 
stewardship within our operations 
includes a focus across various 
themes, such as energy and 
emissions management, waste 
management, third-party green 
building certifications, and 
responsible sourcing. We prioritize 
the management and improvement 
of our own footprint, including 
the environmental impacts of our 
offices and operations. We are also 
powering our network and data 
centers more efficiently and with the 
use of renewable resources – and 
we’re exploring more sustainable 
payment solutions, including utilizing 
reclaimed ocean-bound plastic to 
make our Cards. Finally, we strive 
to work with diverse suppliers and 
source environmentally and socially 
responsible products and services from 
approved third-party vendors.2018 highlights
 Reduce our environmental impact 
Zero net carbon emissions for our 
operations.5
100% renewable electricity 
powered our operations. 
Nearly 50% of our operations were 
green-building certified.6
 Commit to responsible sourcing
100% of the paper used in 
our U.S direct marketing efforts 
was certified from sustainably 
managed forests.
17% spend increase in the U.S. for 
our Minority and Women-Owned 
Business Enterprises (MWBE), 
compared to 2017 .
Committed to eliminating 
single-use plastics across our 
operations by 2025, as well as 
launching the first-ever American 
Express Credit Card manufactured 
primarily from reclaimed plastic 
collected from oceans and  
coasts in partnership with Parley  
for the Oceans.
 Engage our colleagues 
in sustainability
25,000 participants in our Earth 
Month activities.
More than $4.3 million provided 
in support of the environment 
and wildlife through the gift 
matching and Serve2Gether grant 
programs.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY60
Reducing our carbon emissions
We aim to minimize the effects our operations have on the environment  
and our climate. T o that end, we have had a long-standing focus on increasing 
energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy, and reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions.
American Express Environmental Targets 2018 Progress
Green 
Building 
Certification40% of our operations 
to be certified under a 
green building standard 
by 2018.6Surpassed:  
~50%
GHG 
Emissions100% of our employee 
business travel 
emissions (third-party 
air, rail, and rental cars) 
to be carbon neutral by 
2020.Achieved 
31% reduction of GHG 
emissions from 2011 
baseline by 2021.12Surpassed:  
CarbonNeutral®
85% reduction of GHG 
emissions from 2011 
baseline by 2040.12Surpassed:  
CarbonNeutral®
Renewable 
Energy100% of renewable 
electricity to power our 
U.S. data centers and 
our global headquarters 
by 2021.Achieved 
100% of renewable 
electricity to power our 
U.S. operations by 2040.Achieved 
Energy 
EfficiencyReduce energy use 
by 25% across our 
managed facilities from 
2011 to 2018.13Surpassed:  
28%    We know that one of the most 
significant ways we can back 
our stakeholders is to do our 
part to protect and sustain 
the environment on which life 
depends. Because climate 
change represents one of 
the biggest challenges of 
our time, we are committed 
to doing our part to limit 
global temperature rise to 
well below 2°C, with efforts 
to limit this to 1.5°C per the 
latest Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change 
recommendations. In 2018, 
we became a CarbonNeutral® 
company through renewable 
energy credits, carbon offsets, 
and reduced GHG emissions, 
and powered our operations 
with 100% renewable 
electricity. We are committed 
to maintaining these efforts 
moving forward. Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY61
Our carbon footprint is comprised of the 
electricity we use to power our offices and data 
centers; the fuel we use for freight (mobile) 
and colleague business travel by third-party air, 
rail, and car (business travel); and the diesel 
and natural gas we burn to heat our facilities 
and power back-up generators (stationary 
combustion). 
In keeping with international best practices for 
transparently reporting climate-related impacts, 
we have submitted data to the CDP (formerly 
the Carbon Disclosure Project) every year 
since 2007 . We follow the GHG Protocol Scope 
2 Guidance for measuring and reporting both 
market-based and location-based Scope 2 GHG 
emissions,14  and we also report on Scope 3 CO2 
emissions from colleague business travel. In 
2018, we received a score of B on our climate 
change impact reporting. Please refer to page 67 . 
CARBON  
FOOTPRINTPURCHASED
ENERGY
MOBILE
BUSINESS
TRAVELSTATIONARY
COMBUSTIONCARBONNEUTRAL® COMPANY 
Through a combination of renewable energy credits, 
carbon offsets, and emission reduction projects around 
the world, we have reduced our emissions to net zero 
in accordance with The CarbonNeutral® Protocol, 
the global standard for carbon neutral programs. As 
a result, we have achieved CarbonNeutral® company 
certification for 2018. This involved an independent 
assessment of the CO2 emissions produced from our 
Scope 1, 2, and select Scope 3 categories followed by 
the purchase of environmental instruments, which 
support low-carbon sustainable development and 
renewable energy projects around the world. All the 
projects are independently verified to assure the 
quality of the emissions reductions or renewable 
energy generation to enable American Express to 
report a net zero carbon footprint.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY62
NEW ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS AND GOALS
COMMITMENTS
0 net  
Remain carbon neutral  
for our operations5100%
Power our operations with 
100% renewable electricity
2025 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
 
Energy
Reduce energy use 
by 35% across our 
managed facilities, 
compared to 2011.15
 
Sourcing
Eliminate single-use plastics  
across our operations.16
Source 100% of our direct marketing, 
customer communications and office  
paper from certified responsibly  
managed forests. 
Green Building
Achieve Green Building certification for  
60% of our operations.17 
Water
Reduce water  
use from our 
managed 
facilities by 10% 
per employee, 
compared  
to 2019.15 
Waste
Reduce waste generated from our managed 
facilities by 10% per employee, compared to 2019.15
Divert 60% of office waste generated from our 
managed facilities from going to landfill.15
Achieve zero waste certification for our  
U.S. headquarters.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY63
A safe, healthy, and productive work environment is vital to our colleagues 
and to our business. We strive to design, build, and operate our facilities to 
continuously consume fewer resources and emit lower levels of greenhouse 
gases while improving indoor environmental quality and colleague well-being.
OPTIMIZING SPACE AND ENERGY USAGE 
AND PURCHASING GREEN POWER
Optimizing energy use and purchasing renewable energy have played an essential role in our 
journey to become a more sustainable workplace. In 2018, we purchased nearly 250,000,000 
kWh of renewable energy attribute certificates (EACs) worldwide. 
Our U.S. data centers are green building and ISO 9001-2008 certified, employing best-in-
class environmental and quality management systems. They offset 100% of their electricity 
consumption through the combined purchase of RECs and on-site generation of solar power.
Our Company workspace program, BlueWork, employs sustainable furniture and construction 
materials based on the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED Certification rating systems. 
Workspace allocation guidelines, coupled with remote work capabilities, optimize the use 
of real estate while offering greater flexibility. We further support colleagues with virtual 
workplace tools, technologies, and electronics that adhere to energy efficiency standards. Investing in sustainable workplaces
PUTTING SUSTAINABILITY ON THE MENU
Dining services are an essential part of our daily building operations, feeding thousands 
of colleagues around the world. As food production is increasingly recognized as a major 
contributor to climate change, our food services providers, catering, and cafeteria staff are 
transforming their operations to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by offering a broader 
range of low-carbon, plant-based food options. Also, as the Company sets new targets to 
reduce waste and single-use plastics, our dining operations are shifting to compostable and 
reusable packaging and materials to curb unnecessary waste heading into landfills.  
Here are some highlights from 2018:
Our two Phoenix cafeterias achieved 
Green Restaurant Association (GRA) 
certification. Five of the six U.S. cafeterias 
are now GRA certified.
Replaced single-use plastics in all U.S. 
cafeteria operations with compostable 
packaging and utensils, eliminating 62,000 
pounds of single-use plastic in 2018. 
We pushed the transition to 100% 
reusable china and coffee mugs in select 
locations, and 65% of offices with dining 
operations offer compostable or reusable 
wares as alternatives to single-use plastic.We partnered with Farmshelf, a company 
that makes hydroponic growing 
machines, to bring “Blue Box Grown” 
picked in the cafeteria to your plate. In 
2018, about 100 pounds of produce came 
from the six machines in our New Y ork 
headquarters. 
Our New Y ork headquarters hired 
T ransfernation to donate excess food 
from our dining and catering operations 
to local food shelters. In 2018, more than 
6,000 pounds of food were donated, 
feeding approximately 5,300 people.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY64
REDUCING WASTE AND 
CONSERVING WATER
In the advent of growing 
environmental damage from plastic 
waste, major changes in the waste 
disposal supply chain globally, 
and the Company’s partnership 
with Parley for the Oceans, waste 
management has become a top 
priority for our operational teams. 
Three of our new operational 2025 
targets focus on the reduction and 
diversion of landfill-bound waste 
and single-use plastics. 
Water scarcity is also a growing 
environmental issue, impacting 
some regions of the world more 
than others. Where our operations 
are based in regions where water 
conservation is a priority, various 
efficiency measures are taken to 
curb excess water use, although 
we anticipate more water use from 
dishwashing as part of our waste 
reduction goals. We set a new target 
to reduce our water consumption 
from managed facilities by 10% per 
employee from 2019 levels.152018 highlights
  Waste
 13% waste reduction from managed facilities since 2015.18  
 27% of total refuse was diverted from landfills from our 
managed facilities. We were able to divert less waste in 2018 
as compared to 2017 , due to changes to city recycling laws 
in the New Y ork City area, which limited the scope of what 
could be recycled, and as such negatively impacted our waste 
diversion rates. Changes have been made at our New Y ork 
headquarters to rebound in 2019. 
 78% of managed facilities have switched from desk waste 
bins to a centralized floor waste program, enabling higher 
rates of recycling and a better consistency of waste separation 
to avoid contamination. 
 As part of our commitment to achieve zero waste in our  
New Y ork headquarters by 2025, an organic waste pilot was 
kicked off to divert food and compostable waste from the 
landfill waste stream. Based on the pilot’s results, all floors 
in the New Y ork headquarters will participate in an organics 
disposal program by the end of 2019. 
 59% of managed facilities now offer electronic waste collection 
points for colleagues to drop off Company-owned devices. 
  Water
 Reduced our total water consumption from managed 
facilities by 8% since 2015.19 
 73% of managed facilities have low-flow equipment 
installed in all washrooms to minimize excess water 
consumption.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY65
PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE SERVICES
Customers increasingly expect to see sustainable practices from the companies they do 
business with. That’s why our approach to managing our environmental impact extends to 
how our products and services are delivered to, and used by, our customers. 
We offer a variety of convenient, sustainable options to help customers reduce their personal 
environmental footprint, such as:
Online alternatives to traditional paper-based documents.
Account information and documents stored virtually in data centers where 100% of the 
electricity is offset by renewable energy.
T ools to reduce our customers’ travel-related carbon footprint.Commitment to sustainable products, 
responsible sourcing, and supplier diversity
PARTNERSHIP TO REDUCE PLASTIC IN OUR PRODUCTS AND OPERATIONS
In an effort to combat marine plastic pollution, we began collaborating with Parley 
for the Oceans in the beginning of 2018 to raise awareness of this issue, and we aim 
to launch the first-ever American Express Credit Card manufactured primarily from 
reclaimed plastic collected from oceans and coasts. In addition, we are committing 
to evolve our operations to embody Parley’s A.I.R. (Avoid, Intercept, Redesign) 
philosophy through a corporate pledge to limit single-use plastics, intercept plastic 
waste, and redesign existing materials and plastic products. Progress on our A.I.R. 
strategy includes:
Removed single-use plastic straws and coffee stirrers from our global 
headquarters, managed office facilities, and operating centers. We also 
removed all single-use plastic for Centurion® Lounges globally.
Committed to diverting 60% of waste from managed facilities with measured 
data from landfills by 2025. 
Prototyped the first American Express Credit Card made from reclaimed plastic 
with Parley for the Oceans.
Engaged more than 1,100 colleagues in 12 river and ocean clean-ups globally  
in 2018.
Committed to eliminating single-use plastics across our operations by 2025.
100 %
of paper used in our U.S. direct 
marketing efforts were certified 
from sustainably managed forests.54% 
of Card Member statements 
were paperless.2092%
of Card Member  
payments were electronic.212018 HIGHLIGHTSResponsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY66
PARTNERING WITH OUR COLLEAGUES
Our colleagues are critical to our environmental 
sustainability initiatives. We partner with them to 
make our facilities and communities more climate-
friendly through everyday work practices, volunteer-
led Green2Gether T eams, and environmental events, 
such as Earth Week and Earth Hour. 
Through our Green2Gether teams, colleagues design and 
lead environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces 
and local communities. Events such as recycling drives, 
lectures, and awareness campaigns give sustainability 
minded colleagues the opportunity to enhance their 
professional and personal development while making a 
vital contribution to reducing our environmental footprint. 
MANAGING THIRD -PARTY 
RELATIONSHIPS
We take a comprehensive approach to managing 
third-party relationships throughout their entire 
lifecycle to ensure we are complying with regulatory 
requirements. Any new, modified, and renewed 
engagements considered high-risk undergo rigorous 
risk assessment and due diligence. Colleagues must 
also regularly evaluate third parties they work with to 
ensure they are meeting relationship, compliance, and 
risk expectations.
Additionally, we source environmentally and socially 
responsible products and services from approved third-
party vendors. We have set a new goal to source 100% 
of our direct marketing, customer communications and 
office paper from certified responsibly managed forests 
by 2025.ENSURING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Winning strategies, products, and services require 
diversity of thought, perspective, and contribution.  
We are committed to inclusion and diversity across 
our organization, including among the third parties 
with whom we do business.
We monitor our annual spend with suppliers that are 
certified business enterprises with protected-class 
owners and operators, including:
Minority Business Enterprises
Women-Owned Business Enterprises
Small Business Enterprises/8(a)/HUBZone- 
certified firms
LGBTQ-owned firms
Disadvantaged or Disability-Owned Business 
Enterprises
Veteran-Owned Business Enterprises
We support human rights in our supply 
chain and are committed to working with 
suppliers who share our values. All third 
parties – including suppliers – that provide 
us with goods or services are required to 
conduct business in accordance with all 
applicable laws, rules, and regulations, 
in addition to adhering to our standards 
of integrity, transparency, and ethics. We 
enforce this through our Blue Box Shared 
Values documentation. View our Human 
Rights Statement and U.K Modern 
Slavery Act Transparency Statement.2018 HIGHLIGHTS
17%
spend increase in the U.S. for our Minority 
and Women-Owned Business Enterprises 
(MWBE) in 2018, compared to 2017 .
ENGAGING COLLEAGUES IN 2018
25K
participants in our Earth Month activities.
$4.3M+
provided in support of the environment 
and wildlife through our Gift Matching and 
Serve2Gether grant programs.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY67
Managing our environmental performance 
UNIT24TREND 2017 -2018 2018 2017 2016
Employee headcount FTE 59,000 55,000 56,400
Annual revenue22  $US M $40,338 $36,878 $35,438
Building square footage23  ft28,504,984 8,924,040 8,885,680
Green building square footage6 ft24,488,252 4,076,962 4,103,345
ENERGY25
Global direct energy consumption MWh 92,516 93,021 98,142
Natural gas MWh 16,711 17 ,615 17 ,440
Fuel oil MWh 3,241 2,333 3,588
Mobile fuel MWh 72,564 73,073 77 ,114
Global intermediate energy consumption MWh 270,449 282,723 277 ,558
Purchased electricity MWh 246,955 259,323 255,964
Purchased steam & chilled water MWh 23,494 23,400 21,594
Global direct and intermediate energy consumption MWh 362,965 375,744 375,701
Global percent renewable electricity 100% 62% 59%
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
Scope 1 - direct tCO2e 23,981 24,162 25,438
Scope 2 (location) - indirect  tCO2e 112,745 119,932 127 ,760
Scope 2 (market) - indirect26tCO2e 2,994 55,273 59,115
Scope 3: category 6 - business travel27  tCO2e 47 ,285 34,224 38,364
T otal emissions: scope 1 & 2 (location)  tCO2e 136,726 144,094 153,198
T otal emissions: scope 1, 2 (market) tCO2e 26,975 79,435 84,553
T otal emissions: scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 category 6 tCO2e 74,260 113,659 122,917
Verified carbon offset emissions reductions tCO2e 75,970 35,000 0
Net emissions: scope 1, 2 (market) and 3 category 6 
with purchased GHG emissions offsets0 78,659 122,917
Scope 1 & scope 2 (market) emissions per revenue tCO2e/$M 0.7 2.2 2.4
Scope 1 & scope 2 (market) emissions per building 
square footagekgCO2e/ft23.2 8.9 9.5
Scope 1 & scope 2 (market) emissions per employee 
headcounttCO2e/FTE 0.5 1.4 1.5
GLOBAL WATER19
Global water usage m3609,310 527 ,562 627 ,549
GLOBAL WASTE18
Waste generated tons 3,324 3,130 3,073
Waste recycled tons 1,075 1,389 1,501
PAPER USE
U.S. direct mail LBS 35,380,912 76,596,158 109,037 ,128
Percent U.S. direct mail from sustainable sources 100% 98% 97%
Copy paper pages printed globally (sheets) 80,512,205 83,410,737 106,221,667
CDP
Climate change survey: score28B A- B
ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATIONS
Environmental violations (number) 0 0 0ENDNOTES68
Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices1.  CarbonNeutral® certification is granted to businesses or 
organizations that have reduced their carbon emissions to net 
zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol.
2.  Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites and data 
centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally 
managed by our global real estate team and housing critical 
business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are 
not operationally managed by our global real estate team but 
directly by our business units. They are typically smaller sites, 
less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, foreign 
exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or leased by 
American Express.
3.  This spend statistic is an aggregate of the average spend as 
reported by consumers in surveys commissioned by American 
Express reporting spend habits on Small Business Saturday of 
consumers who were aware of the day. It does not reflect actual 
receipts or sales. Each such survey was conducted among a 
nationally representative sample of U.S. adults. The surveys had 
an overall margin of error of between +/- 2.0% and +/- 5.47%, 
at the 95% level of confidence. The data was projected from the 
samples based on then-current U.S. Census estimates of the 
U.S. adult population (18+).
4.  The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was 
conducted in the U.K. among a nationally representative sample 
of 4,003 males and females 18 years of age or older. The sample 
was collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The 
study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual 
receipt or sales. It was conducted anonymously on December 1 
and 2, 2018. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- xx 
% at the 95% level of confidence.
5.  Achieved zero net carbon emissions for scope 1, 2, and 3 
(waste and employee business travel, including third-party air, 
rail and rental cars) through renewable energy credits, carbon 
offsets, and reduced GHG emissions. Operations include all 
our managed facilities, field sites and data centers. Managed 
facilities are individual properties operationally managed by our 
global real estate team and housing critical business functions. 
Field sites are individual properties that are not operationally 
managed by our global real estate team but directly by our 
business units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 
square feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, 
and sales offices) that are owned or leased by American Express.
6.  Green building certified square footage is total square footage of 
leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express 
(excluding parking lot square footage) certified under a global 
or locally recognized third-party environmental building rating 
system as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, BREEAM, 
NABERS, and GreenMark).
7 .  AmexMeet, also known as WebEx, is a tool that provides on-
demand collaboration, online meeting, web conferencing and 
videoconferencing applications. 
8.  T elepresence is a video collaboration tool that offers a realistic 
“in-person” experience through full, high-definition video and 
audio. It allows individuals to engage and collaborate virtually 
anytime, anywhere and across multiple platforms.  9.  The 2018 Small Business Economic Impact Study was conducted 
by Econsult Solutions, Inc. (ESI) on behalf of American 
Express. ESI calculated the share of national Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP), employment and employee compensation that 
small businesses with under 100 employees provide to the 
economy based on an analysis used by the U.S. Small Business 
Administration. ESI also estimated how much of each dollar spent 
at the average small business remains in their local community 
and used input-output analysis across 100 representative U.S. 
counties to calculate the additional impact that is generated 
locally as the result of the spending of employees and the 
spending of the small business with local suppliers and service 
providers. amex.co/another-reason-shop-small.
10.  The 2018 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey 
was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express and 
the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). 
The survey is a nationally representative sample of 1,995 males 
and females 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an anonymous online survey from 
October 15-26, 2018. The survey has an overall margin of error of 
+/- 2.2%, at the 95% level of confidence.
11.  According to T aproot Foundation, services donated by business 
professionals are valued at $150 per hour and per the 2019 
Bureau of Labor Statistics data, the estimated value of more 
traditional volunteering time is $25.43.
12.  For scope 1 and 2, based on market-based carbon accounting 
methodology.
13.  Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered 
/or measured data is available.
14.   According to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, a location-
based method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids 
on which energy consumption occurs (using mostly grid-
average emission factor data). A market-based method reflects 
emissions from electricity that companies have purposefully 
chosen (or their lack of choice). It derives emission factors from 
contractual instruments, which include any type of contract 
between two parties for the sale and purchase of energy bundled 
with attributes about the energy generation, or for unbundled 
attribute claims. Unless otherwise indicated, the Scope 2 GHG 
emissions disclosed in this report are market-based.
15.  Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered 
and/or measured data is available; per employee goals based on 
number of employees located in such managed facilities. 
16.  Single-use plastics is defined as plastic items that are used only 
once before they are thrown away or recycled. These items are 
things like plastic bags, straws, coffee stirrers, soda and water 
bottles and most food packaging. Materials that are plastic yet 
designed to be reusable (i.e. reusable plastic food containers or 
water bottles) are out of scope.
17 .  Green building certified percentage is represented by the total 
square footage of leased or owned facilities. actively occupied by 
American Express (excluding parking lot square footage) certified 
under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental 
building rating system as meeting their performance criteria 
(LEED, BREEAM, NABERS, and GreenMark).ENDNOTES69
Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible  
Business Practices18.  Waste generation reported only for managed facilities where 
waste generation data is available. The waste usage for 2018 
represents approximately 67% (4,457 ,816SF) of the globally 
managed office footprint. Previously disclosed data for 2016 
and 2017 have been restated based on operational changes in 
methodology.
19.  Water usage reported only for managed facilities where 
measured data is available. Reported water usage for 2018 
represents approximately 75% (4,983,003SF) of the globally 
managed office footprint. Previously disclosed data for 2016 
and 2017 have been restated based on operational changes in 
methodology.
20.  Includes Global Consumer, Global Small Business and US 
Corporate Card Members.
21.  ”Electronic” includes payments received via phone, online, Auto 
Pay, third party remits and wire transfers.
22.  Previously disclosed amounts have been restated in conjunction 
with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
23.  Building square footage includes all leased and owned facilities 
actively occupied by American Express, excluding parking 
lot square footage, including facilities managed centrally by 
the American Express Global Real Estate team, by individual 
business units and the Data Center Infrastructure team.24.  FTE: Full-time Equivalent; $US M: Millions of dollars; ft2: Square 
Footage; tCO2e: Metric T ons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; 
KgCo2: Kilograms of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; MWh: Megawatt 
Hours; m3: Cubic Meters; Lbs.: Pound Weight.
25.  Energy usage based on combination of metered energy 
consumption billing data and estimated energy consumption 
data based on energy intensity per square footage standards 
outlines in the GHG Protocol where metered data is not currently 
available.
26.  246,955 MWh, 160,663 MWh and 150,000 MWh of renewable 
energy attributes were applied to the 2018, 2017 and 2016 
scope 2 market-based emissions, respectively, resulting in 
109,751 MtCO2e, 68,256 MtCO2e and 71,531 MtCO2e emissions 
reduction, respectively.
27 .   Represents third-party air and rail travel and rental cars.
28.   Previously disclosed scores have been updated to align with CDP 
public disclosure practices.70
 
WATER RESOURCES  •  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES  •  INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE  •  SAFETY  •  CLIMATE CHANGE 
Apex Companies, LLC  •  1940 E. Deere Avenue , Suite 210, Santa Ana, CA  •  (714) 431 -4100  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
VERIFICATION STATEMENT  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of  the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by American Express for the calendar year (CY) 201 8.  This Verification  Statement applies to the 
related information included within the scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions  is the sole responsibility of American Express .  Apex’s sole responsibility 
was to provide independent verification  on the accurac y of the GHG emissions  reported , and on the underlying 
systems and processes used to collect, analyz e and review the information.  
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
 Operational Control  
 Worldwide  
 Exclusions: No ne   
Emissions data verified:  
American Express Entity -Wide GHG Emissions for CY 2018  
Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tonnes (mt) of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e) 23,981  
Scope 2 Emissions –  Location Based mt CO 2e 112,745  
Scope 2 Emissions –  Market Based mt CO 2e  (purch ased steam and chilled water 
emissions)  2,994  
Scope 3 Emissions –  Category 6 Business Travel CO 2e 47,285  
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3 Business Travel CO 2e 74,260  
GHG Emission Offsets and Net Emissions for CY 2018  
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets mt CO 2e    75,970  
Net Emissions CO 2e 
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3) - Purchased GHG Emission Offsets  0 
 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases  
estimated rather than historical in nature.  
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature . 71
 
 
American Express  Page 2 
July 2 5, 2019  
 
Period covered by GHG emissions  verification : 
 Calendar Year 201 8 – January 1 to December 31, 201 8 
GHG Report ing Protocols against which verification was c onducted:  
 World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol , Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition  (Scope 1 
and 2)  and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.  
 WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)  Accounting and Reporting 
Standard .  
GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the v erification:  
 ISO 14064 -3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions  
Level of Assurance  and Qualifications : 
 Limited  
 Materiality Threshold ±5% 
 Qualifications:  None  
GHG Verification Methodolog y:  
 Interviews with relevant personnel of American Express  and their consultant ;  
 Review of documentary evidence produced by  American Express ;  
 Review of American Express  data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, 
analysis an d review of information used to determine GHG emissions at American Express’s New York City 
headquarters  office ;  
 Audit of samples of data used by American Express to determine GHG emissions.  
Assurance Opinion: 
Based on the process and procedures conducted , there is no evidence that the GHG emissions assertion shown 
above: 
 is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and  
 has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard  (Scope 1 and 2), and WRI/WBCSD Green house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).   
It is our opinion that American Express  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantita tive data for determination of these  GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  72
 
 
American Express  Page 3 
July 2 5, 2019  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environment al 
management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.   
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment.  We  conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there 
has been no conflict of interest.  
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards  among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.  
The ve rification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions  data.  
Attestation:  
  
 
 
David Reilly, Lead Verifier      Trevor Donaghu , Technical Reviewer  
Principal Consultant      Program Manager  
Climate Change and Sustainability Services    Climate Cha nge and Sustainability Services  
Apex Companies, LLC      Apex Companies, LLC  
 
 
July 2 5, 2019  
 
This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express  and is solely for the benefit of 
American Express  in accordanc e with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the CDP in 
order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability o n our part 
to CDP or to any oth er party who may have access to this statement.  
Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
73
INDEX
GRI Content Index
This report responds to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards reporting guidelines. The table below shows 
where you can find the information required for each Standard Disclosure. While most information is found in this report, 
other primary sources include: our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2019 Proxy Statement, 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project 
submission, and our corporate website.
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 102: general disclosures
102-1 Name of organization American Express Company
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About American Express, Company Profile,  
Form 10-K, Item 14
102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, NY 10281
102-4 Location of operations About American Express, Company Profile 4
102-5 Ownership and legal form Form 10-K, Item 1
102-6 Markets served About American Express, Company Profile,  
Form 10-K, Item 14
102-7 Scale of organization About American Express, Company Profile 4
102-8 Information on employees and other workers About American Express, Company Profile, Serving Our 
Colleagues, Our Global Global Inclusion and Diversity 
Strategy4, 26
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainForm 10-K, Item 1
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices,  
Risk Management and Security21
102-12 External initiatives How We Approach CSR, American Express and the UN 
SDGs, Promoting Responsible Business Practices,  
Advocacy and Membership in Key Organizations11, 23
102-13 Memberships of associations Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics, Policies and Procedures, Policy Engagement and 
Political Activity 23
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter 3
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Stakeholders, 
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues 
Form 10-K, Item 1A9, 10
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavio Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics17
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics, Reporting Concerns1 7, 1 8Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX74
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
102-18 Governance structure How We Approach CSR, Promoting Responsible  
Business Practices,  
Proxy (pages 9-28, 36)8, 16
102-19 Delegating authority How We Approach CSR, Our CSR Governance Structure 14
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topicsHow We Approach CSR,  
CDP Submission8
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental and social impactsHow We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders, 
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues9, 10
102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committeesProxy (pages 7 -30)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy (page 13)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance bodyProxy (pages 9, 16-17)
102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy (pages 27-28, 63-64)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategyHow We Approach CSR,  
Proxy (pages 9-21, 36)8
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy (Public Responsibility Committee, page 25)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impactsCDP Submission
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Proxy (pages 23-26)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Proxy (Public Responsibility Committee, page 25) 
CDP Submission
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Code of Conduct (pages 4-5)
102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy (pages 42-79)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy (pages 42-64)
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy (pages 27-30)
102-40 List of stakeholder groups How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders 9
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders 9
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders,  
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues9, 10
102-45 Entities included in consolidated 
financial statementsSubsidiaries of the Company
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About This Report 6
102-47 List of material topics Priority issues are included in How We Approach CSR,  
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues10
102-48 Restatements of information See environmental table in the Managing our Operations 
Responsibly and endnotes58, 68
102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from the previous 
reporting period.Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX75
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report 6
102-51 Date of most recent report September 2018
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We value feedback from our stakeholders.  
If you would like to get in touch, please email  
corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 73
102-56 External assurance Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an 
independent verification of the greenhouse gas emissions 
reported by American Express for the calendar year 2018. 
gri 103: management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Reporting 
Concerns18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Reporting 
Concerns18
gri 201: economic performance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Form 10-K, Item 7
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Form 10-K, Item 7
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About American Express, Company Profile,  
Form 10-K, Item 74
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP Submission (CC2.3, CC2.4)
gri 202: market presence
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Form 10-K, Item 1
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Form 10-K, Item 1
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 
compared to local minimum wageWe provide competitive levels of compensation that meet 
or exceed local minimum wage requirements. Competitive 
wages and benefit programs may vary according to 
country and/or location. Most employees hired locally.
201-2 Proportion of senior management 
hired from the local communityMost employees are hired locally. We may consider 
qualified candidates across the globe when hiring for 
senior management positions.
gri 203: indirect economic impacts
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components How We Approach CSR, Caring for Our Communities 8, 49Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX76
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach How We Approach CSR, Caring for Our Communities 8, 49
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Caring for Our Communities, Revitalizing Neighborhoods 51
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Caring for Our Communities, Serving Communities, 
Developing Leaders 51, 55
gri 204: procurement practices
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity 65
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity 65
gri 205: anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresPromoting Responsible Business Practices, Business, 
Ethics Policies and Procedure, Code of Conduct17
gri 301: materials
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations 59
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations 59
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
gri 302: energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing 
Our Carbon Emissions60, 61
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing 
Our Carbon Emissions60, 61
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Managing Our Operations, Reducing Our Carbon 
Emissions, and Managing our Environmental Performance60,61,67Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX77
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 303: water
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Reducing Waste, Water, and 
Chemicals64
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Reducing Waste, Water, and 
Chemicals64
gri 305: emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing 
Our Carbon Emissions60, 61
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing 
Our Carbon Emissions60, 61
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance67
gri 306: effluents and waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing 
Our Carbon Emissions60, 61
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Investing in Sustainable 
Workplaces, Reducing Waste, Water, and Chemicals63, 64
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Managing Our Operations, Investing in Sustainable 
Workplaces, Reducing Waste, Water, and Chemicals63, 64
gri 401: employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX78
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 404: training and education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programsServing Our Colleagues, Providing Learning and 
Development30
gri 405: diversity and equal opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Inclusion and 
Diversity Strategy26
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Inclusion and 
Diversity Strategy26
405-1 Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per employee category 
according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership, and other indicators of diversityPromoting Responsible Business Practices, Board of 
Directors and Corporate Governance Framework
Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Inclusion and 
Diversity Strategy20 
26
gri 406: non-discrimination
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 412: human rights assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 413: local communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental,
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Caring for Our Communities, Introduction 49
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Caring for Our Communities, Introduction 49
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsCaring for Our Communities, Charitable Giving 50Responsible  
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
INDEX79
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 414: supplier social assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity65
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity65
gri 415: public policy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 417: marketing and labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending 41
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending 41
gri 418: customer privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Risk 
Management and Security, Serving Our Customers and 
Partners, Building a Safe and Secure Network21, 42
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Risk 
Management and Security, Serving Our Customers and 
Partners, Building a Safe and Secure Network21, 43
gri 419: socio-economic compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures
Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending17 
41
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures
Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending17 
41Thank you for reading our  
2018–2019 CSR report.   
We value feedback from our stakeholders.  
If you would like to get in touch, please email 
corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com. 