20 1 8 Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures Report
JULY 201 9AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT2
AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT1CONTENTS
AIG has a legacy of leadership in sustainability, which we believe is integral to our long-
term success as an insurer, investor, employer and corporate citizen. From supporting 
low carbon renewable energy projects to providing insurance to the underserved and 
promoting paperless processes, we are engaged in a variety of sustainability efforts 
across our global footprint.   
AIG supports the scientific consensus that climate change is a reality of increasing 
global concern. In 2006, AIG was one of the first U.S.-based insurers to formally 
recognize anthropogenic climate change, indicated by higher concentrations of 
greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean, diminished snow and ice,  
and rising sea levels.  
As the effects of climate change accelerate, they have the potential to impact both the 
frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions. These and other climate-related 
risks present opportunities and challenges for the insurance sector with implications 
for insurers’ underwriting, risk capacity, financial reserving, investing, risk modeling 
and own operations.    
In response, AIG consistently employs its expertise in underwriting and risk 
management to help address the impacts of climate change on our clients, our 
business and on our stakeholders. For example, we continually assess changes in 
climate and weather patterns as part of our General Insurance underwriting process. 
Our General Insurance business continues to identify, adapt, and respond to the 
developing risk exposures attributed to climate change. AIG is committed to providing 
insurance products and services to help our clients be proactive against the risks 
associated with climate change.  
As part of our commitment, AIG established a Sustainability Task Force (Task Force) 
with a mandate to develop recommendations for a corporate sustainability strategy. 
The Task Force consists of a cross-functional group of AIG employees, including  
AIG’s Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and Executive Vice President  
and Vice Chair, AIG Life Holdings, Inc., who both serve as executive sponsors. 
To contribute to this important dialogue and meet stakeholder expectations, we are 
pleased to present our inaugural climate risk disclosure report, aligned to the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. It summarizes  
how we incorporate climate-related risks and opportunities into our governance, 
strategy and risk management approaches, as well as the metrics and targets we use  
to track performance.  
We look forward to engaging and working with our stakeholders on this important 
effort and welcome your feedback along the way. 
Jennifer Waldner
AIG Chief Sustainability OfficerA MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF  1  
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER  
1| GOVERNANCE OF  5 
 CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS   
2| STRATEGY FOR IDENTIFYING  6  
 CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS  
 AND OPPORTUNITIES  
3| MANAGEMENT OF  14  
 CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS   
4| METRICS AND TARGETS 17
5| SOURCES 19A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF 
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICERAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT220 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT
About AIG
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. 
Building on 100 years of experience, today AIG member companies provide a wide 
range of property casualty, insurance, life insurance, retirement products, and other 
financial services to customers in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. These 
diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals 
protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common 
stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Additional information about AIG can be found at www.aig.com | 
YouTube: www.youtube.com/aig | Twitter: @AIGinsurance: www.twitter.com/
AIGinsurance | Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/company/aig. These references with 
additional information about AIG have been provided as a convenience, and the 
information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this 
presentation.
AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, 
and general insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. For 
additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products and 
services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International 
Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all countries, and coverage 
is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be 
provided by independent third parties. Certain property-casualty coverages may be 
provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers do not generally participate 
in state guarantee funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds.
The data contained in this presentation are for general informational purposes 
only. The advice of a professional insurance broker and counsel should always be 
obtained before purchasing any insurance product or service. The information 
contained herein has been compiled from sources believed to be reliable. No 
warranty, guarantee, or representation, either expressed or implied, is made as to 
the correctness or sufficiency of any representation contained herein.
To learn more about AIG’s corporate citizenship efforts, please visit www.aig.com/
about-us/citizenship. 
To read AIG’s most recent Annual Report, please visit https://www.aig.com/investor-
relations/annual-report-and-proxy-statements.AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT3AIG OVERVIEW
To best understand how AIG approaches 
climate risk—both its own and that of its 
clients—it is important to understand 
AIG’s overall business footprint and its 
organizational structure. 
AIG provides a range of insurance 
products to support our clients in 
business and in life, including: general 
property/casualty, life insurance, and 
retirement and financial services 
through our General Insurance, Life and 
Retirement and Investments business 
units. We serve customers in more than 
80 countries and jurisdictions around 
the world. 
As of 2018, our customers included 
more than 87% of the Fortune Global 
500 companies and 81% of the Forbes 
2000. AIG had $47.4 billion in 2018 total 
revenues; as of 2018, we employed 
approximately 49,000 employees, and 
we had $492 billion in total assets. As of 
2018, AIG had over $56 billion in 
shareholder’s equity and $8.3 billion in 
AIG parent liquidity resources.
  
General Insurance is a leading provider 
of insurance products and services for 
commercial and personal insurance 
customers. It includes one of the world’s 
most far-reaching property casualty 
networks. General Insurance offers a 
broad range of products to customers 
through a diversified, multichannel 
distribution network. Customers value 
General Insurance’s strong capital 
position, extensive risk management 
and claims experience and its ability to 
be a market leader in critical lines of the 
insurance business. General Insurance is 
managed by our geographic markets of 
North America and International. Product categories within General 
Insurance include:
• Liability. General liability, 
environmental, commercial 
automobile liability, workers’ 
compensation, excess casualty 
and crisis management insurance, 
as well as risk-sharing and other 
customized structured programs  
for large corporate and 
multinational customers
• Financial Lines. Professional 
liability insurance for a range of 
businesses and risks, including 
directors and officers liability (D&O), 
mergers and acquisitions (M&A), 
fidelity, employment practices, 
fiduciary liability, cyber risk, kidnap 
and ransom, and errors and 
omissions insurance (E&O)
• Property. Commercial and 
industrial property insurance 
products and services that 
cover exposures to man-made 
and natural disasters, including 
business interruption
• Special Risks. Aerospace, political 
risk, trade credit, portfolio 
solutions, energy-related property 
insurance products, surety, marine 
and crop insurance
• Personal Lines.Personal auto 
and property in selected markets 
and insurance for high net worth 
individuals offered through AIG 
Private Client Group (PCG) in the 
U.S. that covers auto, homeowners, 
umbrella, yacht, fine art and 
collections. In addition, we offer 
extended warranty insurance and 
services covering electronics, 
appliances, and HVACAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT4• Accident & Health. Voluntary 
and sponsor-paid personal 
accident and supplemental 
health products for individuals, 
employees, associations and other 
organizations, as well as a broad 
range of travel insurance products 
and services for leisure and 
business travelers
Life and Retirement is a unique 
franchise that brings together a broad 
portfolio of life insurance, retirement 
and institutional products offered 
through an extensive, multichannel 
distribution network. It holds 
longstanding, leading market 
positions in many of the markets it 
serves in the U.S. With its strong capital 
position, customer-focused service, 
breadth of product expertise and deep 
distribution relationships across 
multiple channels, Life and Retirement 
is well positioned to serve growing 
market needs. Product categories within 
Life and Retirement include:
• Individual Retirement. Variable 
annuities (annuities that offer a 
combination of growth  
potential, death benefit features 
and income protection features), 
index annuities (fixed index 
annuities that provide growth 
potential based in part on the 
performance of a market index,  
as well as certain fixed index 
annuity products offer optional 
income protection features),  
fixed annuities (single-premium 
fixed annuities, immediate 
annuities and deferred income 
annuities) and retail mutual  
funds (mutual fund sales and 
related administration and 
servicing operations)
• Group Retirement. Group mutual 
funds, group fixed annuities, group 
variable annuities, individual 
annuity and investment products, 
and financial planning and  
advisory services• Life Insurance. U.S.: Primarily  
term life and universal life 
insurance; International: 
Distribution of life and health 
products in the UK and Ireland
• Institutional Markets. Primarily 
stable value wrap products, 
structured settlement and pension 
risk transfer annuities, corporate- 
and bank-owned life insurance  
and guaranteed investment 
contracts (GICs)
Investments oversees an investment 
portfolio totaling more than $314 billion, 
as of 2018. Our investment strategies are 
tailored to the specific business needs of 
each operating unit. The investment 
objectives are driven by the respective 
operating segments and AIG parent. The 
primary objectives are generation of 
investment income, preservation of 
capital, liquidity management and 
growth of surplus to support the 
insurance products. The majority of 
assets backing our insurance liabilities 
consist of fixed maturity securities.
Blackboard is a subsidiary focused on 
delivering commercial insurance 
solutions using digital technology, data 
analytics and automation.
AIG also has a Legacy Portfolio that 
consists of our run-off insurance lines 
and legacy investments that we 
consider non-core. Effective February 
2018, our Bermuda-domiciled 
composite reinsurer, Fortitude Re, is 
included in our Legacy Portfolio.
AIG shared services consist of those 
operations that service the enterprise as 
a whole or do not otherwise exist within 
a single business unit. 
This includes operations such as Human 
Resources, Legal, IT , Marketing and 
Communications, Government Affairs, 
Facilities and Security.
This report draws from AIG’s 2018 Form 
10-K filing. To read that filing in full, 
please click here.20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT5BOARD OVERSIGHT
The AIG Board of Directors has 
delegated overall responsibility for 
climate-related issues facing the 
company to the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee 
(NCGC). The Risk and Capital Committee 
(RCC) may be informed of climate-
related risks insofar as the RCC’s role 
and responsibility is to oversee and 
review AIG’s material risks as well as its 
approach to managing those risks.  
Both committees meet at least four 
times per year or more frequently, as 
deemed necessary, in order to carry  
out their responsibilities.  
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee (NCGC) 
The scope of duties and responsibilities 
of the NCGC includes the regular review 
and assessment of AIG’s policies, 
practices and reporting with respect to 
sustainability, which includes climate-
related issues. The committee is also 
responsible for how AIG engages in 
public policy issues, social and 
environmental practices and any other 
matters corresponding with AIG’s 
corporate social responsibility efforts. 
Risk and Capital Committee (RCC) 
The RCC oversees and reviews all 
aspects of AIG’s Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) framework. This involves reviewing policies, procedures 
and practices employed to manage all 
of AIG’s key risks (e.g., liquidity, credit, 
market, operational and insurance), 
which may be impacted by climate 
change. The RCC also assists the  
Board in its oversight of AIG’s  
investment policies.  
Management Oversight 
AIG’s Executive Vice President, 
Government Affairs, Public Policy and 
Communications—as a member of the 
senior management team that reports 
to the CEO—has overall responsibility 
for all sustainability-related issues 
within the company, including matters 
related to climate change. This 
executive oversees colleagues who 
regularly interact with external 
stakeholders (e.g., policymakers, 
government officials, regulators, interest 
groups, the public, etc.) on a variety of 
topics of interest, including climate 
change. This role reports periodically, 
and as appropriate to the NCGC, 
including on climate-related matters.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
AIG’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
function integrates the risk management 
functions in each of our business units 
and provides senior management with  
a consolidated view of AIG’s key risks.  
It supports our businesses and AIG’s Board of Directors and executive leadership team are 
responsible for addressing the risks and opportunities posed 
by climate change while providing the robust governance  
and risk management oversight needed to ensure the 
company’s ongoing financial strength. AIG strives for 
transparent and clear communication with our stakeholders, 
and adheres to high ethical standards in our financial and  
non-financial disclosures. 1. GOVERNANCE OF CLIMATE- 
 RELATED RISKS
management in the embedding of  
risk management in our business 
processes and in identifying, assessing, 
quantifying, managing, monitoring, 
reporting and mitigating AIG’s  
risk exposures.  
Within each business unit, senior 
leaders and executives approve 
risk-taking policies, targeted risk 
tolerance, and prioritize risks identified 
within the framework provided by ERM. 
Accountability for the implementation 
and oversight of risk policies is aligned 
with individual corporate executives, 
with the risk committees receiving 
regular reports regarding compliance 
with each policy to support risk 
governance at our corporate level as 
well as in each business unit.  AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT6AIG recognizes that climate change is an 
area of increasing attention amongst 
our stakeholders and the wider public. 
Global insured losses for the industry 
from natural catastrophe events in 2018 
were USD 76 billion, the fourth highest 
on record.i More than 60 percent 
resulted from so-called “secondary 
perils” , defined as independent, 
high-frequency, low- to medium-severity 
loss events often associated with 
climate change (e.g., hurricane-induced 
precipitation/torrential rainfall, floods, 
landslides, drought or wildfire 
outbreaks). Ongoing urbanization  
(and therefore concentration of 
insurable risk) in areas that are 
vulnerable to climate change is a trend 
that may continue.
AIG considers the potential impact from 
climate-related issues on our business, 
strategy and financial planning over 
different time horizons ranging from 
short- to longer-term. In the short- to 
medium-term, we consider the physical 
risks resulting from climate change—
which can be event-driven or result from 
shifts in climate patterns.. We view these 
risks as manageable in light of AIG’s 
modeling work, our broadly diversified 
business, and through regular reviews of 
our risk appetite and reinsurance 
strategy. A meaningful proportion of our 
general insurance policies are renewed 
on an annual basis providing us the 
opportunity to re-underwrite and 
re-price the risk regularly. Medium- and 
long-term impacts are considered in 
strategy setting and asset liability 
management decisions in both the 
General Insurance and Life and 
Retirement businesses. Fundamental 
trends and significant changes over 
longer horizons are more challenging as 
precise forecasts are difficult to make.
 SHORT-TO MEDIUM-TERM RISKS: 
PHYSICAL RISKS
Natural Catastrophe Risk  
By the nature of our business, our 
company is exposed to various potential 
catastrophic events in which multiple 
losses can occur and affect multiple 
lines of business in any given calendar 
year. Natural disasters such as 
hurricanes, earthquakes and other 
catastrophes have the potential to 
adversely affect our operating results.
AIG enjoys a unique profile as a 
composite insurer (that is, life and 
non-life businesses) operating in over  
80 different countries and jurisdictions. 
Such a broad diversity in business lines 
helps us to limit the relative economic 
impact of any single insured event.
AIG’s Risk Appetite Framework 
establishes and maintains appropriate 
limits on the material risks identified for 
our core businesses. Following an 
extensive review, we have substantially 
reduced our gross and net limits, 
particularly in Property and Casualty 
insurance, which has subsequently 
lowered our risk of exposure to  
natural disasters.Our notable progress on risk 
management and underwriting in the 
last year was also critical to a revised 
reinsurance strategy. In 2018, we 
reconfigured our reinsurance policies to 
reduce the net risk in our portfolio, 
which provided meaningful recoveries in 
the second half of the year. We will 
continue to adjust our use of 
reinsurance to balance our portfolio, 
manage volatility and protect against 
extreme events. 
The impacts of climate change vary 
region by region and by type of hazard. 
While climate change is affecting loss 
patterns through shifts in hazard 
frequency and severity,ii iii iv v vi factors also 
contribute to changing loss patterns. 
Shifting demographics has led to 
increasing concentrations of 
catastrophe risk, such as through rapid 
growth in coastal development       
and suburban growth next to forests  
(in what is also known as the “wildland-
urban interface”).x xi xii
Operational Risk   
At a physical asset level, AIG assesses 
the risks and opportunities associated 
with the physical impacts of climate 
change, including individual facilities 
and office locations. AIG has business 
continuity plans to respond to incidents 
that may disrupt business operations, 
including extreme weather events. AIG 
continuously reviews its existing 
business continuity and disaster 
recovery practices. Significant events 
such as Superstorm Sandy and 
Hurricane Harvey, for example,  
have provided us with opportunities  
to enhance and improve our  
operational resiliency.2. STRATEGY FOR IDENTIFYING CLIMATE-  
 RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT7AIG seeks to mitigate financial loss 
arising from catastrophic events through 
the purchase of insurance from 
non-affiliated companies and to require 
that AIG’s service providers and business 
partners also maintain appropriate 
insurance coverage. AIG, like many 
companies with operations in high 
hazard CAT areas, has experienced 
property losses but has been able to 
recoup those losses under its own 
property insurance policies. To 
determine the sufficiency of CAT limits, 
we evaluate AIG’s aggregate 
replacement cost values in high hazard 
flood, wind and earthquake areas, as 
well as rely on modeling for probable 
maximum loss/average annual loss 
expectancies. AIG continues to evaluate 
past property losses annually. When we 
renew our policies, we evaluate, with 
modeling, the need for higher CAT limits 
in high hazard areas where AIG has 
owned/leased high-valued property. 
 
Climate Risk and Business Continuity 
The impacts of Superstorm Sandy and Hurricane Harvey in 2012 and 2017, respectively, underscored the importance of AIG’s 
own business continuity planning against the potential impacts of climate risk, as the company was operationally impacted 
by both storms. 
In 2012, Superstorm Sandy struck the eastern coastline of the United States and caused particularly severe damage in New 
York and New Jersey. At the time, Sandy was the first major Atlantic storm to hit the metropolitan New York area since 1936.
Sandy’s storm surge flooded portions of New York City (including the portion of Lower Manhattan where AIG’s corporate 
headquarters are located), disrupting travel and causing widespread power outages. As a result of this damage, AIG’s Lower 
Manhattan offices remained closed for several weeks after the storm, requiring us to invoke our business continuity planning. 
Many employees worked remotely, or from secondary locations to ensure steady service to our clients. 
In 2017, Hurricane Harvey struck across the Caribbean, Texas and Louisiana, becoming the second costliest Atlantic hurricane 
on record. Harvey inundated the city of Houston with between 30 and 60 inches of rain, causing severe flooding across the city, 
where AIG’s Life & Retirement headquarters are located. As with Sandy, the storm caused serious disruption to our operations 
in Houston causing us to rely on our business continuity plans for weeks after the storm.
In response to Sandy, AIG strengthened its business continuity management approach in order to minimize losses and 
business interruption in the future. Likewise, AIG conducted an after-action review of the impact of Hurricane Harvey.
AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT8LONGER-TERM RISKS:  
Transitioning to a low-carbon economy 
often entails extensive policy, legal, 
technology, and market changes to 
address mitigation and adaptation 
requirements related to climate change. 
AIG is identifying these longer-term 
transition risks through our ongoing 
emerging risk assessment program. 
In particular, AIG has established an 
Emerging Risk Forum which conducts 
horizon scanning to identify longer-term 
emerging risks and opportunities—
including climate change—to our 
business to catalyze risk management 
action and/or new product development. 
Policy and Regulatory Risk 
AIG constantly monitors and assesses 
the potential future impacts that 
regulatory developments may have  
on the company. 
As a global financial services provider 
with a relatively small environmental 
footprint we expect to be able to 
comply with future potential regulatory 
changes, such as heightened energy 
efficiency standards or greenhouse gas 
emissions limits/taxes, with minimal 
financial impact. For example, in the 
United Kingdom, AIG complies with 
the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC). For the year 2017, the CRC related 
carbon tax for AIG UK office facilities was 
£42,126 (2,380 tons emitted at a charge 
of £17.70 per ton) or approximately 
$53,790. This represents a small fraction 
of AIG’s operating expenses globally. Beyond the potential impact to 
our physical operations, insurance 
regulatory bodies continue to show 
interest in how the financial services 
industry including insurance companies 
are managing climate risk within 
both their business operations and 
investment portfolios. For example, 
UK regulators have introduced climate 
risk scenarios as part of periodic stress 
testing of financial services firms. AIG 
will continue to monitor the potential 
impact of climate change-related 
regulatory risks to our businesses or 
investment management practices.
Litigation and Legal Risk  
In recent years the industry has seen 
an overall increase in various climate-
related litigation claims brought forward 
for a multitude of reasons including 
as a result of a perceived contribution 
to climate change, or for insufficient 
disclosure around material financial 
risks. As the value of loss and damage 
arising from climate change grows, it is 
plausible that litigation risk of this kind 
may increase. For example, Directors 
and Officers (D&O) may be found 
personally liable for breaching duty of 
care and/or due diligence requirements, 
where they may exist, if they fail 
to properly consider and disclose 
foreseeable climate-related risks, which 
could result in increased D&O claims. 
We track ongoing litigation in the United 
States that seeks to compel companies 
to remedy their perceived contribution 
to climate change (i.e., mitigation 
costs, third party property damage, 
etc.). Litigation seeking to compel 
companies to remedy their perceived 
contribution to climate change may, if 
successful, also lead to an increase in 
claims. Based on our monitoring, while 
the overall volume of litigation activity 
has increased, past litigation seems 
to have largely been unsuccessful on 
numerous grounds including difficulties 
in determining and attributing fault and 20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT9liability to a particular company, and 
the judiciary’s deference to the political 
branches of government on questions 
relating to climate change. AIG will 
continue monitoring litigation trends 
to assess the potential impact of any 
developments on its businesses and 
overall risk mitigation strategies. 
Technology Risk  
Technological advancements that 
support the transition to a lower-
carbon, energy-efficient economic 
system may have a significant impact 
on a wide range of companies and other 
organizations. This may affect the nature 
and financial impact of the risks our 
customers seek to insure. This economic 
transition may also materially affect 
the demand for insurance in specific 
sectors—most obviously in energy 
and transport. Although this may not necessarily reduce the overall demand 
for insurance products and services, it 
may alter the patterns of demand and 
the nature of insurance cover required, 
to which AIG will need to respond to 
remain competitive.
Reputation Risk 
Climate change has been identified 
as a potential source of indirect 
reputational risk to AIG’s corporate 
brand due to the prospect of changing 
customer or community perceptions 
of an organization’s contribution to 
or detraction from the transition to a 
lower-carbon economy. To date, this  
has had minimal reputational impact 
upon AIG or the industry. 
AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT10Investment/Credit Risks  
AIG’s investment strategies are tailored 
to specific business needs with the 
primary objectives of investment 
income, preservation of capital, liquidity 
management and growth of surplus. 
AIG is a diversified company that takes 
on both short- and long-term liabilities 
from policyholders. To the fullest extent 
practicable, AIG seeks to duration-match 
its assets to its liabilities. As such, for 
our long-term liabilities that can stretch 30, 40, or even 50 years into the future, 
we necessarily seek out long-term 
investments. This involves taking a long-
term view including the return profile 
and sustainability of the investment(s).
Broad asset classes in the portfolio 
include fixed income securities, real 
estate, and alternative investments. 
Some of these investments are either 
secured by, or heavily dependent on 
physical assets. Although our credit process considers protections that are 
in place such as property and business 
interruption insurance, increased risk 
from climate change may affect the 
value of these assets in the future.  
Given the long-dated nature of our 
liabilities, our credit research process 
assesses the long-term sustainability 
of our borrowers and the assets that 
secure them.Business Unit Spotlight: AIG Life & Retirement 
AIG Life & Retirement is a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional 
products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds long-standing, leading market positions 
in many of the markets it serves in the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth of product 
expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels, Life & Retirement is well positioned to serve growing 
market needs. In 2018 Life and Retirement generated revenues of $14.1B, with adjusted pre-tax income of $3.2B.
PHYSICAL RISK (natural catastrophe risk that gives rise to mortality risk, morbidity risk and business continuity risk):  
AIG Life & Retirement is exposed to climate-related mortality and morbidity risks and potential higher than expected losses 
from actual mortality and morbidity. Mortality risk exists in a number of our product lines but is most significant for our life 
insurance products. 
Higher mortality and morbidity could arise in the event of an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural catastrophes 
(e.g., floods, droughts, heatwaves, etc.) associated with climate change, although this impact is generally expected to be 
limited as our risks tend to be dispersed across the country. Nevertheless, climate-related insurance risks are placed relatively 
low on the spectrum of risks within our Life & Retirement businesses. 
The previously discussed business continuity risks resulting from climate change are due to the possibility of increased natural 
catastrophes in Life & Retirements primary business locations (e.g., Texas coastal and California wildfire and earthquake 
areas). The impact of Hurricane Harvey on our Houston location was a reminder of why we prepare to quickly respond to a 
large-scale business disruption with minimal advanced warning. AIG continues to strengthen its business continuity plans and 
develop mitigation strategies to further enhance our operational resiliency.  
TRANSITION RISK (market risk): In the case of AIG Life & Retirement, certain policyholder obligations can stretch decades out 
into the future which we seek to match with equally long-dated assets. In matching assets to these long-duration liabilities, 
AIG necessarily seeks out investments that offer sustainable and predictable returns over the long-term. Assets identified as 
posing an increased credit and/or market risk over the long-term would therefore receive additional scrutiny, or possibly may 
be excluded from consideration in the portfolio. 
OPPORTUNITY (products and services): AIG’s Retail Mutual Funds (RMFs) business launched the AIG Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) Fund(s) in 2016. This fund uses ESG practices and a rules-based investment approach to seek capital 
appreciation and current income with a positive social impact. Looking ahead, Life & Retirement has identified expanding our 
suite of ESG funds as an opportunity.20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT11Over the longer-term, as efforts to move 
away from a carbon-intensive economy 
gather pace, we recognize the possibility 
that, financial market participants 
may fundamentally reassess the value 
of carbon-intensive assets and the 
businesses that rely on them. Shifts 
in consumer behavior may affect the 
long-term viability of these businesses 
and their ability to repay debt. This re-
valuation may lead to impairments to 
the value of these assets. We consider 
long-term trends as part of our initial 
credit review process and regularly 
reassess credit worthiness.
CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES   
An important part of AIG’s strategy for 
managing climate risk is to pursue 
climate-related market opportunities 
that are consistent with our core 
business strategy. Key areas of 
opportunity for AIG include providing 
our risk solutions and expertise to 
clients, developing new products 
and services to help our clients and 
customers manage their climate-related 
risks, establishing partnerships to 
leverage expertise in order to contribute 
to resiliency, supporting more energy-
efficient operations, investing in 
renewable energy sources and offering 
sustainable investment products.
Providing Risk Solutions and 
Expertise to Clients  
AIG delivers technical expertise and 
tailored, solutions-based approaches  
to assist clients in proactively identifying 
their exposures, including those 
stemming from climate change risk, 
with the aim of managing them to lower 
their cost of risk and build stronger 
business resiliency. To this end, we are 
able to deploy our catastrophe models, 
consultants and engineers to partner 
with clients to assess risks and build 
business resiliency to natural perils  
(e.g., flooding).New Products and Services 
AIG regularly consults with our clients 
to understand the unique and emerging 
risks they face and to consider the 
development of responsive products 
and services that meet their needs. As 
AIG collects relevant data and available 
metrics on unaddressed risks, we can 
use that data to guide new product 
development and underwriting 
approaches. As the impacts of climate 
risk are more deeply felt—especially 
those that currently lack an insurance 
solution framework—we may explore 
the development of new products and 
services to address the needs of current 
and potential clients. 
AIG recognizes that without insurance, 
the appetite for taking risks in a new or 
unproven field of opportunity would 
be dramatically reduced. Our role as 
an insurer of renewable energy and 
lower-carbon industries helps support 
the overall market transition to a lower-
carbon economy. AIG is a recognized 
market leader in the insurance of 
offshore wind farms, as well as a 
sizeable number of solar (photovoltaic/
concentrated solar power) plants and 
other renewable energy operations.
In addition to development 
opportunities for new clean energy 
products supporting industry migration 
to a lower-carbon economy, AIG is a 
provider of parametric insurance, which 
protects against economic loss not 
adequately addressed by traditional 
property and casualty products. 
Parametric coverage is not new to the 
insurance industry but we are noting 
an increasing demand for it as buyers 
seek alternative insurance solutions that 
will assist in recovering more quickly 
from certain environmental conditions, 
weather events or catastrophic perils.  
Coverage is triggered by an event, such 
as an earthquake or named storm, Business Unit Spotlight:  
Lexington Insurance 
Lexington Insurance Company,  
part of our General Insurance 
business, offers innovative 
products and services to assist 
U.S. clients in becoming more 
resilient against the effects of 
climate change. These include:
• Private market flood 
insurance that covers 
flood damage and allows 
policyholders to rebuild.
• Upgrade to Green, a 
product offering that 
provides upgrade benefits 
that allow for green 
building upgrades to be 
included in the recovery 
from partial and total losses 
to homes and commercial 
buildings, and during the 
construction phases  
of building. 
within a designated geographic area 
and reaching specified parameters 
(certain earthquake magnitude or 
hurricane wind speed / central pressure 
reading).  Parametric insurance links 
the amount of the loss payment to 
occurrence of the triggering event 
– providing a predetermined dollar 
payout upon its occurrence. Because 
parametric insurance virtually 
eliminates the need for claim adjusting, 
the payout can be made relatively 
quickly.  This, in turn, speeds up the 
insured’s ability to recover from the 
triggering event by having cash on  
hand to handle collateral losses or 
recovery expenses. AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT12Partnerships 
Due to the scale and complexity 
of the challenge associated with 
climate change, AIG is increasingly 
seeking to partner with private sector 
peers, academic institutions, NGOs, 
international organizations and other 
groups to leverage our expertise in risk 
management with other key skills sets.
For example, AIG is a founding member 
of Blue Marble, a consortium of nine 
companies that provides small-
premium, low-limits micro insurance 
to smallholder farmers in Uganda and 
Zimbabwe against extreme weather. 
Through a partnership with Wood Plc 
and Enactus, AIG is involved in the 
Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient 
Cities (100 RC) program, which assists 
cities in identifying and managing the 
risks associated with climate change 
as well as design and construction 
solutions to reduce or mitigate  
these risks. 
Through a partnership with the 
Insurance Development Forum (IDF)— 
a public-private sector partnership 
bringing together the World Bank, 
the United Nations and the insurance 
sector—AIG is contributing to the goal of 
developing solutions in order to tackle 
low insurance penetration rates across 
jurisdictions through commercially 
viable means. The IDF is also acting as 
a platform, bringing together a range of 
stakeholders, such that the insurance 
industry can address the issue of 
climate change in a more coordinated 
and focused manner. Resource Efficiency  
AIG is not an energy-intensive business, 
nor does AIG consume large amounts 
of natural resources for the operation 
of our business. However, we recognize 
that shifting our energy usage toward 
lower emission energy sources can 
result in potential savings on annual 
energy costs while contributing 
to a lower-carbon economy. For 
more information on how we are 
implementing operational efficiency 
initiatives, please refer to the Metrics 
and Targets section of this report.
Investment opportunities  
AIG has been a leading investor in 
renewable energy projects for over 
30 years, with $2.9 billion invested 
in private placement wind, solar, 
geothermal and hydroelectric 
projects worldwide in 2018, resulting 
in significant reductions in carbon 
emissions. In addition to renewable 
power, AIG is a leading investor 
in green energy projects, such as 
waste-to-energy, transmission and 
distributed generation. AIG also invests 
in infrastructure assets that improve 
energy efficiency, grid connectivity 
and reliability. We are also investing 
in innovative transportation networks 
that improve mobility and use less 
energy. Many of these investments are 
characterized as “Green Bonds.”20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT13
Methanol as Ship Fuel 
In 2018, AIG was a lead investor in a portfolio of dual-powered, 50,000 deadweight ton, ocean tankers. The tankers were 
delivered in 2016 and are under long-term contract to Marinvest, a major international chemical company. The tankers are  
built according to eco-design standards which enable the main engines to burn either standard bunker fuel or methanol.
Methanol provides a cleaner marine fuel alternative, and it is estimated that the emissions reduction compared to burning 
heavy fuel will be up to a 99% reduction in SOx, a 95% reduction in particulate matter, a 60% reduction in NOx, and a 5% 
reduction in CO2.
Since being placed in service, the tankers have operated almost exclusively on methanol.
In addition to the reduction in greenhouse gases and airborne pollution, ship operations on methanol reduces the risk of 
heavy fuel oil spills. Methanol readily dissolves in water and biodegrades rapidly.xiii
AIG’s diverse investment portfolio 
includes investments in both fossil 
fuel generation as well as renewable 
energy. We recognize that by investing 
in clean energy technology, we diversify 
our portfolio and further enable those 
innovations to drop in cost, improve 
storage capability and expand  
uptake globally. 
Sustainable investment products  
AIG recognizes the investment 
community’s growing interest in 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) products. In 2009, SAAMCo, an AIG 
asset management company, began 
offering ESG investment products (VALIC 
Socially Responsible and VALIC Global Social Awareness). In 2016, AIG launched 
our first ESG product into the retail 
mutual fund market (AIG ESG  
Dividend Fund).
LOOKING AHEAD  
AIG continually works to augment its 
strategic management of climate risk 
and opportunities. AIG’s Executive 
Leadership Team has committed in  
2019 to explore the development of 
a climate change scenario analysis, 
which is a formal analysis of the impact 
that a +2° Celsius scenario would have 
across the company’s underwriting, 
investments and operations.AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT14AIG has an integrated process for 
managing risks throughout our 
organization in accordance with our 
robust risk management framework. 
Climate-related risks are included in 
AIG’s risk management framework 
and integrated into our identification 
processes, scenario modeling and 
emerging risk assessment. 
Risk Appetite Frameworks
Our Risk Appetite Framework integrates 
stakeholder interests, strategic business 
goals and available financial resources. 
We balance these by seeking to take 
measured risks that are expected 
to generate repeatable, sustainable 
earnings and create long-term value 
for our shareholders. The framework 
reflects our risk appetite statement 
approved by the Board of Directors or a 
committee thereof. It also encompasses 
a set of supporting tools, including 
risk tolerances, risk limits and policies, 
which we use to manage our risk profile 
and allocation of financial resources.
Risk Limits
A key component of our Risk Appetite 
Framework is having a process in 
place that establishes and maintains 
appropriate limits for the material risks 
related to our core businesses. The 
potential impact of climate-related risks 
on these material risks are considered 
within the framework. Further details on 
our approach to risk limits can be found 
on pages 145-146 of the AIG 2018 10-K. 
Risk Identification
Risk identification serves as a key 
tool used to inform the Risk Appetite 
Framework. We conduct risk 
identification through a number of 
processes at the business unit and 
corporate level focused on capturing 
our material risks and key areas of focus 
for follow-up risk management actions. A key initiative is our integrated bottom-
up risk identification and assessment 
process down to the product-line level. 
These processes are used as a critical 
input to enhance and develop our 
analytics for measuring and assessing 
risks across the organization.
Risk Modeling and Other Risk 
Management Tools
AIG employs recognized third-party 
catastrophe risk models to evaluate 
and simulate the frequency and severity 
of catastrophe events and associated 
losses to our portfolio of exposures. 
These models are sophisticated, 
employing physically based modeling 
with parameters and assumptions 
derived from historical hazard and 
claims data. The models are updated as 
new science and data become available 
in order to ensure they are continually 
improved and validated.  3. MANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS 
We make adjustments to modeled 
losses to account for loss adjustment 
expenses, model biases, data 
quality and non-modeled risks. 
Our modeling work contributes to 
prudent underwriting and pricing of 
traditional climate risks related to 
natural catastrophes, as well as the 
use of hedging/protective measures 
such as issuing catastrophe bonds and 
purchasing reinsurance.
When catastrophic events happen, AIG 
uses them as an opportunity to detect 
and remedy any weaknesses in how we 
model, select and price risk. Since most 
of our policies exposed to catastrophic 
risks are one-year contracts, we can 
adjust our underwriting guidelines, 
pricing and exposure accumulation in a 
relatively short period. Lessons learned 
from post-catastrophe event studies 
are incorporated into modeling and 
underwriting processes of risk pricing 
and selection. 
AIG also utilizes scenario or 
deterministic analysis to measure and 
monitor risks that may be exposed to 
climate change, for example pandemic 
risk or market and credit risks within our 
investment portfolios.
Underwriting and Pricing
We recognize that climate change has 
implications for the insurance industry 
exposure to natural catastrophe risk. 
With multiple levels of risk management 
processes in place, we actively analyze 
the latest climate science and policy to 
anticipate potential changes to our risk 
profile, pricing models and strategic 
planning. For example, we continually 
consider changes in climate and 
weather patterns as an integral part of 
the underwriting process.  
We manage this exposure through 
multiple approaches such as setting Emerging Risk Forum
AIG has an Emerging Risk 
Forum to monitor, assess and 
analyze climate-related risks, 
among other key emerging risks 
facing the company. The forum 
is comprised of AIG subject 
matter experts from across 
many global geographies and 
functions and conducts horizon 
scanning intended to facilitate 
cross-functional dialogue, 
improve information flow across 
the company, catalyze risk 
management action and spark 
product innovation. Within its 
mandate, the Forum considers a 
range of risks to AIG associated 
with climate change, including 
climate-related insurance 
liabilities, transition risks  
and investments.20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT15risk limits based on aggregate Probable 
Maximum Loss (PML) modeling, 
monitoring overall exposures and 
risk accumulations, and purchasing 
catastrophe reinsurance through both 
the traditional reinsurance and capital 
markets in addition to other  
reinsurance protections.
The majority of our general insurance 
policies exposed to catastrophic risks 
are one-year contracts that allow us 
to adjust our underwriting guidelines, 
pricing and exposure accumulation 
in a relatively short period. We further 
manage these risks through risk review 
and selection processes, exposure 
limitations, exclusions, deductibles, 
self-insured retentions, coverage limits, 
attachment points, and reinsurance. This management is supported by 
sound underwriting practices, pricing 
procedures and the use of actuarial 
analysis to help determine overall 
adequacy of provisions for insurance. 
Underwriting practices and pricing 
procedures incorporate historical 
experience, changes in underlying 
exposure, current regulation and 
judicial decisions as well as proposed or 
anticipated regulatory changes.
Concentration Management
We closely manage insurance risk by 
monitoring and controlling the nature 
and geographic location of the risks 
in each line of business underwritten, 
the terms and conditions of the 
underwriting and the premiums we 
charge for taking on the risk. The 
aforementioned modeling techniques, 
both stochastic and deterministic, are 
used to analyze these concentrations. 
Our broad-based distribution also 
assists in managing concentrations. 
In addition, we actively manage 
concentration of exposure for our  
group mortality risks.
As previously mentioned some invested 
assets may be impacted by climate 
change in the future given their long-
dated nature. Our credit risk mitigation 
tools include the use of third party 
guarantees or collateral. This assists  
in mitigating or avoiding  
unwanted accumulations.
Credit and Market Exposure 
Management 
In recognition of the credit risk 
exposures we face as a company 
spanning, for example, real estate, fixed 
income and equities investments, we 
have a team of credit professionals 
in place, subject to ERM oversight, 
to assure appropriate credit risk 
management in accordance with our 
credit policies and procedures relative 
to our credit risk parameters. AIG’s 
Chief Credit Officer (CCO) and other credit executives within the company 
are responsible for the development, 
implementation and maintenance 
of this risk management framework. 
(For further details on AIG’s credit risk 
management framework, please consult 
AIG’s 2018 Form 10-K; pg. 147-148).
We are engaged in a variety of insurance, 
investment and other financial services 
businesses that expose us to market 
risk, directly and indirectly. We define 
market risk as the risk of adverse impact 
due to systemic movements in a variety 
of market drivers, including: equity 
and commodity prices, residential 
and commercial real-estate values, 
and credit spreads. The Risk Officer 
with each business is responsible 
for creating a framework to properly 
identify these risks, then ensuring 
that they are appropriately measured, 
monitored and managed in accordance 
with the risk governance framework 
established by AIG’s Investments 
Portfolio Managers, with support 
from AIG’s CCO and AIG’s Chief Market 
Risk Officer (CMRO). The scope and 
magnitude of our market risk exposures 
is managed under a robust framework 
that contains defined risk limits and 
minimum standards for managing 
market risk in a manner consistent 
with our risk appetite statement. Our 
market risk management framework 
focuses on quantifying the financial 
repercussions of changes in these broad 
market observables, as opposed to 
the idiosyncratic risks associated with 
individual assets that are addressed 
through our credit risk management 
function. (For further details on AIG’s 
market risk management framework, 
please consult AIG’s 2018 Form 10-K;  
pg. 148-153)Hurricane and Flood Models
In 2018, AIG developed an 
internal U.S. hurricane model 
in order to provide a more 
bespoke view of the impacts of 
climate change on wind, storm 
surge and flood risks to our 
business stemming from U.S. 
hurricanes. Additionally, we used 
our internally developed flood 
models to create an AIG view 
of flood maps in more than 25 
countries, which can be 
customized to incorporate 
climate change views for 
underwriting and pricing flood 
risk. In addition to internal 
models, we also analyze 
extreme disaster scenarios, 
such as flooding in London 
resulting from the failure of 
the Thames Barrier due to an 
increase in windstorm intensity 
and sea level rise from climate 
change, to monitor and manage 
concentration risks within  
our portfolios.AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT16Mitigation Through Reinsurance 
AIG uses reinsurance (that is, insurance 
against losses experienced within our 
own insurance portfolio) to manage 
overall capital adequacy and mitigate 
the insurance loss (Life and Non-Life) 
exposure related to certain events, 
such as natural and man-made 
catastrophes or death events. AIG 
purchases catastrophe reinsurance and 
retrocessional cover through traditional 
reinsurance markets, capital markets 
through insurance-linked securities and 
collateralized reinsurance transactions, 
such as catastrophe bonds, sidecars and 
similar vehicles.
Life and Retirement 
AIG’s Life and Retirement employs a variety of risk management practices that 
mitigate the natural catastrophe and pandemic risks some of which may be 
associated with climate change. In particular:
Portfolio Concentration Risk Management
• We have a broad-based distribution that markets our products across the 
entire U.S. This mitigates concentration risk across our book. In addition 
we actively manage concentration of exposure for our group mortality 
risks.
• We also limit the amount of losses attributable to a single policy and also 
utilize reinsurance to mitigate volatility from a very large claim and the risk 
of an unexpected significant event.
Risk Monitoring & Trend Analysis
• We conduct ongoing monitoring and assessment of mortality, longevity 
and morbidity experience relative to that assumed in pricing, valuation, 
stress testing and cash flow testing. Significant analysis is carried out 
around claims and actual to expected mortality and longevity ratios to 
understand trends and potential emerging risks. If experience significantly 
deviates from our expectation then we are able to adjust our pricing 
accordingly and establish higher reserves on inforce if necessary.
• Within L&R, we have a Chief Medical Director and supporting medical 
team responsible for researching emerging trends and suggesting 
corresponding modifications to our underwriting guidelines.
Underwriting
Within Life & Retirement, product design that allows us to, in certain cases, 
increase mortality charges to align them with our updated best estimate 
mortality assumptions in the face of increasing rates is another example of 
managing potential climate-related risks through our underwriting and  
pricing processes.The AIG catastrophe reinsurance 
program provides protection on both 
an aggregate and occurrence basis. 
AIG has also purchased property-per-
risk covers that provide protections 
against large losses globally, which 
include those emanating from non-
critical catastrophe events (i.e., all 
events except for named windstorms 
and earthquakes) globally as well as 
critical catastrophe events (i.e., named 
windstorms and earthquakes) outside 
North America.20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT17AIG uses select metrics to assess and 
manage our climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with our strategy 
and risk management process.
We have responded publicly to the 
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure 
Project) Climate Change questionnaire 
since 2010. Due to the complexity of 
aggregating the data for our global 
operations, we have historically 
reported the data for which we have 
the most visibility and verification, 
specifically Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 
our New York City and UK operations.
As an insurance company that  
does not manufacture or sell tangible 
products, most indirect upstream and 
downstream (Scope 3) emissions that 
occur in AIG’s value chain are  
not applicable. Business travel is 
relevant to our operations, but not 
currently disclosed.Emission Reduction Targets
AIG has two regional targets set for 
reducing operational emissions in  
the UK and New York City.
• AIG is a supporter of the UK Carbon 
Reduction Commitment in the UK 
and has committed to reducing 
the Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon 
emissions associated with its UK 
business operations by 20 percent 
below the 2010 baseline level 
by 2020. As of 1/1/2019, AIG’s UK 
operations have exceeded the 
target commitment, reducing 
overall Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions by 40 percent, 200 
percent of the original target. 
• As an original participant in the 
2013 NYC Carbon Challenge, AIG 
committed to reduce the carbon 
emissions associated with its NYC 
operations by 30 percent from 2011 levels within 10 years, or by 
2023. As of the end of 2018 we 
are on track to meeting that goal, 
having achieved 77 percent of the 
total reductions needed. In 2019, 
AIG renewed its participation and 
commitment to the NYC Carbon 
Challenge, committing to further 
reduce emissions by 40 percent 
below 2011 levels by 2030. 
For both of these regional targets, 
AIG has reduced emissions through 
a combination of energy-efficient 
operational controls and investments  
in energy efficient infrastructure.4. METRICS AND TARGETS 
2016 2017 2018
Scope 1 emissions 
(metric tons CO2e)582 265 TBD
Scope 1 emissions 
(metric tons CO2e)12,135 9,781 TBD
Total 12,717 10,046 TBDGreenhouse Gas Emissions
AIG’s emissions disclosures to date are limited to Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
associated with UK and New York City operations. We calculate our GHG 
emissions in line with the GHG Protocol methodology.
Our 2018 emissions reflect a 9 percent year-over-year reduction from the prior 
reporting period. The decreases for the reported geographies were driven by  
energy efficiency initiatives and consolidation/reductions of office footprints 
through consolidation, densification, and work-from-home strategies.AIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT18Operational Efficiencies 
AIG is committed to implementing 
practices that reduce the environmental 
impact of our business. Efforts include 
encouraging the company’s suppliers to 
improve the sustainability of products 
and services, increasing the efficiencies 
of internal company operations and 
physical assets under the company’s 
control, and reducing energy usage. 
AIG has invested more than $800 million 
over the past five years to continuously 
update our worldwide offices, including 
the use of high efficiency lighting, 
sustainably manufactured products, 
and energy-efficient mechanical 
infrastructure and computer server 
technologies. AIG currently occupies 
over 1MM square feet of office space in 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certified green buildings, 
and recently committed to relocating 
our global headquarters office in New 
York City to a LEED certified building for 
target occupancy at the end of 2020. 
Globally, AIG has continued to reduce 
office footprints through consolidation, 
densification, and work from home 
strategies, delivering material impacts 
which will result in future long-term 
reductions to our overall GHG emissions.
20 1 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORTAIG. 201 8 CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT19i “Secondary natural catastrophe risks on the front line,” sigma, 2019
ii  “Climate Change Is Forcing the Insurance Industry to Recalculate,” Wall Street Journal, 2018
iii  “How is the issue of climate change affecting insurance?” The Telegraph/Allianz, 2017
iv  “The Insurance Industry and Climate Change on the Prairies: A Status Report,” International Institute 
for Sustainable Development 
v  “Climate Change Could Make Insurance Unaffordable for Most People,” Yale Environment 360, 2019
vi  “Climate Change and the Insurance Industry: Taking Action as Risk Managers and Investors,”  
The Geneva Association, 2018
vii  “Climate Change, Coasts and Coastal Risk,” Journal of Marine Science and Engineering, 2018 
viii  “Doubling of coastal flooding frequency within decades due to sea-level rise,” Scientific Reports, 2017
ix “Future flood losses in major coastal cities,” Nature Climate Change, 2013
x  “Wildfire risk in the wildland-urban interface: A simulation study in northwestern Wisconsin,”  
Forest Ecology and Management, 2009
xi  “How risk management can prevent future wildfire disasters in the wildland-urban interface,” 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2014
xii  “A simulation of probabilistic wildfire risk components for the continental United States,”  
Stochastic Environmental Research and Risk Assessment, 2011
xiii “Methanol as a Marine Fuel Report,” Methanol Institute, 20155. SOURCES
19American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. Building on 100 years of experience, today AIG 
member companies provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, and other financial 
services to customers in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help 
businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange.
Additional information about AIG can be found at www.aig.com | YouTube: www.youtube.com/aig | Twitter: @AIGinsurance  
www.twitter.com/AIGinsurance | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/aig. These references with additional information  
about AIG have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference  
into this report.
AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, and general insurance operations of American 
International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products and services are written or 
provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all countries, 
and coverage is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent third parties. 
Certain property-casualty coverages may be provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers do not generally participate in 
state guaranty funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds.