 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    2 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    4 2015  Corporate Accountab ility Report – Index of Content  
I. About Our Business  
a. Message from the Chairman – Executive Summary  
b. Our Value Creation Story  
c. Corporate Governance  
d. Energy Policy  
e. Managing Risk  
f. Generat ion Transformation  
g. Future Outlook  
II. Business Performance  
a. Financial Performance  
b. Safety & Health Performance  
c. Environmental Performance  
d. Energy Reliability  
III. Technology & Innovation  
a. Employee Innovation  
b. The Integrated Grid  
c. gridSMART  
d. Developing Technologies  
IV. Customer s and Communities  
a. How We Engage  
b. Our Customers  
c. Strong Communities  
d. Economic & Business Development  
e. Sustainable Procurement  
V. Our Work Force  
a. Work Force Planning  
b. Culture Commitment  
c. Continuous Improvement  
d. Diversity at AEP  
e. Awards &Recognition  
VI. Reports & Fast Facts  
a. About This Report  
b. Report History  
c. Material Issues  
d. GRI 
e. Coal Supplier Survey  
f. Participate and Discuss  
g. Contact Us  
 
 
  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    5 
  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    6 Message from the Chairman  
I am pleased to share with you this report on American Electric Power’s 
2014 performance, our plans for 2015, and  our vision and strategy for the 
future. Our company and our industry continue to undergo fundamental 
change. The catalyst for this transformation includes new environmental 
regulations, evolving customer needs, changing markets, new 
technologies and the n eed to produce electricity from a more balanced set 
of generation resources. In the future, our investments will be more 
focused on natural gas, renewables and energy efficiency, as well as 
optimizing the grid around transmission. The utility that powers t he future 
will operate a modern grid that supplies two -way flows of power and 
information, is adaptable, flexible and reliable. This is a challenging but 
exciting time for our company and our industry, and I am confident in our 
ability to respond as we str ive to build a more prosperous future.  
Nicholas K. Akins  
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer  
American Electric Power  
The transition we are undergoing creates many new opportunities for AEP. To provide greater reliability 
and efficiency to offse t the retirement of generating capacity, we are investing significant capital in our 
transmission business unit. Transmission is a key to achieving the flexibility needed to enable expanded 
use of renewable resources and the resiliency that a modern grid n eeds. In addition, as the availability 
and use of natural gas to generate power continues to grow, more electric transmission capacity will be 
needed. Our view is that as new technologies emerge and customer needs evolve, the grid will need to 
work more li ke a technology integration network.  
To prepare for this, we are investing in technologies to optimize the use of data to improve service to our 
customers. We know that many customers prefer to communicate with us electronically. Taking that a 
step furthe r, we are working on ways to use technology to digitize more of the interactions we have with 
customers, making it easier for them to do business with us. We are also working to create a data hub, 
allowing us to securely and responsibly store and analyze t he data we collect from smart meters and 
distribution equipment to better anticipate and serve customers’ needs. In addition, we will explore how 
predictive analytics could help us determine where a storm will strike and estimate the damage, so we 
can noti fy customers in advance and efficiently mobilize resources to restore power afterward. These are 
examples of how AEP is preparing the electric grid to power the future.  
We believe the industry should focus its resources on those technologies with the great est promise, 
rather than investing in small advances in a large number of technologies. As the electric grid evolves 
and new technologies mature or emerge, policymakers should avoid picking winners and losers and 
allow the market to identify the best solut ions.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    7 When major changes are made to the electric grid, as are happening today, we need to take the time to 
assess, plan and respond appropriately if we are to protect the grid’s reliability and ensure this essential 
service remains affordable. This is es pecially true as we retire more than 6,500 MW of coal -fueled 
generating assets starting in 2015. The risks include the possibility of not being able to adequately 
support electric reliability, especially during extreme weather events, when our families, bu sinesses and 
communities need it most. Although we are upgrading and building vital new transmission infrastructure 
at an unprecedented rate and increasing our use of wind, solar and natural gas, we must make these 
changes in a thoughtful and deliberate wa y to ensure the electric grid continues to operate safely and 
reliably for our economy and our way of life.  
As these issues are debated, we are educating our customers about the impacts of regulatory mandates 
and state laws, and helping to create options a nd opportunities so that their voices can be heard. We are 
also working to ensure that regulators and policymakers have all the facts as they make important 
decisions about our nation’s energy future.  
To become the utility that the future demands, we must also continue to enhance and improve the 
reliability, connectivity and resiliency of the grid. Our ongoing responsibility is to make sure our service 
is available wherever and whenever it is needed or wanted. While that responsibility won’t change, the 
way we do it will continue to evolve.  
We believe that our investments in infrastructure and in our employees, our focus on enhancing the 
customer experience, our commitment to continuous improvement and our fiscal discipline provide a 
solid foundation for bui lding a sustainable model of the utility of the future.  
Our Employees and Our Culture Lead Us Forward  
AEP’s culture is shaped by our focus on workplace safety, customer satisfaction and our employees’ 
strong desire to contribute to the company’s success. O ur performance is driven by hard working, highly 
skilled and deeply committed employees. Employee engagement is a leading indicator of better business 
results and our 18,529 employees consistently demonstrate this value to AEP.  
Our employees have taken the  lead to find and implement “LEAN” initiatives and other process 
improvements to reduce costs, improve efficiency and, in some cases, generate revenue. For example, 
our five Transmission Dispatch Centers collectively achieved a 99.9992 percent switching ac curacy in 
2014. Switching requires the energizing or de -energizing of equipment in a specific sequence in order to 
safely route the flow of power. Such an accuracy rate improves safety, saves time and money, and can 
only be attained by the concerted, colla borative and sustained effort of engaged employees who care 
deeply about performance and each other.  
We believe that our culture is a critical element of our future success. In 2014, we conducted our second 
culture survey to gauge our progress. It reveale d that our culture has changed for the better and that our 
focus on zero harm is our strongest culture attribute. Employee safety has been a foundation of our 
culture for many years and has become a source of pride and inspiration to our entire organizatio n.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    8 While there is still work to do, this is a journey and we have both a firm foundation and the commitment 
needed to move forward. We plan to conduct another survey in 2015 to keep the momentum going.  
Although we had a very good year from a financial sta ndpoint, our most important achievement was 
related to the safety of our people. For the first time since we began keeping statistics in 1970, we have 
gone three consecutive years without an employee fatality. I am profoundly grateful to everyone in our 
organization for helping us reach this important milestone. Our approach to workplace safety and health 
is about mutual care. Reaching top decile in performance requires a focused commitment, planning, 
thinking ahead and looking out for each other – and that ’s our goal.  
During the past decade we have achieved a positive, downward trend in the number and severity of 
injuries occurring in the workplace. But we are still a long way from achieving our goal of zero harm. 
The number and overall severity of injuries  in 2014 increased, with slips, trips, falls and overexertion as 
the leading causes of injury and lost time or restricted duty work days. We take the approach that every 
injury can be avoided. We treat each injury, no matter how small, as if it could have been more severe 
and as if it were the beginning of an alarming trend. We will improve on safety and health, and be 
relentless in our drive to prevent any and all harm. We are doing it by engaging our employees to 
identify solutions to help us achieve our goals.  
We reached another important employee milestone in 2014. For the first time in our history, AEP 
negotiated a multi -year collective bargaining agreement with our largest union, the International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which was ratified i n early 2015. With a three -year agreement in 
place, we are committed to strengthening our relationships with union leaders and employees in order to 
meet our business goals. We are also working to negotiate multi -year contracts with our four remaining 
unions throughout 2015.  
AEP was again named as one of Fortune magazine’s 2015 World’s Most Admired Companies  in the 
electric and gas utilities sector. In April 2015, AEP was  also ranked as America’s eighth most 
trustworthy large cap company by GMI Ratings, now part of MSCI ESG Research. This list recognizes 
companies for transparent accounting practices and strong governance, both of which are key areas of 
focus from our boar d of directors to all of our employees. We are pleased to be honored for our work 
providing safe, reliable and affordable electricity to our customers, and financial rewards to our 
investors. Our success is due to the talented men and women of AEP and we a re working hard to give 
them a culture and workplace where they can continue to thrive.  
Financial Performance  
We achieved solid financial results in 2014 that validated our earnings growth strategy. Our focus on 
infrastructure investments in our core, regu lated businesses, and the identification of process 
improvements delivered significant value for our customers and investors. Our year -end share price was 
$60.72, putting us in the top five best -performing utility stocks in 2014 with a total shareholder re turn of 
35 percent, exceeding both the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index total return of 31 percent, and the S&P 
500 total return of nearly 14 percent. We also increased our annual dividend by 6 percent on an annual 
basis.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    9 Our positive financial performan ce reflects a strong balance sheet, solid credit metrics and adequate 
liquidity. Our debt -to-
capitalization ratio remained 
steady, ending the year at 
54.4 percent.  
We end ed 2014 with 
Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles 
(GAAP) earnings of $1.63 
billio n or $3.34 per share, 
compared with $1.48 billion 
or $3.04 per share in 2013. 
Operating earnings were 
$1.67 billion or $3.43 per 
share, compared with $1.57 billion or $3.23 per share in 2013. Operating earnings were higher than 
GAAP earnings primarily due to the termination of a long -term coal contract. Despite mild summer 
temperatures in 2014, our financial results were strong, driven largely by record cold winter weather that 
drove up sales and the reliable, steady operation of our system to meet that ene rgy demand.  
In 2014, AEP Transmission Holding Company contributed 31 cents per share, exceeding our 
expectations by 2 cents per share, and grew net plant assets by approximately $1.1 billion to $2.7 billion, 
an increase of 65 percent.  
Several additional f actors contributed to our performance – successful regulatory proceedings in several 
states; an increase in off -system sales, driven largely by strong performance during extreme cold 
weather events; accelerated growth of our transmission business, which ex ceeded earnings expectations; 
positive overall load growth; and cost savings and enhanced revenue sources identified through 
employee -led continuous improvement efforts.  
In addition to our strong performance, we are proud that we were able to continue our  108-year history 
of paying a quarterly dividend to our investors.  
Operational Performance and Challenges  
We provide a vital service that is essential to the nation’s health, welfare, security and economy. This is 
both a great honor and a great responsibil ity.  
During the winters of 2014 and 2015, extreme weather events tested the capacity and reliability of the 
grid. We are likely to face more challenges ahead when about 20 percent of the nation’s coal -fueled 
generating capacity will be retired between 201 0 and 2022. During these harsh weather events, most of 
AEP’s coal -fueled plants that will be retired in mid -2015 were providing power, keeping businesses 
running and homes warm and safe.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    10 With the retirement of these units, the performance of the transmiss ion system and other generating 
technologies will be more critical to maintaining grid reliability. In the PJM Interconnection region 
alone, an estimated $3 billion will be invested by utilities, including AEP, to maintain reliability.  
In addition to comp ensating for major changes in the location of generating resources, transmission 
system growth enables other renewable resources to come online, such as wind and solar energy, which 
are important to a balanced resource portfolio. Our efforts to expand our renewable portfolio as well as 
our plans to build utility -scale solar in Indiana and large solar projects with two universities, will 
broaden our experience in deploying, owning and operating these renewable power assets.  
The flawed capacity market in the PJM Interconnection does not adequately incentivize generators to 
invest in new or replacement capacity, especially in Ohio where generation is deregulated. The 
retirement of coal units creates more reliability risk if adequate new generation resources are  not 
developed in a timely manner. The 2013 PJM capacity auction set prices for the 2016 -2017 period 56 
percent lower than in the previous auction. This decline in prices, however, does not reflect the value 
that generating capacity provides to the grid.  
The PJM capacity market structure creates significant financial risk for generators, including AEP, and 
must be fixed. AEP formed a coalition with several generation owners, utilities and electric cooperatives 
in 2013 to work with PJM to do so. We believe t he capacity auction, which is a forward looking auction, 
should create long -term price signals for energy resources and must compensate generators 
appropriately for their investments in generating capacity. The current rules encourage volatility and 
specul ation. PJM has made or proposed several changes, but we believe more changes are necessary to 
encourage the type of investment that is really needed.  
Our operating companies are committed to providing reliable, affordable service to our customers. 
Unfortu nately, in 2014, we experienced increases in the frequency and duration of service disruptions. 
Other than weather, aging infrastructure and vegetation continue to be main causes. We work with state 
regulators to implement vegetation management programs an d gain support for investments to replace 
older equipment. However, significant additional investment is required if we are to make improvements 
needed to meet new regulatory requirements and customer needs.  
Aging infrastructure is not unique to AEP, but in 2014, the impact that aging infrastructure can 
potentially have on us became clear. Disruptions occurred at three of our 16 underground networks in 
three states. We are planning to invest more than $300 million between 2014 and 2018 to upgrade and 
enhan ce these networks. We are also installing an underground monitoring system to give us greater 
monitoring capability to prevent such failures in the future.  
Another challenge we face as a company and an industry is the need to prepare our work force for th e 
future. As more employees approach retirement age, we are taking steps now to fill the talent gap that 
will develop as a result. Our business units are preparing comprehensive staffing plans that evaluate our 
needs and form the basis for action plans. Wh en we hire new employees, we actively recruit military 
veterans because they have many of the technical skills we need. We work towards providing a diverse 
slate of candidates to hiring managers because diversity in our work force brings new and fresh 
perspectives, ideas and views that strengthen our ability to strategize, communicate and deliver results.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    11 Environmental Performance  
Overall, our environmental performance is excellent and we continuously work to improve it.  
Our Environmental Performance Index,  which measures spills, opacity and water quality permit 
compliance in our generation business, achieved its best performance since the index was created in 
2003. This index is not required for compliance but serves as a measure that helps us continuously 
improve our environmental performance. In 2014 we received one formal enforcement action for storm 
water runoff issues at the Dolet Hills Mine in Louisiana and took remedial actions to address these 
issues and improve performance.  
Environmental performance  and stewardship are important in every one of our business units. AEP’s 
River Operations business unit achieved a significant milestone in January 2015, when it recorded two 
calendar years without a single environmental spill to the water. This achievemen t earned this business 
unit the U.S. Coast Guard’s Rear Admiral William M. Benkert Silver Award for Environmental 
Excellence in 2014.  
Climate Change  
Our position on climate change has not changed; we believe it is a global issue. AEP is a much less 
carbon  intensive company today than a decade ago and, as we retire coal units, that trend will continue. 
We factor the potential impacts of carbon policies and regulations into our long -range planning 
processes. We strongly believe that any policy or regulation to reduce carbon emissions must be rational 
in terms of timing, scope and reduction targets. Absent that, the economy as well as the reliability of the 
electric grid, is at risk.  
We believe the EPA’s proposed Clean Power Plan (CPP), designed to decrease ca rbon in the electric 
sector, unnecessarily threatens the reliability and stability of the electric grid. The proposed regulation, 
expected to be finalized in 2015, relies on inaccurate data and flawed technical and legal assumptions in 
calculating an estim ated 30 percent reduction in electric sector carbon emissions. In addition, the 
proposal does not give credit to companies and states that have already achieved significant CO2 
emission reductions. In AEP’s case, we have achieved a 15 percent reduction in carbon emissions since 
2005 that unfairly would not be credited under the proposed regulation.  
In the next two years, we will have fewer emissions when approximately one -quarter of our coal -fueled 
generating fleet is retired. Additional retirements that co uld be imposed by the CPP would further 
jeopardize the reliability of the electric grid. We conducted a reliability model of the CPP on our 
transmission system in PJM, using an EPA scenario. The results were alarming – a grid so stressed that 
it resulted i n widespread voltage collapses, cascading outages, and brownouts and blackouts. That is 
why we are advocating for a thorough reliability assessment of the rule’s impact on the electric grid. 
These concerns have been echoed by a number of regional transmiss ion operators and independent 
system operators.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    12 The CPP requires states to develop implementation plans and sets 2020 interim targets for compliance 
which we believe will be impossible to achieve while maintaining grid reliability. States need more time 
and flexibility to develop and implement compliance plans that make sense for their resource mix and 
local economies. Utilities need more time to build transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and new 
generation facilities that will be needed to maintain re liability of the grid.  
We will continue to advocate for more extensive reliability analysis and a more flexible and realistic 
plan that includes all regional transmission operators.  
Grid Data and Security  
The constant threat of cyber and physical security  attacks against the electric grid continues to be of 
significant concern to AEP and our industry. High profile breaches in the financial, health care and 
entertainment industries, as well as in our industry, highlight the risk. Although our major focus is  on 
protecting the grid and our facilities, we also engage and train our employees to become protectors of 
critical infrastructure information and observers to help us recognize potential threats.  
We aggressively protect the grid and important physical as sets, such as substations, by investing in 
cyber and physical security measures, providing training to our employees, working with industry peers 
at all levels of government, and requiring cyber security measures of our suppliers to help us protect our 
systems. AEP also participates in drills with other stakeholders, including government agencies, to 
enhance our measures for prevention, detection and recovery actions to respond to emerging threats.  
2015 and Beyond  
When I reflect on our success in 2014 and early 2015 and consider the future, I am confident in our 
employees and their ability to execute on our strategy. We are prepared to take advantage of the 
transformation that is taking place in our industry and with the electric grid. The shale gas industr y, for 
example, should continue to provide growth opportunities for AEP. In addition to an aging infrastructure 
and the retirement of coal -fueled generating assets, the demand for transmission to serve this industry is 
one of the key drivers behind new inf rastructure investments in 2014 and is expected to continue in 2015 
and beyond.  
Our path forward is clear and challenging. Deregulation in Ohio and the weak results in the 2016 -2018 
PJM capacity market pose financial challenges for AEP, especially in 2016.  We will continue our 
disciplined approach to allocating capital, controlling costs and working through regulatory proceedings 
to improve customer service and strengthen our financial position. We project an operating earnings 
range of $3.40 to $3.60 per s hare in 2015 and $3.45 to $3.85 per share in 2016. Transmission will 
continue to be an important contributor and is expected to contribute 38 cents per share in 2015.  
We will continue to expand our ability to leverage data and technology to improve our ser vice to 
customers as well as to make smart investments that allow a smooth integration of distributed resources 
with the grid. We will stay focused on executing our plan to maintain our earnings growth beyond 2016.  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    13 Our employee -led continuous improvement e fforts, already successful, will be critical as we move 
forward.  
Continue Our Focus on Safety  
We are intensifying our focus on safety and health to reduce the number and severity of injuries, with 
particular attention on slips, trips, falls and overexerti on. The safety and health of our employees, 
contractors and the public is a priority for AEP. We were saddened when two contractors working on 
AEP’s behalf were fatally injured in 2014. We will continue to provide the tools, training, education and 
informa tion needed to prevent harm on all fronts and strengthen our culture of looking out for each 
other.  
Transitioning Our Fleet  
2015 will mark a significant milestone in AEP’s 108 -year history as we begin to retire approximately 
6,500 MW of coal -fueled generat ion in response to new environmental regulations. These units have 
provided reliable, affordable power to millions of customers for decades. They have also provided well -
paying jobs, supported local economic growth and public services, such as education an d public safety, 
and have been deeply involved with their local communities. We are proud of the contributions we have 
made over the years in these communities, but the transition we are undergoing has become a necessary 
reality as our generation fleet cha nges.  
The more than 450 employees affected by these retirements have been a priority for AEP. In anticipation 
of the retirements, we formed a plant decommissioning team two years ago to work with affected 
employees and prepare detailed plans to ensure the plants are closed safely and have long -term 
environmental compliance monitoring plans in place.  
We worked hard to find these employees other jobs within AEP and to provide support as they 
transitioned into new roles. We are proud of every employee in thos e plants who came to work every 
day, committed to running the plants safely and efficiently to keep the lights on for our customers.  
We will continue to diversify our generation resources. We are increasing our use of natural gas and we 
continue to cost -effectively increase our renewable portfolio. For example, in 2014, we began 
converting units at the Big Sandy and Clinch River plants from coal to natural gas and we achieved our 
highest level of renewable resources on our system. We now have 2,183 MW of w ind energy and 10 
MW of solar, serving customers across our system. In 2015, Indiana Michigan Power Company received 
approval to build a utility -scale solar project totaling 15.7 MW. This project, in addition to two others 
with The Ohio State University an d Denison University, will give us valuable experience in deploying, 
owning and operating utility -scale solar. Our renewable portfolio will continue to grow to meet the 
individual needs of each of our operating companies and support the resource choices ou r customers tell 
us they want.  
An Advocate for Engagement Leaves Us   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    14 On a more personal note, AEP lost a good friend and leader in 2014 with the death of former AEP board 
member Robert Fri. Bob served on our board from 1995 –2008 and was a champion of transp arency and 
stakeholder engagement. In 2004, when investors asked for more transparency about how the company 
planned to manage its emissions risk, Bob led a team that included board members, AEP experts and 
external stakeholders. They released a ground -breaking board report that was a catalyst for our current 
level of commitment to performance reporting and stakeholder engagement. In addition to his board 
service to AEP, Bob was a former deputy director of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and of 
the Energy Research and Development Administration. He was 78 years old.  
The Utility of the Future  
Advanced technology will be critical as the grid is required to handle more distributed generation and 
smarter appliances, as well as customers who demand great er flexibility and more information. To 
protect our economic and national security, the grid must become more reliable and resilient. We will 
continue to advocate for policies that allow technologies to mature while ensuring those who use the 
grid pay thei r share of the costs to maintain the grid.  
To prepare for the future, we are participating in research and development of an integrated grid through 
the Electric Power Research Institute and through an association with a venture capital firm that invests 
in alternative and developing energy technologies. In addition, AEP led the industry in research to better 
connect and manage those connections between regional transmission systems, setting us on the path to 
improved connectivity. Through these efforts an d others, we are learning as much as possible about 
evolving technologies, such as energy storage and micro 
grids.  
The transition of our generation resources, the investments 
we are making in transmission and distribution to prepare 
the grid for the future  and a culture of innovation among our 
employees are essential. Innovation, optimization of 
resources and agility will win the day for the utility of the 
future.  
One thing that will remain constant is that our future will 
depend on the skills and qualitie s of our current and future 
employees. AEP and the AEP Foundation are investing in 
STEM education (science, technology, engineering, 
mathematics) for middle and high school students to help 
develop the skills they, and industries like ours, will need. 
Thro ugh the AEP Foundation, we created the Credits 
CountSM program to help fill in learning gaps, eliminate 
barriers to higher education and put students on the path for 
a college education while they complete high school. By 
graduation, students may earn cred its that count toward a STEM -related certificate or college degree. 
The Foundation has now established Credits Count programs in Columbus, Ohio; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    15 Bossier City, Louisiana, all of which are in our service territory. So far, the Foundation  has committed 
nearly $10 million over multiple years for Credits Count.  
I am confident that we are on the right path for sustainable growth, and I believe our investors agree. We 
are adapting to the changing environment around us by leveraging our strengt hs as a regulated electric 
utility and engaging our employees to grow our business sustainably. As we redefine AEP’s future, our 
culture of safety, customer commitment, engagement, technology innovation and entrepreneurship give 
us every reason to believe that we will succeed.  
 
Nicholas K. Akins  
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer  
American Electric Power  
 
Corporate Governance  
The bo ard of directors is at the heart of AEP’s corporate governance. The board is the protector of 
investors’ interests with a responsibility to ensure those who invest in the company earn a fair return on 
their long -term investment. Our commitment to effective corporate governance  is reflected largely in our 
Principles of Corporate Governance, Principles of Business Conduct, and our charters for the Audit, 
Directors and Corporate Governance and Human Resources Committees of the Board.  
The independence of directors is a hallmark of strong corporate governance. AEP’s Board of Directors 
is comprised of independent directors, with the exception of Nick Akins, who  serves as chairman, 
president and chief executive officer.  
Organizations do not change for the better without strong leadership. During this time of significant 
change and transition for our business, we have a strong management team in place, allowing us  to adapt 
successfully to change.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    16 AEP’s Board of Directors  
 
From Left to Right:  
Richard C. Notebaert, Barnie Beasley, Jr., Sandra Beach Lin, Li onel L. Nowell III, Steve Rasmussen, 
Nicholas K. Akins, Thomas E. Hoaglin, Sara Martinez Tucker, Oliver G. Richard III, David J. 
Anderson, Linda A. Goodspeed and Ralph D. Crosby, Jr.  
Richard C. Notebaert  
Committee Membership: Directors and 
Corporate Govern ance, Human 
Resources, Policy  
Director Since: 2011  
Age: 68  J. Barnie Beasley, Jr.  
Committee Membership: Audit, 
Nuclear Oversight, Policy  
Director Since: 2014  
Age: 63  Sandra Beach Lin  
Committee Membership: Audit, 
Directors and Corporate 
Governance, Policy  
Director Since: 2012  
Age: 57  
Lionel L. Nowell III  
Committee Membership: Audit 
(Chairman), Directors and Corporate 
Governance, Executive, Finance, Policy  
Director Since: 2004  
Age: 60  Steve Rasmussen  
Committee Membership: 
Committee on Directors and 
Corpo rate Governance, Finance, 
Policy  
Director Since: 2012  
Age: 62  Nicholas K. Akins  
Committee Membership: 
Executive, Policy  
Director Since: 2011  
Age: 54  
Thomas E. Hoaglin  
Committee Membership: Directors and 
Corporate Governance (Chairman), 
Human Resources, Executive, Policy  Sara Martinez Tucker  
Committee Membership: Audit, 
Directors and Corporate 
Governance, Policy  Oliver G. "Rick" Richard III  
Committee Membership: Human 
Resources, Nuclear Oversight , 
Policy   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    17 Director Since: 2007  
Age: 65  Director Since: 2009  
Age: 59  Director Since: 2013  
Age: 62  
David J. Anderson  
Committee Membership: Audit, 
Finance, Policy  
Director Since: 2011  
Age: 65  Linda A. Goodspeed  
Committee Membership: Audit, 
Nuclear Oversight, Policy 
(Chairman)  
Director since: 2005  
Age: 53  Ralph D . Crosby, Jr.  
Committee Membership: 
Executive, Human Resources 
(Chairman), Nuclear Oversight, 
Policy  
Director Since: 2006  
Age: 67  
AEP's Executive Team  
 
From left to right:  
David M. Feinberg, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Lana L. Hillebrand, 
Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer; Dennis E. Welch, Executive Vice President and 
Chief External Officer; Nicholas K. Aki ns, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian X. 
Tierney, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Lisa M. Barton, Executive Vice 
President, AEP Transmission; and Robert P. Powers, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating 
Officer.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    18 Statement of AEP's Board of Directors  
AEP’s Board of Directors demonstrates its commitment to accountability, sustainability and 
transparency by issuing a statement each year, expressing its support of the company’s annual 
Corporate Accountability Re port and its intent to hold management accountable. The Board began 
issuing this statement in 2007, when AEP issued its first sustainability report.  
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s 
sustaina bility initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. This is the 
sixth year AEP has integrated its sustainability reporting with financial reporting. The Committee fully 
supports this approach. Stakeholders have expressed appr oval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership 
with this integrated approach to corporate reporting.  
Throughout the year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability 
objectives, challenges, targets and progress. The Committee re viewed and discussed the final text of this 
report before its adoption of a formal resolution approving the report.  
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports both from management and from the Committee 
on Directors and Corporate Governance about  the company’s sustainability initiatives and from 
management and Board committees about the company’s financial reporting and economic performance. 
Topics in this report, including the ongoing transition of the company’s business model, the obligation 
to provide reliable, affordable service while understanding the need to address climate change in a 
thoughtful, cost -effective way, the importance of investment in the grid and technology and innovation 
in meeting our customers’ expectations, understanding th at a culture involving engaged employees that 
maintain the highest level of ethical behavior is a key to the company’s success, having a diverse, 
balanced generation portfolio, the need to be a good corporate citizen and environmental steward, the 
prioriti zation of safety and health, as well as a keen focus on cyber and physical security, have been the 
subject of active discussion at the Board meetings.  
The Committee believes this document is a reasonable and transparent presentation of the company’s 
plans  and of its environmental, social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized to 
management that it will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic 
plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including  being agile in responding to changing 
circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report.  
 
Thomas E, Hoaglin  
Lead Direc tor of the AEP Board of Directors  
April 8, 2015   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    19 Ethics and Compliance  
As an organization, we are guided by high standards of ethics and compliance. Our board of directors 
abides by a set of Principles of Corporate Governance while management and employees  are guided by 
our Principles of Business Conduct . We hold the board, management and employees to these principles 
and expec t nothing less than the highest level of ethical behavior. We 
also expect employees to speak up when they see something that falls 
short of those expectations. If employees are unwilling to report an 
ethics or compliance violation because of a fear of reta liation, our 
corporate culture, our reputation and the financial health of the 
company are at risk.  
Therefore, we maintain a confidential 24/7 hotline that allows 
employees to report concerns anonymously or to seek guidance on 
ethical, safety or complianc e issues. We encourage our employees to 
feel free to share information or concerns. We provide annual, 
mandatory training to all employees on the Principles of Business Conduct, specifically detailing how to 
report concerns and our anti -retaliation policy.  All of these efforts are grounded in the belief that the 
identification and resolution of concerns are critical to sustaining a strong and healthy company and 
culture.  
In 2014, AEP’s Office of Ethics & Compliance completed a company -wide ethical risk asse ssment and 
the results were encouraging. The purpose of the assessment was to ensure that proper attention and 
resources are focused on areas of the company where ethical risk has the potential to be prevalent, or 
where exposure to ethics -related violation s of policy or law may exist. The risk assessment also serves 
as a benchmark to track improvement for AEP’s ethical culture. The last assessment was conducted in 
2011.  
The assessment, conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, surveyed 5,000 randomly selected employe es and 
was combined with one -on-one interviews with more than 30 AEP leaders. The results concluded that 
AEP has a strong culture of compliance; employees have a good sense of where to go for help and a 
good sense of trust in the leadership of the company – especially trust in their individual supervisors. 
Top areas of risk identified by the assessment included NERC, cybersecurity, FERC, the U.S. 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and safety performance. None of these were a surprise and are 
areas where A EP has already dedicated significant resources and invested heavily in oversight of these 
high-risk areas.  
We will use the findings to revise our Principles of Business Conduct training and will continue to seek 
other ways to use it to add value for emplo yees and help improve the culture within AEP.  
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    20 Lobbying and Political Activity  
We belong to, participate in or support several state, local and national organizations, including the 
National Conference of State Legislatures, the Edison Electric Institute , the Business Roundtable , the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers  (NAM). We do so for a 
variety of reasons, including staying current on issues, learning best business practices from our peers, 
and strengthening our relationships with our customers, many of whom are also members. In June 2015, 
AEP CEO Nick Akins assume s the chairmanship of EEI for a one -year term. In addition, he chairs the 
BRT’s Energy and Environment Committee.  
We actively participate in the political process to 
advance the long -term interests of our customers, 
employees, investors and other stakeho lders. We 
maintain five political action committees (PACs) that 
are run by our employees – one for federal candidates 
and separate state PACs in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and 
Virginia. Approximately 28 percent of the employees 
eligible to participate in our fe deral PAC do so. AEP’s 
federal PAC, the AEP Committee for Responsible 
Government, contributed more than $705,000 to 
candidates for public office in 2014. Federal and state 
laws allow AEP to pay expenses of operating its PACs. We also have a process whereby  political 
contributions are reviewed annually by AEP’s board of directors.  
In 2014, we spent about $6.5 million on internal and external lobbying activities at the state and federal 
level. This includes dues to trade or national associations for which a p ortion goes toward lobbying. We 
maintain an office in Washington, D.C., to address issues involving federal legislation and regulation. 
Each of our operating companies has lobbyists who work in their respective state capitals.  
We disclose our political con tributions, as well as the portion of membership dues to various 
organizations used for lobbying purposes, on an annual basis. We also post our corporate political 
contributions policy online. For more information, see our lobbying policy and our disclosure for 2014 .  
From time to time, many, if not most, of the organizations to which we belong reach conclusions or take 
positi ons with which we disagree. When appropriate, we voice our disagreement and work to change the 
organization’s position. Sometimes our views prevail, sometimes they do not. Many times we are able to 
reach some sort of compromise.  
We believe in transparency and active participation in public debate. That conviction is based on our 
deeply held belief in collaboration, which we practice both internally and externally. Our experience is 
that open, candid discussion and a good -faith attempt to reach common ground  is the best way to do 
business.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    21 We believe, as a general rule, that it is more beneficial to AEP to remain involved in these organizations, 
even if we occasionally disagree, than to withdraw. We believe we can be far more effective in shaping 
the policie s of the organizations from within rather than sitting on the sidelines.  
Our Value Creation Story  
“Our job is generating electricity and getting it to where it's used. We're in this business because it is 
concerned with the supply of a fundamental requir ement of modern living, because it's an honorable 
one, because we like it, and because we want to earn a 
living at it.  
‘We aim to give one kind of service to everyone... the best 
that's possible. That means supplying our customers with 
what they want when  they want it. It means being 
courteous at all times and maintaining attractive, easy -to-
do-business -with offices.  
‘It means doing everything we can to keep complaints 
from arising, and it means prompt and fair handling of those that do.  
‘We are a citizen of each community we serve and take an active part in its affairs. Like any other 
citizen, we want our neighbors to think well of us. Besides, it makes good business sense. We prosper 
only as the community prospers; so we help it thrive in every way we can . 
‘Such is our job as we see it. We are trying to do it well and to do it better all the time.”  
Our commitment to our customers and our contributions to society as described above by George N. 
Tidd, president of American Gas & Electric, in 1934. The compan y was renamed American Electric 
Power in 1958. This philosophy continues to guide us today and keeps us focused as we adapt to a 
constantly changing environment.   
AEP has been in business for more than a century. We are dedicated to delivering safe, reliab le and cost -
effective electricity to our customers and value to our investors. Our history is rich with ingenuity and 
technology breakthroughs that have enhanced the quality of life for our customers, delivered safe, 
reliable electricity to power economic growth, significantly reduced our environmental impacts and 
developed a highly skilled work force. Our industry is in a time of significant transition. The business 
model that made us so successful during the first 108 years is undergoing its own transform ation. We 
continue to navigate these changes as we build a new model for the future.  
The utility of the future will be a cleaner, stronger, flexible and more diverse regulated utility that 
invests in resources and infrastructure that bring shared value to our customers, employees, investors 
and other stakeholders. We are pursuing a long -term plan to meet those future demands.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    22 Our investments are improving the resiliency and 
security of the grid while allowing easier, faster 
connections to new and emerging technologies and 
resources to bring them to market. Our focus on the 
customer experience is already leading to process and 
technology improvements. And we are defining an 
employee culture that enables the adaptability, 
flexibility and entrepreneurship that  the utility of the 
future will demand.  
We will continue to be a solid investment choice for 
investors, as we continue to demonstrate our 
commitment to and focus on delivering consistent 
earnings and dividend improvement through our 
investment strategy. Fo r AEP, it is all about discipline 
and execution.  
Our values are the foundation of our business. 
Developed collaboratively with employees, these 
values will see us through industry challenges so that 
we can be successful.  
Our Business Model  
Our principal bu siness is the regulated operation of 
the generation, transmission and distribution of 
electric power. We serve more than 5.3 million 
customers in our regulated businesses and 
approximately 240,000 through our competitive 
operating retail energy unit. AEP’s  business in Ohio 
was restructured in 2013 to separate our competitive 
generation business, which was required by the 
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.  
Regulated Operations  
Our regulated businesses have well -defined service 
territories and customer tari ffs that are approved by 
state and federal regulators. Our operating company 
presidents have primary responsibility for their 
companies’ balance sheets, earnings, capital allocation, regulatory relationships and overall performance 
in order to meet the nee ds of their customers. This approach strengthens relationships with the 
communities served and provides a better understanding of local needs.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    23 Vertically integrated public utilities  — 
This business segment owns and operates 
generation facilities and tran smission and 
distribution lines and other facilities. These 
utilities generate, transmit and distribute 
electricity for sale to retail and wholesale 
customers through the assets owned by 
Appalachian Power Company, Indiana 
Michigan Power Company, Kentucky P ower 
Company, Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma, Southwestern Electric Power 
Company, Wheeling Power Company, and 
Kingsport Power Company. AEP Generation Company (AEPGCo) sells power at wholesale to AEP 
Generation Resources, I&M and Kentucky Power. AEPGCo  is part of AEP’s vertically integrated 
utilities segment.  
As of December 31, 2014, AEP’s vertically 
integrated public utility subsidiaries owned or 
leased approximately 27,000 MW of 
generation.  
Transmission and distribution utilities  — 
This business seg ment is involved with the 
transmission and distribution of electricity for 
sale to retail and wholesale customers in Ohio 
and Texas. AEP Ohio serves more than 1.4 
million retail customers and AEP Texas serves 
more than 1 million customers. These 
companies are often referred to as “wires only” 
businesses. Texas North Company owns 
approximately 55 percent of the Oklaunion 
Plant. While 100 percent of AEP Texas 
customers purchase generation supply from 
competitive retail electric suppliers, AEP Ohio 
purchases e nergy and capacity to serve 
customers who have not selected their own 
supplier.  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    24 
 
Competitive Operations  
The Generation and Marketing segment includes subsidiaries that have nonutility generating assets, a 
wholesale energy trading and marketing business,  barge operations, and a retail supply and energy 
management unit. The generation and marketing subsidiaries of AEP are impacted by electricity and 
fuel prices, new market entrants, construction or retirement of generating assets by others, transmission 
constraints, and technological advances in power generation. Our ability to maintain relatively low -cost, 
efficient and reliable operations is critical to our competitiveness.  
 AEP Generation Resources  – This is the largest subsidiary of our competitive busin esses. AEP 
Generation Resources (AGR) owns or has rights to more than 11,000 MW of generating 
capacity. AEP completed the separation of its Ohio generating assets from its Ohio distribution 
and transmission operations, and it transferred most of AEP Ohio’s  generating assets to a new 
competitive affiliate, AGR, as of Dec. 31, 2013. AGR manages most of AEP Ohio’s former 
generating assets in the competitive generation market.  
In January 2015, AEP engaged Goldman Sachs to help evaluate strategic alternatives fo r its 
merchant fleet of power plants. Options may include keeping the units, spinning off the  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    25 competitive generation company, potentially selling the units or other alternatives. AEP has not 
made a decision regarding these options nor have we set a specifi c timeline for a decision.  
 AEP Energy  – This is our retail supply and energy management business. AEP Energy  is a retail 
electricity provider that supplies electricity and related 
services to resident ial, commercial and industrial 
customers. In 2014, AEP Energy entered the natural gas 
market in Ohio giving customers greater choice of 
service providers for electricity and natural gas. AEP 
Energy has approximately 240,000 retail customer 
accounts in Ohio , Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and 
Maryland and is licensed to operate in several other states. AEP Energy’s challenge, in a very 
competitive marketplace characterized by low energy prices, is to be profitable and to grow at a 
rate that delivers adeq uate financial returns for the associated risk.  
 AEP Energy Partners  – This is our wholesale energy trading and marketing business. AEP 
Energy Partners enters into short - and long -term transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy and 
other services. It ope rates primarily in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas ( ERCOT ), the 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator ( MISO ) and the PJM Interconnection , LLC. AEP 
Energy Partners sells power into the market and engages in power, natural gas, coal and 
emissions allowances, risk management and trading activities.  
 AEP River Operations  – This business unit trans ports liquids, coal and dry bulk commodities 
primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi rivers. AEP River Operations, one of the 
largest inland waterways carriers, transported 21 million tons of coal and other consumables to 
AEP facilities and 4 8 million tons of coal, grain and 
other bulk goods for commercial customers in 2014. 
Coal represented 52 percent of total tons hauled in 
2014, followed by agriculture (24 percent) and steel 
(12 percent). Over time, AEP River Operations grew to 
be one of th e largest barge company transporting dry 
bulk commodities (coal, limestone, grain, iron ore, etc.) 
on the inland waterways.  
As the business grew, its success became increasingly tied largely to the volatility often seen in 
commodity markets as well as wea ther. For example, in 2012, droughts reduced crop yields which 
reduced shipping needs and, in turn, impacted earnings in 2012 and 2013. Seeking to minimize this kind 
of financial risk, AEP River Operations shifted its strategy to become more versatile by d iversifying its 
business line and refocusing its dry bulk business. We did this by entering the liquids transportation 
business.  
Throughout the second half of 2014, we took delivery of 40 new 10,000 -barrel tank barges. This allows 
us to serve both current and new customers that transport liquid commodities and creates new 
opportunities for business growth. The timing of our entry into this business line correlates with the 
recent significant growth of barge transportation of oil and gas products. We will ta ke delivery of 
another 40 10,000 -barrel tank barges in 2015 and 2016.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    26 In March 2015, AEP engaged Morgan Stanley & Co., LLC to help explore strategic alternatives for our 
competitive barge transportation subsidiary, AEP River Operations. There is no specifi c timeline to 
complete the review but we are committed to completing the process as promptly as is practical. This 
review does not include the captive barge transportation business, which delivers coal to AEP’s 
regulated coal -fueled power plants owned and operated by Appalachian Power, Kentucky Power and 
Indiana Michigan Power.  
AEP Transmission  
AEP Transmission Holding Company (AEPTHCo) is a 
holding company for all AEP Transmission companies 
(AEPTCoTranscos) and for joint ventures with other 
utilities. The  AEP Transmission Holding Company’s 
(AEPTHCo) contribution to company earnings in 2014 
totaled $151 million, exceeding a $141 million target. 
On an earnings -per-share basis, that equates to $0.31 per 
share vs. a target of $0.29 per share. AEPTHCo’s $1 
billion in capital spending and joint venture equity 
contributions in 2014 exceeded a target of $782 million.  
AEPTCo Transcos  
The Transcos own and operate transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s existing 
system. As of December 31, 2014, AEP’ s Transcos had $1.8 billion of transmission assets in service 
with plans to build approximately $3 billion of additional transmission assets through 2017.  
The Transcos rates are regulated by the Federal Energ y Regulatory Commission  (FERC). The Transcos 
are independent of, but overlay, the service territories of AEP’s regulated state utility companies. They 
can separately raise capital and are able to build new transmission without affecting the balance sheet or 
credit ratings of the operating companies.  
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, AEP Ohio Transmission Company, AEP Oklahoma 
Transmission Company, AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, and AEP Kentucky Transmission 
Company are operational. These companies currently have transmission assets that are in service or 
under construction. The Appalachian Transmission Company has received conditional approval from the 
Virginia State Corporation Commission, subject to project -by-project review and approval . The 
application for regulatory approval of AEP Southwestern Transmission Company (SW Transco) was 
denied by the Arkansas Public Service Commission in an order issued Jan. 2, 2015. The application for 
SW Transco in Louisiana is still pending.  
The Transcos  are geographically located to align with our utility operating companies and are focused 
on: 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    27 Regional projects:  The retirement of an unprecedented number of coal -fueled power plants across the 
United States over the next few years will have a significant impact on the performance of the 
transmission grid. As AEP prepares to retire more than 6,500 MW of its own coal -fueled units, we will 
make significant investments to support the grid by reconfiguring and enhancing regional transmission 
assets to ensure co ntinued reliability. In addition, both SPP and ERCOT have launched major initiatives 
to enhance the capacity and capability of their transmission grids.  
Local reliability projects:  Local transmission facilities that are 100 -kV and lower account for the 
majority of AEP Transmission facilities. This infrastructure tends to be older and more susceptible to 
reliability threats. Local reliability projects are focused on reducing the frequency and duration of 
customer outages served by these facilities  
Aging infr astructure:  Addressing aging infrastructure is another focus, as 65 percent of AEP’s 
transmission lines were built more than 40 years ago. This can result in significant operations and 
maintenance costs and reliability issues as these physical assets reach  the end of their useful life. AEP 
Transmission plans to evaluate and prioritize the targeted replacement of these assets, resulting in a 
potential $9 billion to $12 billion investment over time.  
Customer -driven projects:  In addition to addressing the agi ng infrastructure and improving reliability, 
AEP Transmission is responding to the accelerated demand for service from shale gas customers. Our 
transmission system is surrounded by major shale plays, such as the Marcellus and Utica shale 
formations in the East and the Eagle Ford formation and Permian Basin in the West. Oil and gas 
processing facilities are rapidly being developed that require quick, reliable transmission service. AEP 
Transmission’s technology strategy has supported this growth by accelerati ng the execution of 
infrastructure projects, enabling oil and gas customers to begin operations in as short a time as six 
weeks.  
Based on approved projects, the infrastructure improvements our transmission business will make 
between 2015 and 2019 will resu lt in approximately 270 new or enhanced stations, more than 1,000 line 
miles of new transmission lines and more than 2,880 miles of rebuilt transmission lines.  
Joint Ventures  
We continue to support the joint ventures we formed with other utilities to buil d new transmission assets 
within and outside of our service territory. These partnerships allow us to leverage both expertise and 
financial assets. Many of them modernize the grid and improve reliability, alleviate congested power 
corridors and facilitate the development of renewable generation.  
Electric Transmission Texas (ETT)  
Electric Transmission Texas (ETT) , a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of AEP and Berkshire 
Hathaway Energy Company (forme rly MidAmerican Energy Holding Company), completed the largest 
transmission construction project in AEP’s history in 2013. ETT operates in ERCOT and is an operating 
utility with a growing rate base. In 2013, ETT finished seven new 345 -kilovolt (kV) transmi ssion lines 
and two 138 -kV transmission line rebuilds (approximately 590 pole miles) and other facilities, marking  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    28 the conclusion of an approximately $1.5 billion investment to support the Texas Competitive Renewable 
Energy Zones (CREZ) program. CREZ refle cts the state of Texas’ commitment to renewable energy.  
In addition to CREZ, ETT is currently working on projects totaling nearly 320 miles of transmission 
lines and 12 company -owned substations with various in -service dates through 2022.  
Electric Transmi ssion America (ETA)  
Electric Transmission America  (ETA) is a 50/50 joint venture between subsidiaries of AEP and 
Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company (formerly known as MidAmerican Energy  Holdings Co). ETA 
has a 50 percent ownership interest in Prairie Wind Transmission; Westar Energy holds the remaining 
50 percent. The SPP approved the project in April 2010. The project consists of 345 -kV double -circuit 
transmission lines, running from an  existing substation in Wichita, Kan., to a new substation northeast of 
Medicine Lodge, Kan., and then south to the Kansas/Oklahoma border. The approximately $160 million 
line enhances the delivery of electricity in Kansas and supports the state’s expansio n of renewable 
energy. This project was completed in 2014.  
Pioneer Transmission  
Pioneer Transmission  is a 50/50 joint venture between AEP and Duke Energy to build and operate 
transmission lines an d related facilities in Indiana. The total project calls for 286 miles of new 765 -kV 
transmission line linking Duke Energy’s Greentown substation near Kokomo, Indiana, to AEP’s 
Rockport substation near Evansville, Indiana.  
In December 2011, the approximat ely 70 -mile Reynolds -to-Greentown segment of the Pioneer project 
was approved by the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO). Pioneer and Northern Indiana 
Public Service Company are jointly developing this segment, which is scheduled to be complete d in 
2018 and has a total estimated cost of $350 million.  
Competitive Regulated Transmission  
In April 2012, AEP became the first traditional regulated utility to form a competitive business for 
transmission with the launch of Transource® Energy , a joint venture between AEP  and Great Plains 
Energy  (GPE). Expanding Transmission’s growth stra tegy portfolio, Transource® is a subsidiary of 
AEP Transmission Holding Company, the holding company for the transcos and joint venture projects. 
Transource® proactively positions AEP to pursue projects that result from FERC Order 1000 within the 
PJM Inter connection, SPP and MISO, as well as additional projects.  
On Jan. 2, 2014, two projects in Missouri were transferred from Great Plains Energy to Transource®. 
The projects were approved by the Missouri Public Service Commission and the SPP. FERC also 
approv ed the establishment of a base rate formula and incentives for the projects. The smaller of the two 
projects is expected to be in -service in 2015 while the larger project has an expected in -service date of 
2017.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    29 The main driver behind AEP’s competitive tr ansmission business is FERC Order 1000, which was 
issued in 2011. The Order fundamentally changed how transmission facilities will be developed, owned 
and operated as well as how costs will be supported. We are encouraged by and supportive of FERC’s 
decisi on to consider public policy in the transmission planning process, including economic and 
reliability considerations, the facilitation of the integration of renewable energy into the grid, and 
environmental regulations. The order mandates that the regional  and inter -regional cost allocation 
methodologies follow a set of principles and requires RTOs and transmission providers to offer evidence 
in their compliance filings. The key principles require cost allocation methodologies to be closely tied to 
the bene fits that are calculated as part of the transmission planning process.  
Learn more about AEP’s current regulatory activity  
 
Energy Policy  
Many diverse factors can affect the price and reliability of energy throughout the country. AEP has long 
advocated the need for a national energy policy to serve as a road m ap for how our country will generate 
and deliver electricity in a reliable, cost -effective and sustainable manner over the long term.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    30 National Policy  
We believe a national energy policy must recognize regional differences and needs. The best approach 
woul d be a national framework that gives each region the flexibility to make choices and investments 
based on what makes the most sense for that state or region. For example, wind power in some western 
states, such as Oklahoma, is abundant and becoming more co st competitive with traditional fuel sources. 
In other states with a greater proximity to coal and a lack of wind resources, a different mix of energy 
investments may be more appropriate. Regional transmission organizations and state utility commissions 
are already approaching resource planning this way, and we support this approach. However, absent a 
cohesive national energy policy to stitch the pieces together, companies have little incentive to make 
strategic long -term investment decisions, such as build ing new generation capacity.  
We believe the following elements are essential to a national policy that will actually move the country 
forward:  
 Preventing overdependence on one fuel source and maintaining fuel diversity:  
Maintaining reliable service requir es a diverse fuel portfolio. We need every resource at our 
disposal – coal, natural gas, renewables, nuclear, hydro, energy efficiency and demand response. 
Research and development for low emission, high reliability fossil and nuclear technologies 
should b e a priority.  
 Investing in infrastructure and developing transmission:  
In addition to environmental compliance costs, the electric utility industry will need to make 
significant investments to refurbish and replace existing infrastructure and to build ne w facilities 
to meet the nation’s future energy needs as well as accommodate the significant number of coal 
plant retirements that are forthcoming. With investments this large, it is easy to see why we need 
a national energy policy to allow our industry to  plan with more certainty over the long term.  
 Establishing the right pricing models:  
Developing pricing models that recognize the total value of electricity services provided, 
including use of the grid.  
 Creating rational energy and environmental regulati ons:  
Because Congress has not been able to enact legislation, the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency  (EPA) is using what it believes to be its authority under existing environmental laws to 
adopt new regul ations that will impact this industry over the near and long -term. Our comments 
on EPA’s initiatives often include information essential to full consideration of the collateral 
impacts of new regulatory programs and revised environmental standards. We are also working 
with our state regulators to assure that they have adequate information to seize any new 
opportunities for flexibility in their implementation plans for the new regulations. Although we 
have already made significant investments to reduce emiss ions at our coal -fueled plants, more 
investment may be required to comply with pending EPA regulations.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    31 Gas/Electric Market Harmonization  
As new environmental rules limit the 
use of coal for electric generation, 
many observers assume we will switch 
to na tural gas, but it’s not that simple. 
While some new gas plants are being 
built to replace that base load 
generation, significant transmission 
upgrades are needed in order to reroute 
power and ensure grid reliability when 
the coal units go offline. Over $3 
billion of transmission upgrades are 
now under construction in the PJM 
Interconnection region alone in order to maintain reliability standards.  
In addition, there are infrastructure and scheduling challenges between the natural gas pipeline system 
and the  electric grid. As the electricity sector relies more heavily on natural gas for power generation, 
this growing interdependency presents challenges as well as opportunities.  
Under the current market design, AEP has to commit the availability of its natura l gas generating units 
to the regional transmission operator before we even know whether gas supplies or transportation 
capacity are available on the interstate pipelines. The alternative is for AEP to purchase and schedule the 
gas before we know whether t he generating unit will be selected by the regional transmission operator to 
generate. Neither option is optimal for maintaining reliability or minimizing consumer costs. This issue 
has lingered for two decades but has only recently come to the forefront o f energy policy discussions. 
Read more about this issue in our white paper, “ Gas-Electric Harmonization: An AEP perspective .” 
Generation Reliability  in Ohio  
A legal requirement to separate AEP’s generation assets from its transmission and distribution assets in 
Ohio made the energy they produce subject to market prices starting in 2014. Historically, regulated 
utility rates have provided a hedge for c ustomers, protecting them from the volatility of market prices.  
A significant amount of generation in the state of Ohio will be retired by mid -2015, turning the state into 
a large importer of energy for the foreseeable future. Current market conditions are  such that even 
environmentally compliant plants may be forced to shutter for economic reasons, resulting in Ohio’s 
reliance on other states for energy.  
In response, AEP Ohio filed two requests with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) for the 
establishment of a Purchase Power Agreement (PPA) rider and for the authority to either collect or 
credit to customers the financial effect of selling the output of several Ohio generating units under the 
requested PPA rider. The goal of the PPA construct i s to provide customers with more stable electricity 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    32 prices during periods of market volatility while supporting the economic viability of Ohio’s generation, 
which is at risk due to the numerous challenges in the current PJM market construct. Without this 
agreement, Ohio is facing a period of unprecedented uncertainty related to the future supply of low -cost 
reliable energy.  
The PUCO took a significant step forward in approving the creation of the PPA Rider, but has not yet 
authorized the inclusion of any of  the requested generating assets in retail rates. Some of our 
stakeholders have opposed the proposed plan. They believe that the proposed plan is designed to keep 
coal plants open and will depress market prices, thereby preventing investment in new generat ion within 
the state of Ohio. However, AEP Ohio estimates, based on a 10 -year projection, the agreement would 
provide significant incremental cost -saving benefits for customers. And, it would provide for a better 
economic growth platform for Ohio in the fo rm of more stable electricity prices and would ensure the 
continued benefits of having local generation resources.  
Inland Waterways  
The nation’s inland waterways are of strategic economic and military importance because the 
commercially navigable waterwa ys connect 41 states, providing the capability to move large amounts of 
freight cargo. These waterways carry agricultural 
commodities, chemicals, coal and petroleum products to 
ports across the United States. It is the most cost -effective 
delivery system w e have for transporting raw materials 
that enables the United States to compete in a global 
marketplace. But the infrastructure supporting this 
commerce is past its 50 -year lifespan, according to the 
Institute for Waterways, a unit of the U.S. Army Corps o f 
Engineers, which maintains the waterways.  
According to the Congressional Research Service, only 
one lock along the Ohio River has received funding to be replaced through the 2016 fiscal year. The 
Corps predicts that total domestic freight traffic is expe cted to increase by approximately 70 percent by 
2020 yet, lock unavailability and delays have more than doubled over the past decade.  
Why does this matter so much to AEP? Through our River Operations b usiness unit , we transported 69 
million tons of cargo over these waterways in 2014 – and more than 44 million tons of that cargo was 
transported on the Ohio River Basin, serving many of our power plants.  
Five major lock closures in 2014 that resulted in 319 days of delay contributed to significant delays in 
delivering commodities, creating financial risk. We take action wherever possible to mitigate these risks. 
For example, if we know a lock is due for a scheduled outage, we can deliver coal to a power p lant in 
advance of the lock closure.  
AEP continues to support the 20 -year capital development plan proposed by the Inland Waterways 
Users Board and various trade associations. In addition to process reforms, this plan would increase the 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    33 fuel charge that c ommercial users of waterways (regulated and unregulated) would pay to help fund 
infrastructure improvements. Legislation that included parts of the capital development plan and 
important process reforms – Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 – became law in 
June 2014. Legislation to increase the fuel charge also passed in 2014.  
Congress’ failure to adequately fund waterways infrastructure would undercut the low -cost 
transportation required for American businesses to remain competitive in inter national markets and raise 
the cost of doing business and living in America.  
Managing Risk  
We are faced with an array of risks, many of them well understood and controlled and others emerging 
and not as well defined. Our effectiveness at managing risk hel ps us to identify and prepare for new 
opportunities that may benefit our customers, improve the work environment for our employees and 
deliver value to our investors.  
How we Manage Risk  
Our enterprise risk management process continuously evaluates our lev els of acceptable risk based on 
internal targets and guidelines, external environment and operating conditions. As part of our enterprise 
risk management and strategic planning processes, we have developed utility industry scenarios that 
present potential business trends and issues based on the key drivers in AEP’s business.  
We implemented a new tool to quantify the risks associated with our competitive businesses. The tool 
simulates market prices, various components of the generation portfolio and other c ontract variables to 
produce risk measures, such as gross margin and cash flow at risk. In addition, stress test and hedge 
sensitivities are used when analyzing the financial risks of the business.  
We also started a commercial compliance program, which bu ilds on our existing control framework and 
organizational experience to comply with multiple regulations, including those issued by the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. Primary 
enhancements include mandat ory compliance training for commercial trading functions, a defined policy 
and organizational structure, and surveillance and monitoring of transactions. These enhancements 
further mitigate the risks of a potential violation.  
Risk Governance  
AEP’s Enterpr ise Risk Oversight (ERO) group, led by our chief risk officer, is responsible for 
developing the collective risk assessment of the company. This group gathers and analyzes information 
from functional business units at all levels of the company and reports to the Risk Executive Committee, 
which consists of members of the executive management team and functional unit representatives. To 
further the process of identifying, evaluating and understanding risks, the ERO facilitates business unit 
risk assessments. The Risk Executive Committee makes recommendations to business unit leaders for 
risk mitigation, where appropriate, and identifies the major risks and material issues on an enterprise - 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    34 wide basis that could impact the company’s goals. These are monitored, r eported and discussed on a 
regular basis with the Audit Committee of the AEP Board of Directors.  
Cyber and Physical Security  
Our dependence upon information technology and telecommunications systems to ensure reliability of 
the electric power grid makes c yber and physical security and data privacy critical priorities for our 
industry. Like all utilities, AEP collects and maintains data in order to provide service to customers. We 
continuously work to protect the confidentiality of customer information and to prevent unauthorized 
use.  
Several high profile attacks affecting the financial, healthcare, retail and entertainment industries 
demonstrate the potential impacts of the threats. As these events become known, we continually assess 
our own cybersecurity tools and processes to determine where we might need to strengthen our defenses.  
At AEP, we maintain an array of programs, procedures and processes to help us identify emerging 
threats, strengthen our defenses, minimize the risk of a security breach, reac t effectively when it does 
occur, and protect intellectual and physical property.  
Cyber Security  
The electric grid is one of the most complex and important physical assets in the United States because 
all other sectors of the economy rely upon it to deliv er essential services. Protecting those assets is 
increasingly important and challenging. Like many other forms of infrastructure, the physical assets that 
generate and deliver energy to our homes and businesses depend increasingly on the integrity and 
security of the information technology and the data that support them. Any disruption to that information 
or technology poses a significant threat to national security, the environment, the economy and our 
social well -being.  
AEP benefits from strong executi ve sponsorship for all 
cybersecurity programs. An Enterprise Security 
Advisory Council, with representatives from each 
business unit and security management, is responsible 
for governance, implementation and operation of 
AEP’s cybersecurity program. In add ition, the 
management of physical and cyber security report 
monthly to the chief executive officer, chief operating 
officer, chief risk officer and other executives on 
current and emerging security events and trends.  
We protect our system by working with g overnment, utility industry and non -utility industry partners to 
coordinate our efforts, sharing information and best practices, and staying current with emerging threats 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    35 and risks. Further, we take actions to protect AEP’s information systems, technology and data that 
support our assets, infrastructure and business networks.  
As we push cyber security deeper into the supply chain, we work with our vendors to help them build 
cybersecurity protections into their services, product design and manufacturing pro cesses. In partnership 
with our procurement team, we developed a set of security requirements for our vendors that help us 
better protect the grid.  
Regulatory Framework  
The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 gave the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FE RC) the 
authority and responsibility to oversee the reliability of the bulk power system. Given this authority, 
FERC designated the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) to be the nation’s 
Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) to establi sh, monitor and enforce mandatory reliability 
standards. These mandatory standards include, but are not limited to, Critical Infrastructure Protection 
(CIP) cybersecurity standards. The first version of the CIP standards became enforceable in 2008 when 
FERC approved them and concurrently directed NERC to develop modifications to address specific 
concerns.  
In 2016, a new version of the CIP standards becomes enforceable. This version expands protections 
against physical and cyber -attacks on the power grid. In  2015, NERC is expected to file another new 
version of the CIP standards (version 7) with FERC that will seek to further enhance the industry’s 
approach to infrastructure protection against physical and cyber -attacks.  
AEP complies with cybersecurity standa rds for the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant through the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission (NRC). The NRC is authorized by FERC as the cybersecurity regulator of 
nuclear power plants. AEP, in conjunction with other nuclear power operators, coordinates through the 
Nuclear Energy Institute for effective cybersecurity practices to address the NRC cybersecurity 
regulations.  
Information Sharing  
AEP partners with a number of other utilities and the Edison Electric Institute to keep legislators and 
regulators informed ab out advanced cybersecurity functions. We regularly share our knowledge and 
expertise with others at the federal and state levels. Although there are no NERC CIP -type cybersecurity 
requirements at the state level, we are working with our state regulators to  help them better understand 
these risks and how we manage them.  
Our efforts to strengthen our threat detection and prevention capabilities go well beyond compliance and 
we have been an industry leader in promoting private sector cooperation through our Cy ber Security 
Operations Center (CSOC) threat and information sharing program. This was initially designed as a pilot 
cyber threat and information -sharing center specifically for the electric sector and today is in full 
operation. The CSOC works with a lead ing defense contractor to leverage its experience and 
capabilities.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    36 In 2014, the Department of Energy (DOE), as part of its Cybersecurity Risk Information Sharing 
Program, invested nearly $2 million in a platform that provides early warning of potential c yberattacks. 
AEP participates in this program. Since 2010, the DOE has invested more than $150 million in 
cybersecurity research, development and commercialization projects in which AEP has participated.  
We work with a consortium of utilities across the co untry and the Electricity Subsector Coordinating 
Council (ESCC), a CEO -led industry group that meets three times a year with senior officials from the 
DOE, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, White House, FERC and the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation. Outcomes have included deployment of tools and technologies to improve 
situational awareness and to develop coordinated plans to respond to an attack on the grid.  
AEP also participates and shares threat information with our sector’s threat sharing organization, the 
Electricity Sector Information Sharing and Analysis Center (ES -ISAC). The ES -ISAC establishes 
situational awareness, incident management, coordination and communication capabilities within the 
electricity sector through timely, re liable and secure information exchanges. The ES -ISAC, in 
collaboration with the DHS, DOE and the ESCC, serves as the primary security communications 
channel for the electricity sector and enhances the ability of our industry to prepare for and respond to 
cyber and physical threats, vulnerabilities and incidents.  
All AEP employees must complete Security Awareness Training annually, covering physical and 
cybersecurity. In addition, we frequently communicate and educate our employees about their risk of 
being targeted. The training gives employees information and tools to help shield our data from threats 
as it travels across the AEP network. It also places a shared responsibility for security with employees 
and the company.  
AEP will again participate in the G ridEx III exercise in November 2015. Sponsored by NERC, the 
exercise brings together over 200 organizations, including NERC, industry and government agencies 
and participants from Canada and Mexico. GridEx is an example of the industry’s ongoing efforts to  be 
proactive on cyber and physical security. It is the largest, most comprehensive effort addressing security 
by the electricity industry to date and serves as an example of the commitment of stakeholders to 
continuously improve physical security and cybe rsecurity defenses.  
Physical Security  
In 2014, FERC took an unprecedented step toward protecting the physical security of the most critical 
assets of the nation’s bulk power system. The agency approved a new physical security reliability 
standard that was proposed by NERC. The new standard “requires owners and operators of the bulk 
power system to perform a risk assessment of their systems to identify critical facilities; evaluate 
potential threats to, and vulnerabilities of, those facilities; and develop a nd implement a security plan to 
protect against attacks on those facilities.”  
The standard was developed following an incident in California in which a major substation was 
damaged by gunfire. The new standard requires owners and operators of transmission  facilities to  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    37 protect critical transmission stations, substations 
and control centers whose damage by physical 
attack could threaten the reliability of the system.  
We support physical security standards for 
transmission equipment, and it is important tha t 
FERC has recognized that a one -size-fits-all 
approach to security will not be the most 
effective. Security plans need to be customized 
for the unique characteristics and location of each 
facility. In addition, we believe that resiliency is 
part of a robu st mitigation strategy. To that end, we are investing in building more redundancy in our 
transmission grid and maintaining spares of critical equipment.  
The new standards are important to protect critical infrastructure from physical threats but will incr ease 
the cost of compliance as additional investments will be required. AEP will continue to work with 
experts within and outside of our industry to develop effective security plans for critical equipment and 
improve awareness and response to potential cyb er and physical threats to the system.  
Business Continuity  
Major disruptions to business are why companies rely on detailed plans that allow them to keep 
functioning, even in a diminished capacity, while recovery occurs. In 2014, a significant event occur red 
that put AEP’s business continuity plans to the test and led to new procedures and practices, replacement 
of aging infrastructure and increased use of 
redundant systems.  
On February 28, 2014, an underground network in 
downtown Columbus caught fire, cut ting off 
power to a portion of the city’s downtown district. 
The power outage was the catalyst for a series of 
events that affected almost every aspect of AEP’s 
operations. Phones, email, access to customer 
records, and other IT systems were disrupted.  
Following the Columbus event, AEP conducted an 
inspection of its network facilities across its system. During this inspection period, subsequent 
underground network incidents occurred outside of Ohio, highlighting the significant risk posed by 
aging infrastr ucture – an issue that is not unique to AEP. Fortunately, there were no injuries and no 
significant damage in all of these incidents. As part of remediation efforts, AEP plans to invest more 
than $300 million in upgrades and enhancements between 2014 and 2 018 to ensure the reliability of its 
16 underground networks.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    38 In addition, AEP has launched a project to install an underground network monitoring system that will 
give our operating companies greater insight into the status and health of the underground n etworks. The 
Underground Network (UGN) monitoring project will change the way AEP collects, communicates and 
uses data to support the Operations, Engineering and Planning functions of the operating companies’ 
critical UGN systems. Specifically, the system is expected to provide real -time monitoring of the status 
of AEP’s underground network assets.  
In addition, we built a new Tier III data center that will be in use by the end of 2015. Tier III data 
centers do not require shutdowns for equipment replacement  and maintenance. We also implemented a 
new, flexible communication system to enable more timely communications with our employees.  
Capacity Markets  
A significant financial risk for AEP is the outcome of annual Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) capacity 
auctions. The auctions determine the prices AEP will be paid for its generating capacity. Traditionally 
volatile, the PJM capacity auctions determine prices paid for capacity three years in advance. The May 
2015 auction, which will now take place in late July or early August due to a delay by the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), following a request by PJM, will cover 2018 -2019 capacity 
needs. Capacity payments represent an important portion of a plant’s income. AEP Generation 
Resources may experienc e increased revenue and earnings volatility due to its exposure to PJM’s 
capacity market in addition to fuel and power prices.  
The May 2014 auction covered the delivery period of June 2017 through May 2018. In the 2014 auction, 
the capacity price cleared at $120 per megawatt -day, up from $59/MW -day the prior year. Much of this 
increase in price was due to a series of changes in the capacity auction rules in late 2013 and early 2014. 
The changes were directed at assuring more reliability performance for dem and response resources, and 
ensuring the imports into PJM, which were sold as capacity, could be relied on during emergency 
events.  
In 2013, the flawed auction 
structure caused the clearing price 
to drop to half of what it had been 
the previous year. In re sponse, AEP 
organized a group of utilities intent 
on reforming some of those flaws. 
Referred to as the Utilities 
Coalition, the group includes AEP, 
Dayton Power & Light, First 
Energy, Buckeye Power and 
Eastern Kentucky Power 
Cooperative. Together, these 
companies represent more than 40 
percent of the generation in the 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    39 PJM Interconnection region. The Coalition has been successful in influencing changes to four major 
auction flaws. A fifth issue is still being reviewed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commiss ion.  
The result is that the changes made so far, though not perfect, have improved reliability and capacity 
prices. But it is still far from being a stable market. The key areas tackled by the Coalition were:  
 Import limits. Previous rules allowed unlimite d imports to bid into the auction, even without firm 
transmission. FERC accepted PJM's proposed changes to those rules, which now require firm 
transmission and other actions to assure import reliability.  
 Demand response (DR) megawatt (MW) caps. FERC accep ted recommendations to place 
reasonable MW limits on summer -only DR resources.  
 Demand response operational issues. FERC accepted recommendations to allow PJM more 
flexibility and shorter lead times to use DR resources for reliability.  
 Slope of demand cur ve. FERC accepted PJM’s proposal, supported by the Coalition, to flatten 
the demand curve used in the auction. This should improve price formation and reduce volatility 
starting in 2018 and 2019.  
 Incremental auctions. The PJM tariff still retains certain provisions that allow certain entities to 
make speculative bids into the auction, artificially suppressing clearing prices. This issue remains 
open even into 2015.  
Despite the one -year improvement in the clearing price in 2014, AEP still has deep concerns  about the 
auction process and the resulting negative reliability impacts it may have over the long term.  
Our Coalition believes the capacity auction should create long -term price signals for all resources and 
compensate generators for investing in generat ing capacity. The current rules actually encourage 
volatility and speculation. This volatility, combined with continued price suppression, does not provide 
the revenue needed to support the cost to operate existing generation, much less encourage the 
const ruction of new plants.  
Capacity Performance Filing  
In December 2014, PJM filed with FERC a new type of capacity product, the Capacity Performance 
product (CP). This primarily addresses the structural flaws highlighted by the 2014 polar vortex. 
According to  the filing, PJM intends to raise the level of capacity performance and reliability during 
emergencies by:  
 Assessing higher penalties for non -performance;  
 Allowing higher offers into the auction without fear of manipulation determinations by the 
market mo nitor; and,  
 Requiring generators to ensure they can perform reliably during emergencies, with adequate fuel 
and operational abilities.  
PJM’s Capacity Performance proposal is redefining how capacity is viewed and how it can be offered 
into the market. How ever, there are a lot of unanswered questions as to whether PJM’s new proposal 
strikes the appropriate balance between risk and reward.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    40 These initiatives were debated with PJM’s stakeholder group (with AEP support) and filed at FERC in 
late 2014.  
Generati on Transformation  
In 2015 and 2016, AEP’s power generation business will undergo a major transformation. During this 
time, AEP will retire approximately 6,500 megawatts (MW) of coal -fueled capacity to comply with new 
environmental regulations, and to respo nd to weak electricity demand growth, aging infrastructure and 
continued competition from natural gas, among other reasons. The shift will transform our generation 
fleet, reduce impacts to the environment and create new opportunities to develop generation and 
transmission resources.  
Coal Unit Retirements  
The costs associated with decommissioning the coal units, retrofitting or refueling of other units, 
purchasing power, or developing future generation or transmission resources will have significant rate 
impacts for customers. In addition, the loss of significant base load generation creates greater electric 
grid reliability risks that must be mitigated by strengthening and expanding the current transmission 
system. These drivers require us to continue to pl an, design and implement cost -effective and 
sustainable strategies for managing our generation and transmission resources.  
Compliance with environmental regulations has dominated our capital investment strategy for more than 
two decades. More than $7 bill ion was spent on compliance from 1990 through 2011 to reduce 
emissions from coal -fueled plants. We estimate that the cost of complying with new regulations will be 
an additional $2.8 billion to $3.3 billion between 2013 through 2020. These amounts include 
investments to refuel some of our coal units to natural gas. In addition, cost estimates will change 
depending on the to -be-determined scope of requirements, implementation timeline and compliance 
flexibility of future regulatory programs.  
Reliability Conc erns 
The magnitude and timing of planned generating unit retirements across the AEP system and throughout 
the utility industry introduces a number of concerns, including those related to maintaining the reliability 
and stability of the electric grid, espec ially during periods of extreme demand. We are concerned with 
the process and timing to not only evaluate these concerns, but also to plan, design and implement cost -
effective solutions to mitigate any significant risks once the planned retirements occur. We saw how 
critical many of these units were to the overall system during severe cold events in the winters of 2014 
and 2015. During these periods of prolonged cold temperatures across broad regions of the country, 
operation of these units was increased an d they were heavily relied upon to meet energy demands, 
including within regional transmission organizations that AEP operates.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    41 The risk to reliability could potentially be compounded if the EPA decides to finalize standards in their 
current form to reduc e carbon emissions from the electric sector. Among other concerns, this regulation 
could effectively remove additional coal units from service. Having a diverse generation resource mix is 
important to ensuring reliability of the grid. But, the premature re tirement of additional coal units hurts 
our ability to achieve this fuel diversity and puts reliability at risk. When major changes are made to 
generation, we must have adequate time to assess the reliability impacts from both a generation and 
transmission  perspective. This reliability assessment is critical to allow us to identify risk and address it 
cost-effectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plant Decommissioning  
As coal units are taken off line, a new chapter in plant decommissioning begins. For over two years a 
plant decommissioning team from our Generation, Fuels, Environmental Services, Corporate 
Communications and Human Resources business units worked together to develop a plan and processes 
to retire coal units and work with displaced employees to help them find ne w jobs. The plan ensures the 
plant retirements are completed safely and in a manner that complies with all environmental 
requirements. In addition to the environmental monitoring that will be required at the plant sites well 
into the future, and final disp osition of buildings and equipment, there will be long -term social and 
community impacts.  
Our concern for our employees led to a comprehensive staffing plan, developed in 2012, to provide 
support, training and job opportunities in anticipation of unit reti rements. When the units are closed in 
mid-2015, more than 450 employees will be displaced. Most will retire, with others either taking jobs 
elsewhere within AEP or moving on to other endeavors with the aid of severance and outplacement 
services.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    42 Although most of the units will be retired in mid -2015, the disposition of the physical buildings, 
equipment and landfills and ash ponds will continue to be managed into the future. To ensure continued 
compliance with all safety, security, environmental and regulat ory requirements, we plan to maintain 
oversight of each location for these efforts. We will continue to investigate potential options for the 
retired facilities such as reuse of the properties by other industries, sale of the structures and equipment 
for spare parts or scrap, and sale of the properties. We will also be exploring demolition for each site.  
Our plants have historically been a large part of the tax base in the communities where they’re located, 
and the loss of tax revenue will be felt in those  communities. Our Economic & Business Development 
team is working and investing in communities to promote economic growth throughout our service 
territory, including where our retiring plants are located.  
There also are financial ramifications for AEP resu lting from coal unit retirements. We expect to recover 
the remaining net book value of our retired regulated generating assets through the normal regulatory 
process. However, we were not able to recover the full cost of the retiring units in our competitiv e 
generation business and took pretax impairment charges totaling $441 million during 2012 and 2013. In 
addition to asset cost recovery, there are expenses associated with retiring coal units primarily related to 
asbestos removal, ash pond closure and othe r mitigation efforts such as closing water intake tunnels to 
the plants.  
Plant Retrofits and Refuels  
One way to comply with new environmental regulations is to retrofit or refuel coal units, allowing them 
to continue providing the reliable electricity the y have been producing for decades. To comply with 
impending regulatory requirements, including the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards and regional haze 
rule, we will retrofit with new or additional environmental controls or refuel with natural gas more than 
7,200 MW of generating capacity.  
In Kentucky, we are converting the Big Sandy Plant’s 278 MW Unit 1 to burn natural gas instead of 
coal. The conversion will cost up to $60 million which will allow part of the plant to remain open, 
preserving several jobs.  In addition to Big Sandy’s Unit 1, two units at the Clinch River Plant in Virginia 
will also be refueled to natural gas.  
Our Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCo) is installing additional environmental controls at 
four generating facilities to mai ntain critical reliability in three states and to meet stringent new 
environmental regulations. The projects include the coal -fueled Flint Creek and Welsh Power Plants and 
the lignite -fueled Pirkey and Dolet Hills Plants.  
In Arkansas, the 528 MW Flint Cree k Plant is installing a dry flue gas desulfurization (DFGD) scrubber 
system, a fabric filter technology and an Activated Carbon Injection (ACI) system to reduce emissions. 
The facilities will be in service by the end of May 2016; the Arkansas Department of  Environmental 
Quality granted a one -year extension from the 2015 federal compliance deadline for MATS to allow this 
construction to be completed. SWEPCo’s share of the $408 million project is $204 million. SWEPCo 
owns 264 MW and operates the plant.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    43 In Te xas, SWEPCo is investing approximately $410 million to retrofit its Welsh Power Plant Units 1 
and 3 (528 MW each) with an ACI system to reduce mercury emissions, along with new fabric filter 
technology that reduces particulate matter and mercury emissions.  The facilities will be in service in 
2016; the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has granted a one -year extension beyond the 
April 2015 MATS compliance deadline. Also, new controls have been installed at the Pirkey Plant in 
Texas (SWEPCo owns 580 MW and operates the plant) and the Dolet Hills Plant in Louisiana 
(SWEPCo owns 257 MW of the plant).  
In Oklahoma, a U.S. EPA -approved state implementation plan will require Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma (PSO) to retire one of two coal -fueled electric generating units at its Northeastern Station in 
2016 to comply with regional haze rules. PSO will replace the capacity from that unit with power 
purchased from an Oklahoma natural gas –fueled facility. In addition, PSO is required to install emission 
contro ls on the second coal -fueled unit at Northeastern Station by 2016 and later retire that unit in 2026. 
Replacement power for that facility will be determined by evaluating the best options for PSO customers 
at that time.  
In Indiana, the Rockport Plant inst alled emission controls on its coal units. This project uses dry sorbent 
injection (DSI) technology, which will provide significant savings to customers of our Indiana Michigan 
Power Company (I&M). The traditional dry scrubber would have cost an estimated $1.4 billion, but 
I&M investigated alternatives and ultimately identified this lower cost technology.  
  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    44 
 
A Legacy of Reliable Power  
In 2015 and 2016, AEP will retire approximately 6,500 megawatts (MW) of coal -fueled generating 
capacity as part of our plan  for complying with the new federal Mercury Air Toxics Standards for 
existing power plants. For decades, these units have supplied reliable, affordable power to millions of 
customers, supported local economic growth, provided local and state tax revenue th at supported 
education, public safety and other services, and provided well -paying jobs for thousands of people. We 
thank the leaders and citizens of these communities for the opportunity to live and grow with them.  
Powering the Future  
The resources and ge nerating technologies used to produce and distribute electricity in the future will 
blend the traditional with the alternative. AEP’s fuel portfolio has steadily become more diverse and 
balanced as we increased our use of natural gas and renewable resource s, as well as energy efficiency.  
Since 2004, AEP has added nearly 5,000 MW of natural gas generating capacity to our portfolio and we 
have secured long -term contracts for 2,183 MW of wind and 10 MW of solar generation. Currently, 
AEP is developing its fir st 15.7 MW utility -scale solar project in Indiana. In addition, we are investing 
in our two nuclear units at the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant to enhance performance during its 
extended life. These are among the many efforts under way to increase the divers ity of our generating 
fleet and provide greater flexibility to adjust to changing fuel prices and market conditions.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    45 We project AEP’s generating capacity to shift from approximately 61 percent coal and 23 percent 
natural gas in 2014 to approximately 48 pe rcent coal and 25 percent natural gas in 2026. The remainder 
of our resource needs will be supplied by renewable energy, nuclear, hydroelectric and pumped storage, 
energy efficiency and demand response programs. Transmission expansion and smart grid techno logy 
deployments are other tools that can help us address the changes in generating capacity.  
The values shown for energy efficiency and demand response represent anticipated incremental growth 
of these programs that are over -and-above energy efficiencies  anticipated from emerging federal codes 
& standards, which are already embedded in our load forecast. In addition, our energy efficiency and 
demand response programs generally reflect AEP offering an incentive to simply advance the adoption 
of a more effi cient technology; actual growth is driven by our state regulators. Other factors impacting 
this include AEP’s low retail rates, low load growth and low avoided cost.  
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    46 
 
 
 
Natural Gas  
According to the American Petroleum Institute’s (API) “The State of American Energy Report 2015,” 
demand for natural gas in the power sector is expected to be the biggest driver of growth in the natural 
gas industry this year. As coal units are retired across the United States, natural gas is capturing a 
growing share of t he resource mix for base load power generation. The electric industry continues to be 
the natural gas industry’s largest customer.  
In 2014, AEP’s total system consumed over 146 billion cubic feet (bcf) of natural gas to generate 
electricity to serve our cu stomers. While AEP’s natural gas -fired generating capacity has increased over 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    47 the past several years with the addition of two combined cycle gas plants, implementation of the 
Southwest Power Pool market and changes to how AEP’s natural gas fleet is dispatc hed resulted in 
decreased use in 2014.  
A game changer for natural gas 
has been shale gas 
development, which provides 
significant opportunities for 
economic growth and a secure 
energy future for America. 
According to API, shale gas 
development has helped the 
U.S. vault past Russia to 
become the world's largest natural gas producers, and the U.S. is projected to become a net exporter 
within the next decade. Several major shale gas formations are located, in part, across eight of 11 states 
in AEP’s service t erritory, including the fastest growing areas: the Utica and Marcellus in Ohio and 
West Virginia, the South Texas Eagle Ford formation and the Permian Basin in West Texas.  
Gas/Electric Market Harmonization  
As new environmental rules limit the use of coal  for electric generation, many observers assume we will 
switch to natural gas, but it’s not that simple. While some new gas plants are being built to replace that 
base load generation, significant transmission upgrades are needed in order to reroute power and ensure 
grid reliability when the coal units go offline. Over $3 billion of transmission upgrades are now under 
construction in the PJM 
Interconnection region alone in 
order to maintain reliability 
standards.  
In addition, there are 
infrastructure and s cheduling 
challenges between the natural 
gas pipeline system and the 
electric grid. As the electricity 
sector relies more heavily on 
natural gas for power generation, 
this growing interdependency 
presents challenges as well as 
opportunities.  
Under the cur rent market design, AEP has to commit the availability of its natural gas generating units 
to the regional transmission operator before we even know whether gas supplies or transportation 
capacity are available on the interstate pipelines. The alternative is for AEP to purchase and schedule the 
gas before we know whether the generating unit will be selected by the regional transmission operator to 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    48 
generate. Neither option is optimal for maintaining reliability or minimizing consumer costs. This issue 
has li ngered for two decades but has only recently come to the forefront of energy policy discussions. 
Read more about this issue in our white paper, “ Gas-Electric Harmonization: An AEP perspective .” 
Coal  
The combination of stringent new environmental regulations, increased development of other generation 
technologies and evolving market conditions are driving a reduction in the use of coal as a fuel sourc e 
for power generation in the U.S. Nevertheless, coal remains the biggest domestic source of fuel for 
generating electricity. While coal will continue to be important for the foreseeable future, a balanced 
resource portfolio of diverse generation resources  is needed to maintain affordable and reliable supplies 
of electricity for our customers.  
The 600 -MW John W. Turk, Jr., Power Plant, in Arkansas, reflects our continued commitment to the use 
of coal as part of a balanced portfolio of generation resources . The Turk Plant, which began commercial 
operation in late 2012, is the only 
operating power plant in the United 
States to use ultra -supercritical 
technology and is one of the 
nation’s cleanest, most efficient 
pulverized coal plants. As a 
significant addit ion to the 
generating fleet along with new 
natural gas units, this plant allows 
Southwestern Electric Power 
Company  (SWEPCo) to continue 
its strategy of fuel diversity that has 
benefited its customers for  decades.  
In 2014, SWEPCo was recognized for its leadership in deploying advanced technologies that deliver 
ultra-low emissions by Peabody Energy’s inaugural Advanced Energy for Life “Clean Coal Awards.” 
The honors recognize the best environmental perform ance achieved among U.S. coal power plants in 
2014 based on key emission rates. The award recognized Turk Plant as the most efficient coal plant in 
the country based on carbon dioxide efficiency.  
We are very proud of our accomplishment with the Turk Plant.  And while the Turk Plant stands as a 
state-of-the-art representation of our technology leadership, increasing environmental regulatory 
pressures present significant challenges for the development of future coal -fueled generation. However, 
we must continue  to pursue and develop technology solutions to address these challenges so that coal 
will remain a key component of a balanced portfolio of resources.  
We continue to strongly advocate for the research and development of new and transformational 
technologi es that will be ready for deployment post -2025, both in the U.S. and abroad, to significantly 
reduce global carbon emissions and enable coal’s continued use in a low -carbon environment.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    49 Renewable Energy  
According to the U.S. Energy Information Administrat ion (EIA), total renewables consumption for 
electric power and heat generation will increase by 4.5 percent in 2015. Electricity generation from wind 
alone is expected to contribute 4.7 percent of total 
electricity generation in 2015.  
With significant gro wth in renewable energy in the 
U.S. over the past decade, AEP’s vast transmission 
network serves a critical function in connecting these 
resources and delivering them to customers across the 
country. Over 7,500 MW of renewable generation is 
interconnected via AEP’s transmission system today, 
and considerably more is in the queue for the future. 
AEP has also received approval from RTOs for over 
$2.2 billion in new regional transmission projects intended to directly support renewable resource 
integration.  
Seven states where we operate have laws or regulatory orders that set forth requirements or goals for 
renewable and alternative energy sources. These are Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, 
Texas and Virginia. The requirements in Indiana, Oklahoma and Virginia are voluntary whereas the 
others are mandatory. On Feb. 3, 2015, West Virginia’s governor signed legislation repealing that state’s 
Alternative & Renewable Energy Portfolio Act. In Indiana, the state legislature approved additional 
legislation  to further define the original framework.  
During the last decade, AEP has been steadily increasing its renewable energy portfolio through 
renewable energy power purchase agreements. At the end of 2014, our operating companies were 
receiving deliveries of renewable energy from projects with long -term contracts for 2,183 MW of wind 
(which includes 200 MW added at the end of the year for I&M) and 10 MW of solar power. Recent 
advancements in technology have allowed for significant gains to be realized in the e fficiencies and 
cost-effectiveness of solar energy. As solar energy becomes more viable and customers are more 
interested in it as a resource, now is the right time to move forward with a utility -scale solar power pilot 
project. This project is an opportun ity that helps us to innovate to serve our customers in new and better 
ways and offer them the choices they want.  
While solar growth has historically been concentrated in customer -sited distributed generation 
installations, utility -scale solar capacity sli ghtly more than doubled in 2013. The EIA expects that 
utility -scale solar capacity will nearly double again between the end of 2013 and the end of 2015.  
On February 4, 2015, AEP’s Indiana Michigan Power Company (I&M) received approval to build a 
Clean Ene rgy Solar Pilot Project from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission. The pilot project will 
consist of four to five separate solar facilities totaling 15.7 MW, most of which will be on property on or 
near existing and future substations. Locating them i n this way helps to minimize the cost of delivering 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    50 the energy to the transmission grid. The addition of solar also meets the increasing interest of customers 
who want to use more renewable energy to meet their needs.  
This is AEP’s first self -built utility -scale solar project and would further broaden the diversity of our 
generation sources in a logical, progressive and disciplined manner. Significantly, this project would 
give I&M and AEP hands -on experience in the design, deployment and operation of utili ty-scale solar 
projects, integrating it reliably into the PJM Interconnection transmission grid.  
When the renewable projects that are 
under development and/or pending 
regulatory approval are added to AEP’s 
renewable portfolio, AEP will have a 
total of 2, 715 MW to serve our 
regulated operating company customers, 
net of one wind contract (151 MW) that 
will expire at the end of 2015.  
In 2014, Ohio and Indiana each passed 
legislation impacting their states’ 
mandated energy efficiency 
requirements. Ohio place d a two -year 
freeze on the mandated levels while a 
legislative committee reviews whether 
changes should be made. While this 
issue is resolved, AEP Ohio intends to 
continue to offer energy efficiency 
programs to its customers. Renewable 
contracts designed t o meet the standard 
will also remain in place.  
Indiana law set aside an energy 
efficiency mandate, statewide energy 
efficiency targets and the statewide 
third -party administrator program – all 
created by a prior regulatory order. The 
2014 legislation allow ed utilities to 
instead propose energy efficiency 
program levels to the regulators for 
approval. In 2015, the state legislature is 
poised to approve additional legislation 
to further define the original framework.  
Overall, we expect renewable energy to bec ome an increasingly larger piece of our energy portfolio 
across AEP.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    51  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    52 Nuclear and Hydro  
Nuclear power and hydroelectric power remain important resources in our energy portfolio. AEP’s 
2,191 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Brid gman, Mich., provides low -cost electricity to I&M 
customers. Cook’s two units generate more than 2,100 MW to serve I&M customers. Together, the two 
units produce enough energy to power approximately 1.5 million homes and represent approximately 48 
percent of I&M’s power generation portfolio. In 2005, the plant received license extensions from the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission permitting the units to run an additional 20 years beyond the duration 
of their original operating licenses – until 2034 and 2037, re spectively.  
In 2013, utility commissions in Michigan and Indiana 
granted I&M approval of its Life Cycle Management 
Project (LCM), enabling the plant to make necessary 
investments to continue operating effectively during the 
plant’s license extensions. Ult imately, the goal for 
LCM is to replace or upgrade systems or components 
before they become obsolete or worn -out.  
Since the 2011 Japanese earthquake, tsunami and 
subsequent nuclear accident at Fukushima, seismic 
analysis and the potential for damage to a U.S. nuclear plant from an earthquake has been under review. 
AEP’s Cook Plant was among an initial group of 10 plants required to complete the analysis. The 10 
plants, including Cook, must submit a detailed risk analysis to the NRC by June 30, 2017.  
Hydroe lectric power is another source of cost -effective energy. AEP operates 17 hydroelectric and 
pumped storage projects in five states. These projects produce approximately 850 MW of generation. In 
2014, Appalachian Power Company (APCo) received new licenses f rom the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) for its London, Marmet and Winfield hydroelectric facilities located on the 
Kanawha River in West Virginia. The new licenses extend the operations of these facilities by APCo 
through January 31, 2064. The se facilities have a total capacity of 43.6 MW.  
APCo also received FERC approval for an updated shoreline management plant for its Smith Mountain 
pumped storage generation project in Virginia. The plan describes how the company manages its 
relationship wi th the environment, property owners and the public outside of its primary function of 
generating power at both the Smith Mountain and Leesville hydroelectric facilities.  
Energy Efficiency  
Although energy efficiency and demand response are not physical asse ts, we incorporate them in our 
integrated resource planning because they serve as important resources in meeting our system’s energy 
and capacity needs.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    53 Energy efficiency and demand response are tools that help meet state energy reduction goals as well as  
giving consumers tools to manage their energy use. In addition to partnering with customers to achieve 
higher levels of efficiency in their homes and businesses, AEP is also reducing energy consumption in 
our own operations.  
Energy efficiency and demand r esponse programs have received regulatory support for cost recovery in 
most of the states we serve, and this is necessary to enable sustainable demand response and energy 
efficiency programs going forward. For AEP, appropriate cost recovery includes reimbu rsement of 
program costs, consideration of net lost revenues and an opportunity to earn a reasonable return. This 
regulatory treatment ensures that these programs are appropriately considered along with supply -side 
investments, such as power plants.  
Starti ng in 2008, AEP ramped up efforts to reduce peak demand and energy consumption through 
energy efficiency and demand response programs. AEP’s operating companies have since implemented 
more than 100 programs across our service territory. From 2008 through 2 014, our operating companies 
invested approximately $700 million and achieved reductions in demand by over 1,500 MW and energy 
consumption by over 5.2 million MWh. These results are preliminary and subject to third party 
verification as required. In additi on, for the 2014/15 PJM delivery year, AEP has approximately 575 
MW of demand response capability in the PJM Interconnection.  
With increasing efficiency 
standards, such as the 
implementation of more 
efficient lighting and 
appliance standards, we are 
conce rned that energy 
efficiency mandates will 
become more difficult and 
costly to achieve in the 
future. Legislators in some of 
our states are rethinking 
energy efficiency 
requirements mandated 
through a utility’s rates due 
to the cost and achievability 
concer ns as well, as we have 
seen in Ohio and Indiana.  
Further, certain state 
mandated requirements may 
be virtually unachievable 
from an economic 
perspective. In other words, 
the cost to attain 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    54 participation rates necessary to achieve the targets could be much  higher than the overall benefits 
associated with the corresponding impacts.  
We have also taken measures to reduce energy consumption in our office buildings and service centers. 
We reduced our kilowatt -hour (kWh) usage by 26 percent by the end of 2014, co mpared with the 2007 
baseline. The equivalent accumulated savings from reduced energy consumption at more than 300 
facilities exceeds $24 million. We achieved these energy consumption reductions through equipment 
investments, such as new heating and coolin g systems, and an employee education campaign.  
Resource Planning  
Our stakeholders often ask us if we factor the cost of carbon into our resource planning. The answer is 
“yes” and we have been doing so for years.  
The potential for carbon regulation has bee n part of our integrated resource planning process and is 
continuously evolving as more definitive requirements emerge from Congress and federal regulators. 
AEP’s planning process considers all available resource and market options to achieve the most 
econ omical outcome for us and our customers.  
Several AEP operating company subsidiaries are required to develop periodic integrated resource plans 
(IRP) that are filed with state public utility commissions. Not all states require them. IRPs help the 
companies  and state regulators to plan for meeting customers’ energy needs over a certain period of 
time. Learn more about resource planning  at AEP.  
AEP Operat ing Company by State  Case Number/Docket  
Appalachian Power Co. - Virginia  VSCC Case No. PUE -2013 -00097   
Appalachian Power Co. – West Virginia  N/A 
Indiana Michigan Power Co . - Indiana  IURC Case No. 44413  
Indiana Michigan Power Co. - Michigan  N/A 
Kentucky Power Company  KPSC Case No. 2013 -00475  
AEP Ohio  PUCO Case No. 10 -501-EL-FOR  and 10-502-EL-FOR  
Public Se rvice Company of Oklahoma  N/A 
Southwestern Electric Power Co. - Louisiana  LPSC Docket No. R -30021  
Southwestern Electric Power Co. - Arkansas  APSC Docket 07 -011-U-Doc. 21  
 
Future Outlook  
Our strategy for growth and the transition to become  the representative utility of the future is 
underpinned by our fiscal discipline, continuous improvement efforts, expanding our knowledge of and  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    55 experience with new and emerging technologies, making strategic investment decisions and doing what 
we say we’ re going to do for our customers, employees and investors.  
We believe it makes good business sense to anticipate, assess and plan for the opportunities and 
challenges that will be presented to the utility of the future. The picture isn’t completely clear except that 
we know technology will be fundamental to the future of electricity.  
Increasing use of distributed resources, changing usage patterns and expectations from customers, the 
constant threat of cyber and physical attack, a major transformation of our generation resources, and 
greater demand for a resilient, flexible grid are among the many changes we are adapting to. In addition, 
we are taking steps to develop our future work force, investing in STEM (science, technology, 
engineering, math) educati on, recruiting military veterans whose skills match our needs and providing 
our current employees with more training to prepare them for this transition. To be successful, we will 
need to embrace change by building upon our commitment to operational excell ence and being 
adaptable, solutions -oriented and innovative.  
As we build a utility model of the future for AEP, the following principles will influence our strategy:  
 Emphasize and value the safety of our employees, contractors and the public along with the  
system that generates and delivers electricity to our customers;  
 Maintain a diverse and balanced generation resource portfolio with fewer environmental 
impacts;  
 Invest in building a modern, resilient grid that can further integrate distributed resources and 
maintain reliability and stability of the grid;  
 Deliver shared value to customers and investors by prudently investing in our regulated utility 
operations that align with what customers value;  
 Operate with integrity as we strive for operational excelle nce. 
Strategy for Growth  
We have more flexibility than ever to focus on the growth areas of the company – our regulated 
businesses. Our financial health is solid and we have a regulatory compact that supports investments in 
infrastructure to improve the cu stomer experience and reliability of the grid. We are focused on bringing 
our investments closer to what our customers want and value while advocating for policies that value the 
grid. We are also building a culture of engagement, entrepreneurship, technol ogical innovation and zero 
harm among our employees. Our intent is to operate a modern grid that is reliable, sustainable and 
adaptable with new and emerging technologies to meet customer demands.  
Our Strategic Goals – Making Progress  
Successful execution  of our strategic goals will achieve our objective of 4 percent to 6 percent earnings 
growth. These strategic goals are the foundation of our growth strategy. Here is an update on our 
progress:   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    56 Grow Our Transmission Business  
AEP Transmission’s growth strat egy is focused on building and maintaining a diversified 
portfolio of transmission projects. For the year ending Dec. 31, 2015, AEP Transmission 
Holding Company projects it will contribute an estimated $0.38 per share to earnings. Our 
portfolio consists of :  
 AEP Transmission Company – A company for wholly owned transmission companies, or 
Transcos, which have been approved by or have filed for approval from state 
commissions, or are operating where state approval was not necessary. The Transcos 
develop, own and operate transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s 
existing system. They are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) and can raise capital and build new transmission without affecting the balance 
sheet or credit rat ings of the operating companies.  
 Joint ventures – Joint ventures have been developed with other electric utility companies 
for the purpose of developing, building, owning and operating transmission assets.  
 Transource® Energy – A competitive business star ted in 2012, Transource® focuses on 
developing projects within and beyond the AEP service territory.  
Transform Our Generation Business  
External factors continue to call for significant changes in our generating fleet. We will adapt to 
this by:  
 Diversifyin g our generation resources.  
 Retiring approximately 6,500 MW of coal -fueled generation by the end of 2016 and 
refueling with natural gas or retrofitting with new or additional emission controls more 
than 7,200 MW of regulated and competitive coal -fueled gen eration.  
 Improving the operational performance of our generation fleet.  
Maximize Our Competitive Business Platform  
AEP’s expanded Generation and Marketing business segment objectives are:  
 Integrating competitive generation with our retail and wholesale b usinesses.  
 Investing capital conservatively.  
 Mitigating risk and volatility through hedging activity.  
 Managing the cost profile to a competitive generation business model rather than a 
regulated utility model.  
In January 2015, AEP engaged Goldman Sachs to  help evaluate strategic alternatives for its 
merchant fleet of power plants. Options may include keeping the units, spinning off the 
competitive generation company, potentially selling the units or other alternatives. There is no 
specific timeframe for ma king a decision.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    57 In March 2015, AEP engaged Morgan Stanley & Co., LLC to similarly explore strategic 
alternatives for our competitive barge transportation subsidiary, AEP River Operations LLC. 
While we have not set a firm timeline to complete this review, we are dedicated to completing 
the process as promptly as practical. This review does not affect the captive barge transportation 
portion of our business, which delivers coal to AEP’s regulated coal -fueled power plants.  
Improve the Health o f Our Organizati onal Culture  
Culture is a business imperative and the linchpin of a successful strategy, yet it is abstract and 
subjective. It’s our job to reach out to our employees, communicate the strategy and vision, and 
focus on how each business unit can contribute to AEP’s overall strategy and vision so all 
employees know exactly what their roles are.  
In 2014, AEP conducted a second culture survey that reaffirmed our strong cultural attributes:  
 A strong safety culture  
 Employees are customer focused  
 Employees want to  contribute to AEP’s success  
 Employees want AEP to be successful  
 We are committed to ethics and compliance  
We began to roll out a culture leadership workshop for employees in 2014, which will continue 
in 2015. We are also engaging employees in various ways  to support our business goals.  
Capital Investment Strategy  
Our ability to achieve sustainable earnings improvement will be influenced significantly by our capital 
investment strategy. When we put capital to work, we are improving operational efficiencies,  customer 
reliability and shareholder value.  
Our sights are on the future. We know tomorrow’s utility must be adaptable, agile and ready to embrace 
new opportunities as they arise. That is why we are putting our capital where it will provide the 
maximum be nefit to customers and investors. That means we will continue to deploy capital where it is 
needed and can do the most good. Rather than looking at capital investments at each business unit 
independently, we examine our needs across the system as a whole a nd make adjustments as needed.  
We are first and foremost a regulated electric utility, which means the investments we make on 
infrastructure to improve the customer experience are generally supported by regulators and earn fair 
and reasonable regulated re turns. AEP’s infrastructure investments must balance the needs of our 
customers, the company and our investors. Our Investment Review Committee works with our operating 
companies to understand their capital needs and determine where resources should be dep loyed for 
optimum impact for customers and investors. The Committee also works with corporate services groups 
to control spending and implement processes that maximize our resources and improve efficiencies.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    58  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transmission Growth  
Our transmis sion business continues to be a major growth engine for AEP as changes in the electric 
industry present more opportunities for AEP Transmission, inside and outside of our service territory. 
We have a proven track record of building, 
operating and maintaini ng transmission 
systems and are continuously seeking new 
ways to do it better. Our employees have 
developed innovative solutions that reduce 
our physical and environmental impacts, are 
more cost effective, increase our operational 
efficiency and reliabilit y, and support our 
efforts to make the grid more resilient. We 
have active transmission projects under way 
in several states.  
In 2014, our transmission business secured $1.36 billion of new investment opportunities through the 
three regional transmission o rganizations (RTOs) in which we operate. A large portion of these 
investments are tied to the retirement of coal -fueled generating units across our system that were 
announced within the PJM Interconnection  region, as well as the infrastructure to support the integration 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    59 of large -scale wind resources in the Southwest Power Pool  (SPP) and Electric Reliability Council  of 
Texas  (ERCOT) regions. Many of our coal -fueled plants play a critical role in maintaining regional 
transmission grid reliability, and without these resources, new transmission is needed to ensure 
continued reliability. We have also advanced a set of p rojects that are heavily focused on improvements 
to local reliability and infrastructure needs driven by shale gas customer activity.  
The surge in shale gas and oil has created an unprecedented demand for infrastructure to transport, store 
and process the se resources. The development of this midstream infrastructure, namely gas processing 
facilities and pipeline compression stations, has occurred rapidly in AEP’s service territory. We expect 
we will need to make significant additional investments in transm ission facilities to keep up with the 
demand from this growth.  
While electricity is needed for drilling operations, the greatest demand in the eastern Utica and 
Marcellus shale regions comes from customers planning to build industrial -sized natural gas pr ocessing 
plants in rural areas of West Virginia and Ohio. The challenge is the requests are concentrated in a 
region served by transmission infrastructures that cannot handle substantial customer demand growth. 
To accommodate the anticipated extra load, th e existing undersized transmission system in this area has 
to be fortified.  
Meeting Customers’ Needs  
Being innovative and delivering good customer service positions AEP to take advantage of emerging 
business opportunities across our service territory. Our focus on improving the customer experience is 
prompting creative and effective solutions to meet customers’ needs. Since many shale -related facilities 
need to be located in remote areas with limited electric service, we have to be innovative if we want to 
serve these customers. Technology advances have proven to be the key to meeting customers’ needs and 
growing our business. These are a few examples of innovative transmission solutions:  
Skid -mounted substation  — This diminutive, prefabricated substation ca n be built on a small lot and 
energized to provide temporary service while a permanent station is constructed. It is designed for easy 
shipment and can be used multiple times. In 2014, we installed five skid -mounted substations in Texas 
and Oklahoma, repre senting the most extensive deployment of the technology to date. By creating a 
basic, yet high -tech, skid -mounted substation, we can deliver power in about three months or less, 
depending on site availability.  
Station -in-a-box — AEP standardized smaller to  mid-sized distribution substations so that the materials 
and equipment needed to build it is packed into a portable steel container. It is then delivered to its 
permanent site. Each unit features a ‘drop in control module,’ or prefabricated control room t hat can be 
built in six months – half the time it normally takes to build a traditional station.  
Box bay  — This quickly installed box -shaped structure built in a right -of-way taps into an existing 
transmission line and runs power to a nearby customer. The se may be equipped with SCADA devices, 
meters and remote terminal units. This allows quicker response to customer needs, especially in remote 
areas.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    60 Our Economic & Business Development  teams across areas wi th active shale plays provide expertise 
and tools to assist oil and gas companies and suppliers in making siting decisions for their facilities. Our 
online resources in AEP Texas, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and AEP Ohio help determine if 
a particul ar location is in our service territory so that we can provide information to help keep their 
project costs low and improve the speed of development.  
Another way we are meeting customer needs is by providing an array of energy efficiency and demand 
respon se programs that are supported by our state regulators.  
Achieving Our Goals  
Strategic Alignment  
We are aligning our resources to support our primary pillars of strategic focus: the development of our 
physical and technological infrastructure, improving th e customer experience and improving the 
employee experience. In the process, we are creating shared value for customers, employees and 
investors.  
Infrastructure Investment  Customer Experience  Employee Experience  
Transmission Growth  Energy Reliability  Safety & Health Performance  
Capital investment strategy  Reliability and Conservation  Transmission Growth  
Environmental investments  Emergency Re sponse  Represented Employees  
Powering the Future  Mobile Alerts  Veterans  
Grid Resiliency  Reliability Performance  Our Culture  
Aging Infrastructure  Community Investments  Work Force Planning  
Technology & Innovation  Capital Investment Strategy  Ethics & Compliance  
Managing Risk  Powering the Future  Diversity at AEP  
Financial Performance  Technology & Innovation  Awards & Recognition  
Environmental Performance  Generation Reliability in Ohio  Continuous Improvement  
Climate Change  Cyber & Physical Security  Volunteerism   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    61 Infrastructure Investment  Customer Experience  Employee Experience  
Generation Transformation  Capacity Markets  Emergency Response  
The Integ rated Grid  Continuous Improvement  Technology & Innovation  
Utility -Scale Solar  Customer Satisfaction  Supplier Engagement  
 Economic & Business Development  Employee Innovation  
 gridSMART®
 Our Value Creation Story  
 Paperless Billing  Training  
 Supplier Engagement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    62  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    63  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    64 Financial Performance  
A company’s ability to ach ieve long -term sustained value requires clarity of focus, a sound plan and an 
organizational culture of innovation and engagement. At AEP, that is our commitment. Our strong 
performance in 2014 demonstrates we are delivering on that commitment. Our underst anding of the 
social and economic value of electricity to our service territory and society at large underpin our strategy 
to achieve the level of operational and financial performance that will be required of the utility of the 
future. Our mission is to e nhance the customer experience, deliver fair returns to our shareholders, meet 
our obligations to our lenders, and engage employees. By doing this we are also able to fulfill our 
environmental and social commitments.  
 
In 2014, AEP delivered solid performa nce. Our focus on infrastructure investments in our core regulated 
businesses and our employees’ success in identifying sustainable cost savings resulted in AEP being 
among the top five best performing utility stocks in 2014. We believe our track record de monstrates we 
are well -positioned to be a premium regulated electric utility that is attractive to investors.  
Our emphasis on executing our strategy, engaging employees in continuous improvement, and 
exercising fiscal and strategic discipline was rewarded in the marketplace in 2014. AEP shareholders 
received a 35 percent total return, including dividends, compared with the 31 percent total shareholder 
return of our peers in the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index and a total return of nearly 14 percent in the 
S&P 500. Our annual dividend increased 6 percent and we continue to target a 60 percent to 70 percent 
dividend payout ratio.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    65 We reaffirmed our guidance range of $3.40 to $3.60 per share for 2015, with a 4 percent to 6 percent 
annual earnings growth rate. T o achieve this, we will continue to focus on growth in our regulated 
businesses, efficiently allocating capital while maintaining O&M discipline, and continue moving 
forward with our continuous improvement initiatives.  
2014 Performance  
Contributing to AEP ’s financial success in 2014 were a number of factors: the accelerated growth of our 
transmission business; successful regulatory proceedings in several states; strong off -system sales; 
annual load growth in all customer classes; and, sustainable savings a nd enhanced revenue sources 
identified through employee -led continuous improvement efforts.  
AEP also benefited from the reliable performance of our generation fleet during extremely cold weather 
in 2014 that produced sufficient earnings to allow us to adv ance O&M spending from future years. 
These shifts, combined with ongoing fiscal discipline, will help us manage the revenue challenges we 
face in 2016 as a consequence of the Ohio deregulation transition and the poor 2016/2017 PJM capacity 
auction results.   
AEP’s earnings for 2014, based on Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP), totaled $1.6 billion or 
$3.34 per share, compared with $1.4 billion or $3.04 per 
share for 2013. AEP’s operating earnings in 2014, or 
GAAP earnings excluding special items , totaled $1.6 
billion or $3.43 per share, compared with $1.5 billion or 
$3.23 per share in 2013. AEP Transmission Holding 
Company (AEPTHCo) contributed 31 cents per share in 
2014 – $0.02 higher than originally forecasted – 
reflecting its accelerated growt h. We expect AEPTHCo 
to contribute $0.38 per share to operating earnings in 
2015. Overall, AEP delivered operating earnings per 
share at the high end of our earnings guidance. We 
reaffirmed our earnings growth range between 4 percent 
and 6 percent.  
2014 op erating earnings were higher than GAAP earnings 
due to the exclusion of charges related to a coal contract 
termination and a mark -to-market adjustment for hedging activities. Weather -adjusted retail sales of 
electricity grew one percent in 2014. Our 2014 i ndustrial sales increased 0.4 percent compared with 
2013, despite the closure of Ormet, a large aluminum company. Excluding Ormet, our industrial sales 
volume increased by 3.9 percent. In 2014, 9 of our top 10 industrial sectors experienced growth 
compared  with 2013. Residential and commercial sales also increased by 1.1 percent and 1.7 percent, 
respectively, compared with 2013.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    66 The strongest growth came from customers in our oil and gas -related industrial sectors. In 2014, we saw 
30 percent growth in our shale counties compared with 2013. This shale region growth is significant for 
AEP because 17 percent of our industrial sales are located in shale gas counties. The recent downturn in 
oil and gas prices could impact that growth in 2015. However, because AE P has a diversified industrial 
base within our service territory, we are shielded from the effects of downturns in any one specific 
industry. This is an example of how AEP’s makeup provides not only a geographically diverse buffer 
for exposures to weather extremes, but also diverse regional economies that afford steady growth in 
spite of various economic conditions.  
Fiscal discipline is central to our business strategy, and we work hard to be efficient and thoughtful 
about how we spend our resources. We str ive to manage those resources in ways that consider the 
customer impact in essentially every decision we make and with every dollar we spend.  
Our operations and maintenance (O&M) expense was higher in 2014 than in 2013, due in part to 
planned incremental s pending and increased employee -related costs. Depreciation expense was also 
higher due to increased capital investments.  
At AEP, we strive to align our investments 
to provide our customers with reliable, 
sustainable service, at a fair and reasonable 
rate that allows us to reward our investors. 
That’s the philosophy driving our capital 
investment strategy. Customers want safe, 
reliable and affordable electricity. About 97 
percent of our capital funds are forecasted 
to be invested in our regulated operation s. 
In 2014, we invested $4 billion in our 
regulated businesses (excluding AFUDC 
debt and equity). Of that, we invested 
approximately $3 billion in our 
transmission and distribution functions and 
approximately $0.9 billion in our regulated 
generation, mostl y for environmental 
compliance and life cycle management at 
the Cook Nuclear station.  
In 2014, our total debt -to-capitalization ratio remained strong at 54.4 percent. This compares with a 
debt-to-capitalization ratio of 54.3 percent at the end of 2013 and  57.2 percent in 2009. This is important 
because a lower ratio positions AEP well in the debt capital markets when it seeks capital for 
infrastructure development.  
Our other credit metrics remain strong as well. In 2014, AEP maintained its liquidity positi on – the 
ability to gain access to cash when it’s needed. AEP’s liquidity position of approximately $3 billion is 
underpinned by our two revolving credit facilities. Our strong balance sheet and solid credit metrics 
reflect adequate liquidity to support ou r growth strategy.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    67 Our qualified, defined benefit pension plan was 97 percent funded at the end of 2014. Our pension 
contribution in 2014 was $71 million. We expect to make a contribution of $87 million in 2015. In 2014, 
the value of our pension plans’ as sets increased to $5 billion compared with $4.7 billion in 2013. Our 
strategy has been to maintain the funded status of the 
plan to the benefit of our employees, retirees and 
customers. We are working hard to match the duration 
of the plan’s assets to its liabilities to reduce risk as the 
plan approaches full funding. In 2014, the qualified plan 
paid $289 million in benefits to plan participants.  
Executing Our Strategy  
AEP’s disciplined approach to allocating capital, 
controlling costs and successfully wor king through 
regulatory proceedings continues to strengthen our 
financial position. Our business model is simple. We 
have a proven track record of putting capital to work for 
the benefit of our customers and then earning a return 
on that investment by effi ciently getting it into rates. 
We do not have major investments in new plants or 
technologies that put our financial health at risk, 
allowing us to focus on executing our operational plans. 
As a result, investors have a clear picture of AEP’s plan for the future and have expressed confidence in 
our strategy and ability to deliver, based on our current performance.  
As AEP’s future takes shape, the road 
ahead has some challenges. Chief among 
them is a significant revenue shortfall in 
2016 due to the drop in  the level of 
capacity revenues from the PJM capacity 
auction. We are confident that the 
investments we are making in our regulated 
businesses, our efforts to shift costs from 
future years and ongoing continuous 
improvement efforts by our employees will 
close the gap. Our current forecasts show 
that we will be able to maintain our 4 
percent to 6 percent growth rate over the 
long term as long as we stay the course.  
By engaging our employees in the 
solutions, we are achieving savings and 
efficiencies that ma ke us more agile and 
able to adapt more quickly as our industry 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    68 undergoes significant transformation. One example of how we are doing this is by moving from standard 
procurement practices to strategic sourcing. This process engages the business units to un derstand their 
value drivers, while balancing operational risk with cost considerations. Definitions are developed for 
measuring cost savings and are tracked internally to validate the value Procurement is bringing to the 
organization.  
Growth will be drive n by our ability to invest capital in our regulated companies and earn a fair and 
timely return. The success of our competitive business will be driven by both the capacity and energy 
markets as well as our ability to react to those markets. We are evaluat ing our strategic alternatives for 
our merchant generation fleet as well as our competitive barge operations.  
AEP is in the midst of a transformational transition to shape the utility model of the future. We have 
capital to invest, and we are deploying it predominantly in our regulated business where it delivers 
shared value for customers and investors. Our projected annual 4 percent to 6 percent earnings growth 
rate is predicated on this strategy, as well as our commitment to continued focus on sustainable  cost 
savings and expense discipline. We are giving our employees the tools and processes to advance 
continuous improvement, and our employees are showing us their ingenuity and know -how to get the 
job done. By fostering a culture of engagement, we are con fident we will meet the challenges ahead of 
us. 
A Positive Outlook  
Our projected operating earnings range is $3.40 to $3.60 per share for 2015, and $3.45 to $3.85 per 
share for 2016. We expect to achieve these results through a combination of robust capita l investments 
with timely recovery in our regulated utilities, and continued cost control.  
We intend to keep O&M spending in check and expect to invest approximately between $3.8 billion and 
$4.4 billion per year in capital between 2015 through 2017. If t here is unallocated capital in generation 
and distribution, we will continue to redeploy it to transmission, which has local reliability improvement 
projects as well as new construction projects ready to go as soon as resources become available. In 2014, 
the AEP Board approved an incremental $300 million of capital to invest in our transmission business. 
Our investments are focused on delivering value to our customers and our investors.  
We are optimistic about AEP’s future. We have a clear vision for the fu ture as we’re investing in our 
infrastructure to better serve our customers, engaging our employees, and learning to adapt to 
transformative changes in our industry. Our success will pay financial rewards to our investors, our 
work force will be engaged an d our customers will realize greater reliability. At AEP, we assume 
success and we manage, plan and work to realize it.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    69 
 
 
 
Safety & Health Performance  
There is nothing more important to us than the safety and health of our employees, contractors and the 
public. The road to zero harm is long and challenging, but we have also had successes along the way. 
Each successful year brings us closer to our goal of achieving top decile in overall safety performance. 
We have made great progress in the past decade. Th is was possible because we provided employees 
with training, tools, resources and data to help them prevent harm. We also made safety personal and 
committed to looking out for each other.  
We achieved a significant safety and health milestone at the end of  2014 when we marked our third 
consecutive year without an employee fatality, which hasn’t been achieved since we began keeping 
statistics in 1970. 2014 also proved to be a challenging year for us as both the number and severity of 
workplace injuries incre ased. In 2014, our employee recordable incident rate (as defined by the 
Occupational Safety & Health Administration ) was 0.92, which was higher than our target of 0.87. Our 
employee severity rate (the sever ity of injuries that occur) in 2014 was 24.21 versus the target of 17.35. 
Severity days (lost work days and restricted activity days due to injury) increased from 4,094 in 2013 to 
4,237 in 2014, a 3.5 percent increase.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    70 In 2014, 45 percent of all recordable  events were either slips, trips and falls or cases of over -exertion 
resulting in strains and sprains. Eighty -one percent of those events resulted in severity days where 
employees could not work or were on restricted duty. Any of these events could have re sulted in a life -
altering injury or even a fatality, so we must work to reverse this troubling and unacceptable trend. It is 
our mission in 2015 to refocus our efforts to prevent harm to our employees.  
 
There were several work locations across the AEP Sy stem that demonstrated by their impressive safety 
records and safety initiatives that zero harm is achievable and sustainable.  
AEP River Operations has seen a steady downward trend in its recordable rate. In 2011, the recordable 
rate was 0.82 – their best  year. 2014 was their second -best year with a recordable rate of 0.91. In early 
2014, River Operations reached an important milestone – completion of one million man -hours without 
a recordable injury across their entire maritime fleet.  
The AEP distributio n group improved its preventable vehicle accident (PVA) rate by 17 percent going 
from 182 PVAs in 2013 to 150 PVAs in 2014. The group’s recordable rate for 2014 was unchanged 
from 2013 staying at 1.12; however, their average severity rate improved by 28 pe rcent from 44.20 in 
2013 to 31.94 in 2014. The reduced PVA rate can be credited in part to driver safety training.  
In addition to looking at leading indicators, we use job site observations (JSO) to prevent injuries. Direct 
observation is a powerful tool t o assess how well an activity is going and is valuable when checking on  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    71 the level of safety and health involved in the job. In order to be effective, an observation needs to 
include active communication with the people doing the task, not just a visual by the observer. In 2014, 
the number of JSOs for the Utilities group (not including Transmission) was 13,479 in 2014 compared 
to 5,906 JSOs in 2013, an increase of 128 percent. Although JSOs are not new to our work practices, we 
began formally tracking them i n 2013.  
We use Job Hazard Assessments to determine if a job or work site is safe and when it’s not, we require 
employees to stop the work, reevaluate and make adjustments to prevent harm. In 2014, employees and 
contractors in Transmission and Distribution began using smart phones to record and disseminate safety 
and health information from job site observations. This allows field employees to share information with 
other work groups more quickly, effectively and easily. This kind of communication also helps  
managers keep safety and health in the forefront of all activities.  
We began the “See Something, Say Something…Do Something” initiative in 2014 to renew, 
reinvigorate and refocus our safety and health efforts. The program encourages us to look out for th e 
well-being of our co -workers and the public, and to communicate important information to prevent 
harm, without fear of retaliation. It is a responsibility that can feel overwhelming and intimidating at 
times. But we believe it is one of the best ways to stay focused on safety.  
It is encouraging to see our employees embrace this concept and share their successes. It also 
demonstrates progress in our journey toward a culture where all employees are fully engaged in our 
outcomes. This initiative gained a lo t of momentum in 2014, and we plan to build on that enthusiasm to 
prevent harm in 2015.  
The Path Forward  
The increase in our recordable and severity rates last year will be a major focus of our safety and health 
efforts in 2015. To improve our overall saf ety and health performance, we have a number of proactive 
activities planned beginning with an initiative to discover what we can do to significantly prevent slips, 
trips and falls as well as incidents related to over -exertion (sprains and 
strains). We are  using employee safety summits and analysis techniques 
such as the “slip simulator” to dissect employee safety -related behaviors. A 
“slip simulator” teaches employees how to safely walk on different types of 
surfaces without falling.  
We are also focusing more attention on identifying and addressing precursors that could potentially lead 
to serious injury or even fatality. Our goal is to proactively identify potential exposures and precursors 
that could lead to serious events. The intent is to move from “ho w could this happen” to “how can we 
manage and control these precursors.”  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    72 Safety Recognition  
Recognition plays an integral part in our safety and health efforts. In 2014, several business units and 
employees were recognized for extraordinary for their c ommitment to safety and health on and off the 
job. 
AEP Chairman, President and CEO, Nick Akins, 
presents two employees from APCo’s Clinch River 
Plant a Chairman’s Life Saving Award in 2014.  
 
 
 
 
AEP’s Chairman’s Life Saving Award recognizes employees who d isplay extraordinary compassion for 
others in saving or attempting to save another person’s life without putting their own safety at risk. In 
all, nine employees received Chairman’s Life Saving Awards in 2014 across AEP.  
AEP River Operations was recognize d for having 38 vessels that operated for two full years or more 
without a crew member losing a full turn at watch because of an occupational injury. The Chamber of 
Shipping of America’s Devlin Award publicly recognizes the skills and dedication of the men  and 
women who are responsible for safe ship operations. AEP’s River Operations received Devlin awards in 
2014 for each of these vessels.  
The Cook Nuclear Plant’s Reactor Operator Initial License Training Program performance has achieved 
Nuclear Regulatory  Commission (NRC) exam pass rates of 100 percent since 2005. The rigorous 
training program requires approximately 20 months for each candidate to complete. The pass rate 
achievements of the Operators and Training Staff have been providing highly trained, k nowledgeable 
and professional licensed Operators who are key to providing for the health and safety of the public and 
our employees.  
The Cook Nuclear Plant’s Reactor Operator Initial License Training Program performance has achieved 
Nuclear Regulatory Comm ission (NRC) exam pass rates1 of 100 percent since 2007. The rigorous 
training program requires approximately 20 months for each candidate to complete. The pass rate 
achievements of the Operators and Training Staff have been providing highly trained, knowl edgeable 
and professional licensed Operators who are key to providing for the health and safety of the public and 
our employees.  
1. The passing rate is not the “throughput” measurement used by the industry and does not include operators early 
withdrawals from program.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    73 Contractor Safety  
We have many contractors working on our behalf every day, trimming trees, replacing or repairing 
equipment and building new facilities. We collaborate with them on safety and health, providing training 
and tools to help the m improve their performance in a 
similar fashion to our employee focus on safety and health. 
We evaluate their safety and health programs to ensure they 
are taking precautions to protect their employees from harm.  
As we strive for zero harm with our employ ee work force, 
we seek the same level of performance among our 
contractors. We invest time and resources to ensure the 
safety of our contractor work force and we hold them 
accountable for their performance. This has become critically important as our contr actor work force has 
grown to support the growth of our business.  
Overall, we are making progress but it is not 
enough, especially when two contractors were 
fatally injured while working for AEP during 2014. 
At the same time, AEP’s major contractors 
outpe rformed the target recordable rate in 2014 
with a 1.44 actual performance versus the 1.50 
target. However, this performance was 
overshadowed by the fatalities.  
No aspect of our work is more important to us than 
safety and health, whether it is an AEP emplo yee 
or an AEP contractor. Across AEP, our focus is on 
prevention. We give our contractors tools, training 
and clear direction for working safely and we hold 
them accountable when they don’t. We also track 
performance. All construction contractors are 
subje ct to AEP’s annual contractor recordable 
injury goal. If an event occurs, we work with the 
contractor to identify the root cause and develop 
actions to prevent a recurrence.  
Since contractors are often working side -by-side 
with our employees, we each have  a responsibility 
to look out for each other. If someone sees something unsafe or someone at risk for harm, he or she has 
a responsibility to say something and do something.  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    74 
Public Safety  
Protecting the public from unsafe contact with our electrical equip ment is a challenge and we are always 
looking for better ways to get important information to our customers and to the public. As an industry, 
we continue to be concerned with the number of people from the public who come into contact with 
power lines and equipment. Those at risk range from billboard installers and highway construction 
workers to homeowners doing home improvements and thieves who steal from substations and other 
equipment. Our industry is actively engaged in educating the public about the d anger of coming into 
contact with live electrical equipment and promoting how to safely work around facilities.  
Copper Theft  
Capitalizing on their popularity, we use our social 
media platforms to educate our customers about 
electrical safety. We institut ed “Safety Saturdays” 
in which our posts and tweets focused on 
different public safety topics throughout the year. 
Public safety communications themes included: 
“Call Before You Dig,” Overhead Power Line 
Safety, Electricity 101, Copper Theft and Downed Pow er Line Safety. The most popular media post in 
2014 was focused on “What’s on a Power Pole?” It details all the equipment on the pole and the 
function of each piece of equipment.  
Each May, we send customers an email as part of National Electrical Safety M onth. We use this 
opportunity to promote our free public safety resources, such as videos, an interactive electrical safety 
module and numerous factsheets.  
Despite our efforts, we experienced 16 public fatalities in 2014. Nine were the result of vehicles 
crashing into utility poles, six were caused by contact with our electrical facilities and one resulted from 
attempted copper theft.  
Educating students and teachers about electricity and electrical safety is an important priority. In August 
2014, AEP launc hed a new and improved AEP Electric Universe®, an educational website targeting K -
12 students and teachers. The modern, animated site is now easier to navigate. It includes online games, 
videos, downloadable activities for students, lesson plans, experiments, a reference section and a 
glossary for educators and other adults interested in teaching kids about electricity and electrical safety.  
Changing Regulations  
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) published revisions to two standards found 
in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that will affect how we conduct our work at AEP. The first 
change, 29 CFR 1910.269, addresses safety  and health regulations for the maintenance portion of our 
work. The second, 29 CFR 1926 Subpart V, addresses regulations for construction related work. 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    75 Working with the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), we have proactively engaged OSHA to ensure there 
was a clear understanding of how these revisions would affect the industry. We are in the process of 
training employees who are affected by these revised regulations.  
The revisions that have the greatest impact on AEP’s operations include: changes in minimum a pproach 
distances to energized lines and equipment, fall protection, arc flash analysis, and the information we 
need to share with contractors regarding the characteristics of the AEP electrical system. We are very 
committed to safety and health and provid e our employees and contractors with tools, processes, 
procedures and other proactive measures to prevent harm. We are currently training employees to 
address the changes to the regulations in each of our business units.  
Managing Performance  
Internal audi ts of our environmental, safety and health 
management system and compliance processes are a major part of 
our quest for zero harm. Safety and health programs were audited 
at 16 locations in 2014. All of the audit comments are addressed, 
fixed and shared wi th business unit leaders and safety and health 
professionals so that they may leverage the lessons learned from 
the audit activities.  
Our Generation business unit uses the Managing Environment, Safety and Health (MESH) information 
management system to tra ck performance and ensure compliance with requirements. Each of our power 
plants has electronic MESH manuals that link to corporate resources while also addressing plant -specific 
processes.  
 
Environmental Performance  
Our environmental performance is rooted  in our commitment to operational excellence and to being 
responsible stewards of our natural resources. We have management systems, policies and a dedicated 
team of environmental experts in place to guide us. Although our environmental efforts are built a round 
compliance, we work to take advantage of additional measures to go beyond compliance and always 
strive for continuous improvement. Our goal is zero environmental enforcement actions.  
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    76  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    77 Compliance Performance  
Our facilities are su bject to environmental regulatory and permitting requirements for which we must 
demonstrate compliance. In addition, environmental agencies routinely inspect our facilities through 
scheduled and unannounced visits. During these visits they inspect physical  facilities and monitor our 
compliance with regulatory requirements, permit limits and recordkeeping obligations. Whenever 
agencies identify concerns, we proactively work with them to address those issues in a timely fashion to 
their satisfaction.  
In 201 4, the Louisiana Office of Conservation issued a fine 
of $3,400 at our Dolet Hills Mine for insufficient storm 
water runoff controls. AEP mine management resolved the 
issue implementing a compliance improvement plan and 
holding meetings with the Louisiana agency to reaffirm 
our commitment to compliance.  
One of many voluntary actions we take to help drive 
performance improvement is the use of an internal 
Environmental Performance Index for our generation 
business. We recorded two incidents in 2014, the smal lest 
number since we launched this index in 2003. The index 
monitors incidents for opacity, water quality permits and 
oil and chemical spills at our power plants. It is an 
example of how we continuously focus on improving our 
performance by reducing our en vironmental impacts.  
In our Transmission business, we implemented a new 
mandatory compliance training program in 2014 to ensure 
all transmission -related construction projects are built in 
full compliance with environmental permit requirements.  
Emissions  
In 2014, AEP’s SO 2 and NO x emissions increased based on economic and market factors leading to a six 
percent increase in overall generation and a seven percent increase in coal -fueled generation. However, 
the longer -term trend has been a steady reduction in air emissions. Since 1990, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and 
nitrogen oxide (NO x) emissions each have been reduced by about 80 percent while mercury emissions 
have declined by nearly 54 percent since 2001. Our emissions will likely continue to decline further in 
the future with the installation of additional emission control systems on coal units, the retirement of 
other coal units and the increased use of other resources, including natural gas and renewables. Mercury 
emissions information is reported to the EPA und er the Toxics Release Inventory program .  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    78 AEP’s CO 2 emissions increased from approximately 115 million metric tons in 2013 to approximately 
123 million metric tons in 2014. This represents a 6.4 percent increase and was attributed to higher 
utilization of coal -fuel generation. In spite of the increase, this still represents a 15 percent reduction 
compared with our 2005 CO 2 emissions of approximately 145 million metric tons.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    79 Checks and Balances  
We use our environmental, safety and health management system to improve our environmental 
performance and to measure, track and report our progress. We have used this tool successfully in our 
fossil and hydro and projects organizations, and have expanded its use to our mining operations, coal 
transfer facilities and river transportation operations.  
We conducted internal audits of our environmental management programs at 16 locations in 2014. 
Audits confirmed that our progra ms are in place and are achieving compliance objectives. Our audits are 
providing additional focus on controlling risks and providing assurance that robust compliance processes 
are developed and implemented related to new business activities. For example, Audit Services 
monitored and provided input into the development of new compliance procedures related to 
construction permitting and projects in Transmission, Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) 
compliance in Generation, and liquids barging in River Op erations.  
Environmental requirements will continue to apply to AEP generation facilities that are retired. These 
include many existing state environmental requirements, in particular, those related to the management 
of water and coal -combustion byproducts.  AEP will continue to comply with environmental 
requirements after these plants are retired, as applicable. We will be working with our state regulators to 
amend permits as we work through the decommissioning process.  
Environmental Regulations  
The increas ing scope and stringency of environmental regulations pose technical and financial 
challenges for our industry. These challenges, including uncertainties with timing, scope and magnitude 
of future environmental regulations, are influencing decisions to upg rade or retire coal -fueled generating 
units. It also affects the planning process for new generation projects across our industry.  
Across our sector, the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) estimates that nearly 70,000 MW of coal -fueled 
generation will be ret ired by 2022, which represents a 20 percent reduction of U.S. capacity since 2010. 
During this period, AEP will retire approximately 6,500 MW of coal -fueled capacity. Approximately 
another 30,000 -49,000 MW of existing coal -based generation could potentiall y be impacted by 2020 
across the country due to the EPA’s Clean Power Plan (CPP). In addition, the CPP proposes to increase 
the use of existing natural gas combined cycle units and expand the growth of new renewable generation 
and energy efficiency program s. Not only will these changes have significant cost implications, but the 
cost to evaluate, design and implement any related upgrades to the transmission system could be equally 
significant. When considered in context with all of the new pending environme ntal requirements that 
apply to the utility industry, our investments and cost to comply will be substantial.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    80 AEP’s active participation in development of new 
regulations is intended to ensure that new 
requirements are achievable, based on sound science, 
consistent with statutory authority, balanced with 
other rulemakings, weigh the cost of compliance for 
customers, and can be implemented in a rational time 
frame. Compliance is important to us, but we also 
have a responsibility to our investors who make th e 
required capital investment and to our customers, 
who will ultimately pay for the implementation of 
compliance strategies and who will continue to 
expect reliable electric service.  
Regulations Update  
Mercury and Air Toxics Standards  
One of the most stri ngent of the federal regulations, 
the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards  (MATS) rule, 
was finalized in 2012, and establishes unit -specific 
emission requirements for mercury, metals and acid 
gases. An appea l of the rule is ongoing. In April 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court upheld the MATS rule. In 
November 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court granted petitions to consider whether costs should be 
considered in determining how to regulate electric generating units under S ection 112 of the Clean Air 
Act. The parties to the case have filed briefs, the Court has heard oral arguments, and a decision is 
expected by mid -year. Potential outcomes and implications are uncertain.  
Since the rule remains in effect and the compliance deadline has not changed, AEP continues to move 
forward with the implementation of our MATS compliance strategy and does not foresee any material 
changes in coal retirement and retrofit plans for the AEP system – even if the MATS rule were to be 
overturned . Our compliance strategy includes the installation of emission control retrofit projects, 
conversion of certain coal units to natural gas, and the retirement of other coal units.  
The MATS compliance deadline is April 2015, but up to a one -year extension may be obtained from 
state permitting authorities if adequate justification is provided. AEP has received several MATS 
deadline extensions, typically due to transmission reliability concerns, capacity obligations or the time 
needed to retrofit units. In la rge response to this regulation, AEP has determined that the more than 
6,500 MWs of capacity do not warrant increased investments and will be retired  by the compliance 
deadlin e for this rule.  
Emission transport rules  
The EPA’s efforts to reduce interstate transport of SO2 and NOx in the eastern half of the United States 
continue. In 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule  (CAIR), which was remanded by the 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    81 D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals but was allowed to stay in effect until an alternate rule was developed. In 
2011, the EPA finalized the Cross -State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) as a replacement for CA IR. It, too, 
was challenged and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated CSAPR in 2012 and 
reinstated CAIR requirements until a replacement to CSAPR was finalized.  
On April 29, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the decision to vacate CSA PR and remanded the 
rule back to the D.C. Circuit Court for further proceedings. The D.C. Circuit Court lifted the stay of 
CSAPR on Oct. 23, 2014, paving the way for Phase I of CSAPR emission budgets to begin in 2015. 
Phase II begins in 2017; these actions  ended CAIR requirements.  
In December 2013, eight states from the Northeast Ozone Transport Region petitioned the EPA to add 
nine upwind states to the region, including states with AEP generating resources. The goal would be 
additional NOx and volatile org anic compound (VOC) emission reductions from these states. The EPA 
has 18 months to respond to the petition.  
National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS)  
The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to periodically review and, if needed, revise National Ambient Air 
Quality Standards  (NAAQS). Several NAAQS have recently been revised, are under review, or are 
currently being implemented by states that could possibly lead to additional emission reductio n 
requirements. These include NAAQS for SO2 (revised in 2010), NO2 (revised in 2010), fine particulate 
matter, PM2.5 (revised in 2012), and ozone (proposed in December 2014). In the December 2014 
proposed revision to the ozone standards, the EPA requested comments on revising the standard from its 
current level of 75 parts per billion (ppb) to a value between 65 -70 ppb. This proposal has generated 
considerable concern among many states as well as across many other industries. Comments have been 
submitted an d the EPA is scheduled to issue a final decision in October.  
After NAAQS revisions are finalized, states must designate areas that do not meet the standards (known 
as non -attainment areas) and develop and implement plans to bring them into compliance. Beca use of 
the expected stringency of each of the revised standards, additional NOx and SO2 reductions are 
possible for the AEP coal fleet. However, the scope and timing of potential requirements is uncertain 
and it may be later this decade, at the earliest, b efore we have more clarity.  
Regional Haze  
The EPA’s regional haze regulation is designed to protect visibility in designated areas such as national 
parks. In February 2014, the EPA approved Oklahoma’s compliance plan for Public Service Company 
of Oklahoma  (PSO) to meet requirements of the EPA’s regional haze rule. Under the plan, PSO will 
install emissions control equipment on some of its gas -fueled plants. PSO will also retire its coal -fueled 
Northea stern Station unit 4 in 2016. In addition, PSO will retrofit Northeastern Station unit 3 with 
emission controls in 2015, and will retire this unit in 2026.. The plan is also expected to enable PSO’s 
coal facilities to meet the requirements of the EPA’s MAT S rule. The state’s plan is a result of an April 
2012 agreement with the EPA, the state of Oklahoma and PSO to reduce emissions and protect 
Oklahoma consumers and ratepayers.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    82 In 2012, the EPA partially approved the proposed Arkansas Regional Haze Plan. On  March 6, 2015, the 
agency proposed a Federal Implementation Plan in lieu of a state plan. The scope and timing of 
requirements for AEP’s Flint Creek Plant are consistent with the projects that have been approved by the 
Arkansas Public Service Commission, but are uncertain until the plan is finalized.  
Greenhouse Gas (New Source Performance Standards)  
AEP continues to engage the federal government as it moves forward to develop emission standards of 
performance for CO2 emissions from new and existing fossil fuel-based power plants. As one of the 
nation’s largest electric utilities, we have particular interest in helping to shape these regulations to 
ensure that they are technically, financially and statutorily feasible.  
The EPA is pursuing the development of  New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions from existing and new fossil fuel -fired electric generating units. On June 18, 
2014, the EPA proposed emission guidelines for existing units under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air 
Act. Separately, on January 8, 2014, the agency proposed NSPS for new units under Section 111(b). 
AEP submitted extensive legal and technical comments to the EPA on both proposed rules. The agency 
has announced that both rules are expected to be finalized i n 2015.  
We believe that the EPA’s GHG Standards should take into account the following principles:  
 New rules should help maintain the generating fleet that currently powers America, including existing 
non-emitting resources such as nuclear. Rules should n ot strand existing capital investments in 
equipment or jeopardize reliability.  
 The rules should respect the rights of states to have ultimate authority and flexibility in enforcing the 
regulations.  
 EPA guidelines should be based on reductions that are achi evable at the source.  
 Performance standards should be based upon adequately demonstrated systems that are fuel - and 
technology -specific.  
 Credit should be given for significant reductions already made or those that are being made.  
 Electricity consumers shou ld be treated fairly and equitably. Standards should reflect the electric 
sector’s proportional share of U.S. CO2 emissions and not require additional reductions that adversely 
affect low - and middle -income consumers.  
Coal Combustion Residuals Rule (CCR)  
How coal combustion residuals (CCR) are managed has been a focus of the EPA for the past five years 
as it considered a couple of options for regulating CCR.  
In December 2014, the EPA signed a rule to regulate the disposal and beneficial re -use of coal 
comb ustion residuals, including fly ash and bottom ash generated at coal -fueled electric generating 
units. The final rule requires certain standards for location, groundwater monitoring, and dam stability to 
be met at landfills and certain surface impoundments  at operating facilities on a schedule spanning 
approximately four years after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register. If existing facilities  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    83 cannot meet these standards, they will be required to close, if adequate alternative disposal optio ns are 
available. Extensions are available for completion of certain activities.  
Since the EPA announced the rule, AEP 
engineers, environmental specialists, attorneys 
and others have been reviewing it to identify 
its impacts on the company’s ash disposal  
practices and facilities. We believe the EPA’s 
regulation of CCRs as non -hazardous waste is 
appropriate to ensure the continued disposal of 
these materials in an environmentally sound 
way and to allow for continued beneficial 
reuse of these materials.  
AEP owns 44 CCR ponds, most of which will 
be regulated under this rule. These facilities 
include impoundments used to store fly ash, 
bottom ash or products of the flue -gas 
desulfurization process. AEP is in compliance 
with or is on its way towards compliance  with 
several aspects of the new rule.  
We have groundwater monitoring systems in 
place at most of the impoundments and we 
plan to close 20 ash ponds, mostly due to the 
retirement of several coal -fueled generating units in 2015. Plants that close before the  new federal CCR 
rule goes into effect in October 2015 will be exempted from the new federal rule but the facilities will 
still be regulated under state programs.  
In 2014, AEP generated approximately 9.9 million tons of CCRs and was able to beneficially re use 
approximately 3.7 million tons, or 37 percent of the total. Beneficial reuse of CCRs (considered to be 
products if they are beneficially reused), avoided more than $26 million in disposal costs in 2014 and 
generated more than $9 million in revenues.  
316(b) Standards  
New rules governing cooling water intake systems, known as 316(b) standards , were finalized in 2014 
with a phased -in compliance timeline. The EPA issued a final  rule setting forth standards for existing 
power plants that will reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against a plant’s cooling water 
intake screen (impingement) or entrained in the cooling water. The standards affect all plants 
withdrawing more t han two million gallons of cooling water per day and establish specific intake design 
and intake velocity standards meant to allow fish to avoid or escape impingement. Impingement occurs 
when water currents draw aquatic organisms against an intake screen. Entrainment occurs when small 
fish, eggs or larvae are drawn into the cooling water system through the screen openings and are affected 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    84 by heat, physical stress or compounds used to prevent build -up of algae and slime that can affect the 
efficiency of the system.  
Our Cook Nuclear Plant on Lake Michigan is subject to both the impingement and entrainment aspects 
of the rule. Based on our evaluation of the rule, the plant’s intake structure already meets the 
impingement requirements and the plant has begun the  work on the entrainment studies that are 
required. We are working closely with the state agency to ensure that those studies include all of the 
information needed for them to make their determination.  
The rule does not mandate cooling tower retrofits at p ower plants. Facilities that withdraw very large 
amounts of water – at least 125 million gallons per day – must conduct studies to help the permitting 
authority determine what site -specific entrainment controls, if any, will be required. The rule expands 
the number of approaches we can use to address impingement as well. In general, units with properly 
operated recirculating systems using cooling towers will require no further impingement -related 
modifications.  
Compliance with this standard is required with in eight years of the effective date of the final rule. The 
standard for entrainment for existing facilities requires a site -specific evaluation of the available 
measures for reducing entrainment. Challenges to this final rule have been consolidated in the  U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and additional changes could be made to this rule as a result of 
review by the court.  
Steam Electric Effluent Limitation Guidelines  
The Clean Water Act directs the EPA to set, periodically review and update effluent limitation 
guidelines  that regulate wastewater discharges from steam electric generating facilities (e.g., coal, 
combined -cycle natural gas and nuc lear units). On April 19, 2013, the EPA proposed more stringent 
guidelines that could require upgrades to, and installations of, new wastewater treatment systems at a 
potentially significant expense. A final rule was expected in 2014 but the EPA has delaye d the release of 
the standards to September 30, 2015.  
We continue to study the possible impact if we are required to move from wet to dry handling of coal 
ash. To comply with existing treatment standards, many of our coal ash ponds provide treatment of as h 
wastewater from the plants in addition to many other waste streams. If the ash ponds are eliminated, 
those remaining waste streams would still need to be treated and the necessary technologies for that 
would have to be selected, engineered and installed.  Depending on the outcome of the rulemaking, we 
may be able to repurpose some of these ponds by removing the coal ash, relining the ponds to meet 
current design standards, and continue their use to treat the remaining waste waters.  
We may also have to inst all additional technology to further treat scrubber waste waters at the Amos, 
Cardinal, Conesville and Mitchell Plants. AEP engineers and scientists have been working directly with 
the EPA to demonstrate the technical limitations of this technology, as wel l as others that are being 
considered by the agency.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    85 "Waters of the United States"  
In 2014, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jointly proposed a rule to clarify the scope of 
"waters of the United States" protected under the Clean Water Act. The intent of the rule is to remove 
uncertainty about the extent of federal jurisdiction over various types of waterbodies, especially those 
that are at the upper fringes of a watershed, or those that may not have a visibly distinct connection to 
downstream wa ters. There is considerable controversy about whether the proposed rule would actually 
expand federal jurisdiction, rather than simply clarify the status quo. While we understand and fully 
agree with the agencies’ position regarding the need to provide bet ter certainty for the regulated 
community, there are still aspects of the proposal that do little to provide clarification.  
If approved as is, the rule change could adversely impact critical utility operations including siting and 
construction of energy tr ansmission and renewable energy resources. This could increase the number of 
projects requiring permits, the potential level of impacts requiring mitigation, create difficulty in finding 
alternate routes for transmission lines, and increase the complexity and time associated with the siting 
and permitting process. All of this would also impact the workload placed upon environmental agencies.  
New Source Review  
In 2007, AEP signed a court -approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. The original  
consent decree had specified that AEP would install flue gas desulfurization (FGD) systems on the 
Rockport Plant units, Big Sandy Unit 2 and Muskingum River Unit 5.  
In 2013, a modification to the decree was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Sou thern District 
of Ohio, Eastern Division. The modification lowered a system -wide SO2 emission cap for AEP plants 
that becomes increasingly stringent through 2029. The modification also gives us more flexibility in 
how we meet these requirements.  
NSR Consen t Decree Annual Report Archive (PDF)  
 2014 NSR Annual Report  
 2013 NSR Annual Report  
 2012 NSR Annual Report  
 2011 NSR Annual Report  
 2010 NSR Annual Report  
 2009 NSR Annual Report  
 2008 NSR Annual Report   
Climate Change  
AEP is co mmitted to providing safe, reliable and affordable electricity to its customers and we have met 
this obligation for over 100 years. At the same time, we recognize the need to responsibly address the 
issue of climate change. We have proactively addressed ca rbon emissions through our planning  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    86 processes and, as a result, AEP is already a less carbon -intensive company than a decade ago and, as we 
retire additional coal units and increase our use of renewables and other resources, our carbon profile 
will continu e to improve. However, with respect to mandated climate action, we strongly believe that 
any carbon policy or regulation must be rational in terms of timing, scope and reduction targets. 
Additionally, any climate action framework should be built on consens us and take into account the 
regional differences in the role of carbon within our economy to ensure that there is not undue economic 
harm.  
In 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed the Clean Power Plan (CPP), a 
regulatory approach t o addressing carbon emissions which creates a significant reliability risk for the 
grid and affects affordability of electricity throughout the United States.  
Any plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must be accompanied by a thorough assessment of the 
impact on electric grid reliability, allow adequate time for implementation, respect the authority of states 
and other federal agencies, and preserve a balanced, diverse mix of fuels for electricity generation. The 
EPA’s proposal does not do this.  
The Clea n Power Plan  
On June 2, 2014, the EPA proposed the Clean Power Plan (CPP) under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air 
Act. The CPP identifies four sets of measures – also known as building blocks – that utilities and states 
can use to develop the best plan for r educing carbon emissions. The four building blocks are designed 
to: 
 Make existing coal -fueled power plants more efficient;  
 Increase the dispatch of natural gas combined cycle units to displace coal and other fossil units;  
 Increase use of renewable energy to achieve, in effect, a 13 percent national renewable portfolio 
standard by 2030 and preserve current nuclear generation; and  
 Decrease electricity consumption 1.5 percent annually through energy efficiency.  
The EPA claims the plan would result in a 30 p ercent reduction in electric sector CO 2 emissions from 
2005 levels by 2030. Based on AEP’s actual 2014 emissions of 122 million metric tons, our CO 2 
emissions have been reduced 15 percent, compared with our 2005 emissions of approximately 145 
million metri c tons. Under the EPA’s plan, AEP would not receive credit for these reductions, unfairly 
we believe, and deep additional cuts would still be needed to satisfy the goals established by the EPA.  
AEP submitted extensive comments to the EPA on the proposed Cl ean Power Plan that identified 
concerns on a wide range of issues, including the EPA’s interpretation of the scope of its legal authority 
to control all aspects of the generation, transmission, distribution and use of electric energy. Our 
comments also inc luded a detailed examination of the technical information underlying EPA’s 
calculation of individual state emission rate “goals,” the proposed schedule for development and 
submission of state plans, and the challenges of demonstrating compliance with the i nterim and final 
goals. Based on these concerns, AEP recommended that the EPA withdraw the proposal, address the  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    87 significant legal, technical, and practical flaws that exist, and resubmit the guidelines for public 
comment.  
We believe that the electric sec tor can successfully reduce carbon emissions with a less prescriptive rule 
that has more realistic targets and timelines. The intrusion by federal regulators into areas traditionally 
regulated by the states is of particular concern. AEP believes the EPA mu st eliminate the 2020 -2029 
interim goals and respect the authority of the states, under the Clean Air Act, to develop state -specific 
standards that take into account local circumstances and allow time to build new infrastructure – 
including gas pipelines, transmission facilities and other new generation resources.  
AEP will continue advocating for a more reasonable plan that addresses the concerns we have identified. 
In an effort to be clear about where we stand and to share the concerns expressed by the tra nsmission 
regions in which we operate and independent system operators about the potential threat to grid 
reliability, we created a website – “GetItRightEPA .”  
We are ready to work with the states, the Administration, Congress and our customers to develop a 
common -sense approach to further reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. We remain engaged with our 
many stakeholders, including those in the environmental community, to identify the best solution to 
reduce carbon emissions in the electric power sector that achieves the desired environmental outcome 
while protecting grid reliability and customers from unnecessary price spikes.  
Water  
Water is a critical input in the production of electricity. It is used in power plant boilers as well as for 
cooling, cleaning and in some cases to transport fly ash and bottom ash. Water is also the source of 
hydroelectric power and provides transportation for our barge fleet to operate on the Ohio, Missouri and 
Mississippi Rivers.  
Water quality, availability, use and management are 
increasingly important sustainability issues for our 
society and our company. We are taking steps to 
reduce our water consumption, improve our water 
quality and address water availability issues as we 
comply with current regulations and prepare for new 
ones. We are also participating in industry research 
to find new ways to treat waste water and reduce the 
use and consumption of water by power plants.  
AEP places a high value on reporting our usage  and management of water throughout our system. One 
way we do this is through voluntary reporting efforts. We have participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project Water Survey  for six years now. In 2015 , the questionnaire was issued on behalf of 573 investors 
representing $60 trillion in assets who seek business -critical information about water consumption and 
water use strategy and planning. In addition, AEP provides extensiv e water data in our Global Reporting 
Initiative  (GRI) report.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    88 Water Quality Improvements  
In August 2014, proposed consent decrees were filed in two federal courts to resolve a coalition of 
environmental groups’ allegations against AEP's Amos, Mitchell and Kammer plants in West Virginia. 
The allegations involved water discharges from various sources at the plants. As part of the settlements, 
the company agreed to meet future limitations for merc ury and selenium at the John Amos Plant. At the 
Kammer Plant, AEP will retire all three units and stop sluicing fly ash to the Conner Run fly ash pond 
no later than Dec. 31, 2015. The Mitchell Plant completed its conversion to a dry ash system and met 
new effluent limitations at the fly ash impoundment outlet in November 2014, and undertook a study of 
aquatic life at Conner Run during the summer of 2014. AEP also agreed to make a $75,000 contribution 
to the West Virginia Land Trust, pay $7,500 in civil pena lties, and reimburse the groups’ attorney fees.  
Water Research Center  
AEP is one of 15 companies that have joined the Electric Power Research Institute and the Southern 
Research Institute  to esta blish a first -of-a-kind research facility to address power plants’ water usage and 
treatment. The Water Research Center  at Georgia Power Company’s Plant Bowen focuses  on finding 
new ways to manage and treat wastewater and to reduce and conserve water used in the production of 
electricity.  
Ohio River Basin Water Quality Trading Project  
AEP began working with the Electri c Power Research 
Institute  (EPRI) and other partners in 2011 on a 
market -based approach to improve Ohio River water 
quality. We are one of the first utilities in the nation to 
take part in the world’s largest interstate water quality 
trading plan . Representatives from Ohio, Indiana and 
Kentucky pledged their support to the plan in 2012, 
and the first trades took place in March 2014, 
culminating a five -year effort. AEP has purchased 5,000 stewardship credits so far, and has agreed to 
retire the associated nutrient and ecosystem benefits. These benefits include carbon sequestration, 
habitat enhancement, soil runoff control and pollinator habitat. AEP’s participation has already reduced 
nutrients by 1,700 pounds  and will reduce nutrients by 3,300 pounds by the end of 2015.  
Although the credits cannot currently be used for compliance, this important program demonstrates that 
science - and market -based solutions can effectively address environmental concerns. The p rogram is 
good for farmers, the environment and the participating companies. In 2015, the program was awarded 
the U.S. Alliance – United States Water Prize . 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    89 Waste and Chemical Man agement  
We manage many types of waste that result from the process of generating electricity, operating office 
buildings, and repairing and replacing equipment. We continue to make progress to reduce waste and 
divert waste from landfills through beneficial  reuse or recycling.  
The amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) -containing equipment used across the company 
continues to decline. PCBs, which are known to have adverse health effects, have not been used in new 
electrical equipment for more than 30 year s but are present in some of our older transformers and other 
pieces of electric equipment. We removed and recycled approximately 45,000 pieces of electrical 
equipment in 2014; less than 0.4 percent of these items were found to contain PCBs greater than 50 0 
parts per million (ppm).  
 
The EPA is developing a proposed draft rule that would potentially require the phase out of certain 
PCB -containing equipment (potentially including equipment containing 50 ppm PCB or greater). AEP 
operates hundreds of thousands  of pieces of electrical equipment that could be affected by the draft rule. 
Current regulations require that if you do not know the PCB content of certain types of equipment, you 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    90 must assume that they contain 50 ppm of PCBs or greater. Due to the types, l ocations and quantities of 
the potentially affected equipment throughout the AEP system, the expense of identifying, sampling and 
potentially replacing all of this equipment, if required, would be quite costly.  
We had approximately 1,400 transmission and d istribution equipment oil spills in 2014, down from 
approximately 1,800 in 2013. Two of the spills contained greater than 500 ppm PCBs in 2014 compared 
with 10 spills in 2013. Most spills are related to storms and vehicle accidents that damage the equipmen t 
and cause a spill.  
During 2014, the waste streams we recycled included approximately 1.4 million gallons of oil, 1.4 
million pounds of paper and mixed office waste, 34 million pounds of scrap metal, 180,000 light bulbs, 
216,000 pounds of batteries and mo re than 284,000 pounds of electronic equipment, such as computers 
and phones, preventing disposal in landfills. These numbers are not all inclusive but are considered good 
estimates of waste management across AEP and indicate progress in reducing waste.  
Nuclear Waste Management  
The Department of Energy (DOE) oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has 
charged fees to plant owners for this disposal. However, the government has stopped developing the 
Yucca Mountain storage facility  in Nevada, leaving generators with no place for permanent disposal.  
Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) owns and operates the 
two-unit, 2,191 -MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in 
Michigan. Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we face 
significant future financial  commitment to dispose of spent 
nuclear fuel. We need a national solution for the long -term 
disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which should be part of a 
national energy plan.  
Since 1983, I&M - along with all U.S. nuclear plant 
operators - has been required to  collect fees that went into 
a federal Nuclear Waste Fund to pay for a federal nuclear waste disposal site. The Fund has collected 
nearly $30 billion nationally, including interest, since the surcharge was put in place.  
The Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners 
(NARUC), along with several utilities (including I&M), filed a petition in late 2012 challenging the 
DOE’s continued collection of this surcharge. In November 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
D.C. Circuit ordered DOE to submit a proposal to Congress to reduce the fee to zero in light of the fact 
that no disposal site has ever been selected and the Fund coffers are more than adequate to cover current 
activity. DOE submitted that proposal  to Congress in January 2014, but it is not yet effective. DOE will 
likely seek to stay its effect while it pursues all available routes of appeal. In the meantime, I&M 
continues to collect and pay the fee as required by current law.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    91 In 2011, AEP signed a  settlement agreement with the federal government that allows I&M to make 
annual filings to recover certain spent nuclear fuel storage costs resulting from the government’s delay 
in accepting the spent fuel for storage.  
The uncertainty associated with lon g-term storage has placed the burden of interim storage on each 
nuclear facility. AEP is addressing this issue on the assumption that a workable offsite solution will not 
exist before the operating licenses for both Cook units expire two decades from now.  
In 2012, the Cook Plant began a program of loading spent fuel into dry casks. Twelve casks, each 
containing 32 spent nuclear fuel assemblies, were loaded that year. Without removal of the used -fuel 
assemblies, the spent fuel pool would have reached capacit y in 2014, forcing shutdown of one or both 
Cook units. In 2015, 16 additional casks are expected to be loaded, with future loadings to occur every 
three years thereafter. The current cask storage facility is designed to store 94 casks for a total of 3,008 
spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This would support the operation of both units through the current 
operating license dates of 2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2. The pad could be expanded to facilitate 
removal of all fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel pool and full decommissioning of both units.  
Natural Resources  
It is challenging to practice environmental stewardship while providing electricity at affordable rates. 
AEP is meeting this challenge in several ways. For example, efforts are underway t o implement 
vegetation management practices on our transmission rights of way to encourage wildlife, while at the 
same time, meeting all North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) requirements. We are 
also working with the Electric Power Resear ch Institute (EPRI) to find more ways to generate power and 
create benefits for the environment at the same time. EPRI’s Ohio River Water Quality Trading 
Program , of which AE P is a participant, is one good 
example.  
Increasingly, endangered or threatened species are of 
growing concern nationally. In March 2014, AEP was 
among 32 private companies and five states that committed 
to enroll more than 3.6 million acres in the Lesser Prairie 
Chicken Range -Wide Conservation Plan . This three -year 
plan is a collaborative effort to support habitat conservation 
for the bird, wh ich is being considered for listing under the 
Federal Endangered Species Act. As we seek to build new 
transmission facilities across our service territory, we are mindful of potential environmental and 
ecological impacts we might have. Working with organiz ations such as the Western Association of Fish 
& Wildlife Agencies – which is overseeing this plan – helps us understand the issues, support habitat 
preservation and take appropriate actions to mitigate our impacts.  
In Eastern Oklahoma and parts of Arkansa s and Texas, AEP is required to take steps to protect the 
American burying beetle (ABB) when building projects in its range. The ABB was listed as an 
endangered species in 1989 and any disturbance of its habitat must be offset. When the ABB is found in 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    92 areas where a proposed transmission line route is being considered, we are faced with restrictions 
regarding construction activities (including clearing activities) that may disturb their habitat. This can 
lead to substantial project delays which can increase  costs. AEP Transmission is developing a long -term 
habitat conservation plan for the ABB. Although there are costs associated with developing and 
implementing such plans, having a plan in place protects the species while reducing time constraints for 
meeti ng project schedules.  
The Indiana bat is another species AEP is mindful of. The bat has been on the federal endangered 
species list since 1967. The bat is known to be located in 9 of the 11 states in which AEP operates. In 
some areas, tree cutting during c ertain times of the year must take into consideration potential effects on 
the Indiana bat habitat. Since the Indiana bat roosts under tree bark or crevices, areas with potential 
habitat trees must be evaluated prior to tree clearing.  
AEP provides informa tion about how we manage these and other issues through our participation in 
business and environmental disclosure surveys, such as the Global Reporting Initiative  and the Carbon 
Disclosure Project . AEP voluntarily discloses its social, economic and environmental challenges through 
its responses to these surveys, which are then reviewed and ranked and made publi c. This information is 
shared with investor groups, shareholders, government agencies, and other public organizations. 
Responses to questions regarding the company’s management of social issues, such as employee 
benefits, demographics, and safety issues, e conomic issues, such as rate cases, deregulation and national 
economic trends, and environmental issues, such as new regulations, compliance, and natural resource 
use, are also provided in these surveys. These responses provide a valuable insight into how the 
company addresses and manages what many consider to be important business risks.  
Avian Protection  
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and 
others have worked together to understand why birds  collide with or are electrocuted by power lines. 
This is a growing concern as construction of new transmission facilities and renewable energy facilities 
accelerates across the United States.  
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary 
company -specific Avian Protection Plans (APP) to 
mitigate the risks associated with bird interactions with 
electric utility facilities. AEP’s APP was completed in 
2013 and we initiated the process of implementation. The 
plan’s purpose is to reduce the incid ences of bird 
electrocutions and collisions with AEP’s equipment, and 
to reduce the frequency of bird -caused outages.  
As AEP makes significant investments in new 
transmission and rebuilds older lines, the implementation of the APP is important to prevent b irds from 
coming into contact with our facilities. The APP also reflects our commitment to comply with 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    93 environmental requirements that protect birds. We participate in the industry’s Avian Power Line 
Interaction Committee (APLIC) which helps us reduce bird  interactions with our equipment.  
AEP’s Avian Protection Plan  
AEP manages bird/power line interactions through a system -wide program across our 11 -state service 
territory, where a wide variety of bird species can be found. Currently, AEP’s primary challeng e is on 
larger species that are more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on poles, or collide with towers 
and lines.  
The APP has several key components:  
 Employee training and compliance – We educate our employees and provide training on 
complianc e with all federal and state laws.  
 Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures – We have a process to 
incorporate bird safety into the design of new lines and facilities.  
 Nest management and avian enhancement options – We apply bird -safety tactics such as 
installing a dedicated de -energized pole for bird nesting or bird diverters to keep them away from 
wires.  
 Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies --We are updating our tracking 
system to improve our monitoring and repor ting capabilities to allow us to be more proactive.  
 Public education – We promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation and work 
cooperatively with federal and state agencies and non -profit organizations.  
Our goal is to be proactive in preve nting bird deaths and collisions. To do this, we seek to continuously 
improve the training employees receive to enhance their knowledge and awareness of what to do when 
an event occurs and actions they can take to prevent it from happening in the first pla ce. 
ESH Policy & Philosophy  
Environment, Safety & Health Philosophy  
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of 
people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony with environmental 
protection.  
Environment, Safety & Health Policy  
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect 
people and the environment by committing to:  
 Maintain compliance with all applicable ES&H requirements while pursuing the spirit of ES&H 
stewardship;  
 Ensure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H 
responsibilities into their business functions;  
 Support continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention; and  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    94  Hazard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety 
improvement.  
 
Energy Reliability  
Reliable electric service is a critical public need. Our nation’s economic success and security depends 
upon our ability to preserve this fundamental resource. It is an indispens able part of our everyday lives, 
making life easier. We expect it to be there all the time to power the machines, electronics and systems 
that drive just about everything we do.  
Our industry has a strong track record of maintaining high levels of reliabil ity. When power outages do 
occur, we respond quickly - and unlike any other industry - we can call on our peers to provide 
assistance when and where we need it. Our decades -old mutual assistance network is the cornerstone of 
our commitment to get the power  back on as quickly as possible following a major incident. Technology 
is increasingly important to reliability – for us and our customers.  
We face many challenges affecting our ability to maintain the 262,000 -miles in our transmission and 
distribution net work while also upgrading infrastructure to meet future demands and changes occurring 
in our generation portfolio. Our challenges include the age of our infrastructure, the threat of external 
interruptions, retiring coal units, the need for greater capacit y and appropriate market valuation of 
existing capacity, the difficulty of siting new facilities, new and future environmental regulations, and 
the cost of needed investments.  
In response, we are investing in infrastructure and using technology to proactiv ely prevent and mitigate 
service disruptions and to better communicate with our customers. Through our lean initiatives we are 
identifying processes and procedures to improve the experience our customers have when interacting 
with AEP.  
2014 Performance  
We track our transmission and distribution reliability performance with several metrics that are used 
industrywide. These indicators show us how reliable our system is and how our customers are impacted 
when it is not. They do not include major storms. The in vestments we are making in our transmission 
and distribution system improve reliability and operating efficiency and prepare the system for new 
technologies in the future.  
The System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) represents how many minutes the average 
customer experiences an interruption in electric service in a given year. During 2014, the AEP System 
SAIDI was 219.9 minutes, excluding major events, a 9.8 percent increase from 2013. The growth of 
vegetation contributed to about 32 percent of  SAIDI results and failure of distribution line equipment 
accounted for about 21 percent of service interruptions.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    95 The System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) represents the number of interruptions 
experienced by customers in a year. During 2 014, the system’s SAIFI was 1.375, a 3.5 percent increase 
from 2013. Vegetation and distribution line equipment failures were also the major contributors to 
SAIFI performance.  
The Customer Average Interruption 
Duration Index (CAIDI) represents the 
average  length of time it takes to restore 
service when an outage occurs. AEP’s 
2014 CAIDI was 160.0 minutes, a 6.2 
percent increase from 2013. A 
combination of factors are responsible, 
including a reduction in the number of 
shorter -duration outages that historic ally 
affected larger numbers of customers that 
skew the metric upward and an increase 
in non -major storm events.  
 
Vegetation -related outages and equipment failure are 
among the biggest challenges to AEP’s service 
reliability. Managing vegetation on our r ights of way 
(ROW) is key to maintaining transmission and 
distribution system reliability. AEP manages the trees 
and vegetation around power lines using a 
combination of performance -based (such as targeting 
low performing circuits) and cycle -based maintena nce 
strategies. Maintaining a regular tree -trimming cycle 
is a significant expense that directly affects customer 
bills. During the past five years, AEP has invested 
more than $1 billion in vegetation management, 
including $281.9 million in 2014. The issue  of 
reliability has prompted several states to consider or 
implement shorter intervals between tree trimming 
programs.  
In 2014, the Public Service Commission of West 
Virginia approved a new vegetation management 
program for Appalachian Power and Wheeling P ower. 
The new program will move tree trimming and other 
vegetation management to a four -year cycle. It will 
take six years to fully implement the program, which 
will lessen future storm impacts. In its approval, the 
Commission concluded that severe weather  incidents 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    96 since 2009 made it clear that utility distribution and transmission systems should be made more resistant 
to damage from vegetation during major storms.  
In early 2015, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio reaffirmed the value of two existing programs 
designed to improve reliability and replace or upgrade aging infrastructure. AEP Ohio’s Distribution 
Investment Rider allows for proactive investments in aging distribution infrastructure in order to 
maintain and improve service reliability. The P UCO also approved AEP Ohio’s request to continue its 
Enhanced Service Reliability Rider that supports a proactive vegetation management program to reduce 
the impact of weather events to reliability and to maintain overall system reliability.  
Representativ e transmission reliability projects that are under way across our service territory include 
several major upgrades and enhancements across the state of Ohio to modernize the state’s transmission 
network. Power plant retirements in West Virginia centered in  the Kanawha and Ohio River valleys 
require new transmission to accommodate changes in power flows that will occur as a result of the 
retirements. The new lines and upgraded substations are expected to be in -service in spring 2017. In 
another project, AEP is building its first 500 -kV station in Louisiana that is expected to be in service in 
March 2016. Once complete, this project will relieve potential overloads on neighboring transmission 
lines, support local growth and provide a stronger platform for powe r from the Dolet Hills Power Plant, 
which we partially own.  
One of the most significant reliability projects under way is in Texas along the Lower Rio Grande 
Valley (LRGV) to deliver additional electricity to the fast -growing area. This project will provi de 
emerging wind generation and other resources access to the grid. The projects are being jointly 
constructed by Texas -based Electric Transmission Texas, LLC. (ETT), a joint venture of subsidiaries of 
AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company and Sharylan d Utilities. ETT has other projects under 
way, including more than 20 projects with various completion dates scheduled through 2024. ETT will 
have more than $3 billion in investments over the next decade.  
Reliability and Conservation  
We continue to seek opportunities to integrate conservation measures into our management approach to 
rights of way (ROW) for new and rebuilt transmission lines. This would involve addressing key 
ecological concerns while maintaining reliable transmission service. We are worki ng with the Wildlife 
Habitat Council (WHC) to develop a “conservation tool kit” that will provide a range of conservation 
options for ROW land management. The toolkit will provide AEP with options to incorporate 
environmentally beneficial conservation prac tices into 
our ROW management efforts that are both economical 
and protect reliability as we rebuild old lines and build 
new ones.  
 
The Eagle Watch Nature Trail at our Flint Creek Plant in 
Arkansas is one example of our successful partnership 
with the WHC . 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    97 AEP has a long history of partnering with the WHC on a variety of projects, primarily involving our 
power plants. The Eagle Watch Nature Trail at our Flint Creek Plant in Arkansas is one example of our 
successful partnership with the WHC. AEP’s Real Esta te Asset Management group also works with the 
WHC to enhance our ReCreation Lands – approximately 60,000 acres in southeast Ohio of reclaimed 
mine land. Among the stewardship initiatives we work on together are food plots and duck habitat.  
As business need s and environmental focus have evolved, so has our approach to stewardship. By 
adopting a tool kit approach, we will be able to efficiently leverage resources and develop conservation 
options that are replicable from project to project. It will also suppor t our work with stakeholders and 
landowners to facilitate discussions and solutions around construction and maintenance. In addition to 
the WHC, we have relationships with many other conservation and environmental organizations with 
whom we continue to col laborate.  
Learn more about AEP’s environmental stewardship efforts . 
Reliability Compliance  
It has been more than a decade since the 2003 Northeast blackout that left 55 million people in the da rk 
in the United States and Canada. The blackout was the catalyst for more stringent rules and regulations 
to protect the grid from another such event. Since then, the North American Electric Reliability 
Corp oration  (NERC) has been authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) to 
enact and enforce rules and standards protecting the U.S. bulk power system. These rules and standards 
are constantly  evolving, and they affect virtually everything we do in operating, maintaining and 
protecting the grid day to day.  
The reliability standards in place today require processes 
and procedures to advance the reliability and resiliency of 
the bulk electricity  system. Noncompliance with NERC 
reliability standards can lead to serious financial 
consequences as well as reputational risk. Developing a 
culture of compliance has been a priority for us and our 
commitment to this was most recently reflected in the 
outcome of a 2014 NERC audit.  
We engage our employees through continuous communication about their contribution to AEP’s 
reliability compliance. Things as simple as wearing an employee identification badge at all times and 
following facility access control pol icies, such as not allowing people to “tailgate” into buildings, are the 
types of actions that ensure the security of our facilities. These practices are necessary and effective in 
preserving the integrity of the services we provide and contribute to the s afe operation of our assets.  
In November 2014, AEP went through a rigorous NERC Reliability Standard Audit and Critical 
Infrastructure Protection (CIP) requirements review, which covers cybersecurity issues. NERC focused 
on 33 of 43 requirements in its au dit. The audit cycle for AEP’s compliance with NERC CIP standards 
occurs every three years.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    98 Auditors requested an unprecedented amount of data and conducted on -site investigations and 
interviews. The auditors focused on procedures and policies, specific s afeguards in place to protect 
cyber assets and measures to prevent unauthorized physical and cyber access to transmission assets.  
AEP officially received two possible violations. Auditors recognized AEP for its progress in achieving a 
strong compliance cu lture, an improvement from the feedback AEP received following a 2009 CIP 
audit.  
The compliance arena is very fluid and we must constantly split our attention between what is required 
today and what might be required tomorrow. Due to this rapid development , CIP version 4 was never 
put into effect and preparation is already under way to transition to CIP version 5. Preparing for new 
more stringent standards while maintaining today’s systems and networks will be a daunting task. AEP 
must be fully compliant wi th CIP version 5 for high - and medium -risk cyber systems by the April 1, 
2016 enforcement date. To manage this, we have created a governance structure to oversee the effort. 
We are currently reviewing standards, finalizing gap analyses and working toward i mplementation by 
the end of 2015.  
In 2015, we will undergo three more audits on non -CIP standards. The focus will be on other activities 
we undertake to maintain reliability of the grid, including many processes such as tree trimming and 
protective equipme nt maintenance. Audits will be conducted by the PJM Interconnection, Southwest 
Power Pool Regional Entity, Reliability First, and the Texas Regional Entity.  
Reliability Assurance Initiative  
Historically, compliance with NERC standards has been based on a one-size-fits-all, zero tolerance 
model. That approach is changing with NERC’s implementation of the Reliability Assurance Initiative  
(RAI). NERC initiated RAI in 2012 as a means of shifting to a more collaborative process of identifying 
reliability risks and using that information to better gauge future compliance monitoring and 
enforcement efforts. On Feb. 19, 2015, FERC approved the transition to a risk -based approach pending 
some modifications. We agree that this new reliability philosophy is much more effective and efficient 
because it allows us to focus on higher -risk issues, thereby boosting system reliability.  
With RAI, the emphasis is on reforming bo th the monitoring and enforcement areas of reliability 
regulation. Regulators want companies to monitor their own activities, detect issues when they occur, 
assess the risk of those issues, and correct the causes of those issues in a timely manner. This ri sk-based 
approach enhances the effectiveness of NERC’s enforcement program by focusing resources on the 
areas that present the greatest risk. Compliance activities include self -certifications, audits and spot 
checks to encourage continuous improvement of i nternal controls.  
Grid Resiliency  
One physical threat to the electricity infrastructure is severe weather. When weather causes power 
outages, there are financial costs, as well as political and social risks, especially when the disruption is 
prolonged. We cannot completely prevent power outages, but we can take storm hardening measures to  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    99 reduce the damage from a major event, improve recovery time when a disruption occurs, reduce the 
number of outages and lower the costs to customers.  
Based on recommendat ions from our Distribution Storm 
Hardening Strategy Team, we have implemented new 
design criteria to strengthen, or harden, the distribution 
system in 2014. We now design new and replacement 
poles to withstand wind speeds and ice accumulation 
above and bey ond the National Electrical Safety Code 
(NESC) requirement for our service territory. The ice 
build -up component has been increased to one inch of ice 
in the central and northern portions of AEP’s service 
territory from a quarter - to a half -inch, respectiv ely. In the southern portion of our territory, where high 
winds are the primary driver of major storm damage, we have increased the system’s ability to withstand 
high winds from 60 mph to 90 mph. Along the Gulf coast, where hurricanes are a bigger issue, w e 
continue to design facilities to withstand 150 mph winds. In 2014, approximately 105,000 poles were 
designed using the new storm hardening criteria across the AEP system.  
These hardening measures are predicted to increase the strength of electric struct ures by at least 25 
percent with nominal increase in cost. In addition, we developed an assessment tool to help us determine 
where to deploy capital funds to maximize the benefits of grid -hardening initiatives. Among the criteria 
we are using include the n umber of customers served; the type of customer (how many on a particular 
circuit are considered “critical” customers, such as hospitals and nursing homes, law enforcement 
agencies, and water or wastewater facilities); the age of the poles; and the average  duration of outages. 
This allows us to put our resources to work where they deliver the most value for our customers.  
Nationally, and within our service territories, hardening, reliability and grid modernization initiatives 
have garnered support from stat e utility commissions.  
In October 2014, Indiana Michigan Power Company (I&M) filed a request with the Indiana Utility 
Regulatory Commission (IURC) for a seven year infrastructure improvement program. The I&M 
Reliability Enhancement Program seeks to invest  approximately $787 million in its Indiana 
infrastructure, starting in 2015. The program calls for replacing poles, wires and other infrastructure, that 
in many cases, are decades old, with modern, state -of-the art equipment. In addition to the overhead 
lines customers see every day, crews will also reinforce reliability in I&M’s underground metropolitan 
networks with updated wiring and configurations.  
The IURC’s approval is still pending for the Transmission, Distribution and Storage System 
Improvement Cha rge (TDSIC) initiatives. If approved the TDSIC rider would be used to recover costs 
associated with certain electric infrastructure expansion projects, including those intended to improve 
safety or reliability; modernize the system; or improve an area’s ec onomic development prospects. The 
TDSIC allows I&M to plan and finance significant infrastructure improvements over seven years and to 
lessen the impact on customers through smaller, annual rate increases for necessary infrastructure 
enhancements. In Ohio,  the existing Distribution Investment Rider helps us fund distribution system 
improvements, including grid hardening.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    100 AEP is among other utilities participating in the Electric Power  Research Institute’s three -year Grid 
Resiliency Project . Started in 2013, the project will provide our industry with new tools and strategies to 
improve the distribution system’s ability to withstand severe weather events.  
AEP is focusing on three areas to improve service restoration during large -scale power outages:  
 Implementing the Incident Command System (ICS) . Numerous utilities are moving to this 
nationally used crisis management tool as a standard for responding to small and large 
emergencies and i ncidents.  
 Technology improvements . Introducing new tools and improving our systems to better manage 
our workload during major events and to provide more timely and accurate information to 
customers and other stakeholders.  
 Process improvements . Working to s tandardize our assessment process and implement a 
number of restoration process enhancements that will improve how we manage our crews and 
other resources.  
Emergency Response  
When a major event occurs that produces widespread outages, the electric industry  mobilizes to deliver 
resources, supplies and crews needed to get the lights back on safely and quickly. This practice of 
mutual assistance, which dates to the 1950s, helps utilities mitigate the risks and costs of major outages 
through sharing of resource s. The utilities that seek assistance pay the costs of the utilities and 
contractors providing labor and equipment. As an industry, we are taking steps to improve this process.  
National Emergency Response  
Improving the coordinated response to power interru ptions affecting multiple regions of the United 
States is the purpose of the National Response Event (NRE) framework, which AEP had a leadership 
role in developing. The framework’s intent is to ensure that resources are allocated to restore power as 
quickl y and as safely as possible in an efficient, coordinated way.  
A National Response Executive Committee composed of 
senior utility executives from all regions of the country 
govern the NRE process, and a National Mutual 
Assistance Resource Team will pool an d allocate 
resources to best meet restoration needs in a major event. 
Three Regional Mutual Assistance Groups (RMAGs) in 
the Northeast were consolidated to allow better 
coordination of resources. When an NRE is declared, the 
RMAGs will act as one entity to  ensure the highest level 
of resource coordination.  
The NRE framework was developed in partnership with federal and state agencies to improve the flow 
of information between utilities and government emergency personnel, expedite movement of resources 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    101 acros s state and international borders, and leverage the logistical support and security capabilities that 
the military can provide in emergencies.  
AEP’s Emergency Response Plan  
As the industry seeks to improve emergency response following large -scale outages, AEP is 
simultaneously updating its own plans that take into consideration the lessons learned of the last few 
years. Our Emergency Response Plan (ERP) is being rolled out across AEP and will be fully 
implemented in 2015.  
A key element of the ERP is establ ishing an Incident Command System (ICS), a nationally known crisis 
management tool used by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and increasingly adopted by 
industry, including utilities. ICS will make it easier for our employees to do their jobs by impr oving 
management efficiency, reducing redundancy and more clearly defining the focus of employees’ 
responsibilities during emergency response. It also will improve communications with first responders 
and emergency management agencies because we often will  be using the same chain -of-command 
structures and terminology that they use.  
In 2014, the Public Utilities Commission of Texas adopted requirements that electric utilities in the state 
include in their emergency operations plans ICS training for emergency  events. This new mandate, 
affecting transmission and distribution facilities, re -emphasizes the importance and relevance of ICS. 
We believe ICS is the way of the future for electric utilities, especially during emergency events that 
involve other outside agencies.  
Other components of the ERP are technology and process improvements that will enhance customer 
satisfaction and communications by providing the frequent and accurate information the public wants. 
During power outages, customers want fast, accura te and timely information about when their service 
will be restored. A customer alert system that provides information on the status of outages rolled out in 
March 2015 to all AEP customers.  
Technology will increasingly play a role in our assessments of da mage during an outage. A damage 
assessment tool being developed will allow damage inspectors to upload their assessments to a cloud 
database. This will eliminate paper evaluations, allow contractors working for AEP to help with damage 
assessments and allow  us to dispatch crews more efficiently. Most importantly, it will improve our 
ability to estimate time for restoration that customers want most.  
Aging Infrastructure  
The U.S. electric power grid was built more than a century ago. Although investments hav e been made 
to improve reliability and enable the grid to handle new and emerging technologies, a number of factors 
are increasingly affecting reliability. These include the age of the equipment, weather events, permitting 
challenges for new infrastructure , and economics. AEP has developed a diagnostic tool to help us better 
manage reliability through maintenance.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    102 A new central Asset Health Center (AHC) platform is being implemented by our Transmission team to 
virtually monitor the condition of substation equipment in the field. The AHC is designed to help us to 
prevent failures, enable maintenance of equipment based on its condition, and to prioritize replacement 
of aging or poorly performing equipment.  
Investing in our infrastructure is strategically imp ortant for AEP because capital investments improve 
customer satisfaction and system reliability while improving operating efficiencies and delivering value 
to our investors. But there is a finite amount of available resources, and there are competing deman ds for 
their use. In 2015, we expect to invest $3 billion (excluding AFUDC debt and equity) in our 
transmission and distribution business and approximately $1.1 billion in our regulated generation 
business to improve reliability and the customer experience .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    103  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    104   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    105  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    106 Employee Innovation  
Innovative companies have a competitive edge. We encourage employees to imagine, explore and to be 
entrepreneurial, all of which leads to innovation. When presented with a challenge, our emp loyees 
collaborate to identify solutions. Here are some examples of technology innovation in 2014 that are 
having significant positive impacts for AEP and our industry:  
 Our Donald C. Cook Nuclear Power P lant earned a “Top Industry Practice” award from the 
Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) for an innovative approach to replacing damaged bolts inside the 
reactor vessel. With no existing tools for this first -of-
its-kind problem, the Cook team used remotely 
operated robotic tools mounted on a temporary 
frame that were lowered inside the reactor. Using a 
full-sized mock -up of an actual reactor vessel, the 
team was able to practice and refine the repair 
process before attempting to do it. During the 
training, they  also evaluated the repair process for 
radiological safety. The team replaced 28 bolts in 17 
days.  
 AEP Transmission  used cutting edge technology with the design of a new and compact extra -
high vo ltage 345 -kV line, called BOLD™ (Breakthrough Overhead Line Design). Our employees 
developed a new, high -capacity 345 -kV line design to move power over long distances. The new 
design provides mor e capacity, improves the use of ROW land and is more streamlined in 
appearance. The new line design is being built for the first time in the rebuilding and expansion 
of an existing 138 -kV line near Fort Wayne, Indiana. BOLD™ has received seven patents to d ate 
in the U.S., Canada and Mexico.  
 AEP Transmission and IT employees developed a novel smart phone application that improves 
safety and efficiency for crews entering and exiting transmission and distribution substations. 
The mobile app was deployed in Feb ruary 2014, allowing technicians working in the field to 
check in and out of locations without having to call the transmission and Distribution Dispatch 
Center every time. It also reduces interruptions for dispatchers during switching processes, 
providing safety enhancements and cost savings.  
 AEP Transmission deployed a mobile capacitor in 2014 when installing a net meter. The 
capacitor enabled workers to install a net meter that will measure both the electricity used by a 
large industrial customer and the  power produced by co -generation at the facility for the 
transmission grid. Without this solution we would have had to schedule a brief outage, which 
would have created reliability challenges in the PJM Interconnection region.  
 Our employees designed a new customer outage alerts system to provide customers with critical 
information during power outages. Launched in March 2015, the service is available to more 
than 5 million AEP customers in 11 states. Initially, customers will be able to sign up to receive 
alerts via text message or email about outage and restoration activities. We plan to add billing 
and other information services at a later date.  
 The connectivity of the electric grid will be vital to the utility of the future. In 2015, AEP 
received the fir st-ever “EPRI Interoperability Leadership Award,” recognizing industry 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    107 leadership in the development and adoption of technologies that help achieve the goal of grid 
interoperability. AEP’s work led to a larger collaborative effort to use a common informati on 
model that allows data exchanges between systems, while helping to reduce errors and manual 
maintenance efforts. This is a critical step in building the information infrastructure that will be 
required for the integrated grid of the future.  
The Integra ted Grid  
Today, we are seeing new technology being applied and implemented all along the value chain from 
generation through transmission and distribution, to homes and businesses. Integrated appropriately, 
these advancements will over time serve to streng then the robustness of the network by providing 
greater diversity of resources and better responsiveness in the grid itself, supporting reliable, efficient 
and cost -effective delivery of power to all consumers.  
We see a grid that is more intelligent and re sponsive and is valued for the services it provides. 
Technology innovation and entrepreneurship in our work force are the ingredients for success.  
As we invest in the grid, we are learning more about what it takes to achieve the level of flexibility and 
reliability that is needed. Our work on the Texas Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ) gave us 
valuable experience integrating new technologies with the grid including sophisticated and advanced 
monitoring of the volatile voltage levels produced by wind  turbines, enabling grid operators to manage 
the grid in real time, which is necessary for grid stability and reliability.  
A key element of any “utility of the future” model will be a modern, efficient grid that not only handles 
new generation and end -use technologies, but also enhances the efficiency of the existing grid. To 
succeed in the future, our industry not only must continue doing what it does today in terms of 
enhancing and improving reliability and connectivity, it also must enable the integrati on of new 
technologies. As our customers are able to more fully use the electric grid as a technology integration 
network, they will realize its full value.  
The demands on today’s grid have changed from a few decades ago, and the demands in the future will  
continue to be shaped by consumer consumption patterns, which are in turn shaped by new technologies, 
such as smart appliances, plug -in electric vehicles, and customers managing their electric use with 
mobile devices. The continued evolution of the grid t o incorporate new technologies is essential and will 
provide for a more flexible, resilient and interactive grid to advance evolving societal needs.  
Our growth in transmission -related investments led to the expanded use of Drop in Control Modules 
(DICM), a pre -fabricated control room module made to AEP specifications that can be placed into 
service in half the time of a conventional control building. These control modules have been available 
for several years, but we designed AEP’s units to be both flexibl e and expandable. Since 2011, we have 
installed more than 200 DICMs throughout our service territory. We are currently seeking a patent for a 
DICM expansion concept.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    108 The variable frequency transformer (VFT) is a two -way power flow control device used to tr ansmit 
electricity between two systems. AEP used VFT for the first time in the U.S. to connect the Texas and 
Mexico grids in order to address reliability issues in Laredo, Texas. The VFT stabilized the situation by 
allowing power exchanges between the two electric grids, which was not possible with conventional 
technology.  
Phase shifting transformers (PST) connect with transmission to control the flow of power between two 
ends of a line. We are using PSTs to balance power flows to avoid thermal overloads a nd to more 
efficiently and effectively use the full capacity of the grid. This improves reliability and gives us extra 
flexibility to manage the system.  
AEP is among seven Central Ohio companies participating in the Columbus Collaboratory , a partnership 
across several industries to help companies tackle common challenges in big data analytics and cyber 
security. The Ohio Third Frontier Commission approved a state grant of about $5 million t o support the 
initiative, which is supplemented by $21 million of private funding. AEP is contributing $4 million over 
the next four years.  
While still in its infancy, the Columbus Collaboratory has already returned value to AEP. We have 
advanced our und erstanding of the application of ‘big data’ to improve customer service and have 
established a close cooperation with the member companies on cyber security practices and tools.  
 
gridSMART® Growing  
In several of our operating companies, we are integrating a host of advanced grid technologies into the 
existing electric network that can improve service quality and reliability, lower energy consumption, and 
offer additional customer benefits. The new technologies, which are mostly being integrated through our 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    109 gridSMART® initiatives, can help us improve our efficiency, identify and respond to outages more 
quickly, and better monitor and control the operation of the distribution system.  
The gridSMART® initiative provides the 
advanced grid infrastructure needed t o 
realize the many potential benefits of the 
smart grid. These technologies make the 
grid more efficient and empower our 
customers to use energy more efficiently. 
AEP is deploying smart grid technologies 
in several states, where we have regulatory 
support.  gridSMART® also provides 
customers with new and innovative 
programs and pricing options that allow 
them to monitor and control their own 
energy use, saving resources and money.  
Applying technology on our distribution 
system through monitoring and control ling 
voltage reduces the amount of energy that 
must be produced and delivered to 
customers on demand. Known as Volt 
VAR Optimization (VVO), this proven 
technology has energy efficiency benefits 
as well. Typically, customers receive 
electricity at a voltage  between 114 and 
126 volts. Studies and our recent 
experience show that optimizing voltage – 
delivering voltages that more closely 
match the voltage level customers’ 
equipment was designed for - allows 
customers to receive the electricity they 
need while r educing their demand from the 
grid and lowering their consumption. This 
contributes to energy efficiency at the 
customer’s location and makes for more 
efficient use of the distribution system.  
We started deployment of VVO at AEP Ohio  as part of the gridSMART® Demonstration Project and 
we have since expanded it to Indiana Michigan Power , Kentucky Power  and Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma . Early results indicate reductions in energy consumption by customers averaging three 
percent are achievable with this technology in op eration.  
We have asked for additional regulatory approval to use this technology to meet energy efficiency 
targets. I&M Indiana has 50 proposed and plans to seek regulatory approval for additional circuits. I&M 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    110 Michigan has three proposed VVO circuits. AE P Ohio is working with the Public Utilities Commission 
of Ohio to include 60 circuits of VVO in its gridSMART® Phase II plan, and Appalachian Power 
Company is planning to deploy three circuits in West Virginia to demonstrate the energy efficiency 
benefits.  Our Distribution planning team is evaluating all of the circuits in each of our operating 
companies to determine costs and benefits.  
Developing Technologies  
With the drive to further reduce carbon emissions in the electric power sector, the deployment of  
renewable energy resources and enabling technologies will continue to grow. Lower cost and better 
performance of these technologies combined with potential breakthroughs in energy storage create new 
opportunities and challenges for the grid and the tradit ional utility business model.  
A robust grid is a critical enabler of generation resource 
diversity, new storage and demand side technologies. 
Just as the nation’s robust data network serves as a 
foundation to modern communications and provides an 
enablin g function for various technologies across the 
communication sector, the nation’s high voltage electric 
grid serves a similar role with respect to enabling 
diversity in generation and distributed energy 
technologies. The electric grid aggregates generation  
and demand -side technologies and ensures that 
resources, from whatever source they come from, are delivered to customers in a cost -effective, efficient 
and reliable manner. Among the technologies certain to further mature and become more cost -effective 
are energy storage, distributed generation (such as rooftop solar) and micro grids.  
We are also monitoring technology development through our association with Braemar Energy 
Ventures. Braemar is dedicated to identifying, investing in and partnering with deve lopers of new and 
emerging energy technologies. AEP’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Robert 
Powers, serves on Braemar’s Strategic Advisory Board.  
Distributed Generation  
The growth of distributed generation (DG) is raising new discuss ion about the value of the grid and who 
pays to use it. Although the current number of net energy metering (NEM) customers on the AEP 
system is relatively modest, it is increasing.  
Very few customers are truly “off the grid.” Both DG customers and non -DG c onsumers are connected 
to the grid and use the services it provides. DG consumers rely on the grid to deliver energy at times 
when their system is not generating enough electricity to meet their needs. Additionally, even when they 
are generating more power  than they need, DG customers need the grid to off -load that energy, even if 
the utility doesn’t need it.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    111 Public policies and rate structures established to encourage early development of DG have led to 
unintended consequences that must be addressed. NEM  tariffs were established to incent DG resources 
to develop and mature. NEM tariffs typically credit DG customers at the full retail rate, which includes 
both the costs of the energy itself, as well as and the fixed costs associated with the services they receive 
from being interconnected to the grid (such as the 
distribution poles, wires and meter necessary to provide 
service to them). As a result, NEM customers avoid paying 
their fair share of these fixed costs for services that they use 
from the grid. Co nsequently, these costs are shifted to other 
customers, which is neither fair nor reasonable. This cost 
shifting can disproportionately affect low -income and other 
vulnerable customers and can impose financial costs on 
AEP and other utilities by preventing  cost recovery in a 
timely manner Therefore, a fair and equitable tariff arrangement needs to be considered for DG 
customers who should pay their fair -share for use of the grid.  
AEP is actively engaged with our stakeholders to reach a fair and equitable ar rangement for all 
customers.  
Energy Storage  
Cost-effective battery energy storage would be a game changer for the electricity industry. Electricity 
infrastructure was built to manage the significant fluctuation in energy consumption, both throughout the 
day and throughout the year. Generation assets are designed to support varying types of demand, either 
base load, mid -cycle or peak demand levels. Similarly, the existing transmission and distribution 
infrastructure is built to accommodate the peak demand ne eds of customers. Cost -effective energy 
storage devices, such as batteries, could dramatically change existing planning parameters and 
applications of our assets.  
The cost of energy storage exceeds what the market will support for broad -based application,  at least for 
the foreseeable future. The technology is being developed and improved. The Energy Storage Program, 
led by the Department of Energy, is studying a wide range of energy storage technologies and high 
voltage power electronics to demonstrate the ir cost and benefits.  
It’s unlikely that consumers will soon pair distributed generation with battery storage and completely go 
“off the grid.” DG users would still need the services the grid provides. According to Moody’s, DG 
customers could go “off the g rid” only if they had sufficient battery storage to support two months of 
energy consumption. Even if customers were to attempt to “go off the grid,” they would likely need to 
rely on the grid to supplement their power requirements when starting motors in appliances such as air 
conditioners and other appliances.  
In its report, entitled “Batteries are coming but utilities are not going away,” Moody’s concludes that 
mass defection of customers from the electric power grid is a “minimal risk and not a materia l threat.” 
The report cites the capital cost of batteries as still too high for consumers and other constraints that 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    112 would limit growth. In addition, not all customers have the physical space, proper exposures, or 
available access to sufficient or affordab le capital or credit quality to consider such arrangements. The 
convenience, cost benefits and reliability of receiving electricity from the power grid is not something 
consumers are likely to forego in the near -term.  
AEP has experience with utility -scale  energy storage. In 2006, Appalachian Power Company (APCo) 
commissioned the first megawatt -class NaS battery to be used in North America in Charleston, W.Va. 
These batteries can supply 7.2 megawatt -hours of energy, helping to ensure reliability to the area . This 
technology allowed APCo to defer building a new substation for several years. However, the battery was 
removed from service.  
In 2008, a 2 -MW NaS battery was installed at a new station in West Virginia, and is supplying energy 
on the distribution s ystem to help relieve the load burden at another substation. This battery has the 
capability to provide service to up to 700 customers for up to 7 hours when power is interrupted due to 
an outage.  
In 2010, AEP’s Electric Transmission Texas installed a 
4-MW NAS® sodium -sulfur battery system in Presidio, 
Texas, to provide transmission backup in the event of a 
transmission line outage. This system was designed to 
improve power quality and reduce voltage fluctuations 
in the Electric Reliability Council of Texa s region. This 
demonstrates the progress that is being made on 
commercial -scale battery storage and shows how 
valuable energy storage is to a flexible grid.  
Microgrids  
Microgrids are new, small -scale power networks that can help support grid interdepende nce. They are 
gaining interest as one approach to support grid resiliency and manage the growth of alternative sources 
of energy.  
We are increasing our understanding of the market for 
microgrids and the costs and benefits associated with their 
application,  as well as of the policy and political drivers. We 
are also evaluating the technical impacts that we will need 
to address as microgrids are installed on our system. We 
have had discussions with microgrid vendors to better assess 
the role we think utilitie s should have in accommodating, 
enabling or providing microgrids. We will continue to 
monitor and assess this technology as it evolves.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    113  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    114  
  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    115  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    116 How We Engage  
Our commitment to stakeholder engagement and developing healthy, trusting relationships is important 
to AEP. A stakeholder is defined as someone who impacts or is impacted by AEP’s financial and 
operational performance. Whether you’re a customer, investor, supplier, employee or other stakeholders 
we interact with, each one requi res a unique level of engagement as well as outlets to engage. 
Stakeholder engagement can sometimes be a 24/7 operation, such as customer engagement at our call 
centers or through our websites and social media outlets. Other relationships require engagemen t 
through face -to-face meetings or teleconferences, such as community open houses and standing calls.  
In December 2014, we held a stakeholder meeting that included participation from several 
environmental organizations and AEP’s leadership team , including Chairman, President and CEO Nick 
Akins . During our meeting, we emphasized the importance of these relati onships to AEP and 
encouraged stakeholders to share their ideas and concerns, including opportunities to collaborate. The 
dialogue focused largely on carbon emissions and the impacts of the proposed carbon regulation in the 
power sector, as well as AEP’s b usiness challenges and opportunities as we transition toward a more 
sustainable energy future.  
There is continuing dialogue and general agreement that technology, policy, timing and collaboration 
are all critical to a clean energy transition plan. As a re sult, AEP scheduled periodic calls with the 
stakeholders to keep the channels of communication open and continue information sharing as well as 
looking for areas of collaboration.  
Local Outreach  
Stakeholder engagement happens at all levels and in 
many fo rms throughout AEP. Our operating 
companies, power plants and other business units 
regularly engage with many different stakeholders 
on a wide variety of topics. In some cases, our 
approach includes stakeholder collaborative groups 
focused on such topics a s energy efficiency or 
resource planning. In other cases, it is one -on-one or 
a broader outreach to a community, such as an open 
house to discuss local projects.  
AEP wants to hear about concerns our stakeholders have so that we can have meaningful dialogu e that is 
mutually beneficial. An example of this took place at the John E. Amos power plant in Winfield, W.Va., 
where plant employees hosted an open house to discuss the flue gas desulfurization (FGD) landfill 
expansion project. The expansion is needed to  store FGD material over the next 20 years. Local 
landowners who would be potentially impacted by the construction work were invited to discuss the 
construction plan, timeline, purpose and actions taken to make the work as minimally disruptive as 
possible.   
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    117 Another example of communicating openly with stakeholders came during project planning for the 
Holloway Station transmission project in Ohio. Members of the AEP Transmission project team met 
with residents when they expressed concerns about the heavy tru ck travel expected on their streets 
during construction of the station. Residents worried about trucks blocking passage for emergency 
vehicles and school buses. By listening to and working with those who were affected we were able to 
reduce the number of t ruckloads by more than 75 percent and reduced the duration of construction work 
from several months to four to six weeks. We also planned the work to avoid school bus schedules.  
In 2013, AEP Transmission formed a transmission siting team which is responsi ble for frontline public 
outreach and siting support for transmission projects in AEP’s 11 -state footprint. The work typically 
takes place far ahead of the construction phase of a transmission project and involves community 
relations, engaging natural and cultural resource organizations and stakeholders affected by a 
transmission project.  
In 2014, AEP Transmission developed a formal outreach strategy that matches the level of construction 
being planned. Through this strategy we supported more than twice th e level of public outreach than 
occurred the previous year. We use a variety of communication channels to share information, including 
holding open house meetings, direct mail and a dedicated, customer -focused and interactive project 
website that allows cu stomers to get information about projects by state. Using this web site, anyone can 
see how projects under consideration related to their property interests.  
One example of this program in action is the Powering Up Central  project. This six -mile, $500 mil lion 
project will rebuild an existing transmission line near downtown Fort Wayne, Indiana. This project will 
be rebuilt in an area that crosses through parks, soccer fields, a canal, greenways and privately owned 
land. We are engaging with affected landown ers and the general public to ensure we understand and can 
address the concerns and communicate the facts.  
In addition to stakeholder engagement, AEP actively lobbies at the federal and state level on issues that 
affect our company and our customers.  
The Role of Social Media  
It is very important and effective to develop relationships face -to-face. However, the pace of change and 
the proliferation of digital communications technology and social media require us to use a variety of 
communication channels to  engage with our stakeholders more frequently. Social media plays a 
significant role in this evolution, especially in connecting us 
with our customers.  
Social media continues to be a critical tool in our ability to 
communicate with customers, and they wit h us. AEP and its 
operating companies are very active through social media, 
especially through our Facebook pages, Twitter accounts 
and LinkedIn pages. In 2014, AEP was ranked as one of the 
top ten utilities in social media by ESource, a research and 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    118 advis ory firm for utilities and large energy users.  
We continue to see an increase in social media engagement and followers, especially during major storm 
restoration efforts. Storm damage can leave customers in the dark with limited or no access to 
informatio n resources, such as TV, for hours and sometimes days. During these outages, smartphones 
and tablets become a lifeline for many customers, allowing us to connect them with real -time 
information about restoration efforts. AEP uses Facebook, Twitter and the web to share information 
such as:  
 Outage numbers by county or city,  
 Estimated restoration times and maps,  
 Public safety messages,  
 Photos and videos of the damage.  
We also regularly connect with stakeholders using tools such as email, YouTube , LinkedIn and blogs, 
among others . We can engage those who have an interest in our business, and we can see what people 
are saying about us, o ur activities and our industry. This engagement helps us understand the 
perceptions some may have and gives us the opportunity to respond if we so choose.  
In September 2014, we launched an AEP Careers Facebook page where we regularly post job openings 
within AEP and our 11 -state service territory. As of April 2015, the AEP Careers Facebook page had 
more than 2,000 followers.  
Our Customers  
Customers judge their experience with any company in terms of cost, quality and service. They also 
measure value by h ow well a company responds 
when something goes wrong. Demonstrating that we 
care about our customers in every interaction we 
have with them is the hallmark of a positive 
customer experience. Providing reliable, quality, 
affordable service is just the begin ning. We have to 
understand and anticipate what our customers want 
and be ready to meet those expectations. If we do it 
right, the payback for AEP is brand loyalty and a 
high degree of satisfaction for our customers.  
The customer experience encompasses eve ry touch point we have with our customers, whether on the 
phone, with a line crew in the field, through billing and online transactions, or through the interactions 
our employees have while serving in the community. It is one of AEP’s main areas of focus a nd because 
it is a high priority for us, we are committed to improving customer satisfaction.  
Customer satisfaction surveys show us that we are not at the level we want to be yet. One thing we do 
know is that technology and information are fundamental to c ustomer satisfaction. We have action -
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    119 oriented, measurable customer experience work plans for each of our operating companies that are 
designed to help us prioritize the actions we can take that are most valuable to our customers. These 
actions include new and enhanced technology solutions, targeted communication and education efforts, 
and improved product offerings, such as energy efficiency and home warranty programs where 
applicable. We plan to invest the majority of our capital budget over the next three  years in our regulated 
operations to improve reliability and safety to enhance the customer experience.  
Communicating with Customers  
As part of the customer experience work plan, AEP launched mobile customer outage alerts in March 
2015 to its more than 5 million customers. Approximately 69 percent of AEP’s residential customers 
and 77 percent of commercial customers have indicated interest in signing up for severe weather and 
outage -related mobile alerts. Yet, in late 2014, less than half of the North Amer ican utilities in a recent 
survey offered these options to customers. It is anticipated that these proactive actions will drive 
improved customer satisfaction as enrollment grows. We also improved our outage assessment 
capabilities to enable us to gather m ore accurate and timely data collection in the field, allowing us to 
provide that information in a timely manner to our customers.  
Customers also want greater mobility – they want to be able to access their bill and service information 
at any time, from a ny location, on any device. Customers find communications from their utility over 
digital channels (utility blogs, social media, text messages and websites) more satisfying than traditional 
media. In response, AEP launched a redesigned customer website pil ot for smartphones and tablets in 
2014. Customers are able to access and pay their bill, start and stop service, and report an outage from 
any mobile device. In addition, customers will be able to sign -up for billing alerts in mid -2015. This 
instant access  improves customer convenience and promotes AEP’s strategy to leverage mobile 
technology.  
We continue to see an increase in customers relying on technology to communicate with us and vice 
versa. About 48 percent of customers have shared their email addres s with us in 2014, an increase from 
44 percent in 2013. We have also seen a slight increase in paperless billing with about 22 percent 
enrolled in 2014, compared to 18 percent in 2013.  
In 2014, customers conducted approximately 18 million online transacti ons, or an 18 percent increase 
with us, and web traffic also increased for both desktop and mobile users. Approximately 938,271 
residential, commercial and industrial customers receive their bills electronically. At the end of 2014, 47 
percent of customer bill payments were being processed online and electronically. Online bill pay and 
electronic billing is a win -win for us and our customers; it is more efficient and eco -friendly and 
enhances customer satisfaction.  
AEP prides itself on quick, responsive and  consistent customer service. In 2014, our Customer 
Operations Centers handled just over 22 million calls, a slight increase from 2013 levels, with an 
Average Speed of Answer of only 81 seconds.  
In addition to self -service options available on the web and over the phone, we are dedicated to 
providing customers with access to professional, friendly and competent customer operations associates  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    120 to answer their call in a timely and efficient manner. We constantly strive to improve the customer 
experience by red ucing the amount of effort the customer must exert when doing business with us. In 
recognition of our continued efforts, AEP’s Customer Operations Centers were awarded the 
Certification of Excellence in 2014 for a sixth time by Benchmark Portal, a global l eader in contact 
center benchmarking, certification, training and consulting. The certification recognizes the achievement 
of high productivity, low cost and excellent service.  
Measures of Success  
In 2014, Public Service Company of Oklahoma 
(PSO) was name d a Customer Champion by Market 
Strategies International (MSI) for superior 
performance in MSI/Cogent Reports’ 2014 Utility 
Trusted Brand & Customer Engagement study – 
ranking sixth among electric utilities that were 
surveyed in the United States. The stud y was based 
on in -depth responses from 40,000 residential 
customers from 127 leading U.S. electric and natural 
gas companies. To achieve the champion status, 
utilities had to be industry leaders in building 
customer trust, achieving operational excellence and 
offering value -added products and services. It’s this 
type of performance that creates value for our 
customers and AEP.  
For the third year in a row, AEP ranked as one of the 
top-rated utility website in the J.D. Power 2015 
Utility Website Evaluation StudySM (UWES). 
Among the 66 utility companies included in the 
study, AEP was one of the two top -ranked utility 
companies in overall ease of use of uti lity websites. 
The UWES is based on website evaluations from 
more than 14,500 electric and/or gas residential 
customers and this year combined mobile 
enabled/app and desktop/laptop/tablet into one index. 
Companies are ranked on a scale of 1 to 500; AEP 
tied with OG&E Energy Corp., both scoring 438.  
Energy Assistance  
Although the national economy has experienced modest growth, some of our residential and business 
customers continue to struggle. As the cost of living increases, there is less disposable income  available 
which creates hardships for customers who are at times forced to choose which basic human needs they 
can afford. To assist our customers, we use energy efficiency programs and consumer education to help 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    121 customers reduce their electricity consump tion. We also have several energy assistance grants and 
programs to help customers. Through grants, we provided approximately $56.9 million in federal and 
private energy assistance in 2014. Funding in 2014 of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program, or LIHEAP, was about the same as in 2013. The LIHEAP program helps low -income families 
pay their heating and electric bills through cash grants that are paid directly to the utility company.  
In September 2014, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO)  ordered Ohio electric and natural 
gas utilities to reconnect or maintain service for customers who have been disconnected or are facing 
disconnection during the winter heating season with an initial reduced payment option. More than 
63,000 Ohio utility cu stomers used the winter reconnect program last year and may use the program 
once during the winter heating season between October 20, 2013 and April 15, 2014.  
We also provide other types of aid to assist customers. Our self -
serve agency website provides a convenient way for social services 
agencies to make their pledges via the Internet. In 2014, more than 
14,900 pledges were recorded, totaling $2.7 million. In addition, 
AEP facilitates Neighbor to Neighbor programs in the majority of 
its states that help  customers who are behind on their bills, but 
whose incomes disqualify them for government assistance. The 
funds for this program come from customer contributions, as well as AEP grants.  
AEP Ohio residential customers can also participate in the PIPP Plus  Program. The program allows 
income -eligible customers to make reduced payments on their utility service bills based on a percentage 
of the household income and heating source. 
Customers whose household income is at or 
below 150 percent of the federal pove rty 
income guidelines are eligible for PIPP Plus. 
Regulated electric and gas companies in 
Ohio offer the program to their customers. 
Customers whose homes are all electric pay 
10 percent of the household’s monthly 
income year round, while customers who do 
not heat with electricity pay 6 percent of the 
household’s monthly income year round, 
each with a minimum $10 payment. AEP 
Ohio had 146,675 customers participating in 
the program at the end of 2014.  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) helps its custom ers who are facing financial hardship to 
heat and cool their homes through their Light A Life Program. Light A Life is a year -round program 
allowing customers to pay a little extra each month to support customers in need. PSO customers have 
generously give n to the Light A Life program since 1986. In 2014, approximately 760 pledges were 
recorded, totaling $74,797.  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    122 Strong Communities  
Being a responsible corporate citizen goes far beyond the fence line of our property, to the heart of the 
communities and econ omies in which we operate or that we serve. Our investments range from the 
thousands of hours our employees volunteer locally, to corporate financial support for important 
community programs and initiatives, to economic training and development efforts. Th e need for our 
support is greater than ever as many areas continue to struggle economically at a time when several of 
our coal units are retiring, eliminating jobs and other economic support provided by those units.  
Community Investments  
Corporate philanth ropy is important to our communities because it helps enhance quality of life, 
advances education and other worthy endeavors, and enriches communities. In 2014, AEP and the 
American Electric Power Foundation donated more than $25.3 million to support more than 2,500 
community organizations.  
Contributions are made primarily in the areas of education, the environment and human services, such as 
hunger, housing and health, and safety. In the area of education, preference is given to grades pre -K 
through 12 i n the fields of science, technology engineering and mathematics, otherwise known as 
STEM.  
In 2014, the AEP Foundation collaborated with Bossier Parish Community 
College in Bossier City, La. to provide a $1.4 million grant over five years to 
expand the Cred its CountSM program. Credits CountSM is a five -year, dual 
enrollment program to help students pursue STEM (science, technology, 
engineering, math) education and careers while completing a high school diploma. The Foundation 
launched the program in 2013 wit h a $5 million, five -year grant made to the Columbus State 
Community College Foundation to implement the program in five Columbus, Ohio city high schools 
and middle schools that feed into them to explore STEM fields and remove barriers to college. The 
program engages students’ families and it provides the opportunity for students to graduate from high 
school with at least 12 college credits toward a career -ready certificate or toward a college degree in 
STEM fields that may include energy, the environment o r information technology.  
Major components of the program include middle school STEM experiences, college readiness 
assessments, tutoring, and a summer bridge program to enhance English, science and math skills. The 
AEP Foundation was honored for its work and development of the Credits CountSM program, winning 
the Columbus Business First Corporate Caring Award. This award identifies exemplary companies who 
are dedicating resources to nonprofit organizations in and around the Columbus area.  
In early 2015, t he AEP Foundation announced a further expansion of Credits CountSM to Tulsa 
Community College Foundation in Oklahoma to provide $3 million over five years, benefiting high 
school and middle school students in Tulsa Public Schools. The program will reach ne arly 1,000 
students to assess college readiness. About 800 students will participate in the Summer Bridge program 
to improve math, science and English skills. About 3,000 middle school students will participate in a 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    123 summer STEM college experience and up to  800 students will receive for -credit college -level course 
work, while completing high school.  
We also look for opportunities to support projects focused on energy research. In 2014, AEP Energy 
partnered with The Ohio State University (OSU) to install sola r panels on the roof of their Recreation & 
Physical Activity Center at their main campus in Columbus, OH. AEP Energy fully funded the $400,000 
project, which consists of a 10,000 -square foot solar array that was installed in the shape of the 
University’s s ignature “Block O”. The panels provide the university with an opportunity to diversify its 
energy portfolio, adding to their wind farm that is already in place. The University owns and operates 
the panels, paying below market rates for their electricity. A EP Energy is a certified competitive retail 
electric service (CRES) provider and a certified Competitive Retail Natural Gas Service (CRNGS) 
provider affiliated with AEP.  
In 2014, Appalachian Power Company (APCo), operator of the Smith Mountain hydroelectr ic facility in 
Southwest Virginia, completed two community projects to improve navigation signage on the lake and 
open a new public access boating facility. Approximately 265 in -water navigation signs were replaced to 
make them more visible and make it eas ier for boaters to navigate more safely. APCo also opened a 10 -
acre Oak Grove Public Boating Access Facility to serve visitors to Smith Mountain Lake. The public 
access area includes handicap -accessibility to the lake with a double -sized boat launching ram p and 
fishing pier. The facility has more than 60 parking spaces, public restrooms, and “dark skies” lighting. It 
will be operated by the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries and is available to visitors at 
no charge.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    124 Volunteerism  
Corporate philanthropy is one way we support our local communities. Another is through our work 
force, many of whom selflessly serve on local boards and commissions, coach Little League teams, lead 
Parent -Teacher Associations or volunteer at local homeless  shelters and food banks.  
In 2014, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Union (IBEW), Local 1466 United Way 
Campaign, a partnership between AEP, AEP Ohio, the IBEW and our retirees, raised more than $1.53 
million to help those in need in Ce ntral Ohio in 2014. AEP Chairman Nick Akins and his wife, Donna, 
chaired the 2014 community -wide campaign. The community campaign featured an annual Community 
Care Day, where more than 100 employees volunteered their time and labor to support local schools  and 
non-profit organizations.  
This campaign gives central Ohio residents pathways out of poverty. The AEP -IBEW Local 1466 
campaign has been recognized several times for their active and sustained engagement.  
United Way of Central Ohio is one of the larg est United Ways in the country, bringing together more 
than 80,000 donors, advocates and volunteers to improve the lives of in areas of education, income, 
health and home.  
Appalachian Power also took part in a similar effort through their United Way Day of  Caring, lending a 
hand in local communities across Virginia, West Virginia and Tennessee.  
The United Way of Northwest Louisiana recognized the IBEW Local 329 with its LIVE United Award 
in March 2015. They were recognized for their long -term commitment to  the United Way. During its 
first campaign in 2004, employees from our Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCo) donated 
more than $18,500. In 2013, employee contributions rose to more than $39,000, a 210 percent increase 
over its first campaign, bringi ng the total contribution to United Way during the 11 -year partnership to 
more than $308,000.  
According to the pro -literacy organization Reading is Fundamental (RIF), nearly 40 percent of fourth 
grade public school students in America do not achieve basic  levels of reading proficiency. Two -thirds 
of children living in poverty in this country have no books at home. Literacy, the ability to read and 
write, is essential to developing a sense of self -worth and to be productive citizens. There are proven 
links between literacy and poverty, according to the 
National Education Association. In Appalachia, where 
poverty is particularly severe, AEP’s Appalachian 
Power Company (APCo) is committed to changing 
lives by improving literacy.  
Every year, APCo sponsors “Read  To Me Day” where 
employees and retirees fan out across Virginia, West 
Virginia and Tennessee to read to elementary school 
classes. In 2014, more than 300 volunteers visited 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    125 classrooms where they reached a record of nearly 445 elementary schools. The compa ny began its 
“Read to Me Day” program in West Virginia in 2001, expanding to Virginia and Tennessee in 2012. In 
addition to classroom visits, APCo has donated nearly 5,000 books to school libraries while employees 
and retirees have read aloud to nearly 200 ,000 students since the program began.  
Another social issue with significant impact in our service territory is hunger. According to Feeding 
America, the country’s leading hunger relief organization, the number of people needing charitable 
assistance to a ccess nutritious food for themselves and their families is growing at an alarming rate. 
Poverty, unemployment and income, along with other demographic factors, are key drivers of hunger. In 
its “Hunger in America 2014” report, Feeding America found that pe ople are often forced to choose 
between buying food and paying for medicine, housing or utilities.  
Due to the demographic make -up of AEP’s service territory, hunger is an important issue that impacts 
many of the communities we serve. Consequently, we are tackling hunger on several fronts. For 
example, we work with LifeCare Alliance’s (LCA) Meals -on-Wheels  program. Approximately 100 AEP 
employees in Central Ohio deliver meals five day s a week during their lunch hour as part of LCA’s 
Corporate Route program. LCA is a non -profit organization that provides health and nutrition services to 
the homes of aged and chronically ill individuals. AEP has participated in the Corporate Route progra m 
for 11 years.  
AEP and the IBEW Local 1466 donated a record -breaking 675,000 meals to the Mid-Ohio Foodbank  
during our annual Operation Feed Campaign in 2014. This was a 15 percent increase from  the 2013 
record of 405,000 meals. The Mid -Ohio Foodbank works with grocers, food companies, Ohio farmers, 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and community partners to obtain and distribute food to more than 
550 food pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, aft er-school programs, and senior housing sites across central 
and eastern Ohio. AEP has participated in the Operation Feed Campaign since 1982.  
Other community commitments made in 2014  
 AEP Texas announced a three -year grant totaling $54,000 to help fund an i nitiative to revise and 
update the Wildlife in Focus Kritters 4 Kids wildlife education program. This initiative will help 
modernize the initial program to bring it into the digital age.  
 A $150,000 AEP Foundation grant to Habitat for Humanity of St. Josep h County over the next 
three years will focus on deconstruction of vacant and abandoned homes in South Bend, Ind., 
through a job training program. Habitat will partner with Goodwill and other agencies to train 
individuals to serve on deconstruction teams. Salvaged items from the vacant homes will be sold 
through the local Habitat for Humanity ReStore, and material not fit for resale will be recycled. 
Funds from sales and recycling will be used to build future Habitat home builds and rehabs that 
revitalize n eighborhoods.  
 More than $62,500 was awarded through 175 AEP Teacher Vision Grants to pre -kindergarten 
through grade 12 educators across 10 states, including a $498 grant to Phelps Elementary School 
in Phelps, Ky., to enable students to design, edit and pub lish digital public service 
announcements about energy usage and conservation. Each year, grants ranging from $100 to 
$500 are awarded to support projects with an academic focus and a goal to improve student 
achievement.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    126  AEP employees helped coordinate an d conduct 23 community service projects in Louisiana, 
Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma and Virginia in October 2014 in conjunction with the Make a 
Difference Day nationwide initiative. In Anacoco, La., Southwestern Electric Power Company 
employees worked with the local Boy Scout chapter and community residents to build a flower 
bed and beautify the town park. Each year, AEP provides grants of up to $300 to projects 
involving at least five active or retired AEP employees in partnership with a local community 
group, non-profit or school to meet needs in education, the environment, health and safety, 
hunger and housing, youth or other basic community needs.  
Economic & Business Development  
Developing and investing in the local communities where we operate and provide se rvice has become 
increasingly important to us and our communities. Our Economic and Business Development  (E&BD) 
team works with local communities and state officials to attract and retain businesses and job s.  
In 2014, the E&BD team helped companies create nearly 21,000 jobs and bring more than $4.25 billion 
of investment to our communities, including announcements from such companies as General Electric in 
South Bend, Ind., Computer Sciences Corporation in Bossier City, Louisiana, Kraft Foods in Coshocton, 
Ohio, International Paper in Valliant, Okla., and TPO America in Gregory, Texas. In 2014, AEP was 
named one of the top 10 utilities for economic development by Site Selection magazine for the third 
year in  a row.  
The E&BD team  provides comprehensive assistance, such as property searches and screening; custom 
research on demographics, work force, incentives and geographic information system (GI S) mapping; 
electric service plan and rate design; site visits; design, build and maintenance services for electrical 
facilities; local economic development training; and introductions to state, regional and local 
government officials and business leaders.   
AEP continues to focus on building a portfolio of well -prepared sites in our service territory to meet the 
needs of expanding companies. AEP has nine sites pre -qualified for data center development and 18 
industrial sites working toward certification in 2015. To obtain industrial certification, the sites must 
meet a stringent set of criteria, including due diligence and completion of environmental assessments. 
Certified sites are an important economic development strategy. They help businesses minimize ri sk 
factors in making location decisions, lower development costs and allow the site to become operational 
more quickly. AEP’s first certified industrial site in Shreveport, Louisiana, received certification in 
January 2015.  
In addition to shale oil and gas and data centers, 
AEP specializes in identifying strategic 
locations for the automotive manufacturing 
industry. AEP’s 11 -state service territory offers 
several advantages for automotive 
manufacturers and suppliers, including: a critical 
mass of existin g industry; access to national and 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    127 global markets via a strong transportation network; a skilled workforce and competitive wages; low 
taxes; and availability of large parcels of land with substantial energy infrastructure. One example of this 
is the Toyota  Motor Manufacturing of North America, one of Appalachian Power’s largest automotive 
manufacturing customers. AEP helped Toyota site their engine plant in Buffalo, W.Va., in 1996 and has 
been a partner with the company through eight facility expansion proj ects in that time.  
Local Efforts  
Both AEP Ohio and Kentucky Power Company 
offer economic advancement grant programs to 
support projects that promote the retention and 
attraction of manufacturing jobs and 
investment. Kentucky Power has committed to 
provid e $1 million to stimulate economic 
development over the next five years. In 2014, 
Kentucky Power awarded $200,000 to three 
local entities. AEP Ohio has offered grants to 
local economic development organizations 
since 2005. As of December 2014, more than 
200 grants totaling over $750,000 have been 
awarded to support local communities 
throughout the AEP Ohio service territory.  
AEP Ohio  launched its Community Economic 
Development Academy (CEDA) in 
southeast ern Ohio. The academy, developed in 
conjunction with the Appalachian Partnership 
for Economic Growth, helps local economic 
development professionals and key community 
leaders understand the types of information 
required by businesses selecting sites for ne w 
facilities, including data basics such as rail 
access to facility ceiling height to minimum 
number of loading docks. The academy is 
taught by professionals engaged in the business 
of selecting communities for new investment 
and provides a unique opportun ity for AEP’s 
partner communities to identify their 
competitive gaps and opportunities. Economic 
development professionals representing 17 
counties participated.  
Kentucky Power Company  is an active  
participant in the Shaping Our Appalachian 
Region (SOAR) an initiative created by 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    128 Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers. SOAR’s goal is to improve the economy and 
quality of life in the region. In addition, Kentucky Power Company has played a significant role in the 
creation of the new regional economic development organization, One East Kentucky. One East 
Kentucky is a partnership of nine counties of eastern Kentucky that are working together to increase 
economic development activity within th e region. Finally, Kentucky Power Company is in the process 
of completing its third phase of an economic development site consultant project assisting the region 
with preparing Marion’s Branch (Pikeville) and Coalfields (Hazard) industrial parks for job cr eation and 
additional investments.  
AEP’s Southwestern Electric Power Company  (SWEPCo) teamed up with regional and local banks to 
develop a $100 million senior unsecured three -year term loan to provide fin ancing for SWEPCo’s 
increasing investments in its local infrastructure to improve service to its customers. This type of 
financing strategy provides SWEPCo with competitive financing while promoting strong economies in 
the communities we serve. Historicall y, the opportunity to finance assets was limited to large national 
financial institutions with global portfolios and traditional capital markets. Raising capital within our 
service territory allows us to build liquidity and diversify our lender base. It al so allows us to do 
business with local banks, promoting stronger local ties and strengthening the economies in the 
communities we serve. AEP Texas, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) and Indiana Michigan 
Power are also engaged in this type of financi ng strategy.  
Sustainable Procurement  
We work with fuel and nonfuel suppliers to drive continuous improvement and efficiencies within the 
supply chain while improving environmental and safety performance. We ask suppliers about their 
sustainability strategy  and activities through our procurement process, and we advise them of 
opportunities to help them reduce or mitigate their impacts on natural resources.  
Non -fuel suppliers  
AEP’s Supply Chain, Procurement, and Fleet 
Operations is deeply integrated into ev ery aspect 
of our business operations. In 2013, the 
Procurement organization underwent a significant 
transformation in an effort to reduce costs by 
streamlining purchasing practices and improving 
efficiency across AEP. By working with our 
business partners , the team is charged with 
identifying significant annual cost savings opportunities through strategic and sustainable procurement 
practices by 2016. Through continuous improvement initiatives, the group has streamlined sourcing 
practices and established a  Center of Excellence to provide benchmarks and analytics, establish best 
practices, and measure our progress in achieving cost and efficiency improvements.  
One example of improving efficiency is through strategic sourcing, a method to optimize what we bu y 
and how we buy it. Our procurement team is getting involved earlier in the purchasing process and 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    129 standardizing the process corporate -wide by educating our employees on best procurement practices. 
We are looking at the total cost as well as impacts in te rms of end -of-life value both financially and 
environmentally.  
Cybersecurity poses an increasing risk within our supply chain. As data breaches increase, so does the 
concern for how to protect our systems, to which many of our suppliers have access. In Su pply Chain 
Management’s “2014 Chief Supply Chain Officer Report,” approximately 1,024 supply chain 
professionals were asked about their level of concern across an assortment of different supply chain 
risks. Data security or cybercrime was ranked sixth out of 15. AEP’s Procurement team is working very 
closely with our cybersecurity team to address these concerns within our supply chain.  
Fuel suppliers  
AEP works directly with its fuel suppliers and surveys its coal suppliers on their environmental, safety 
and health performance. We have conducted five surveys of our coal suppliers , a commitment we made 
to stakeholders to better understand the lifecycle of coal, its impacts on the enviro nment and how our 
suppliers are addressing those impacts, and to share leading practices.  
The AEP Sustainability Survey of Coal Suppliers  is the only known survey of 
the coal indust ry. It reflects an assessment of approximately 40 percent of the 
coal mined in the United States and nearly every coal basin in the country. The 
2014 report, released in March 2015, is based on 2013 data.  
We have now collected six years of data showing a consistently high level of 
safety, health and environmental performance. The survey showed our suppliers 
performing better than the national average in safety and health performance 
and an improved environmental performance over the years, including a 
mode rate increase in the percentage of mines embracing various environmental programs - growing to 
100 percent in 2013. We also have seen an increased commitment to sustainability reporting, with 
almost 50 percent of respondents now publishing social responsib ility reports, compared with 14 percent 
in 2009.  
This survey gives us important insights into the environmental, safety and health performance of the 
coal industry – validating that we share common values and strive for excellence in managing our 
impacts t o the environment and keeping employees safe. We have learned much about our suppliers, and 
they have learned about their own industry through this process. For example, a majority of respondents 
have programs that include training, job safety analysis pro grams, risk assessments and wellness 
programs.  
We plan to continue this effort because our suppliers have indicated that it provides great value, 
especially regarding environmental performance, and because it’s the only such benchmark of the 
industry. Som e suppliers also said they use the data in their own sustainability reports and to help drive 
continuous improvement within their companies. As we diversify our resource mix, we will consider 
how to engage with other suppliers.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    130 We responded to Carbon  Disclosure Project’s (CDP) 2015  Supply Chain Survey  and have done so for 
the past five  years. This survey aims to drive action on climate change among both purchasing 
companies and their suppliers. The survey provides us with a different platform to be transparent about 
our sustainable supply chain efforts and collects business -related climate change information from our 
suppliers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    131  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    132   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    133  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    134 Work Force Planning  
According to the Center for Energy Workforce Development (CEWD), an aging work force plays a 
significant role in the industry’s transformation. According to CEWD’s 2013 “Gaps in the Energy 
Workforce Pipeline” survey, a large number of w orkers in our industry will retire in the next five to ten 
years. The good news is that the industry is making progress filling the gap with younger employees.  
A skilled work force is critical to AEP’s success. Many of 
our skilled and technical employees , such as plant operators 
and line mechanics, are approaching retirement. AEP 
defines retirement eligibility as a minimum of 55 years with 
10 years of service. To prepare and develop the work force 
of the future, we are actively engaged in several initiati ves 
to attract people with the technical skills we will need. This 
can be challenging as we find ourselves competing with 
other industries, such as the shale gas and technology -
driven industries, for the same skilled workforce.  
One way we are addressing th is potential labor shortfall is by developing work plans for each of our 
business units to identify potential staffing gaps, as well as opportunities to educate, train and prepare 
our future workforce. Work force planning enables us to grow the business wh ile giving our employees 
opportunities to develop their knowledge and their skills.  
Work force planning became particularly valuable when we announced plans to retire coal units, which 
eliminated hundreds of jobs. We developed a Generation Staffing Plan sp ecifically to help inform, 
educate, counsel and give those employees who were affected by the closings every opportunity to find 
another job with AEP. Through this plan, we posted approximately 250 future positions online that were 
only made available to t hose workers at the affected units. Approximately 60 percent of those positions 
were filled by employees who would have otherwise lost their jobs.  
Knowing your job is going to be eliminated is stressful, and we wanted to do everything we could to 
support  our employees. We communicated frequently, gave them first access to other AEP job openings, 
helped prepare some for retirement, and provided training needed for other jobs within AEP. For those 
who could not find another job with AEP, they will receive s everance and outplacement services. If an 
employee in an affected plant took a job at another plant that required relocation, AEP provided a 
relocation stipend.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    135 Training  
Providing our workforce with the proper tools and training is part of our commitment to employees. We 
have created safety leadership training, leadership development training and other forms of training that 
help employees improve their skills and become better leaders.  
For example, line mechanic apprentices must complete 
8,000 hours of o n-the-job training and classroom 
instruction over a four -year period. To graduate, 
students must pass a written exam, receive a score of at 
least 80 percent and demonstrate mastery of 
competencies learned by passing seven field events at 
100 percent. In 20 14, 67 line apprentices completed the 
Distribution Line Mechanic Apprentice Training 
Program.  
AEP has several training facilities that are important 
resources for learning new skills and sharpening existing ones. In 2014, Appalachian Power opened a 
new tr aining facility in Pulaski, Va. The new Pulaski Distribution Line Training School includes both an 
outdoor and indoor climbing area, providing the ability to train future linemen year -round. AEP also 
utilizes a mobile training center for distribution line employees in Virginia and West Virginia. The 
Appalachian Power Mobile Training Center houses common substation controls and systems inside a 
single trailer to educate and train our linemen who don’t get the chance to work inside substations very 
often. By refreshing and improving upon existing skills, it has helped AEP to reduce safety hazards and 
customer outages.  
AEP has training alliances with various community colleges, vocational and technical schools across our 
11-state service territory. We work wit h these institutions to develop academic programs needed to 
prepare employees for upward mobility opportunities and attract external job seekers interested in a 
career in our industry. Our education partners include: Columbus State Community College, Ohio Mid-
East Career & Technical Center, Texas State Technical College, and Oklahoma State University 
Institute of Technology.  
Jobs for Veterans  
AEP actively supports, recruits and hires military veterans, as well as educates, trains and prepares 
veterans to tr ansition into energy jobs. Many veterans bring key skillsets to the workforce, such as 
leadership, discipline, teamwork, reliability and safety, making them attractive recruits for our company.  
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    136 AEP is actively involved in the Troops to Energy Jobs effor t to 
increase the percentage of veterans in the utility work force. At the 
end of 2014, we had 1,875 employees who have served or are serving 
in the military.  
AEP will host its third annual Military Veterans Open House on May 
1, 2015 for a group of milita ry veterans at its Transmission Training 
Center in Pataskala, Ohio to demonstrate the types of careers 
available at AEP. They will learn about skilled craft positions within 
our Transmission and Distribution organizations and get the 
opportunity to watch l ine crews demonstrate how they work on an 
extra -high voltage lines and how to operate a bucket truck. They also get a preview of the different 
technologies used to operate the transmission grid. AEP encourages veterans to actively seek and apply 
for jobs a t AEP that match their training and skillset.  
In compliance with the new U.S. Department of Labor regulations, AEP now provides online forms for 
employees to voluntarily self -identify their disability and/or protected veteran status. These new 
affirmative  action rules are designed to broadly encourage recruiting, hiring and promoting military 
veterans in specific categories, in addition to those with disabilities.  
In 2014, we changed our military pay policy for how we pay our employees in the 
Reserves an d National Guard when they attend mandatory training to maintain their 
military status. We do this to ensure our employees do not experience any loss in 
compensation while fulfilling their military obligations. The pay differential we pay 
these employees i s no longer subject to a 10 -day limit per year, nor are they required 
to be employed by AEP for one year to be eligible for this benefit. The eligible 
training now includes weekend, or a series of weekends, in addition to the week -long 
training previously included. This change was made in response to a request from AEP’s Military 
Veterans Employee Resource Group.  
Working with our Labor Unions  
Nearly one -fourth of AEP’s work 
force is represented by labor unions. 
We value the relationships we have 
with our u nionized employees and 
believe in a trusting, collaborative and 
respectful partnership. In 2014, we 
negotiated a three -year collective 
bargaining agreement and wage 
package with International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers – 
the longest negotiated contr act in the 
history of the company. The contract, 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    137 which took effect during the first quarter of 2015, was unanimously approved. Multi -year agreements 
enhance continuity for both the company and the workforce. We will be negotiating multi -year contracts 
with our other unions throughout 2015. Having longer -term contracts in place allows us to focus on 
working collaboratively to achieve our business goals.  
Culture Commitment  
Research shows that companies with a strong culture and a strategic business plan outp erform their 
peers. A strong culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long -term success. At 
AEP, we have worked to create a culture that will support the adaptability and focus that our employees 
will need to succeed in a fast -paced , changing work environment that is vastly different than in the past. 
AEP conducted a culture survey in 2014 to measure our progress in changing the culture. We focused on 
leadership, performance recognition and accountability, strategic alignment and emp loyee engagement. 
We have been working purposefully for the last two years to strengthen these areas of our culture, and 
our employees have helped us to develop the right tools. The survey showed us that we are improving – 
our employees tell us that they a re seeing positive changes in AEP’s culture.  
The survey also identified areas for improvement, such as 
providing more frequent and timely feedback to employees 
about their work. Leaders at all levels of the company were 
provided with tools, training and re sources to help them 
understand and share the survey results with their teams. Each 
team was then charged with creating culture action plans in 
accord with a common framework. These plans are tied to 
performance goals. We plan to conduct another survey in 2015 
to keep moving forward.  
Engaging our Employees  
We are empowering employees to be engaged through our Power Up & Lead culture workshop. The 
workshop helps employees learn about their own behaviors and leadership styles, as well as what it 
takes to be m ore effective communicators. In 2014, more than 1,600 employees took part in this 
training. Approximately 3,000 more employees are expected to complete the training in 2015. Our plan 
is for all employees to participate.  
Another way we are engaging our emp loyees is by training some of them to be certified facilitators to 
teach the Power Up & Lead sessions to their fellow co -workers. At the end of 2014, approximately 50 
employees were trained as facilitators. In addition, dozens of participants who completed  the culture 
workshop signed up to be culture champions. They serve as champions of our values and culture within 
their work teams and business units. These roles also offer important development opportunities for our 
employees.  
In 2014, AEP redesigned it s performance management and compensation systems. Performance reviews 
are perhaps the most important interaction that an employee and a leader share throughout the year. 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    138 Reviews provide an opportunity for leaders and employees to clarify goals, measure pr ogress and 
explore challenges and are essential to ensure proper employee recognition.  
With respect to compensation, we analyzed approximately 3,500 employee roles and benchmarked 
about 70 percent of AEP jobs against the utility industry and 30 percent o f AEP’s jobs against general 
industry. As a result, the compensation system was updated and implementation began in 2015.  
Some of the feedback from our 2012 culture survey and 2013 employee focus 
groups indicated that many employees did not feel recognize d or appreciated for 
their work. We formed a team of employees from across AEP in 2014 to develop a 
user-friendly resource for employee recognition. In early 2015, the team launched 
“The Power of Thank You,” a web -based resource where leaders can learn why  
employee appreciation and recognition are critical to an engaged work force.  
While our employees embody a strong safety culture and have a commitment to our 
customers and to the success of our company, our culture road map provides a direction for the fu ture. 
It’s the path we are on to build a strong and healthy culture, to ensure AEP’s success. We have a solid 
foundation that will help us continue to make progress as we build the utility of the future.  
Continuous Improvement  
Almost every work process can  be improved, and we use continuous improvement to identify 
opportunities to do so. We implement new processes and then review the results to see if we have 
improved quality and efficiency and have reduced costs. No one knows how to improve a work process 
better than someone who is involved with it every day. By giving employees ownership and the freedom 
to find solutions, we foster employee entrepreneurship which, in turn, sparks creativity, innovation and 
prudent risk taking. We have celebrated many succe sses as a result.  
Success Stories  
Creating "lean" business processes started modestly as a 
pilot program at AEP’s Gavin Power Plant and quickly took 
on a life of its own. These principles and processes have 
since been introduced and completed at 12 power  plants, 13 
distribution districts, and portions of Procurement, Supply 
Chain and Fleet group, Transmission and IT. We have 
identified significant savings through these and other 
initiatives. Here are a couple of examples:  
A review of the barge unloading s ystem at the John E. Amos 
Plant near Winfield, W.Va., led us to invest in new barge equipment and river facility upgrades, 
allowing workers to unload a full barge at the same time as an empty barge pulls away. This is important 
to AEP because the more coal  that can be unloaded from the river, the more cost -effective it is compared 
with other modes of transportation.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    139 By employing "LEAN" practices, Unit 1 of our D.C. Cook Nuclear Plant  in Bridgman, Mich., 
completed its shortest refueling outage in its 40 -year history without injury to the thousands of people 
working at the site. This is a good example of how "LEAN" supports and safe operations and provides 
benefits to our employees, customers and investors a t the same time.  
The success of AEP’s 2013 engagement programs inspired AEP Transmission to launch "Bright Ideas & 
Sound Solutions" to continue collecting useful solutions for process improvements, cost savings and 
safety enhancements. The initiative taps  the collective knowledge and experience of Transmission 
employees and contractors to help make the organization more efficient and competitive in today’s 
changing market. Through February 2015, Transmission received nearly 60 suggestions from employees 
on how we can improve various aspects of our business. These initiatives demonstrate that employee 
engagement and empowerment promotes entrepreneurial thinking which result in significant benefits to 
AEP.  
Diversity at AEP  
We value and celebrate diversity at AEP and in the communities where we live, work and operate. To 
us, diversity involves ethnicity, gender, age, and other demographic factors. We value a diversity of 
perspectives and experiences, skills, ideas, culture and 
opinions, all of which make the  company and the 
community stronger. Our board of directors , executive 
council team  and regional utility presidents  includes 
seven women, two African Americans and three 
Hispanics. Women make up 22 percent and minorities 
16 percent of this group.  
Being diverse within the upper r anks of the company 
helps us gain a broader perspective on business issues, 
allowing us to make more informed and better 
decisions. It also sets an example for more diversity 
within our work force and in our communities.  
We work on becoming more diverse f rom the 
boardroom to the front line. We track the advancement 
of females and minorities from front -line craft -level 
positions to executive posts. In addition, we consider 
diversity in every hiring decision and try to provide a 
diverse slate of candidates t o hiring managers for 
review and consideration.  
AEP created a diversity and inclusion online training module for all employees. The course provides 
information on the business case for diversity and demonstrates how to respond effectively to 
differences, a nd increase the level of inclusion in the work place.  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    140 In order to meet our diversity goals, AEP will need to change the way in which minority prospective 
employees view AEP. We want to be seen as a progressive company that offers rewarding career paths 
to all of our promising new hires.  
The following charts provide a comparative look at progress made from the prior year. There was 
positive movement in both job group categories for both females and minorities.  
In order to maintain diversity in our employe e candidate pool, we have established strong relationships 
with universities with large minority and 
female populations, including Texas A&M 
University –Kingsville, Missouri University 
of Science & Technology, Tuskegee 
University and the University of Puert o 
Rico. We also have partnerships with 
organizations such as the Center for Energy 
Workforce Development  (CEWD), Direct 
Employers  and the United Negro College 
Fund  to assist us with our diversity 
recruitment efforts.  
Employee Resource Groups  
Employee resource groups (ERGs) give voice to the diversity of our work force. These groups support 
AEP’s values and  goals, strengthen communication between AEP and its employees, provide a forum 
for exchanging new ideas and enhance the company’s desirability as a prospective employer. Our ERGs 
are the Asian American Employee Partnership, Hispanic Origin -Latin American (HOLA) Employee 
Resource Group, African American Employee Resource Group, Military Veterans Employee Resource 
Group, and AEP Pride Partnership (for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees and 
their colleagues). The Pride Partnership created  an Ally program in 2014 that enables all employees and 
contractors to actively demonstrate support for their 
LGBT coworkers.  
The ERGs are open to any employee who is 
connected to or interested in learning more about 
diversity at AEP. These groups sponso r programs and 
events focused on culture, education and personal and 
professional development. They are also active 
community volunteers supporting efforts such as 
Project Mentor and Make a Difference Day.  
Workplace diversity is an important social issue f or 
all companies. Recognizing the evolving diversity of our work force and the global economy within 
which we operate, AEP has changed policies, benefits, training and other resources to be more inclusive. 
In June 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated a  section of the federal Defense of Marriage Act, 
requiring companies to recognize same -sex marriages for certain benefits, such as pension and the 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    141 401(k) savings plan. Although AEP is not required to recognize same -sex marriages for health and 
welfare bene fits, such as medical and life insurance, we choose to do so.  
If the state in which the marriage takes place allows same -sex marriages to be performed, the marriage 
will be recognized for all company benefits, regardless of the state of the employee’s or retiree’s 
residence. Same -sex marriage benefits went into effect July 1, 2014 and include medical, dental, vision, 
accidental death and dismemberment, life insurance, pension, 401 (k) savings plan, among others.  
Also, in both 2014 and 2015 AEP scored 80 o ut of 100 in the annual Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 
Corporate Equality Index. This index has become a benchmarking tool for large U.S. companies in 
terms of measuring the fair, nondiscriminatory treatment of LGBT employees in the workplace. The 
AEP Pride P artnership group worked with the Office of Diversity to improve the company’s HRC rating 
over the years.  
 
Awards & Recognition  
AEP was once again named to Fortune magazine's 2015 World's Most Admired Companies  list in the 
electric and gas utilities sector, moving up two spots from number seven to five this year. Each year, 
Fortune surveys top executives, directors and financial analysts about the companies in their industry 
based upon nine criteria: financial soundness, ability to attract and retain talented people, quality of 
management, long -term investment value, quality of products or services, innovativeness, wise use of 
corporate assets, social responsibility to the community  and environment, and global competitiveness. A 
total of 668 companies from 29 countries were surveyed to arrive at this year's list. This was AEP's 
second year participating in the survey.  
In April 2015, AEP was ranked as America's eighth most trustworthy  large cap company by GMI 
Ratings, now part of MSCI ESG Research. The research firm screens 5,500 publicly -traded North 
American companies. It then identifies the companies that most "consistently demonstrated transparent 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    142 accounting practices and solid gov ernance." Factors include high risk behaviors like regulatory actions, 
amended filings, revenue and expense recognition methods and bankruptcy risk. This year, MSCI 
increased its emphasis on corporate governance, which is a key area of focus from our board  of directors 
to all of our employees.  
AEP was once again recognized as one of the nation's top 100 "military -friendly" employers by G.I. 
Jobs Magazine  in 2015. This year's honorees were selected from among more than 5,000 employers 
with annual revenues of  at least $500 million. Companies were selected based on their assets dedicated 
to military hiring, the strength of their recruiting programs, and their policies regarding National Guard 
and reserve service, among other criteria.  
In 2014, AEP was also na med one of the nation's Best of the Best Top Veteran -Friendly Companies by 
the U.S. Veterans Magazine. The magazine polled hundreds of Fortune 1000 companies on their veteran 
employment and transitioning efforts. AEP has a generous military leave policy an d is dedicated to 
veteran hiring and recruiting programs. Approximately 10 percent of AEP employees have served in the 
military.  
For the eighth consecutive year, AEP was named 
one of the most adoption -friendly workplaces by 
the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption in 
2014. The rankings are based on the maximum 
amount of financial reimbursement and paid 
leave per adoption. We also provide families 
with adoption assistance for eligible adoption -
related expenses and provide up to 40 hours of 
paid leave for new  adoptive parents. AEP has 
assisted its employees with 76 adoptions since 
2007.  
AEP River Operations' Chesterfield, Mo., office 
was recognized as one of The St. Louis Post -
Dispatch Top Workplaces in 2014 for the second 
year in a row. The Top Workplaces ar e 
determined solely on employee feedback. AEP's 
Chesterfield office had a response rate of 94 
percent. These confidential surveys are a great 
way for employers to gauge how their employees 
feel about their work environment. We are 
honored to have been sele cted for this award, 
especially by our own employees.  
AEP River Operation's was also recognized by 
the United States Coast Guard with the Rear 
Admiral William M. Benkert Silver Award for 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    143 Environmental Excellence in 2014. Designed to distinguish outstanding  performance, the Benkert 
awards recognize industry leaders in the field of marine safety and environmental protection.  
Recognition for Technical Work  
Many of our employees do technical work and research which results in breakthroughs that benefit both 
AEP and our industry. Each year, the Electric Power Research Institute  (EPRI) recognizes individuals, 
work teams, companies and industry collaborators for these efforts by conferring through Technology 
Transfer Awards. The EPRI Technology Transfer Awards are presented to EPRI members who have led 
efforts to apply research and development on behalf of their companies and the industry at large.  
AEP received several EPRI Technology Transfer Awar ds in 2014 and 2015 for a variety of projects:  
 Involvement in outfitting Chevrolet Volt plug -in hybrid electric vehicles in the AEP fleet with 
high-resolution data loggers for the purpose of data collection. AEP was recognized for its real -
world evaluation  of commercially available plug -in hybrid electric vehicles, helping with 
executive/employee outreach, public education, the creation of driving/charging evaluating test 
systems, and refining the data logger system.  
 Technical input and financial support fo r the Ohio River Ecological Research Program. AEP's 
involvement in this area has supported thorough evaluation of impacts of power plants on fish 
communities in the Ohio River.  
 Use of a pilot -scale passive wetland treatment system at Gavin Plant to evalua te the applicability 
of this technology for the treatment of low levels of mercury from a flue gas desulfurization 
(FGD) landfill leachate pond. The results from this project will be useful in designing full -scale 
systems.  
 Application of Hexprotect Tiles t o improve process pond water quality issues at the Turk Power 
Plant in Arkansas. AEP introduced a new technology which will be more reliable, safer and cost -
effective than traditional water treatment practices.  
 Application of a new ecosystem service modeli ng tool, InVest, to strategically select 20 
hydraulic fracturing well locations in AEP's ReCreation Land area, minimize impacts to 
ecosystem services and facilitate positive stakeholder engagement.  
 Pioneering efforts in the design, construction and operati on of the world's first pilot -scale, 
integrated carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) demonstration facility for a pulverized coal -
fired generating power plant.  
 Utilizing EPRI research to conduct our own internal study to mitigate the risk of exfoliatio n 
(release of oxide scales that build up on interior surfaces) damage in newly and retrofitted 
stainless steel boiler components. The results have been used to help avoid failures that would 
have resulted in unplanned shutdowns and lost generation.  
 The dev elopment of EPRI's U.S. Regional Economy, Greenhouse Gas and Energy (US -REGEN) 
model which has advanced state -of-the-art electric sector and energy -economy modeling. The 
design, development and review of the model led to a very sophisticated analytical too l that is 
capable of revealing information that can form the basis for thought leadership concerning 
important electric power sector energy and environmental issues.  
 Conducting field testing and technology assessment of EPRI's Distribution Grid Resiliency  
Initiative.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    144  Collaborating to develop test plans to help develop industry standards for minimum vegetation 
clearance distances for power lines and infrastructure.  
 Engaging EPRI's research and design team to validate the design and test a new high -capacity,  
high efficiency transmission line design.  
 Employing state -of-the-art approaches to reduce corrosion damage in heat recovery steam 
generators, a major component in natural gas -fueled combined cycle generating plants.  
 Development and evaluation of the first  full-scale sorbent activation process (SAP), a technology 
that uses on -site coal to produce activated carbon for direct injection into power plant flue gas for 
mercury control.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    145  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    146  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    147  
About this Report  
Americ an Electric Power is proud to share with you our 2015 Corporate Accountability Report. This is 
AEP’s sixth integrated report combining the Annual Report to Shareholders with the Corporate 
Sustainability Report. This is our ninth year of reporting our susta inability performance. AEP’s website - 
www.AEPsustainability.com  - includes significant data and information about AEP’s performance that 
is largely based on calendar year 2014 with exceptions for early 201 5 data as noted. This website is also 
complimented by an iPad app and is now available for the iPhone. The information and data contained 
in this report has been internally audited and aligns with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 
guidelines. In add ition, AEP’s Board of Directors issues a statement of accountability . For more 
information about AEP, visit www.AEP.com .  
AEP’s 2015 Corporate Accountability Report is available for download on the App Store .  
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    148 Audit Review o f This Report  
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of company performance statements contained within 
the 2015 AEP Corporate Accountability Report. Financial information was reconciled with AEP's 
audited financial s tatements, if applicable, or to such other sources as deemed appropriate. Selected 
processes used in accumulating the significant nonfinancial data were reviewed and the associated data 
reconciled to the sources(s). The appropriateness of the context in wh ich data are presented was also 
reviewed. Finally, forward -looking information was verified as consistent with other public information 
disclosed by AEP. Based upon our review, we believe the performance information contained within the 
Report is appropria tely stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and 
nonfinancial information are reasonable.  
 
Andrew B. Reis  
Vice President, Audit Services  
April 28, 2015  
Material Issues  
Identifying and reporting on the most relevant, mate rial issues for a company and its stakeholders are the 
foundation of sound disclosure. The level of disclosure that is being sought has never been higher, nor 
has there been as much at stake in terms of transparency of environmental, social and governance 
performance. Today, the emphasis on materiality extends beyond financial reporting to encompass 
sustainability disclosure. All reporting standards and frameworks in use today – financial and 
sustainability – focus on materiality as central to disclosure. W e recognize that material issues can 
directly or indirectly impact AEP’s ability to create long -term value for its customers, employees, 
investors and society at large. That is one reason our approach to integrated reporting seeks to 
emphasize the connecti ons between financial and nonfinancial performance and demonstrate a 
commitment to a high degree of transparency.  
We have reported according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) since we began this type of 
reporting in 2007. We also review the IR Repor ting Framework and the standards being developed by 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to inform our disclosure. We do not believe 
there is a “one -size-fits-all” approach to reporting.  
We consider material issues to be those that have aff ected, or that are reasonably likely to affect, the 
company’s reputation, liquidity, credit standing, capital resources or operational results. AEP conducted 
its first, formal materiality assessment in 2012 to evaluate the sustainability issues of importan ce to our  
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    149 stakeholders and our business. That process identified 18 material issues for AEP. In 2013, the electric 
utility industry conducted an industry -wide materiality assessment that identified 15 material issues. The 
survey was conducted by the Electr ic Power Research Institute (EPRI) Energy Sustainability Intere st 
Group, to which AEP belongs.  
AEP's Material Issues  
Climate change  
Cyber security  
Economic development  
Effective partnerships  
Energy efficiency  
Energy reliability and security  
Environmental performance  
Financial performance  
Fuel diversity  
Innovation and technology  
Political involvement and lobbying activities  
Rate case and regulatory  
Policy management  
Safety and health  
Compliance and performance  
Value of electricity  
Water  
 Material Issues of the Electric Power 
Industry  
Environmental:  
Greenhouse gas emissions  
Reductions of other air emissions  
Water Quality  
Water availability  
Habitat protection and biodiversity  
Waste Management  
Social:  
Public safety and health  
Emplo yee safety and health  
Job satisfaction  
Community support and economic development  
Engagement and collaboration  
Economic:  
Energy reliability  
Energy affordability  
Skilled workforce availability  
Economic viability of electric utilities  
Source: Electric Power  Research Institute 
Energy Sustainability Interest Group  
 
Both assessments were aligned in identifying the most relevant issues for AEP and our industry. And, in 
both cases, we chose not to rank the issues in numerical order because the level of relevanc e can change 
depending on many factors. What we have found to remain constant is the issues themselves. These 
exercises are valuable because they allow us to see the connections between issues our stakeholders say 
are important to them and our business str ategy, risks and opportunities.  
In 2014, we validated our material issues by engaging internally and externally with stakeholders. 
Although there were no major changes to our material issues, the emphasis on climate change and cyber 
and physical security was more pronounced. These issues have also become higher priorities industry -
wide. The EPRI group is currently developing performance metrics for each of the 15 material issues. 
We expect a first wave of metrics to be released some time in 2015.   
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    150 In 2015 , we will review our approach to reporting as well as our material issues to insure consistent 
focus on material issues.  
 
Global Reporting Initiative  
AEP follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting principles in terms of data quality, report 
content and organizational boundaries. This report was primarily developed according to the Global 
Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (G4). The GRI guidelines 
provide a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for 
sustainability reporting. We are using the G4 standards, as well as the Electric Utility Sector Supplement 
for reporting on industry -specific information.  
 AEP 2015 Corporate Accountability Report – GRI Report  (PDF)  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    151 Carbon Disclosure Project  
As a pillar of the company's commitment to social responsibility, AEP places high value  and priority on 
transparency in our actions. By responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey(s), AEP 
recognizes the importance of our disclosure and our commitment to the interests of our stakeholders. 
This is AEP’s eighth year responding to C DP.  
CDP is an international, not -for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and 
cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. They work with market 
forces to motivate companies to disclose their  impacts on the environment and natural resources and 
take action to reduce them. CDP now holds the largest collection globally of primary climate change, 
water and forest -risk information and puts these insights at the heart of strategic business, investm ent 
and policy decisions.   
 Carbon  Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015  Response  (PDF)  
 CDP Water  Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015  Response  (PDF)  
 CDP Supply Chain  Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015  Response  (PDF ) 
Coal Supplier Survey  
America’s energy future will no doubt contain a greater diversity of energy 
sources but coal will continue to be the foundation of that resource base for 
the foreseeable future. At the same time, the life cycle of coal is of great 
concern to many of our stakeholders – from mining practices and 
combustion for energy production to disposal of coal combustion 
byproducts. Through our stakeholder engagement process AEP committed 
to annually survey our coal suppliers to assess their enviro nmental, safety 
and health performance.  
The purpose of this survey is to collect information about where and how 
our suppliers source their coal that AEP purchases and to collect data on 
their overall performance in the areas of safety, health and environ mental compliance. This company -
specific data will not be shared publicly but will be used by AEP to help us analyze and identify best 
practices and begin to understand some of the social ramifications of the electric and coal industries.  
This resource si te provides information for our suppliers about the survey, including links to the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement  (MMSS). Severa l performance indicators 
from the MMSS are included in our survey. Our commitment to transparency includes making the 
aggregated final report and analysis public by posting it to the web.  
 2014 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2013 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 2011 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    152  2010 Coal Supplier Survey Final  Report  (pdf)  
 2009 Coal Supplier Survey Final Report  (pdf)  
 GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement – Supplier Matrix   (pdf)  
Contact Us  
We welcome your feedback about this web site and about our reporting. Hearing 
from our various stakeholders helps us understand what concerns them. Please 
share your comments with us! 
For questions regarding AEP’s Corporate Accountability Report or sustainability initiatives, please 
contact:  
Sandy Nessing  
Managing Director, Sustainability & EHS Strategy & Design  
smnessing@aep.com  
Melissa Tomi nack  
Sustainability Coordinator  
matominack@aep.com  
Fast Facts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    153  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    154  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Corporate Accountability Report    155  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
