 
 American International Group, Inc. 
2015 Corporate Citizenship Report   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Culture 
AIG’s culture is rooted in our Vision, Mission, and Values, which act as a compass to guide the 
actions we take as a global business enterprise and as a conscientious corporate citizen. 
We aspire to be 
our clients’ most valued insurer. 
We reduce fear 
of the future and empower our clients through our risk expertise and financial strength. 
• We have the 
courage to make difficult promises and the integrity to keep them. 
• We value the 
diversity of perspectives that come from all places and people. 
• We learn and 
collaborate to solve our clients’ problems. 
Front cover: WindMW, a 288-megawatt wind farm in the German North Sea. 
(See page 6 for more information about AIG’s sustainable investments.) 1
 
 Our Mission – to reduce fear of the future 
by empowering our clients through our risk expertise and financial strength – is central to our client and citizenship responsibilities. 
Dear Colleagues, 
The past year has been one of focus and change for AIG. We have 
taken steps toward transforming the company, steps that will make us leaner, more proftable, and better able to help our clients manage the complex risks they face in a world of technological disruption, economic upheaval, and political volatility. 
Even as we adapt and change, however, one thing remains constant: 
AIG’s commitment to being an outstanding and responsible corpo -
rate citizen. That sense of purpose infuses our Vision, Mission, and Values as a company, and informs everything we do from day to day. 
Living up to our responsibility as a good corporate citizen means 
making a positive contribution to the communities in which AIG has a business presence. This report illustrates the powerful impact we had in 20 1 5 through our employee volunteer programs and philanthropy. Throughout the year, 5,200 AIG colleagues from nearly 40 countries served more than 57 ,000 hours on over 330 community projects. That energy and commitment was very evident in the amaz-ing work that AIG teams did supporting communities devastated by natural disasters. Just as we are there for our insurance clients when they need us – paying $1 30 million in claims every day – so we are there when our communities need help. 
Peter D. Hancock 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
through improving our own energy effciency or investing in renew -
able energies.  Our involvement in microinsurance and our founder 
membership of the Together for Safer Roads Coalition are further examples of the different ways that AIG contributes to the wider social good. 
Finally, being a good corporate citizen means taking care of 
the people who work for AIG in over 80 countries across the globe. In the pages that follow, you will learn about the efforts we make to foster a diverse, inclusive culture within AIG, and about the various programs we have in place to promote employee wellness and work-life balance. The report highlights the impressive work of our various Employee Resource Groups, which represent the vibrantly diverse culture of AIG. That culture not only makes AIG a truly empowering place to work, but also brings us closer to our clients in the global marketplace. 
Throughout our more than 95-year history, AIG has aspired to be 
both a leader in the insurance industry and a responsible corporate citizen. As this report shows, today that aspiration remains central to our Vision, Mission, and Values as a company, and to the work we do every day. 
Sincerely, 
Being a good corporate citizen also means conducting our business thoughtfully and ethically, with a concern for the impact we have on society at large. AIG was the frst U.S.-based insurer to adopt a public statement on climate change. In this report, you can 
Peter D. Hancock 
read how we continue to forge ahead on sustainabilit
y, whether President and Chief Executive Officer 
VISION 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  Reducing Fear 
of the Future 
Progress happens when people feel 
prepared for the future. Our risk expertise and solutions help keep the gears of business and society functioning. 
Disaster Preparedness and Response 
AIG helps clients mitigate risk before a disaster occurs, and 
provides support for relief and recovery efforts. 
AIG Travel 
AIG Travel offers travel insurance solutions and global assistance services to both leisure and business travelers. 
Claims Response 
Handling approximately 600,000 new claims a month gives AIG deep insight into risk. The company learns something from each claim paid, both large and small, totaling about $1 30 million each workday. No company matches the diversity of claims handled by AIG. 
Private Client Insurance 
Wildfire Protection, Hurricane Protection, and Earthquake Protec-
tion products help clients by maximizing readiness and prepara-tion before a natural disaster occurs. 
Disaster Response 
When a 7 .8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal in April 20 1 5, AIG Travel and AIG Global Security pulled together a crisis response team to assist approximately 100 clients and evacuated many of them from remote locations, including Mount Everest. 
“In a very trying situation,” said one insured, 
“the AIG team 
stepped up and did what was necessary to 
ensure we made it home safely. I don’t think I can thank them enough for the amazing job they did.” 
AIG Wildfire Mitigation Specialist in the Montecito area of 
Santa Barbara, California. 
AIG’s Wildfire Protection Unit last year celebrated its 10-year 
anniversary. The first-ever service of its kind, the unit was such a success that it led AIG to create Hurricane Protection and Earthquake Protection Units. 
AIG commemorated the anniversary by: 
• Partnering with the International Association of Fire Chiefs to 
help local fire departments implement the “Ready, Set, Go!” program. To learn more, click here. 
• Volunteering to spray fire retardant at no cost across stretches of vulnerable public spaces, as mitigation special -
ists do each season. 
• Sponsoring the Wildland Firefighter Foundation, which helps families of firefighters killed in the line of duty, as well as injured firefighters and their families. 
MISSION 3
  
 
 
  
        
 
 
    
  Reducing Fear of the Future 
Robert S. Miller, AIG Board Member and Former Chairman of the Board (second 
from left), meets with representatives from other insurance organizations to launch a Microinsurance Venture Incubator. 
“Microinsurance is not only a viable business, but one that presents a unique opportunity to 
serve individuals and small businesses that do not typically have access to our world-class products and services.” 
Kevin Hogan 
Consumer Chief Executive Offcer 
Microinsurance 
AIG offers relevant products to low-income populations whose liveli-
hoods and small businesses are most vulnerable to risks. The avail-ability of microinsurance contributes to communities by supporting the 
growth of small businesses and the financial stability of individuals. 
Blue Marble (Microinsurance Venture Incubator) 
During the World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland, in January 
20 1 5, AIG joined with seven other insurance organizations  to launch a Microinsurance Venture Incubator. 
This is a collaborative, frst-of-its-kind for-profit organization. The goal 
is to bring collective experience and expertise to help develop the microinsurance market. This venture is now registered as Blue Marble and has a unique business approach to find effective and efficient ways to provide risk mitigation solutions to the underserved around the world. 
“In my town, we all live off sugarcane. My dad has 
been a sugarcane farmer throughout his life. What I fear the most is for my crop to suffer from a fre or a landslide,” said a client from Yali, in the Colombian state of Antioquia, telling his story about how he and his family have benefted from AIG Colombia’s microinsurance.  “It is excellent insurance.” 
Client from Colombia speaks about AIG microinsurance. 
Microinsurance Products 
INDIVIDUALS ASSETS DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS 
• Personal accident 
 • Home 
 • Local • Rural 
gov
ernments cooperatives • Hospi
tal cash • Busi
ness 
• Non
- • Microfinance 
• Micr
ohealth • Li
vestock and governmental institutions 
agr
icultural orga
nizations • Cr
edit life • Uti
lity/service 
• Ru
ral banks companies 
MISSION 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reducing Fear of the Future 
Road Safety 
AIG is committed to improving safety by partnering with leading 
private and public organizations to support new technologies and educational programs that can help make road injuries a thing of the past. 
Recognizing that road accidents are the eighth leading 
cause of death globally,  AIG cofounded 
Together for Safer Roads, a private-sector coalition that uses the 
collective knowledge of its members to improve road safety. AIG President and CEO Peter Hancock currently serves as vice chair of the coalition. Smooth Driving Pilot Increases Road Safety 
AIG believes that a smoother driver – someone who 
doesn’t accelerate or brake harshly, and maintains a safe speed while driving and cornering – is a safer driver. As part of a plan to test this hypothesis, the company partnered with a customer for a pilot project that uses telematics devices to score drivers on their smooth driving abilities. 
The project showed that smooth 
driving scores incentivized safer driving and also led to a reduction in accidents. 
Helmet Program in Thailand 
Thailand ranks third in the world for 
traffc fatalities; only an estimated  7 percent 
of children wear a helmet when on a motorcycle. 
AIG partnered with the “Head Awareness 
Governor” event, where more than 
2,500 helmets were 
distributed to students. 
Tomi Latva-Kiskola, Country Manager and 
Chief Executive Offcer, AIG Thailand, fastens a helmet on a young boy. 
MISSION 5
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
      
Reducing Fear of the Future 
AIG was the first U.S.-based insurer to adopt a public statement on climate 
change – recognizing the scientifc consensus that climate change is a reality, and that it is due in large part to human activities leading to greater concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth’s atmosphere. 
Sustainability 
AIG’s 20 1 5 Carbon Disclosure Project annual survey submission resulted in an 85 out of 100 climate change 
disclosure score – a 23-point increase from 20 1 4. 
Sustainability Practices 
EMISSIONS
 REDUCTION RECYCLING SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 
• More than $430 million invested over 2 
years to upgrade worldwide offices using high-efficiency lighting, sustainably manufac -
tured products, and energy-efficient mechani -
cal infrastructure. 
• 15 percent reduction in energy use in NYC and UK offices over 3 years – lowering CO
2 
emissions by over 2,500 tons annually. 
• AIG’s planned 155,000-square-foot office in Nashville, Tennessee, committed to being 
built to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) standards  and 
achieving LEED certification, with occupancy targeted for Q3 2016. • Over 326 tons of electronics waste diverted from landfills for recycling and reuse over 2 years. 
• 1,500 tons of paper recycled by AIG’s North American opera -
tions in 2015. 
• 95 percent of claims and under -
writing processes now paperless in 57 countries , with 22,500 users 
able to access electronic files. • Ov
er $535,000 of supplies pur -
ch
ased in “The Green Category” 
from Office Depot – representing 18 percent of AIG’s total spend with the supplier. 
• En
vironmental benefits from secure 
shredding and recycling of paper with Iron Mountain result in 2,172,935.408 
pounds of CO
2 emissions avoided = 
21
0.090  c
ars off the road per year. 
• 8.
8 percent reduction in CO2 
emissions from AIG’s U.S. vehicles through GM Fleet’s GreenPlan initiative. 
MISSION 6
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Reducing Fear of the Future 
AIG is a lead investor in WindMW, a 288-megawatt wind farm in the German North Sea, 
the frst fully privately fnanced offshore wind farm in Germany. 100 percent of the power generated is sold to the German grid. 
AIG Sustainability Network 
The AIG Sustainability Network is a cross-functional team that 
unites various business practices, products, and functions to enhance the company’s overall sustainability efforts.  
Sustainable Investing 
AIG has been a leading investor in renewable energy projects for over 30 years. The company is also a leading investor in green energy projects, such as waste-to-energy, fuel-cell, trans-mission, and distributed generation. 
Green Policy in Mexico 
In June 201 5, AIG Mexico partnered with an environmental NGO, ProNatura, to launch a new green policy. For each policy sold, AIG committed to plant a tree and print marketing materials on recycled paper. The launch campaign engaged 70 AIG volunteers, who planted 1,000 trees on an ecological reserve. 
Over $2 Billion Invested in Wind, Solar, Geothermal, and Hydroelectric Projects Worldwide 
WIND 
 GEOTHERMAL 
Portfolio of 1 4 wind projects glob- Portfolio of projects Multiple projects, including 
ally, including an offshore wind generating over a 30-megawatt geothermal 
project in Europe that generates power plant in Hawaii, supplying 
more than 4,400 megawatts – 2,500 nearly a quarter enough to power more than megawatts of the island’s electricity. 3.5 million homes. of solar power. SOLAR 
MISSION 7
$1.79B $2.00B $2.25B $2.48B 
1% 
17 % 
56% 
27% 11 % 4% 
35% 29% 
70% 49% 
61% 
40% 
2009 2 011 2013 2015 
Renewables Sustainable Investing by Type 
Gas 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Reducing Fear of the Future 
AIG Korea employees took part in the “Making 100 Forests” event, planting 100 trees in 
Nanji Park, a former landfll site. 
R
eal Estate Investments 
• Investments in affordable housing, community develop -
ment, and infrastructure projects benefiting low- and 
moderate-income people have helped develop over 1,300 properties in 48 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
• 
Lea
dership in green buildings around the world, includ -
ing
 historic preservation and collaboration with local 
stakeholders. Two examples are: 
Coal 
Socially Screened Investment Options 
AIG offers two socially screened investment options for investors through VALIC: 
VALIC Socially Responsible Fund 
• The Socially Responsible Fund has a 5-star rating from 
Morningstar, based on performance, and a 5-globe 
sustainability rating. 
VALIC Global Social Awareness Fund 
• The Global Social Awareness Fund has a 4-star rating from Morningstar and a 4-globe sustainability rating. 
International Finance Centre Seoul, a greenfield develop-ment project, achieved a Gold LEED rating from the U.S. Green Building Council and recognition by the Korean Green Building Council for energy efficiency and design. 
Stowe Mountain Resort  
in Vermont h
as an effcient 
building design, which has resulted in a 40 percent reduction in energy usage. 
MISSION 8
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   Having Integrity to 
Keep Our Promises 
AIG is strong and reliable. We keep to 
the highest ethical standards and rules of governance in conducting business and running our company. 
“The AIG Board is strong and independent. It has significant experience in insurance, reinsurance, finance, management of global service companies, and business restructuring, as well as a deep understanding of risk management. This knowledge and experience fully enable the Board to oversee the company, demand exceptional performance, and challenge management when necessary.” 
Douglas Steenland 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 
Governance 
AIG corporate governance helps ensure the independent and 
effective functioning of the Board of Directors. In addition, governance practices foster transparency and clear commu-nication with stakeholders, as well as promote high ethical standards and integrity in financial reporting. 
AIG’s corporate governance practices include: 
• Chairman of the Board is separate from the CEO, and an • An executive session of the independent directors is held 
independent
 director. at each regularly scheduled Board meeting not conducted 
by phone. • Chairman d
oes not generally serve longer than a 
five-year t
erm. • There are general limits on the number of boards on which 
a director or the CEO may serve. • All direct
ors are independent, except for the CEO. 
• Annual eva
luations are conducted of the Board, each • All direct
ors are elected annually. 
member of th
e Board, and each standing committee of 
• A majority v
oting bylaw requires that director nominees the Board. 
who receiv
e more votes “against” than “for” election ten -
• AIG is commi
tted to the full, fair, and transparent disclosure der their re
signation. 
of executiv
e compensation. 
• A bylaw prov
ides proxy access rights to holders of 3 per -
• CEO compen
sation is subject to the Board’s approval cent of shar
es for three years. 
or ratific
ation. 
VALUES 9
 
 
  
Having Integrity to Keep Our Promises 
“The integrity that AIG employees bring to the job each day is key to our 
success. It gives customers, business partners, and communities the confidence that we will be there for them, and ensures that regulators, investors, and other stakeholders believe in AIG’s strength and reliability.” 
Karen Nelson 
AIG Chief Compliance Officer 
Federal Reserve Supervision 
AIG has been regulated as both a non-bank systemically important 
financial institution and as a global systemically important insurer since July 20 1 3, with the Federal Reserve overseeing AIG through multiple channels and interactions. AIG shares the Federal Reserve’s commitment to upholding the highest standards of corporate gover -
nance – a commitment that extends to the many regulatory author -
ities that AIG’s operations are subject to in the U.S. and around the world. 
Enterprise Risk Management 
Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds, and the cre -
ation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns. AIG’s risk management is an integral part of managing its core businesses and a key element of the approach to corporate governance. 
Compliance 
AIG is committed to complying with the letter and spirit of the laws and regulations governing all of our business activities. Contacting Corporate Compliance 
AIG encourages employees to voice their concerns and prohibits retaliatory actions against anyone who, in good faith, reports suspected violations of laws, regulations, or policies. Employees can report ethical concerns anonymously (where permitted by law) to the Compliance Group in various ways, including a toll-free global hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in multiple languages. Phone: (646) 857-1877  Fax: (646) 857-1876               Email: CorporateLegalCompliance@aig.com 
Global Security 
AIG Global Security ensures that employees and clients throughout the globe have access to comprehensive crisis response services. AIG’s security experts took part in over 100 assistance operations in 20 1 5, and performed over 60 site assessments worldwide to evaluate safety and security. AIG Global Security also leveraged new tracking technologies to increase its monitoring and response capabilities. 
Business Continuity 
AIG’s Business Continuity program aligns business strategy and princi-ples with the requirements of our customers and our employees. 
VALUES 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Valuing Diverse 
Perspectives 
Diversity gives us unique insights 
into the global marketplace. We are focused on attracting and retaining world-class talent, and developing diverse leadership. 
”Diversity and inclusion are crucial to AIG’s future. 
They are powerful drivers of growth, proftability, and 
risk management at our company: a diverse workforce 
fosters creativity, which leads to innovation and growth; 
recruiting more expansively helps us obtain skills others 
can’t, which fuels proft;  and diversity prevents group-
think, which decreases risk.  On all three fronts, 
diversity and inclusion help a company become more valuable, and a better place in which to work.” 
Peter D. Hancock 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Nomination Programs 
In 20 1 5, AIG provided targeted professional development pro-
grams for approximately 33 1 employees across the globe. The programs focused on the career development and retention of women and underrepresented groups. 
Developing Diverse Leadership 
AIG has created two extensive professional development pro-grams – one for women and one for men from underrepresented groups. Both the Women’s Executive Leadership Initiative (WELI) and the Executive Men’s Development Initiative (EMDI) are designed to establish a pipeline of talented employees who are ready to take on larger leadership roles. 
“WELI challenged me – and all of us – in ways 
we never thought possible. The 360-degree assessments, personal coaching, and leadership exercises will greatly contribute to our success as business leaders.” 
Liz Altman-Harberger 
WELI participant, Chief Marketing Officer, Individual and Group Retirement & Mutual Funds 
Training Programs 
AIG delivered valuable diversity and inclusion training around 
the world in 20 1 5. This included general diversity and inclusion awareness sessions, as well as training for managers in areas such as Cultural Competence, Unconscious Bias, and Generational Diversity in 16 global cities. Microinequities training continues to be a part of AIG’s leadership curriculum. 
EMDI and WELI are part of AIG’s continuing effort to enhance 
diversity and inclusion throughout the company, and are con-sistent with the company’s commitment to value the diversity of perspectives that come from all places and people. 
VALUES 11
 
 37 percent growth 10,490 
in ERG membership 
in 201 5 
7, 625 
4,765 
245 
2012 2013 2 014 2015    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   Valuing Diverse Perspectives 
AIG Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) 
10 ERGs in New York in 2012 
86 ERGs in 22 locations across the globe in 2015 
1 4 new global chapters started in 2015 
10,000+ employee members in 2015, 
up 37 percent since 201 4 
Employee Resource Groups 
ERGs are voluntary, company-endorsed, and company-sup -
ported employee groups. An ERG is usually formed around a spe -
cific dimension of diversity such as ethnicity or se
xual orientation 
or disability (see full list of current ERGs above). ERGs organize 
numerous activities such as networking events and various speaker series. 
• AIG received a 100 percent score 
on the Corporate Equality 
Index for the fifth consecutive year, 
measured by the Human Rights Campaign. 
• Rose 129 places, from 238 to 109, 
in the Stonewall (UK) Organization Work-
place Equality Index. 
• Included in DiversityInc’s 
25 Noteworthy Companies. 1 1Dimensions of Diversity: 
1.    Asian Leadership   6.  LGBT & Allies 
Network 7 .  Women & Allies 
2.  Black Professionals 8.  Working Families 
3.  disAbilities & Allies 9.  Seasoned Professionals   
4.  Interfaith 10.  Veterans Leadership Network 
5.  Latino Network 11.  Young Professionals 
The Young Professionals ERG chapter in Tokyo, Japan, held a 
“Generations@Work” workshop to help bridge generational gaps. 
The UK chapter of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) ERG hosted a panel discussion with leaders from the insurance industry. 
Supplier Diversity 
AIG proactively seeks out certified diverse-owned enterprises 
and ensures opportunities for those businesses to participate in the sourcing and procurement process. In 20 1 5, the U.S.-based diverse suppliers spend was $3 1 5 million – representing an 18 percent increase from 20 1 4. 
VALUES 12
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Valuing Diverse Perspectives 
Talent Development and Management 
Learning and Development 
AIG supports employee career growth through: 
• A competency framework  – AIG has identified a set of 
observable and measurable behaviors tied to performance in 
a role, job family, or function. These behaviors help foster suc -
cess at AIG. 
• An online career management platform  – employees can 
take numerous courses and also track their performance and careers. 
• Tuition reimbursement  – covers individual courses taken at a 
university, and professional designation exams. 
Learning Transformation 
AIG is transforming from a Knowing Culture to a Learning Culture. The company recognizes that an organization that values learning and the free exchange of ideas is necessary to stay competitive in today’s rapidly changing business environment. 
Building a Talent Pipeline 
AIG invests in internship programs to build a premier pipeline of talent. 
Internships for College Students 
The AIG Summer Internship Program offers hands-on experience in business operations and functions. Interns also have the oppor -
tunity to participate in networking events, volunteer activities, and learning seminars. Genesys Works students completed internships in Accounting and 
Information Technology at AIG during their senior year of high school. 
Internships for High School Students through 
Community Partnerships 
Genesys Works 
Genesys Works, a nonprofit organization, enables inner-city 
high school students to gain meaningful work experience so that they can succeed as professionals in the corporate world. Students are assigned to positions that focus on Accounting, Engineering, or Information Technology. Since 20 1 2, AIG has hosted 27 students at its Houston offices. 
“Being a part of AIG really impacted my life. 
I would have never imagined all the things I would learn from everybody at AIG. I was trusted with a lot of responsibility and felt like I was truly a part of multiple teams. I would have never pictured myself in an offce setting, especially not one of a Fortune 500 company, considering my background. I am thankful for all of the opportunities given to me.” 
Genesys Works participant 
VALUES 13
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Valuing Diverse Perspectives 
Development School for Youth (DSY) 
DSY prepares inner-city students to enter the workforce by 
helping them grow and develop in areas such as public speaking and resume writing. Since 20 1 1, AIG has hosted 70 student interns at its New York City offices. 
Sid Sankaran, Chief Financial Offcer, was the keynote speaker 
at a farewell reception for DSY students. 
“This program provides young people from less 
privileged backgrounds a unique experience of what it’s like to work in Corporate America. We are thrilled to provide an opportunity to them, and admire how hard they work and how quickly they learn once they step through our doors.” 
Sid Sankaran 
Chief Financial Officer Employee Relations 
Benefits and Wellness 
AIG offers employees a benefits package that is comprehensive, com-
petitive, and holistic – going well beyond medical, life, and disability to include commuter and tuition reimbursement, wellness initiatives, and much more. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
AIG seeks to hire and promote the best talent, and is committed to ensuring that the organization has the right people in the right jobs. AIG is an Equal Opportunity Employer, with a policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote into all job levels the most qualified applicants, without regard to race, color, religion, age, gender, national origin, veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected categories. 
Work-Life Balance 
Eligible employees can take advantage of opportunities that encourage flexibility in balancing life and work schedules, including flextime and telecommuting, which allow eligible employees to perform their jobs outside of the traditional work hours and office locations. Addition-ally, the company provides parental leave to eligible employees. 
Employee Dispute Resolution Program 
AIG is committed to providing an open-door work environment in which our employees feel comfortable discussing any concerns they may have, and confident that any issues that are raised receive the appropriate attention. With this in mind, AIG has established an Employment Dispute Resolution (EDR) Program. The EDR Program provides employees with a procedure for taking an active approach in resolving workplace disputes fairly and efficiently. Employees are provided with multiple channels to raise issues directly or through anonymous channels. 
Human Rights 
AIG is committed to working with socially responsible entities that treat their employees with fairness, dignity, and respect. AIG fully endorses international conventions on human rights, including the UN Declara-tion of Human Rights in all of its spheres of influence. 
VALUES 14
36% 17% 
45% Safety 
Security Disaster Relief Other 
2%  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Learning and 
Collaborating 
Partnership is key in contributing 
to society. AIG teams with our employees and external partners to give back to communities. 
Houston, Texas: Twice a year, AIG volunteers take part in ”Build Days” for Houston Habitat for Humanity. In addition, AIG donated $40,000 to the organization in 201 5. 
Corporate Giving 
Philanthropy 
AIG focuses on three major areas: 
• Safety,  including auto safety, disease prevention, health 
programs, and initiatives that drive prevention of improper 
use of prescription drugs. 
• Security,  including financial education and other programs 
that drive community stability. 
• Disaster Relief,  including support of disaster preparedness 
and rebuilding of infrastructure in the wake of a catastrophe. 
2015 Charitable Giving by Theme 
Endeavor Fund 
AIG donated $3 1 2,000 to the Endeavor Fund, based in London, England.  This is the first donation as part of a three-year partnership to help support wounded, injured, and sick service personnel and veterans by using sports and adventure as part of their recovery and transition. 
Clemson University 
The company provided a $4 million grant to develop a risk engineering and analytics center, and to establish the Robert Benmosche Endowed Professorship. 
“We are pleased to team with AIG. We 
have the opportunity to play a leadership role in research and education that can save lives and property.” 
James P. Clements 
President of Clemson University 
VALUES 15
 
Learning and Collaborating 
Through an AIG partnership with the International Association of Fire Chiefs, local fre depart-
ments received funds totaling $150,000 to promote educational awareness and preparedness to those who live in high-risk wildland fre areas. 
Girls Who Code 
AIG invested $150,000 in Girls Who Code, a national U.S. non-
profit organization working to close the gender gap in the technol-ogy and engineering sectors by educating and inspiring high school girls. AIG also opened the doors of its New York City offices for the organization’s seven-week summer immersion coding program. 
Nepal Earthquake Relief 
Following the devastating 7 .8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal during April 20 1 5, AIG directed corporate donations to Habitat for Humanity International ($100,000) and International Medical Corps ($50,000). These donations addressed the emergency needs for mobile medical units, food, water, and shelter. 
Rugby Philanthropic Sponsorships 
AIG is the Official Insurance Partner of the All Blacks and five other New Zealand national rugby teams, as well as a sponsor of USA Rugby. AIG advocates for the communities and charities that are supported by the rugby teams and rugby association. 
AIG Rugby Safety Awards 
In collaboration with New Zealand Rugby, AIG raised awareness around safety in rugby through a social media campaign – ”How do you prepare to play rugby safely?” – as part of the AIG Rugby Safety Awards. 
AIG partnered with Play Rugby USA to support a college readiness program for student athletes from underserved New York City com-munities. The students received off-the-field mentoring and support. All participating high school seniors went on to college – compared with the 64 percent average for New York City. 
VALUES 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
Learning and Collaborating 
Chris Devlin-Young, Coast Guard veteran and four-time Paralympic Games medalist, at 
the 201 5 AIG Winter Summit in Stowe, Vermont. 
“Contributing to society is at the heart of everything we do in insurance.” 
Rob Schimek 
Commercial Chief Executive Offcer 
Fundraising “The AIG Winter Summit not only offers warriors the 
AIG executives are committed to playing a leading role by opportunity to race and enjoy the camaraderie of people serving on nonprofit boards and helping raise funds for impor-at the event, but the funds raised support adaptive sports tant causes. programs throughout the year through a nationwide net-
work of over 100 community-based chapters in 42 states. We thank AIG and its Winter Summit partners for their 
AIG raised nearly commitment to helping wounded warriors rebuild their $1.9 million  to support NJ Physicians lives through sports.” 
Advisory Gr
oup; Disabled Sports USA; Tanenbaum; 
Kirk Bauer, JD 
and the Insurance Industry Charitable Foundation. Executive Director of Disabled Sports USA 
AIG received the prestigious 2015 
Double I Award from the Insurance Industry Charitable Foundation. 
The Double I Award refers to “Influence in the Industry” 
and “Impact in the Community,” recognizing both corporate and philanthropic leadership. 
Colton Carlson, Marine Corps veteran and double-leg amputee, 
summited Aconcagua in Argentina as part of Disabled Sports USA’s Warfghter Sports climb funded by AIG. 
VALUES 17
 
Global Volunteer Events by the Numbers 
57 ,736 
3 31 
324 
23,586 
5,257 
5,200 
46 39 
Employees Hours Countries Projects 
2 014 2015  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
Learning and Collaborating 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: Volunteers cleaned local beaches by removing trash 
and other debris during AIG Global Volunteer Month. 
Employee Volunteerism and Giving Global Volunteer Events 
Throughout the year, AIG provides opportunities for Volunteer Time Off Program 
employees across the globe to participate in hundreds Employees have the opportunity to volunteer two paid days a year of service pr
ojects through: (16 h
ours) with qualified charitable organizations and schools. 
AIG Global Volunteer Month (April) • AIG employees volunteered nearly 78,000 hours 
through employee giving programs. More than 4,000 employees from 39 countries 
• Volunteer hours increased 196 percent from 2014 to 2015. served over 50,000 hours through  240 projects. 
Barcelona, Spain: In collaboration with the Foundation ”La Tutela,” 
volunteers shared time with seniors living alone. 
“AIG employees are passionate about giving 
back to the community, and we’re proud to support their efforts.” 
Jeff Hurd 
Chief Operating Offcer 
São Paulo, Br
azil: AIG volunteers helped prepare a Halloween 
party for underprivileged children at the Centro de Educação 
Infantil Vila Cisper. 
VALUES 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
Learning and Collaborating 
Mexico City, Mexico: AIG volunteers supported “Con Ganas de Vivir” to recondition and 
replant green areas at Mexico City’s Juárez Hospital during IICF’s Week of Giving. 
GivingTuesday (first Tuesday after U.S. Thanksgiving) 
AIG recognized fve employees who submitted winning 
photos featuring their volunteer experiences supporting local 
charities by awarding $5,000 grants to each 
organization. 
Winning Photos 
Helsinki, Finland: 50 colleagues from the Helsinki offce 
collected clothes and other household items to be donated to the Helsinki Mother and Child Home Association, which 
City Harvest - New York City, NY Citizens for Animal Protection - Houston, TX supports child welfare services. 
Insurance Industry Charitable Foundation (IICF) 
Week of Giving (October) 
More than 1,200 employees from 
15 countries  served over 7 ,000 hours 
through 78 projects. Kidsave - Los Angeles, CA buildOn - New York City, NY 
Irish Pub Children’s Foundation - Philadelphia, PA 
VALUES 19
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Learning and Collaborating 
New York, New York: More than 600 employees joined the 201 5 AIG Heart Walk Team. 
Community Partnerships 
AIG-Junior Achievement (JA) Global Partnership 
During 2015, AIG continued its formal partnership with JA, 
supporting 19 JA communities, including the expansion to seven countries outside the United States. In total, 15,790 students were provided with financial education and workforce readi -
ness training through the partnership. 
“It was a great chance to contribute some -
thing to a local school and to do something 
different from my normal routine.” 
Nora McGrath 
Head of Delivery, BI/Information Technology, Dublin, Ireland 
Jakarta, Indonesia: AIG volunteers with JA students. 
American Heart Association (AHA) – Heart Walks
 AIG and its employees contributed nearly 
$500,000 to the AHA Heart Walks in 16 U.S. cities. 
VALUES Rescuing Food 
AIG’s New York City office launched a pilot program with Res -
cuing Leftover Cuisine, Inc., in 2015, rescuing more than 4,700 
pounds of food – the equivalent of nearly 4,000 meals and 1,800 pounds of CO
2 emissions avoided. Food is immediately 
donated to homeless shelters and soup kitchens. 
Matching Grants Program 
AIG matches employee donations 2:1 for qualified charitable organizations and accredited educational institutions. In 20 1 5, 
AIG matched more than $7 million in 
employee contributions. 
Pro Bono Program 
The AIG Pro Bono Program provides legal services to non-
profit organizations and persons of limited means through an employee volunteer program. 
In 20 1 5, 186 licensed attorneys and other professionals from 
AIG provided more than 3,67 1 hours of free legal services to 48 organizations worldwide, in addition to corporate contri-butions totaling $200,000 to organizations supported by the Pro Bono Program.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. Founded in 1919, today we provide a wide range 
of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, mortgage insurance and other fnancial services to customers in more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. Our diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
Additional information about AIG can be found at www.aig.com and www.aig.com/strategyupdate | YouTube: www.youtube.com/aig 
| Twitter: @AIGinsurance | LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/aig. These references with additional information about AIG have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release. 
AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, and general insurance operations of American 
International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products and services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all countries, and coverage is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent third parties. Certain property-casualty coverages may be provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers do not generally participate in state guaranty funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds. 