THE SERVICE EFFECT
American Express Company 
2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTCOMMUNITIESCUSTOMERS & PARTNERS PEOPLESERVICE ETHOS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
08 Identifying and engaging with our stakeholders
09 Identifying key environmental, social and governance issues
10 Our goals and targets
12 Our CSR governance structure
OUR SERVICE ETHOS
14 Diverse products and services
15 Company profile
16 Business ethics 
20 Board
21 Risk management and security
22 Advocacy and membership of key organizations
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
46 Charitable giving
47 Community service
52 Leadership 
54 Historic preservation
SERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT
56 Operational efficiency
60 Enabling customers
61 Empowering employees
SERVING OUR PEOPLE
24 Diversity and inclusion
27 T raining and development
27 Valuing our people
30 2015 T op Employer Awards
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS 
AND PARTNERS
32 Customers first
36 Building a safe and secure network
37 Informing and educating our customers
38 Empowering entrepreneurs 
42 Serving the underserved
44 Supplier diversity and responsible sourcing
03 About this report
04 Welcome from our CEO
64 Endnotes
65 Assurance statement
68 GRI G4 IndexABOUT THIS REPORT
This report covers calendar year 2015 
and responds to the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) G4 Core reporting 
guidelines. It provides data, examples 
and an explanation of our approach to 
managing our environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) issues. 
When we use the terms “American 
Express, ” the “company, ” “we, ” “us” 
or “our” in this report, we mean 
American Express Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless we state or the context implies 
otherwise. 
This report contains forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of 
the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 that are subject 
to risks and uncertainties. Y ou can 
identify forward-looking statements 
by words such as “believe, ” “expect, ” 
“anticipate, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “aim, ” 
“will, ” “may, ” “should, ” “could, ” “would, ” “likely, ” “estimate, ” “predict, ” 
“potential, ” “continue” or other 
similar expressions. Actual results 
may differ from those set forth in 
the forward-looking statements 
due to a variety of factors, including 
those contained in the company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 
the company’s other filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Y ou are cautioned not 
to place undue reliance on these 
forward-looking statements, which 
speak only as of the date on which 
they are made. We undertake no 
obligation to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements. 
This report includes trademarks, 
such as American Express®, which are protected under applicable 
intellectual property laws and are 
the property of American Express 
Company or its subsidiaries. Solely 
for convenience, our trademarks 
and trade names referred to in this 
report may appear without the ® or 
TM symbols, but such references are 
not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest 
extent under applicable law, our 
rights or the right of the applicable 
licensor to these trademarks and 
trade names.
Additional information can be 
found through submissions to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project and in 
our annual, quarterly and current 
reports and other information on file with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission and available 
on the American Express Investor 
Relations website . Y ou may also 
request a copy of these documents at 
no cost, by writing or telephoning us 
at the following address or telephone 
number:  
American Express Company  
200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, New Y ork 10285  
Attention: Secretary  
(212) 640-2000
While American Express plans to 
update this information from time 
to time, we may not produce a full 
CSR report until our programs and initiatives significantly change. 
Updates will be posted on the 
American Express Corporate Social 
Responsibility website .
All footnotes throughout this  
report can be found on the  
Endnotes - page 64.WELCOME FROM OUR CEO 
Welcome.
I’m pleased to share our Corporate Social Responsibility  
(CSR) Report. New standards for social responsibility are taking shape around 
the world. In an age when customers, employees, shareholders, regulators and partners expect that the institutions they do business with operate responsibly and sustainably, CSR has never 
been more important.
American Express has been in the service business since our 
founding in 1850. From the beginning, we established a reputation as a company people could trust to do the right thing and stand behind our promises.  
We started as a freight company, moving valuable goods across 
U.S. states and territories for our customers. By the early 20th century, we expanded internationally, shifting into travel, payments and other services designed to help enrich lives and make 
businesses more successful.
T oday, American Express is the largest global payments network 
that owns relationships with both Card Members and merchants. We provide products and services to consumers and businesses around the world, enable millions of transactions daily, and drive 
more than $1 trillion in commerce a year. From our earliest days, 
we also demonstrated our commitment to community service – dating back to the U.S. Civil War, during which we shipped donations of supplies to soldiers’ hospitals free of charge.
Through the decades, we’ve managed through times of 
transformation, change and opportunity. We’ve faced significant 
challenges, but we’ve always emerged a better, stronger company by adhering to our core values: keeping the needs of our customers front and center, offering outstanding products 
and unsurpassed service, demonstrating the highest standards of 
integrity, working together to help the company succeed, treating each other with respect, giving back to our communities, showing 
a passion for what we do, and being accountable for results and 
learning from our mistakes. 
Those Blue Box Values define who we are, how we operate, and how 
we’ll continue to grow, thrive and pursue our vision to become the world’s most respected service brand.  
T o achieve our vision, we need to earn that respect not only from 
our customers but from all our stakeholders – our shareholders, our employees, our business partners and the communities where we live and work. Our service commitment extends from creating innovative products to protecting Card Members’ privacy and the security 
of their data. From promoting the growth of small businesses to 
developing diverse leaders. From meeting our carbon and energy targets to building a strong company culture—and much more.  
At American Express, we are dedicated to treating everyone we 
serve with the utmost care and respect. As the world evolves, we will 
continue transforming to meet the needs of our stakeholders while remaining true to the values that have always sustained us.
Sincerely, “Our service 
commitment extends 
from creating 
innovative products 
to protecting Card 
Members’ privacy 
and the security of 
their data. ”
08 Identifying and engaging with  
 our stakeholders
09 Identifying key environmental,  
 social and governance issues
10 Our goals and targets
12 Our CSR governance structureHOW WE APPROACH 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At American Express, our approach to CSR is a natural 
extension of our vision to become the world’s most 
respected service brand. 
In a world of social change and environmental imperatives, 
a brand that stands for trust, security and service is more 
important than ever. 
Our service commitment shapes our daily work and our 
approach to CSR.  We aim to create value – whether social, environmental or economic – across each of our 
key stakeholder groups, or “Spheres of Service” as we call 
them, operating in a way that addresses all of their needs. 
This service ethos inspires a culture of high-performing 
employees, engaged customers, satisfied stakeholders and partnerships with other responsible businesses. 
Our actions help us contribute to the sustainability of 
the communities we serve and an environment that is favorable for doing business. 
6GRI INDEX
OUR
SERVICE ETHOS
A resilient, ethical and 
successful company that fulfills its service mission.SERVING  
OUR PEOPLE
High-performing employees who are empowered to make a difference.SERVING  
OUR CUSTOMERS  
AND PARTNERS  
Satisfied customers who reward us with their trust and loyalty, and partners who share our vision for responsible business.SERVING  
OUR COMMUNITIES
Communities with longevity, strengthened through service.SERVING  
OUR ENVIRONMENT
Doing our part to sustain the world’s resources.THE SERVICE EFFECT
The “Service Effect” is our shorthand 
for the impact we aim to have in our communities, and the positive link we see 
between CSR performance and business 
performance. We believe the Service Effect creates value for our stakeholders, including our shareholders.
As we report on the Service Effect, 
we hope you’ll see the power of our 
commitment to service in action.
OUR SERVICE ETHOS
OUR PEOPLE
OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS  
OUR COMMUNITIES
OUR ENVIRONMENTCREATING AND 
DELIVERING VALUE
7GRI INDEX
Our strategy begins by identifying our key stakeholders, 
then building a comprehensive plan for responsible business based on a sound understanding of the environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) issues that are important to them and 
the impact those issues have on our business.IDENTIFYING AND ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE
SHAREHOLDERS
AND SOCIALLY 
RESPONSIBLE 
INVESTORS (SRI s)Our Investor Relations team provides the investment community with information about the company’s 
strategies, objectives and performance, and works to enhance company management’s understanding of the investment community’s views. Copies of the company’s Annual Report, Proxy Statement and press releases, as well as information on financial results and products and services, can be found on the American Express Investor 
Relations website . 
EMPLOYEES Our number one resource is our people, who are the faces and voices of our brand. We keep employees well-informed about company news, priorities, performance and business strategies through a variety of channels, including digital and face-to-face communications. Leaders also collect regular feedback through the company’s annual employee survey, The Pulse; regular town hall meetings; employee networks; and the Office of the Ombudsperson.
CUSTOMERS:  
CARD MEMBERS, 
CONSUMERS AND 
MERCHANTSAs a global leader in customer service, we strive to understand our customers, treat them with respect, and go 
the extra mile to help them. We have direct relationships with millions of Card Members and merchants, actively working to engage them through superior customer service, direct-to-customer channels and social media.  Our commitment to customer service has also earned us many honors worldwide.
GOVERNMENT AND 
REGULATORSOur Government Affairs team advocates and serves as company liaisons on public policy issues that are 
significant to our business and our ability to serve our customers. They provide education and context to key decision-makers, including legislators, government officials, consumer advocacy group leaders, business partners and trade associations.
SUPPLIERS We develop and support best practices in global supply management to promote inclusion and ensure the integrity of our third-party relationships. See the Serving our Customers section for additional information.
COMMUNITY AND 
NON GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANIZATIONS
(NGOs)We mobilize thousands of employee volunteers through our Serve2Gether program. We also offer incentives for 
our employees to support their favorite nonprofits through our Give2Gether and gift-matching programs. We support and collaborate with nonprofits that preserve and sustain unique historic places for future generations. We also help to develop the non-profit and social purpose leaders of tomorrow and encourage community service through grants, conferences and meetings.
SUSTAINABILITY 
RESEARCH FIRMSWe respond to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and other ESG surveys from rating firms including 
Sustainalytics and MSCI.
OTHER FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONSWe engage through industry groups, roundtables, conferences and benchmarking activities to advance our  
own CSR program and to work to address CSR issues that affect the financial sector. We also collaborate  in other forums where appropriate – for example, we share knowledge of online threats to our industry in cybersecurity forums.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWe have identified nine key stakeholder groups. Forging strong 
relationships with these stakeholders helps ensure that we  
are meeting expectations and advancing our efforts to  
operate responsibly. 
8GRI INDEX
Financial Inclusion
Responsible 
SourcingStakeholder Engagement
ESG Integration  Business 
EthicsRegulatory ComplianceData Privacy & Security
Customer Service  
& Relationship
T alent Attraction & Retention
Diversity & Inclusion Equal Opportunities
Environmental & Social Product InnovationStrategic Philanthropy
Employee Volunteerism
Energy Use & GHG emissions
Physical Climate Change Risks
CURRENT OR POTENTIAL INFLUENCE ON AMERICAN EXPRESSIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERSOUR PEOPLE OUR CUSTOMERS 
& PARTNERSOUR SERVICE ETHOS
OUR COMMUNITIES
OUR ENVIRONMENTIn 2015, we conducted a priority assessment in line with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) guidelines to identify the significant ESG issues for American Express and our key stakeholders. The stages of our process were as follows: IDENTIFYING KEY ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES
AMERICAN EXPRESS ESG PRIORITY MATRIX1
We developed an initial list of ESG issues based on global reporting guidelines, sector benchmarking, 
relevant regulations, criteria from 
various indices and rankings, and other sources.2
 We consulted with a number of external and internal stakeholders – including Corporate Social Responsibility experts 
and our senior executives - and prioritized 
the issues, mapping them onto a matrix. 3
We used the results of our priority assessment to guide our disclosure in this report. The five categories within 
the matrix correspond to the Spheres 
of Service (our service ethos, our people, our customers and partners, our communities, our environment) under which this report is organized. 
Responsible 
Lending & Marketing
9GRI INDEX
Below is a summary of our key goals aligned to our Spheres of Service, as well as a series of 
updates on our current performance against each goal. Full details of our approach, activities and performance for each sphere can be found in dedicated sections in this report. 
SPHERE OF SERVICE KEY GOAL HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015 PAGE
SERVICE 
ETHOSMAINTAIN THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF ETHICS AND 
INTEGRITYWe refreshed our Code of Conduct training for employees and 
provided it in eight languages. 13
All of our employees were trained on our Code of Conduct and Enterprise Essential T raining.
SERVING OUR 
PEOPLEFOSTER A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE More than 50 percent of our global employees and 30 percent 
of our senior executives were women.23
As of 2015, 65 percent of executive-level women who participated in our mentorship program had been promoted or made strategic lateral moves.
More than 40 percent of employees participated in one of 
our 15 employee networks. Participants reported significantly higher engagement at work than those who are not network members.
SUPPORT OUR EMPLOYEES’ 
PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL 
GOALS85 percent of our employees responded to our annual survey.
90 percent of our employees received recognition from their 
colleagues using our company’s award program, Reward Blue system.
As of 2015, 59 percent of our Accelerated Leadership 
Development program participants achieved at least one promotion after program completion.
90 percent of employees had access to at least one wellness 
activity or service through our Healthy Living program.
41 percent of U.S. employees engaged in a flexible work 
arrangement.
SERVING OUR 
CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERSMEET THE EVOLVING NEEDS OF 
OUR CUSTOMER BASE We experienced record-level customer satisfaction in 2015, up 
40 percent compared to 2010.31
We have been rated as one of Ponemon’s Most T rusted Companies for Privacy for the past nine years, and number one in financial services.OUR GOALS AND TARGETS
10GRI INDEX
SPHERE OF SERVICE KEY GOAL HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015 PAGE
SERVING OUR 
CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS (CONT.)SUPPORT SMALL BUSINESSES 
ACROSS THE WORLD In 2015, small business owners used OPEN cards to fund more 
than $200 billion in purchases.
On Small Business Saturday 2015:
• more than 95 million U.S. consumers shopped at small 
businesses;
• over 94,000 small businesses took part in Australia; and
• £620 million was spent with small businesses across the U.K.
MAKE OUR PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES BETTER 
FOR SOCIETY AND THE 
ENVIRONMENT91 percent of paper used in our U.S. direct-marketing efforts in 
2015 was certified as being from sustainably managed forests.
From 2010 to 2015, Card Members donated $77 million in dollars 
and Membership Rewards points to charitable causes.
SERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIESEMPOWER CITIZEN 
VOLUNTEERSOur grants helped engage over 350,000 volunteers, resulting in 
more than $70 million in donated time and talent.1 Volunteers 
mentored 200,000 young people; rescued 62 million pounds of food; and built or restored 415 homes.45
SUPPORT EMERGING 
NONPROFIT AND SOCIAL 
LEADERSFrom 2008 to 2015, we invested more than $50 million to develop 
33,000-plus social purpose leaders who are tackling some of society’s most complex issues.
PROMOTE STEWARDSHIP OF 
HISTORIC PLACESWe provided funding to 33 endangered sites through $9.1 million in 
grants. Since 1974 we have invested more than $60 million in 500 historic sites.
SERVING OUR 
ENVIRONMENTREDUCE OUR COMPANY’S 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINTWe reduced our absolute carbon emissions by 10 percent 
compared to 2011.55
We increased our energy efficiency in 2015 by 38 percent compared to 2011.
35 percent of our global real estate portfolio was green building 
certified in 2015.
We have reduced our use of office printed paper by 28 percent 
since 2011.
ENGAGE OUR EMPLOYEES IN 
SUSTAINABILITYMore than 4,000 employees participated in our Green2Gether 
Promise during Earth Month 2015.
11GRI INDEX
Additional information on Corporate Governance at American Express can be 
found in the Service ethos section.OUR CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Our executive management holds ultimate responsibility for our CSR progress and success; these 
leaders review and evaluate key 
performance indicators and long-term goals related to ESG in their respective business units. At the Board of Directors level, the Public Responsibility Committee 
reviews our CSR program, 
monitors progress against our goals and provides guidance on our efforts.
Day to day, our CSR team works with colleagues throughout American 
Express to shape our efforts 
and monitor progress on key ESG issues. 
12Operating ethically and 
responsibly, with an emphasis on building positive relationshipsOUR SERVICE ETHOS
14 Diverse products  
 and services
15 Company profile
16 Business ethics 
20 Board
21 Risk management  
 and security
22 Advocacy and membership  
 of key organizations
13GRI INDEX
Our vision is to be the world’s most respected service brand.
We have a large, high-quality and loyal customer base. That’s why we work hard every day to 
protect and grow our relationships by providing value and extraordinary service. 
We start by aiming to anticipate and meet our customers’ needs. We help consumers do more, 
businesses grow and merchants connect with new customers through our products and services.
We process millions of transactions, enabling more than $1 trillion in spending by our customers 
in 2015. And we have more than 50,000 employees focused on making each interaction with 
American Express a positive, secure and convenient experience. 
We hold ourselves to the highest standards of ethics and integrity, and have built corporate 
citizenship into the heart of our business. 
Through our business activities, relationships with customers and partners, and our philanthropic 
efforts, we put the power of service into action every day. INTRODUCTION
DIVERSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We have a diverse product set and a large, global 
customer base – making us the biggest payment issuer by spending volume. The products, services, 
programs and tools we offer to help enrich lives, 
grow and manage businesses, and drive commerce includes:
• Charge and credit card products
• Network services
• Merchant acquisition and processing, servicing and 
settlement, merchant financing, and point-of-sale, marketing and information products and services for merchants
• Fee services, including fraud prevention services and the design and operation of customer loyalty 
and rewards programs
• Expense management products and services
• T ravel-related services
• Stored value/prepaid products24/7
14GRI INDEX
OPERATING SEGMENTS  of the company effective for the first quarter 2016, reflecting 
organizational changes announced during the fourth quarter of 2015.
$5.16     
  Billion
    NET INCOME$1
 Trillion 
    WORLDWIDE  
    BILLED  BUSINESS
SERVICE WORLDWIDE$161
 Billion
      TOTAL  ASSETS$32.8
  Billion
      ANNUAL REVENUE 
COUNTRIES HEADQUARTERS24/7 140 NYC117.8m
CARDS IN FORCEU.S.
International
EMPLOYEES55K
#8FORTUNE  
MOST ADMIRED#88FORTUNE 500 
RANKINGU.S. Consumer 
Services,  
including our U.S. Consumer Card Services business and American Express T ravel & Lifestyle Services in the U.S. Global Commercial Services,  including our 
Global Corporate Payments business, American Express OPEN and small business services businesses in the U.S. and internationally; merchant financing prod-ucts; and foreign exchange services operations.Global Merchant Services,  including 
our Global Mer -
chant Services business and our Plenti and Loyalty Partner businesses.International Consumer and Network Services, including our International Consumer Card Services business, American Express T ravel & Lifestyle Services outside the U.S. and our Global Network Services (GNS) business.Corporate and other, including our prepaid services business (which offers stored value/prepaid products, such as American Express Serve®, Bluebird®, the American Express® Gift Card and T ravelers Cheques) and Loyalty Edge.COMPANY PROFILE
 IN 2015
15GRI INDEX
Throughout our history, we have reinvented ourselves many times, but we have never 
strayed from the core values established by our founders: integrity, trust and service. 
At the core of our culture is our Code of Conduct and what we call the “Blue Box Values” 
values – a set of eight values that every employee pledges to embrace and work by each day. These guiding principles reflect who we are and what we stand for. 
The Code of Conduct informs our employees of their responsibilities regarding a range 
of key issues and practices, including: anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel 
expenses, identifying and preventing money laundering, doing business with foreign 
governments and protecting customer privacy. Each business unit also maintains its own set of policies relevant to its function. 
Adherence to the Code is a condition of employment, and violations can result in 
termination. Each employee must review and sign a copy of the Code upon joining 
American Express and confirm receipt every other year thereafter. 
The Board of Directors is subject to a separate Code of Business Conduct focused on 
areas such as potential conflicts of interest.BUSINESS ETHICS
CUSTOMER 
COMMITMENT
We put our customers at the center of everything we do, and treat them the way we would want to be treated. 
INTEGRITY 
We promise to always do right by our customers and company, and make good if we fall short.
QUALITY
We strive to deliver best-in-class products and services that our customers love.
TEAMWORK
We work together, across business and geographic boundaries, to help the  
company win.BLUE BOX VALUES
We refresh our Code of Conduct 
training every year and we provide it in eight languages: Chinese, English, French Continental, French Canadian, German, Italian, 
Japanese and Spanish.RESPECT FOR PEOPLE
We value diverse 
backgrounds and perspectives, celebrate differences and treat each other like adults.
GOOD CITIZENSHIP
We know that giving back and doing good in our communities is good business.
A WILL TO WIN
We demonstrate a strong competitive spirit and passion for succeeding  
in the right way.
PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY
We take responsibility for delivering results and learn  
from our mistakes.
16GRI INDEX
3%
Organizational 
Policies7%
Career 
Development
12%
Compensation & Benefits
10%
Control & 
Compliance
52%
Leadership- Respect/T reatment
- Goals & Metrics- Performance   
  Management6%
Peer & Colleague 
Relationships4%
Change 
Management6%
Safety, Health 
& Physical 
EnvironmentISSUES RAISED TO THE OMBUDS OFFICEThe Ombuds Office
If our employees have a work-related issue, they are encouraged to discuss it with the 
Office of the Ombudsperson. This is a neutral and confidential resource, and all our employees, subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as contractors and vendors can contact 
an Ombudsperson anonymously over email or phone, 24 hours a day. 
The Ombuds Office is a member of the International Ombudsman Association and 
complies with the organization’s Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice.
In 2015 more than 1,300 employees, contractors and vendors from 20 countries 
contacted the Ombuds Office for guidance in resolving work related issues. Nearly all 
employees that used the Ombuds Office said they would recommend it to a colleague. 
17GRI INDEX
ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION As a global company, we are subject to international anti-corruption and bribery laws. Bribery of any kind 
is prohibited. We also believe that our employees and the people or organizations acting on their behalf must engage in high standards of ethical and transparent business practices. We require all employees and third-parties to complete anti-corruption and bribery training to ensure they are informed of all laws and regulations we must abide by and understand the consequences of non-compliance. We hold employees accountable for completing the training by tying it to annual compensation. 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING Beyond conforming to relevant statutes, we ensure that our employees understand the actions that may 
be violations of anti-money laundering or terrorist financing laws. If there are any potential violations, we immediately escalate to Compliance and Legal staff.
We make every effort to combat money laundering by: 
• T aking reasonable steps to determine the true identity of all customers who maintain accounts and/or relationships with American Express.
• T aking appropriate measures, such as ending relations with a customer, closing or freezing an account and/or filing a suspicious activity report when we have a reasonable suspicion that funds held in an account are from money laundering or other criminal activity, or are owned by a government-designated terrorist entity.
• Complying with all anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism laws and regulations, and fully cooperating with law enforcement and regulatory agencies. 
WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAMS It is our policy to closely scrutinize and respond to allegations from employees, suppliers, customers, merchants or contractors that the company is not meeting its legal or ethical obligations. More information about this can be found in the Ombuds Office section.Business ethics policies and 
procedures
Our policies hold us accountable 
to the highest legal, ethical and operational standards.
18GRI INDEX
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT  
AND POLITICAL 
CONTRIBUTIONSAmerican Express has a clear statement on engagement and political activity in the U.S.
 American Express Company believes that active engagement in the public policy arena is an important part of responsible corporate citizenship. Public policy issues are constantly being debated around the globe. We monitor the issues and public policy debates and engage with government officials at various levels throughout the world in order to provide our perspective. We also work with trade and industry associations in support of our public policy initiatives. We identify in our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports and our Lobbying Disclosure Act filings the public policy issues that can significantly impact aspects of our business. In addition to the company’s advocacy efforts, American Express participates in the political process through the American Express Company Political Action Committee (AXP PAC) and through corporate political contributions in those jurisdictions where it is permissible to do so. Established more than 25 years ago, the AXP PAC is supported solely by voluntary contributions from American Express employees. AXP PAC is regulated by the Federal Election Commission (FEC). AXP PAC files regular reports with the FEC and the relevant state election commissions on its receipts and disbursements. AXP PAC supports candidates for federal and state office who understand the concerns and interests of the company on important public policy issues. On a semi-annual basis, we provide information about all political contributions made by the AXP PAC or with corporate funds to political candidates, parties and committees. We also disclose contributions to other political entities organized and operating under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 527 of the Internal Revenue Code; independent political expenditures; dues used for political purposes by trade associations that respond to our request, entities organized under section 501(c) 4 of the Internal Revenue Code, and other tax exempt organizations (that receive in excess of $50,000 during the calendar year from the company); and payments made to influence the outcome of ballot measures as defined under Subsection 162(e)(1)(B) of the Code. In addition, we include a list of principal U.S. trade and industry associations to which we have paid annual dues of $50,000 or more in the most recent fiscal year and the portion of our dues or payments made that are used for lobbying purposes under section 162(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. American Express does not make any contributions to political parties in Europe. In addition, the company is a signatory of the voluntary European T ransparency Register for engaging with the European institutions.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Our marketing programs go through multiple layers of review to ensure that our customers are well-informed about our products and services. Learn more about this in the Serving Our Customers and Partners section.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY  
AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTIONWe aim to build a diverse workforce that reflects the public we serve. We seek to provide and maintain a 
work environment free from discrimination and harassment of any kind. We do not tolerate discrimination against any person on the grounds of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, citizenship or any other basis prohibited by law. Any discriminatory treatment or harassment of employees or contractors that violates our company’s values or federal or state law will result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
HUMAN RIGHTS We respect and promote human rights and are committed to leadership in responsible workplace practices across the entire company and in all aspects of our business. Our Code of Conduct embodies our commitment to fair and equal treatment of all people.
CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct is available on the American Express website.
19GRI INDEX
Longstanding policies and practices 
ensure that our company is managed with integrity and in our shareholders’ 
best interests. We are committed to 
upholding sound principles of corporate governance and to meeting the requirements of federal and state law and the rules of the New Y ork  
Stock Exchange. 
The Board of Directors has adopted 
Corporate Governance Principles which, along with the charters of the Board Committees, the Code of Conduct for employees, and Code of Business 
Conduct for Directors, provide the 
framework for company governance. 
Our Corporate Governance Principles 
address matters such as composition 
and size of the Board, director 
qualifications, independence of directors, director responsibilities, frequency of Board meetings (including meetings to be held without the presence of management), the Board’s 
access to members of management 
and outside experts, share ownership guidelines for directors and ways for shareholders or others to communicate their concerns to the Board.
Additional information can be found  
in our Proxy Statement. BOARD BOARD HIGHLIGHTS
As of May 2016, our Board had the following characteristics:
3 / 13
FEMALE
4 / 13
MINORITIES2 / 13
RESIDENT OUTSIDE THE U.S.
12 / 13
INDEPENDENT
56  57  58  60  61  62  63  64  65  66  67  68  69  7063.5  YEARSAVERAGE DIRECTOR AGE
AVERAGE  
NON-MANAGEMENT 
TENURE
7.2 YEARS
20GRI INDEX
Risk management governance
Our emphasis on risk management and 
governance structure – along with solid business practices – is how we keep our 
promise of security, integrity and trust to 
our customers and other stakeholders.
We use our comprehensive Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, aggregate, monitor and manage 
risks. The program also defines our 
risk appetite, governance, culture and capabilities. The implementation and execution of the ERM program is led by our Chief Risk Officer. Risk management is overseen by our Board of Directors 
through three committees: the Risk 
Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and the Compensation and Benefits Committee. The committees, made up of independent directors, meet 
regularly in private sessions with our 
Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, the General Auditor and other senior management with regard to our processes. RISK MANAGEMENT AND SECURITY
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
PRECAUTIONARY 
APPROACHWe seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact our business, our partners and our 
communities. Identifying risks, engaging with experts and implementing policies are a few of the ways we work to proactively manage risks.
POLICY REVIEW 
PROCESSWe conduct regular reviews of our policies with input from multiple governance bodies and our 
Board. We also review the effectiveness of our policies through assessments conducted by our risk management team. Our assessments are subject to audit as well as regulatory exams. 
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
CRISIS PREPAREDNESS PROGRAMWe maintain a Crisis Preparedness Program (CPP) that addresses the recovery of key business 
operations (and supporting technology) in the event of an unplanned business disruption. We provide our employees with CPP training and awareness and make sure all CPP plans are exercised and/or tested. We also routinely check that our key service providers comply with the program requirements. Information security and privacy
We value our customers’ trust in our 
ability to keep their data safe and secure. Analyzing the transaction data that 
is processed through our closed loop 
network enables us to create value for Card Members and build business for our merchant partners. 
Our Code of Conduct requires all 
employees and contractors to adhere 
to the strictest information security and privacy standards. 
T o address an ever-changing landscape, 
we have an Information Security 
Oversight team within the Global Risk 
Oversight organization that works closely with the Chief Information Security Officer and ensures an independent review and assessment of risk controls.
The Information Security organization 
operates a series of functions that help predict, protect, detect, respond to and recover from cyberattacks. This includes developing solutions that protect our 
customers, employees and partners from 
increasingly complex attacks.The Privacy organization focuses on handling customer and employee data in a manner consistent with our data protection 
principles, and manages our practices 
around the collection and handling of personal data, as well as notification, privacy choices, data quality, international data transfer and data access.
Systems and practices for protecting 
customer information are only as strong as the people who implement them. T raining and developing our employees – as well as offering best-in-class technology – is critical to mitigating risk. This includes 
educating employees to learn about risks 
inherent in the payment services industry, providing tools to analyze those risks and ensuring employees know where and how to escalate issues. All employees participate 
in mandatory information security and 
privacy training every year.  We also run simulations that test our employees’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity.
Our information security and privacy risk 
management programs are extensive. More 
detailed information about our Information Security and Privacy Risk Management Governance is available in our Proxy Statement and Annual Report.
21GRI INDEX
As a leader in our industry, we play an 
active role in a number of organizations that share common business interests. 
We create long-term strategic 
relationships with these organizations in order to share resources, expertise and distribution networks that help us achieve mutual goals.
T o the right are some of the 
organizations of which American Express is a member or partner.ADVOCACY AND MEMBERSHIP OF KEY ORGANIZATIONS
CSR • Association for a Better New Y ork
• Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New Y ork, Inc.
• Business Civic Leadership Center 
• Business Council of New Y ork State, Inc.
• Business for Social Responsibility 
• Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy
• Conference Board Inc.
• Council on Foreign Relations
• Council on Foundations
• Emerging Practitioners in Philanthropy
• Forum for the Future
• Grantmakers for Effective Organizations
• Independent Sector
• Philanthropy New Y ork Inc.
PUBLIC POLICY/
ADVOCACY• American Bankers Association 
• California Bankers Association 
• Consumer Bankers Association 
• Direct Marketing Association
• Partnership for New Y ork City, Inc. 
• The Business Roundtable 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
• Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness
• U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform 
• U.S. Chamber Litigation Center
HUMAN RESOURCES • Corporate Executive Board
• Center for Advanced Human Resource Studies 
(CAHRS)  
RESEARCH • Center for T alent Innovation (T askforce Member)
• Diversity in Asia Network
LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT• Catalyst
• Council of Urban Professionals
• Management Leadership for T omorrow
• Executive Leadership Council
• Blue Circle Leadership
• T rueBlue Inclusion
• National Association for Black Accountants
2223
24 Diversity and inclusion
27 T raining and development
27 Valuing our people
30 2015 T op Employer AwardsHigh-performing employees 
who are empowered to make a differenceSERVING OUR PEOPLE
23GRI INDEX
Approximately 40 percent of 
all employees participate in a network, and our research shows that those who do are significantly more engaged in their work and 
in the company compared with 
those who don’t.Great service starts with our employees.
Our people are constantly looking for innovative ways 
to better serve our customers and communities. Their 
collective spirit, passion and drive inspire our company’s 
success and continuing reinvention.  They are the faces and voices of our unique service brand. 
We aim to provide great service to our employees, too. We make it welcoming, 
purposeful and rewarding to be part of the American Express team. That means fostering a diverse and inclusive culture and enabling our employees to achieve 
their professional and personal goals.
Our high employee satisfaction ratings and employer of choice awards show 
that we are making a positive impact for our people. When we serve employees well, we strengthen their ability to serve all of our stakeholders. 
Our global diversity and inclusion strategy
We aspire to develop a diverse talent pool and to foster an inclusive workplace culture where differences are valued and expressed freely - and all employees have the support they need to take risks, learn and collaborate.  
When we recruit and develop talent at all levels, we seek the best people from 
all walks of life, and hold senior executives accountable for ensuring diversity. In 
addition, all American Express employees take mandatory training on recognizing and preventing discriminatory practices.American Express began to formalize its commitment to diversity and inclusion nearly three decades ago with the official launch of an Employee Network, the Black Employee Network. In addition, 
the company introduced a Diversity 
Council, a diversity awareness training and the inclusion of diversity goals in its Performance Management Process. T oday, American Express continues 
to evolve and grow our diversity and 
inclusion programs and initiatives.
Our goal is to create an employee base 
that is as diverse as the customers and communities we serve. Through the 
diverse insights and experiences of  
our employees, we can better serve  
our customers.INTRODUCTION DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Exec-Sr. Level Officials & Mgrs.
First-Mid-Level Officials & Mgrs.ProfessionalsAll OthersTotal U.S. Company76%64%59%54%60%24%36%41%46%40%30%54%45%71%57%2015 AMERICAN EXPRESS
US EMPLOYEESTOTAL 
NON-MINORITYTOTAL MINORITY
US WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
TOTAL WOMEN
24GRI INDEX
Developing women leaders
We’re proud of our progress toward 
creating a more gender-balanced organization. Women represent more than 
50 percent of our employees worldwide 
and 30 percent of our most senior executives. 
We invest in research to help identify 
potential barriers to women’s 
advancement in the workplace, and we’ve 
created programs designed to develop and promote high-potential women at American Express. These programs include our Pathways to Sponsorship and Women Rising at American Express, which 
focus on: gender intelligence training; 
strengthening our talent pipeline; building a global network; and sponsorship. 
In addition, we offer an online learning 
module to help encourage more effective 
relationships between high-potential women and executive sponsors, More than 1,500 employees have completed the module since it was introduced in June 2015.  Helping multicultural 
women excelWe have joined with several Fortune 500 companies as inaugural members 
of Blue Circle Institute’s 
“T ransformational Leadership” program to address the lack of representation of multicultural women in managerial, senior or executive jobs, and on boards. The nine-month program gives high-potential, mid-career 
women of color the resources 
they need to get to the next level, including tailored and self-paced leadership development guides and live web-based discussions.
Championing diversity at home and around the worldSince 2004, we have scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index, based on our policies and 
practices that support lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) inclusion. We also joined Open For Business, a coalition of global companies making the economic and business case for LGBT inclusion in companies 
around the world.Promoting diversity and 
inclusion through Employee Networks 
Since 1987 , Employee Networks at 
American Express have provided opportunities that support personal 
and professional development, skill 
building and career growth. Completely 
employee-driven, they bring value 
to our company in many ways, from creating an inclusive workplace to driving product innovation. Employee 
Networks encompass the full spectrum 
of diversity at American Express, including disability, ethnicity, faith, gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation  
and veteran’s status.
In 2015, with 15 networks and nearly 
100 chapters worldwide, our Employee Networks ran many career-focused events including panel discussions, 
speaker series, leadership spotlights, 
clinics, career fairs and virtual forums.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
OUR EMPLOYEE 
NETWORKSANA
BAAN
BEN
BlueENCHAIDAN
GEN
HOLAPEACE
PRIDE
SALTWINWIT
VETAsian Employee Network
Black and Asian Employee Network
Black Employee Network
Virtual Working Employee Network
Jewish Employee Network
Disability Awareness Employee Network Generations Employee Network / GEN: Millennials 
Hispanic Origin & Latin American Employee Network 
Muslim Employee Network 
LGBT Employee Network
Christian Employee Network
Women’s Interest Employee Network
Women in T echnologies Veterans Employee Network
Families at Amex Employee Network
25GRI INDEX
Developing and retaining our best people 
are top priorities at American Express. We offer a variety of ways to support 
our employees’ professional growth. 
Managers double as mentors and colleagues act as partners, supporting each other throughout their careers. Employees are encouraged to expand their networks and explore different lines 
of businesses through programs such as: 
• Leadership training 
• Personal development programs
• Employee networks
• Continued education
We embrace a learning model of 70-20-
10, where employees learn 70 percent of their knowledge through self-directed instruction and on-the-job experiences; 
20 percent from others – such as 
mentoring and collaborative learning forums; and 10 percent from formal, more traditional approaches, such as instructor-led training. 
This model is used to create a flexible 
learning experience that provides a variety of development opportunities. Participation rates show there is a high level of engagement across business lines and geographies.Developing strong leaders
Our leadership development programs are intended to help shape leaders who challenge the status quo, take informed 
risks, and experiment with solutions 
to new and existing problems, and test new ideas.
We recruit and develop employees with 
specific leadership competencies in 
mind, including the ability to: 
• develop and leverage relationships;
• drive results;
• drive innovation and change;
• influence peers and colleagues;
• communicate effectively; and
• focus on customers and clients. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
10,500+
online and face-to-face 
training activities were 
available to employees.
34
average number of training 
courses completed by  
each employee.
77%
of first-time people leaders globally chose to participate in 
our “First-Things-First” leadership 
development program. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT IN 2015The Win Shadow  
Program: Inspiring the  
next women leaders
As part of a new program in 2015, five of our senior 
executives opened up their 
work lives to 10 women who shadowed them as part of  
their career development.  
They shared insights into the daily management, decision-making and necessary leadership skills at the  
most senior levels of  
our organization.
According to the 2014 study, Women Want Five Things, from the Center for T alent Innovation, women sometimes avoid aspiring to powerful positions 
because they see the burdens 
of leadership as outweighing the benefits. 
Our executive chapter of WIN, Exec WIN, created the Shadow Program to provide high-potential employees with unique access into the day-to-
day lives of senior executives at 
American Express – and, in the process, giving them a clearer view of the pros and cons of climbing the career ladder.
26GRI INDEX
Boosting high-potential 
employees 
We have two high-potential development 
programs: 
• Accelerated Leadership Development 
(ALD) aims to strengthen the global pipeline of senior management by developing our high-potential vice presidents. Participants are nominated by their business unit president, with 
approximately 25 participants per 
annual class. As of 2015, ALD has graduated 93 participants with 59 percent of participants receiving at least one promotion after the program completion.  
• Accelerate Y our Growth (AYG) focuses on filling the pipeline of future vice presidents by developing managers and directors. The employees, who are 
potential successors to the executive 
teams across the world, participate in AYG for six months. The program includes a 360-degree assessment and one-to-one executive coaching to help participants identify how to focus their 
development. VALUING OUR PEOPLE
Exceptional service begins with great 
people, and we employ some of the best talent in our industry. Our employees 
relish the challenge of finding new 
solutions to meet our customers’ needs. They adapt, persist and champion innovation within their teams and across the organization. 
We strive to ensure our people feel 
valued, recognized and supported—and we continually measure our progress. Our consistently high employee satisfaction scores are a testament to the strength of our relationships. In 2015, 84 percent 
of our employees who responded to 
our annual survey said they would recommend our company as a great  
place to work.
Listening to employees
Our annual employee survey, The Pulse, provides insights into employee satisfaction, leadership efficacy, learning 
opportunities and career development. 
The survey results help us improve the employee experience, our culture and business results. 
Even though participation in the survey 
is optional, employee completion rates 
are high. In 2015, 85 percent of our employees took the survey. One of our clear strengths is the employee/leader relationship, which has a direct impact on engagement and loyalty. Our employees 
give high marks for fair treatment, 
coaching, motivation and inclusion. 
We want to foster a culture in which 
employees feel free to share their ideas 
and opinions. Beyond The Pulse, other 
feedback sources include town halls and small lunch meetings with leaders. And our Listening Post platform lets employees offer anonymous feedback to Human Resources. The American Express  
Human Capital Scorecard
We have a robust program in place to assess and manage human capital risks – identified 
as talent-related issues 
that can affect productivity.  Senior leaders assess human capital risks annually through workshops, and track progress against plan to mitigate top risks quarterly. Senior Human Resources leaders are assigned 
annual compliance goals, 
and performance against these goals directly impacts compensation and year-end decisions.
The American Express Human Capital Scorecard, which measures top company leaders against the organization’s workforce priorities, reports 
across three categories:
• Performance advantage: 
Building, retaining and 
engaging a high-performing workforce.  
• Talent development: 
Differentiating and 
developing top  
leadership talent.  
• Diversity and inclusion: Building a diverse  
leadership pool.TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (CONT .)
27GRI INDEX
Flexible working
Whether it’s a variable schedule or a 
virtual role, we believe it’s important to accommodate a range of work styles. 
Our flexible work space, benefits and 
parental leave help us attract and retain the best people. We also support employees who want to volunteer for the causes they care about during work hours, as long as they receive approval 
from their manager.
All full-time and part-time U.S. 
employees who meet certain performance requirements can request a flexible work arrangement. Their 
leaders determine whether such an 
arrangement makes sense for the type of role and work style of the group. We provide formal channels to guide employees and leaders on 
decisions related to flextime, part-time, 
compressed work weeks, job sharing and remote work. 
Working better by  
working smarter
BlueWork, a program developed in 1998 
to redesign our office environments, has become the standard for our 
locations worldwide. 
The guiding principles of BlueWork are:• Flexibility: making workplaces agile 
enough to support work, however  
it is done;  
• Optimization: getting better value  
out of the space we pay for; and  
• Collaboration: supporting teamwork.95
T elePresence Studios2 
in more than 35 countries in 2015.
46
of our square footage was “BlueWorked” in 2015.%
41
of U.S. employees have a flexible work arrangement.%
21
on-site Healthy Living Wellness centers opened around the world.90
of employees have access to at least one Healthy Living program or service.%
95
of our population is covered by Healthy Minds in 25 countries.%Supporting our  
employees’ wellbeing
We invest in our employees’ physical 
and mental well-being through our award-winning corporate health and 
wellness initiative, Healthy Living, 
which provides supportive resources, enhanced access to care and incentives that foster a healthier lifestyle.
In the six years since it launched, 
Healthy Living has made a measurable 
impact on employees’ lifestyles. Our research shows an increase in the employees who increased their physical activity with encouragement through a Healthy Living program, and a better 
understanding of the consequences of 
poor health and stress.
One of our newest programs is Healthy 
Minds, a free, confidential counseling 
service that helps employees plan for 
life events, address personal issues,  
or simply manage everyday events  
that can affect their work, health and family. At select locations, many employees have year-round access 
to onsite Healthy Minds counselors, 
relaxation rooms, and yoga and meditation classes. 
Introduced in 2013 as the evolution of a 
previous employee assistance program, 
Healthy Minds has won two major 
American Psychological Association awards: the inaugural national Organizational Excellence Award and the Phoenix Workplace Excellence 
Award. Healthy Minds also won the 
Employee Assistance Society of North America Corporate Excellence award, the organization’s highest honor.
FLEXIBLE WORKING
HEALTHY LIVING PROGRAMS
28GRI INDEX
Helping employees achieve 
financial wellness 
Whether an employee is just starting 
to think about personal finances or is already financially savvy, our suite of 
Smart Saving services is there to help. 
Our programs are geared to specific life stages, such as millennials, new families, and parents planning for college.
Smart Saving includes our 401(k) 
program; financial planning coaching 
and workshops – including on-site and telephone-based coaching at no cost to employees; deals and discounts to help employees save money on everyday expenses, such as commuting 
reimbursement; and on-demand access 
to financial education resources.
Employee recognition  
and engagement 
We recognize outstanding employee 
contributions large and small. Everyday employee recognition is especially 
important – it helps inspire our 
employees to continue to do great work.
Reward Blue: Our global reward and 
recognition program recognizes colleagues for their achievements 
with monetary and non-monetary 
awards. Reward Blue builds a culture of appreciation by encouraging employees to praise everyday efforts, reward exceptional results and celebrate important anniversaries. 
Serving together: Our employees are 
active members of their communities, 
and our flagship programs, Serve2Gether, Give2Gether and Green2Gether are designed to foster a sense of shared purpose and provide our employees with 
an opportunity to give back.  Learn more 
in the Serving Our Community section.Helping our employees with 
family responsibilities
When it comes to our employees’ 
wellbeing, supporting their families is a top priority. We offer support, resources and 
benefits to help employees manage their 
many roles inside and outside the office. 80
U.S. employee participation in our 401(k) program remained steady in 2015.%
3,000+
employees around the world completed a financial assessment. Families at Amex  
Employee NetworkLaunched in 2005, Families  
at Amex reaches more than 
5,000 members across eight chapters. The network supports for families that need help balancing personal and professional priorities.
Back-up child care
This continues to be one of  
the most-loved benefits for our working parents. Employees can access in-home or center-based 
childcare throughout the U.S., 
U.K. and Canada. And in the  
U.S., employees have access  
to in-home or center-based elder care.
Special focus on  
special needs  
In the U.S., we provide programs 
and resources for parents with special-needs children. We also 
partner with major organizations 
that help raise awareness for  
the special needs community.
Gender-neutral  
parental leave
provides paid time off across 
the U.S. for both mothers and fathers after the birth or adoption of a child.
FINANCIAL WELLNESS
In 2015, 90 percent of our 
employees received recognition or appreciation through Reward Blue.Working Parent and  
Caregiver of the Y earWe recognize all of our caregivers, not just parents, around the world. Employees nominated 246 caregivers 
in 2015 and our top 10 winners are 
celebrated globally and locally by teams, leaders and colleagues.
29GRI INDEX
Our commitment to being an employer of choice continues to earn us industry awards 
and recognition. Here are some of the recognitions from 2015 that make us most proud: 
FORTUNE: 100 Best Companies to Work for in America (ranking: 51)  
Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural Women  
Working Mother NAFE T op 50 Companies for Executive Women  
Equal Opportunity Magazine T op 50 Employers  
Human Rights Campaign: Corporate Equality Index, Rating American Workplaces on 
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and T ransgender Equality (score: 100 percent)  
Anita Borg Institute T op Companies for Women T echnologists  
Aon Hewitt: Best Employer (Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, T aiwan, Thailand)  
Stonewall (U.K.): T op 100 Employers (LGBTQ) (ranking: 51)  
Working Families (U.K.): T op 30 Employers2015 TOP EMPLOYER AWARDS
3031
Satisfied customers who 
reward us with their trust and loyalty, and partners who share our vision for responsible businessSERVING  
OUR CUSTOMERS  
& PARTNERS
32 Customers first
36 Building a safe and  
 secure network
37 Informing and educating  
 our customers
38 Empowering entrepreneurs 
42 Serving the underserved
44 Supplier diversity and  
 responsible sourcing
31GRI INDEX
We’re in the business of winning the hearts and minds of our customers. Our success 
depends on looking at the world from their viewpoint so we can understand their current 
– and future – needs. When we put our customers first, we ensure American Express 
continues to be an important part of their lives.
We have a broad and diverse customer base that spans consumers at different stages of 
their lives; small and midsize companies, and large corporations; partners who issue cards on our network and others who work with us to create special products and experiences; and 
the merchants who welcome our Card Members. 
While we’re a payments company, we’re not simply looking to do a better job of processing 
payments. We’re focused on using our relationships, technology and data to better serve our 
customers and open up commerce opportunities for our partners. INTRODUCTION
Our service vision is built on a foundation 
of trust – the trust our customers place in us. We deliver on our promises and 
make things right if we fall short. We’re 
committed to providing products and services that add value to their everyday lives and business goals.  That’s how we continue to earn our customers’ loyalty. 
Delivering service excellence  
with Relationship Care®
Relationship Care® is how we 
characterize our commitment to customers.  Everyone at American 
Express plays a role in delivering our 
world-class customer experience. But our front-line colleagues are truly the faces CUSTOMERS FIRST
and voices of our company. Whether a customer needs advice or answers about our products and services, 
our front-line people build strong 
relationships that stand the test of time.
T o show our people just how much we 
appreciate the care they provide, we have an internal Customer Service 
Award program to celebrate the very 
best of our best. 
Each year, we recognize employees who 
provided a specific act of outstanding service over the past year, and 
employees who’ve demonstrated great 
customer service consistently over five years or more. “It’s important to me that each 
Card Member feels like they’re 
getting a hug from us before they get off the phone. It’s like a special gift, so before they 
disconnect I want them to say, 
‘That was memorable. That was  
a wow conversation speaking  
to Nichelle. ”
Nichelle White, American Express 
Customer Care Professional
32GRI INDEX
A helping hand when it was 
needed most
When the manager of a hotel café 
realized that her staff had mistakenly 
sold a display item, they reached out 
to American Express for urgent help 
in locating the customer. The for-
display-only cake contained hazardous 
chemicals, and the manager had no way 
to track the man down before he served the tainted dessert at an anniversary 
celebration. She thought perhaps 
American Express could help. Luckily, 
care professional Kelvin Prakash 
Thangavelu proved her right.
Wasting no time, Kelvin took down 
all the information he could get from the hotel’s record of the charge, and he 
and colleagues from the authorization 
team used that information to narrow down the list of 21 Card Members who had used their American Express Cards at the café that day. Six of the 21 
had the same last four digits to match 
the purchase of the display cake, and 
Kelvin carefully reviewed all of the 
accounts until he had figured out the 
correct customer.
Kelvin contacted the Card Member 
and explained the situation. Both the customer and the café manager were 
grateful for Kelvin’s help in averting a 
potentially dangerous outcome.
said Kelvin, one of 35 Customer Service 
Award winners in 2015. “Y ou can make 
a difference. ”“ I always say be genuine 
in whatever you do”
HOW WE SERVE
Our global, integrated 
servicing network lets customers choose how they speak and connect with us: in 15 languages and through eight channels.In 2015, we achieved record-level customer satisfaction, with our internal measures of servicing satisfaction up 40% from 2010.We also maintain and publish accessibility requirements to everyone who works on our websites and mobile apps.
 For our visually impaired Card Members, we have Braille and large-font printing for statements and year-end summaries. They can also ask our Customer Care staff to read correspondence, and even their billing statements, to them.
33GRI INDEX
BUSINESS
We issued our first formal 
Corporate Card program in 1966. T oday, we are still the leader in the commercial payments space. We serve businesses of all sizes, from small, independently owned establishments to large, global organizations— including 63 percent of Fortune 500 companies internationally.Personalized services and protection  
We use big data and technology to better serve our customers. Our data and technology 
helps us personalize services, keep customers safe from fraud, and help our business clients manage their operations and expand. Our technology makes it easier to pay 
online and with mobile devices, and lets us develop seamless experiences with digital-
first partner organizations. Connecting members with 
causes they care aboutIn the early 1980s we pioneered cause-related marketing campaigns. One of the most 
memorable campaigns from 
that era included an effort to restore the Statue of Liberty. By using American Express’ services, Card Members across the U.S. helped raise over $1 million to restore a national treasure. Since then we have 
donated millions of dollars 
to causes that are important to Card Members, merchant partners and the general public. 
In 2010, to help our Card Members give back we created GivingExpress®. Now known as Members Give
SM, the 
program connects our Card Members to causes they care about by simplifying charitable giving. Card Members can 
access more than one million 
worthy organizations online; making charitable giving easier than ever. WHO WE SERVE
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
CONSUMERS
Our Card Members come from 
many walks of life. Our research tell us they have some things in common: they tend to be optimists and are driven to succeed in their chosen path. We do our best to make it easier for them to pay for all their purchases, reward them for their loyalty and help them to buy and travel with peace of mind. We offer a range of credit cards, charge cards and other  services to suit their needs.
PARTNERS
Airlines. Banks. Retailers. Entertainment venues. Hotels. Restaurants. Digital players. We have strategic partners in all kinds of fields helping us give our customers the rewards and experiences they care about. Partners help us give our customers more choices when it comes to spending with us.MERCHANTS
Millions of stores, restaurants, travel operators and other establishments welcome American Express cards around the world. We work to make sure their experience is seamless as possible. And we help them grow their businesses by connecting them to our high-spending customers, and by providing marketing and other services.
$77 million 
in dollars and Membership 
Rewards points have been donated by Card Members 
since 2010.
34GRI INDEX
We’re proud of the external recognition 
we have received for our customer service efforts. Some of the highlights 
from 2015 include:2015 CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS
AUSTRALIA  
National Service Excellence in a Contact 
Center (NSW Australian T eleservices 
Association).
 
ITALY  
Best Customer Service (Customer 
Management Multimedia Competence).
 
JAPAN
Best overall satisfaction among credit card companies (J.D. Power Call  
Center Satisfaction Survey).
 
UNITED KINGDOM  
Ranked eighth out of 272 brands in  
the Customer Experience Excellence ranking by the Customer  
Experience Excellence Centre. UNITED STATES  
Tied for first in Customer Loyalty Engagement Index (Brand Keys) and tied for highest ranking in Satmetrix 
Net Promoter Score Benchmark; 
recognized Best Customer Service among Credit Card companies per Credio’s 2015 survey.
 
MEXICO  
Several wins including excellence in company-client relationships 
and contact centers at the Instituto 
Mexicano de T eleservicios.
 
SINGAPORE  
Silver Award for Best Customer Experience (Contact Centre  
Association of Singapore).
35GRI INDEX
We know that good service means 
maintaining consumer trust. So we have a strong, long-standing commitment 
to privacy and data security. We 
have a robust privacy program, with clear policies and governance, so our customers know they can trust how  
we collect, use and protect their  
personal information.
Investing in a rigorous  
privacy program
Our Global Privacy team helps us protect 
our customers’ data and develop practical ways for managing personal information. 
Their work includes:
PROCESSES AND TRAINING  
Our Data Protection and Privacy 
Principles guide how we collect, use 
and process our customers’ personal 
information. Additional privacy policies and controls help our employees safeguard information. This is reinforced through mandatory Privacy and Data Security training for employees.  
TECHNOLOGY  
We have invested in technology that lets Card Members opt in or out of marketing 
communications and tell us the ways 
they’d prefer us to get in touch.  BUILDING A SAFE AND SECURE NETWORK
PRIVACY CENTER  
Available on AmericanExpress.com, our Privacy Center gives consumers in the United States information about our  
data protection and privacy principles  
and policies. 
This rigorous framework helps to 
ensure we comply with privacy laws and regulations and reflect consumers’ 
expectations for privacy.
Our closed loop network 
Our business model means we maintain 
direct relationships with both Card Members and merchants. We operate 
a closed loop network that provides us 
with information on transactions from both the Card Member and the merchant perspective. That means we can provide customized marketing to merchants and special offers to Card Members with best-
in-class risk management. 
Investing in fraud prevention
Our state-of-the-art monitoring tools, 
controls and policies help detect and prevent fraud, money laundering and 
terrorist financing in our operations 
around the world. Our data scientists analyze our closed loop data to predict needs and prescribe valuable solutions for our customers, such as fraud alerts, often in real time. 
We have continued to improve fraud-
related servicing for our Card Members over the years, including by launching 
fraud alerts via email and text message in 
many countries. In some countries, we now provide Card Members with a one-touch response to confirm charges through emails, text messages and smartphone 
notifications. This means Card Members 
can receive an alert and verify a charge with a simple tap to resolve potential fraud concerns without requiring a phone call.T o combat the increasing sophistication and scale of fraud attacks, we combine our closed loop with machine-learning 
algorithms to evaluate thousands of 
pieces of information and make a  
fraud risk decision on transactions  
within two milliseconds.
We have also partnered with merchants 
to develop advanced techniques to detect 
compromised Card Member account information, and deployed advanced authentication solutions to detect  
identity theft.
As a result, we have maintained the lowest 
fraud rates in the industry for years, helping us protect our Card Members and merchants and delivering on our brand promise of trust, security and service.
Maintaining secure connections
We have promoted the adoption of EMV technology (named after its founders Europay, MasterCard and Visa), which 
enhances the security of payment 
transactions by storing data on a chip embedded in a payment card. The chip, working with EMV-enabled terminals, creates a unique code for each transaction, which cannot be used again. We are one of 
four major payment organizations that is 
an equity member in EMVCo.
In 2015, to help educate and assist small 
merchants in adopting EMV technology, we rolled out an EMV assistance program. 
We offered U.S. small merchants who 
accept American Express and who upgraded their terminals to EMV access to a one-time, $100 reimbursement in the form of an American Express gift card. We 
even had a dedicated “American Express 
Fraud Squad” visit small merchants in New Y ork, Atlanta, Miami and Houston to share information about EMV technology and our program. Additionally, we provide online resources to help businesses make 
the transition to chip technology.
We are proud to have been 
rated as one of Ponemon’s Most Trusted Companies  
for Privacy for the past nine years, and number one in financial services.
36GRI INDEX
We are committed to keeping our customers well-informed and confident in 
using our products. This means marketing our products in a way that is clear, transparent and informative.INFORMING AND EDUCATING OUR CUSTOMERS
Responsible marketing  
and fair lending
We are dedicated to high standards of 
fairness in our customer practices and have developed this Global Customer 
Practices Statement: 
“American Express believes that delivering products and services in a fair and transparent manner is critical to providing best-in-class customer service. As part of its fundamental commitment 
to meet customer credit needs 
throughout the world, American Express is dedicated to engaging in customer practices that embody transparency, truthfulness, fairness and a culture of non-discrimination throughout the credit 
lifecycle. The company manages and 
mitigates customer practices risk through RESPONSIBLE MARKETING AND PRACTICE 
Our principles of responsible marketing include:
dedicated resources, and ongoing monitoring, testing and oversight. This also applies to third-party vendors and 
their subcontractors, also known as 
fourth-party vendors. ”
Improving consumers’  
financial knowledge
We have been developing and 
sponsoring financial education initiatives for decades. We provide 
customers with their FICO score and 
offer a number of educational tools on our Consumer Resources site as well 
as information, insights and tips about selecting and using credit cards.  
This information is available in  
English and Spanish.Transparency in practice
We recently published a new Membership Rewards chart to make it easier for U.S. Card Members and prospects to see 
all of their redemption options 
and the value of each reward. The chart shows the rewards available, how many points are needed for each reward and what those points are worth in dollars. It’s a simple tool to help Card Members choose the 
rewards that are right for them.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
American Express Customer 
Data Principle Our customers have the right to request the information that we have on them, review it, and make changes.TRANSPARENCY
Marketing offers should be 
clear, simple and easy to understand.  
 Marketers should consider all reasonable interpretations from a customer or prospect’s point of view.ACCOUNTABILITY
Marketers should think about how the offer will work: risks, controls, and monitoring associated with 
the end-to-end execution including 
fulfillment and servicing. Marketing should create and retain documentation: process flows, control measures, monitoring and 
stakeholder approvals.
37GRI INDEX
Supporting small businesses growth
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing character 
to neighborhoods, as well as jobs and investment. We have been dedicated to serving them for more than 25 years. When 
we help small businesses reach their potential, we can make an 
exponential positive impact on communities. 
For example, our American Express OPEN Charge and Credit 
Cards help small businesses grow. The card gives small business owners funding to help them buy what they need, 
when they need it, for their business. And that’s just one of 
the ways we support small businesses. We also offer a suite of programs and resources including online resources, live events, and one-to-one business meetings. EMPOWERING ENTREPRENEURS
Sweet rewards for  
Cissé Trading
Diana Lovett is the founder of Cissé, 
a New Y ork-based maker of gourmet 
brownie mixes, hot cocoa and snackable 
brownie thins. 
With a background in international 
aid, Lovett’s vision was to create a company that was a vehicle for positive 
change. Cissé’s organic cocoa is sourced 
from a Fair Trade cooperative in the 
Dominican Republic. By paying a fair 
price, Cissé enables the cooperative to 
invest profits back into the community, 
for projects such as schools, improved farming practices and a health clinic.
Getting capital to fund growth 
has been challenging. Lovett and her 
husband self-funded the first brownie mix prototype with their own savings. 
Then she moved on to credit cards.
“That’s a reality for early stage 
companies, ” she says in an article on 
American Express OPEN Forum. 
“We felt like we could trust American Express. ” Currently, Lovett is a 
Business Gold Rewards Card Member. 
“I’ve used it to purchase thousands 
of pounds of nuts, dried fruit, vanilla 
bean and tons of other ingredients, to 
ship pallets across the country, to fly 
to meetings with buyers, to purchase materials for our trade show booth, 
to send samples to buyers and tons of 
other ways. It’s indispensable. ”In 2015, small business owners used OPEN 
cards to fund more than $200 billion in purchases, just like Cissé Trading. 
“ We felt like we could trust 
American Express. ”
38GRI INDEX
The Small Business  
Saturday movement
Small Business Saturday is one of our 
biggest initiatives. 
Since 2010, customers and small 
businesses have been able to kick-start 
their holiday shopping season on a day 
designed to celebrate the uniqueness, charm and economic impact that small 
businesses bring to communities. 
We launched Small Business 
Saturday to help bring attention to 
small businesses and to encourage 
shoppers to support them by shopping 
at small businesses on the Saturday after Thanksgiving. 
In 2015, shoppers – including 
President Barack Obama – supported 
their neighborhood businesses like 
never before. Ninety-five million people shopped at small businesses and 
embraced the day as a holiday shopping 
tradition. 
With the support of American 
Express and thousands of entrepreneurs across the country, Small Business 
Saturday has grown from a nationwide 
movement to an international one. The day is now observed in the United Kingdom and Australia.
The shop small movement is a 
social and community experience. 
According to the Small Business 
Saturday Consumer Insights Survey, 
almost two-thirds of consumers 
surveyed who planned to shop on 
Small Business Saturday in 2015 
were motivated by the contributions that small businesses make to  
their community.3
“If you buy one of these Vita 
Craft pans, the money that you pay me stays in Kansas City, because we’re a locally owned company, ” says 
Aaron Prater, local sundry owner. 
“But then these are made in Lenexa, 
and so that money stays (in the 
area) too. So when you’re buying 
local... it’s a chain reaction that just 
multiplies throughout the economy. ”
“So when you’re buying 
local... it’s a chain 
reaction that just 
multiplies throughout the economy. ”
39GRI INDEX
AUSTRALIA
94K+
small businesses 
took part in the movement.100K
was given to small businesses by American Express through business grants and more than 
one million Card Members were 
encouraged to shop small.90+
corporate supporters and multiple local councils across Australia 
helped spread the word.95M+
U.S. consumers 
shopped at a small business on Small 
Business Saturday in 
2015, eight percent more than the previous year. 551
city proclamations were issued by mayors and other 
elected officials in 
support of Small Business Saturday. 16.2B
According to the Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey, 
total spending among 
U.S. consumers who were aware of Small Business Saturday reached $16.2 billion at independent retailers and restaurants 
on the day, an increase 
of 14 percent from $14.3 billion in 2014.
448%
More than 4,100 Neighborhood Champions rallied 
their communities, 
an increase of 48 percent from 2014.UNITED STATES
620M+
was spent with small businesses on the day – up £119 million on last year 
an increase of 24 percent 
(results from a survey undertaken in the 24 hours following Small Business Saturday).LOCAL
We also run the Shop Small Campaign, which encourages consumers 
to support their local, 
independent businesses. IN 2013
As the founding sponsor and main supporter of Small Business Saturday, we have championed 
the day since it first launched in 
the U.K. in 2013. The campaign has cross-party political support as well as backing from small business organizations, local authorities and community groups.UNITED KINGDOMTHE IMPACT OF SMALL BUSINESS SATURDAY 
40GRI INDEX
SUPPORTING WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES
The case for the value of women-owned businesses is clear. As of 2015, there were an 
estimated 9.4 million women-owned businesses in the United States, generating nearly $1.5 trillion in revenues and employing over 7 .9 million people. Women-owned business 
growth has surged since the recession. In fact, they are growing at a rate five times 
the national average.
5 This means women are making a significant contribution to job 
creation and economic growth in America.
CHALLENGE HER PROGRAM
 In April 2013, Women Impacting Public Policy (WIPP), American Express 
OPEN and the U.S. Small Business 
Administration launched ChallengeHER, a national initiative to boost government contracting opportunities for women-owned small businesses. ChallengeHER delivers free workshops, mentoring and 
direct access to government buyers. Now 
entering its fourth year, ChallengeHER has educated more than 5,400 women entrepreneurs at 39 workshops across the country and facilitated more than 1,900 meetings between women small business 
owners and government officials.GIVE ME 5 PROGRAM
 
WIPP and American Express OPEN are longtime champions of 
women entrepreneurs in the federal 
contracting space. T ogether we created the Give Me 5 program to give women-owned small businesses access to knowledge and resources to help win federal contracts. In 2016, 
the U.S. Government achieved its goal 
of awarding five percent of its annual federal contracts to women-owned small businesses for the first time since the goal was set almost 20 years ago.  FIFTY FASTEST GROWING WOMEN-
OWNED/LED COMPANIES
 
In partnership with The Women Presidents’ Organization, American 
Express supports the annual Fifty 
Fastest Growing Women-Owned /Led Companies ranking. T ogether, we are tapping into the experience and expertise of the Fifty Fastest honorees to help propel other women business 
leaders through their journeys of 
business expansion.
Providing small and 
medium organizations  
with resources online  
American Express® OPEN 
Forum helps small-business owners find insights, inspiration and connections to grow their businesses responsibly. They’ll 
find articles, guides to business 
growth, sustainability and human capital management, videos,  and more.
41GRI INDEX
 We serve a wide range of customers  
and have innovated to provide products 
and services to meet new needs  
and preferences.  
Offering alternatives to 
traditional banking
Our reloadable prepaid products, 
Bluebird® and Serve®, offer alternatives to traditional banking in a way that we believe is convenient to financially underserved customers in the United States. These products allow people to set up paycheck deposits, access bills online, and use tools to manage their money.
BLUEBIRD®
Bluebird® is designed to help Americans without access to traditional banking services to manage and control 
their everyday finances. Bluebird® 
offers the advanced level of service expected from our brand, such as check deposits by smartphone and mobile bill pay, fee transparency, and no minimum balance, monthly, annual or 
overdraft fees. Bluebird® was created 
in partnership with Walmart and made available at over 4,000 of its stores.
SERVE®  
In 2015, we announced American Express Serve® Cash Back, a prepaid 
debit account that earns accountholders 
one percent cash-back on purchases. Consumers who spend in line with the 2012-2013 U.S. Department of Labor 
national averages for gas, groceries, 
dining out, clothing, transportation and entertainment using the Serve® Cash Back Card could potentially earn more than $400 annually
6 when earning one 
percent cash-back.
MOBILE BANKING
Through Serve® and Bluebird®, our customers are paying bills, purchasing SERVING THE UNDERSERVED
everyday necessities, tracking spending, putting aside money for the future and sending money to friends and family. 
And they’re doing much of it from our 
mobile apps.
Inspiring change through film
In 2011, nearly 70 million Americans were underserved by traditional financial services.
7  In 2012, financially 
underserved Americans spent $89 billion in fees and interest, an eight 
percent increase from the previous 
year.
8 In the same year, almost half of 
all U.S. households reported that they could not come up with $2,000 in case 
of an emergency.
9
Those are some of the eye-opening 
statistics that are revealed in the documentary Spent: Looking for 
Change , a film about Americans who 
don’t have the financial options most of us take for granted—and the movement giving them renewed hope.
We sponsored this documentary to 
raise awareness and drive change. This 
is a large issue, and no one company can solve it alone. But our hope is that the film will help inspire and rally organizations to find better solutions for overlooked and underserved Americans. 
Supporting financial literacy
We want to help customers make informed choices, avoid financial pitfalls 
and follow good practices to improve 
their financial well-being. For more than 40 years, we have supported financial literacy programs in partnership with some of the world’s most respected 
organizations. These programs address 
the financial needs of young people, first-time credit users and experienced credit users who want to improve their financial management skills.Revitalizing neighborhoods
Revitalizing the neighborhoods of underserved areas is one of the many ways we serve communities. 
As a financial holding company, 
American Express, through our U.S. bank subsidiaries, is evaluated on its performance under the federally mandated Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). In 2015, our U.S. banks’ 
Center for Community Development 
underwrote $238 million in loans and investments, resulting in the creation of 921 units of affordable housing that build stronger and more inclusive cities. Our CRA investments 
are complemented by our community 
activities that impact almost 12,000 individuals and families in underserved communities by providing basic needs, supporting workforce development and 
enhancing financial literacy.
Innovation in Financial 
Education Award 
On April 14, 2015, the Nasdaq and 
EverFi honored financial institutions that use technology and new media to teach critical financial skills. We were one of 25 financial services companies 
selected out of the 14,000 financial 
institutions in the United States.12,000
individuals and families 
from underserved communities supported.Almost
42GRI INDEX
Helping students build a 
healthy financial future
Mississippi: In a town called 
Clarksdale, half of the population had 
no access to banking. So in 2014, we 
partnered with nonprofits Moneythink 
and EveryoneOne to launch a three-
year financial literacy program to help 
Clarksdale High School students – and 
in turn, their parents – build and prepare for a healthy financial future. 
It’s called “Clarksdale Dollars & Sense” 
and it gives students internet access at 
home, a financial mentorship program, 
and mobile phone-based learning apps.
For the first time, Clarksdale high 
school seniors will benefit from a financial literacy curriculum integrated 
into their Government and Economics 
classes and taught by committed 
Moneythink mentors from local 
universities. An external partner is tracking the program’s effectiveness.China: Since 2004, we have sponsored 
Junior Achievement China’s “My Money Business” , an in-class program 
that helps students aged 14 -19 in 
Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou 
learn how to manage their finances 
and establish good habits. To date, 
more than 650 American Express 
and community volunteers have been involved, reaching more than 10,000 
students. In the 2015/2016 academic 
year, the program plans to engage 150 
volunteers and reach 1,200 students.
Utah: American Express Centurion 
Bank and American Express Bank, 
FSB are the only banks in Utah 
that partnered with Fair Credit and 
EverFi to provide a new computer-
based financial literacy and critical 
life skills training to Title 1 schools (those with high percentages of 
students from low-income families) 
in Salt Lake, San Juan, and Tooele Counties. San Juan and Tooele Counties are the primary locations of Native American land in Utah. 
The EverFi program is web-based 
and utilizes the latest in new media 
technologies—video, animations, 
3-D gaming, avatars, and social 
networking—to bring complex 
financial concepts to life for a digital generation.
To date, more than 
650 American Express 
and community 
volunteers have been involved, reaching 
more than 10,000 
students. 
43GRI INDEX
Our suppliers are critical to our 
service mission. They enable us to progress, helping us to reach our larger 
sustainability goals, purchase responsibly, 
and manage our expenses.
Diversity and inclusion in the 
supply chain
Winning strategies, products and services 
require diversity of thought, perspective 
and contribution. We stand behind this 
commitment to inclusion across our organization, including the third parties we do business with.
As part of our Supply Chain Inclusion 
Initiative , American Express monitors 
our annual spend with suppliers that are certified business enterprises with protected-class owners and operators, including:
• Minority Business Enterprises
• Women-Owned Business Enterprises
• Small Business Enterprises / 8(a) / 
HubZone firms
• Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, and T ransgender firms
• Disadvantaged or Disabled Business 
Enterprises
• Veteran Business EnterprisesSUPPLIER DIVERSITY AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Our inclusive supplier practices have 
been recognized by groups that promote supplier development and diversity:
• Arizona Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce: Arizona Million Dollar Circle of Excellence
• Black Enterprise Magazine: 40 Best Companies for Diversity
• DiversityInc Magazine: T op 50 Companies for Diversity
• DiversityPlus Magazine: Champion of Diversity
• Human Rights Campaign Foundation: 100 percent Score on Corporate 
Equality Index
• Hispanic Business Magazine: T op 60 
Companies for Diversity
• Latina Style Magazine: 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work for in 
the U.S.
We support human rights in our supply chain and work with 
suppliers who share our values. All third parties – including suppliers – that provide goods or services to American Express are required to conduct business in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, in addition to adhering to our standards of integrity, transparency and ethics. We enforce this through our Shared Values documentation. Responsible procurement
We take a comprehensive approach 
to managing third-party relationships throughout their entire lifecycle to ensure 
that we are complying with regulatory 
requirements. We have rigorous risk assessment and due diligence activities for any new, modified and renewed engagements that are considered high risk. Employees must also regularly 
evaluate third parties they work with to 
make sure they are meeting relationship, compliance and risk expectations.
We also regularly source environmentally 
preferable and socially responsible 
commodities and services from 
approved third party vendors. Additional information about our environmentally preferable sourcing is in the Serving our Environment section.
4445
46 Charitable giving
47 Community service
52 Leadership
54 Historic preservationLongstanding relationships, 
strengthened through serviceSERVING
OUR COMMUNITIES
45GRI INDEX
We’re here to help our customers and our communities. That 
means serving in ways that enable the communities in which 
we live and work to prosper, and assisting when a helping 
hand is needed. 
We know that strong and prosperous communities enable strong and prosperous 
businesses. But for American Express, the idea is bigger than numbers on a balance sheet. It’s about our role and responsibility as citizens.
Through our philanthropic and community work, we serve and support those who 
are addressing some of society’s most complex issues. 
We empower social sector leaders to create sustainable change at a local level. We 
help citizens volunteer and improve their local communities. And we preserve the 
historic places that keep our communities strong, diverse and vibrant.INTRODUCTION
CHARITABLE GIVING60+ years, half a billion 
dollars: The American Express Foundation’s legacy.
In the 1850s, American Express employees contributed to the fundraising effort to build a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. That ethos of 
philanthropy has been integral 
to our culture ever since. 
In 1954 we created the American Express Foundation, a New Y ork-based non-profit that supports charitable organizations. Since then, the Foundation 
has provided over half a billion 
dollars to thousands of causes around the world.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
2015 CHARITABLE GIVING IMPACTAt American Express, we focus our charitable giving in three areas:
• Community Service: We enable charitable organizations to engage community 
members as volunteers to deliver mission-critical services.
• Leadership: We help to develop emerging leaders who are addressing society’s 
most complex issues.
• Historic Preservation: We promote stewardship of the historic places that bring 
value to local communities.
$39M
in grants in 2015 to 
6,180 organizations in 
ten countries 
(380 direct grants + 
5,800 gift matching).350K
volunteers engaged in 
community service.COMMUNITY SERVICE GRANTS
6,000
non-profit and social sector leaders trained.LEADERSHIP
33
historic sites preserved for future generations.HISTORIC PRESERVATION
46GRI INDEX
Engaging community members as volunteers
Volunteers are the heart and soul of communities.
Effective volunteer engagement can lead to a nonprofit creating solutions within 
communities, broadening its efforts and growing its profile and supporter base. 
For community members, volunteering is a way to use and develop their skills and leadership, build social networks and gain a sense of purpose and connection.
We believe the most effective charitable organizations are those that have built 
volunteer engagement into their social impact model, so our partnerships focus on 
deep, long-term volunteer engagement rather than one-off volunteer events.COMMUNITY SERVICE
National Parks Partnership: 
Supporting a million volunteers
In 2015, we announced a $5 million 
commitment to the National 
Park Foundation to help the U.S 
Department of the Interior reach its 
goal of one million volunteers on 
public lands annually. In partnership 
with the YMCA of the USA, our funds 
support community coordinator positions in 50 U.S. cities to increase awareness, support and participation 
in outdoor programs. These funds also 
help National Parks to reach young 
adults and veterans, encouraging 
them to serve on the 21st Century 
Conservation Service Corps.  And it 
means the organization can engage new 
volunteers during the 2016 National 
Park Service Centennial.200K
Y oung people 
helped.415 
homes built or restored.7M 
meals served.62M 
pounds of food were rescued that would 
have  otherwise 
gone to waste.In 2015, our community service grants helped engage over 350,000 volunteers, resulting in more 
than $70 million in donated time and talent.1 These volunteers achieved the following:2015 COMMUNITY SERVICE IMPACT
47GRI INDEX
Disaster relief
Serving our customers in times of need 
is often a simple act, like replacing a lost card or re-booking a travel arrangement. 
But in times of disaster, our Global 
Service Network of customer care professionals locate and assist stranded or displaced customers and businesses. 
We have incorporated disaster relief as 
a priority in our philanthropic activities. 
And in 2015 we supported the disaster response efforts for two global disasters:
Earthquake in Nepal: We provided 
$200,000 in disaster aid to support 
American Red Cross, Save the Children 
and the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund in India. We also rebated merchant fees on charitable contributions made on the American Express Card to eight U.S. 
nonprofit organizations for Nepal relief.
Global refugee crisis: We provided 
$120,000 in aid to support the International Rescue Committee (IRC). Our donation helped the IRC distribute 
essential items such as blankets, 
generators and shelters, and to create basic infrastructure, such as running water, sanitation and hygiene systems for European refugee camps. We are a founding partner of the IRC’s Corporate 
Rescue Partners program, a group of 
donors that provides regular funding to the IRC so the organization has funds readily available to respond to escalating refugee crises around the globe.
In addition to providing funds for disaster 
relief, we also work with partners to help disaster organizations recruit and engage disaster response volunteers. Engaging veterans in  
disaster response 
In 2015 we launched an initiative with 
T eam Rubicon to engage its veteran members in disaster mitigation and 
habitat improvement projects with the 
U.S. Department of the Interior. The 
aim was to preserve America’s national 
parks and public lands while providing an opportunity for veterans to serve on the home front. American Express committed $300,000 for the first two years of this 
effort. So far, nearly 400 veterans have 
received specialized disaster response training and/or been deployed to respond to natural disasters.
National Day of  
Service and Remembrance
We invested significant resources 
into reviving downtown 
Manhattan, our home since 1850’s. 
After the September 11th attacks, 
the nonprofit organization My 
Good Deed was created to honor 
those who died or were injured, 
pay tribute to the first responders and people involved in rescue 
efforts, and promote citizen 
service and unity.Thanks to My Good Deed’s efforts, 
Federal legislation was passed 
in 2009 to establish September 11th National Day of Service and 
Remembrance (9/11 Day). We are 
a long-standing supporter of 9/11 
Day, and have provided over $1.5 
million in support since 2007 to help grow the movement. According 
to My Good Deed, in 2015, nearly 
30 million Americans observed the 
day through charitable acts and 
volunteer service.
48GRI INDEX
492Gether: A platform for 
collaboration and social impact
Whether mentoring students, caring 
for the elderly, feeding the hungry, protecting the environment, or 
using their professional skills to 
help nonprofits succeed, each year thousands of American Express employees give their time, talent and donations to serve local communities.
T apping into the passion and 
commitment of American Express employees and their desire to give  
back is a key element of our philanthropic approach.
We have created a platform to engage 
employees in our philanthropic efforts. 
2GETHERSERVE
2GETHER
SERVE
2GETHER
CONSULTING
GREEN
2GETHERGIVE
2GETHER
SERVE
2GETHER
GRANTSDISASTER 
RELIEF
MENTORINGDAYS OF 
SERVICE
ENVIRONMENTDONATIONS PRO BONOServe2Gether: Promoting and 
celebrating volunteerism 
Throughout the year, our employees 
participate in a range of company-sponsored volunteer activities, from 
youth mentoring to preparing and 
delivering meals. Employees are able to volunteer for the causes they care 
about during work hours as long as they 
receive approval from their manager.Partnership spotlight:  
Points of Light
Points of Light (POL) is the largest 
organization in the world dedicated to volunteer service, mobilizing more than four million volunteers every year.
POL brings the power of people 
to change the world. Since 2013, American Express and POL have organized Serve2Gether volunteer events in Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, India, Italy, and the U.K. From 2013 to 2015, more than 4,000 American Express employees have provided 
over 18,000 hours of volunteer service 
through the program.
49GRI INDEX
DISTRIBUTION OF VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES 
SKILLS-BASED
Helping  
develop people.25%
PRO-BONO
Donating 
professional expertise.10%
HANDS ON
Supporting communities on the ground.60%BOARD 
SERVICE
Leading and 
governing  
nonprofit organizations.5%2015 SERVE2GETHER IMPACT
DISTRIBUTION OF VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES
10
countries 
supported
SINGAPOREHONG KONG
AUSTRALIAMEXICOU.S.U.K.CANADA
INDIA130K
volunteer hours.$3M
for hands-on 
volunteering  
(1 hour hands on 
volunteering = $23).1
$1.7M
million in donated 
pro bono (1 hour donated pro bono  
= $150).
1Serve2Gether across the globe
HONG KONG: 50 employees renovated 
a local organic farm.  
TORONTO, CANADA:  200 employees 
packed over 1,000 care kits and assembled toys for partners including 
the SickKids Hospital Foundation and 
the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.  
LONDON, U.K.: 50 employees 
attended one of six volunteer days  
to prepare meals for families in  
The Ronald McDonald House at  
Guy’s Hospital.  
ROME, ITALY:  100 employees 
improved facilities at the Centro Anziani recreation center for seniors 
and the Associazione Ylenia e gli  
Amici Speciali, a center for people  
with disabilities.  
TOKYO,  JAPAN: Nearly five years after 
the great earthquake and tsunami, 
250,000 people still live in temporary 
homes in T ohoku. T o brighten their 
holiday season, 50 employees created personalized Christmas gifts and cards for 100 families living in a temporary housing unit in Y amamoto-cho.
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO:  Through 
its NUTRITION FOR TWO program, employees collected healthy food 
supplies for over 3,600 children 
and 100 families in the indigenous community of Mazahuas.
DELHI AND GURGAON, INDIA:   
Nearly 600 employees volunteered through 25 events including education 
and arts activities supporting 1,200 
underserved youth, packing 1,000  
food and school supply kits, and renovating six local schools.2015 HIGHLIGHTS
JAPANITALY
50GRI INDEX
Serve2Gether Grants
Through Serve2Gether Grants, we 
provide micro-grants of $500-$2,500 to organizations where employees 
volunteer 50 or more hours within a 
12-month period. In 2015, the program awarded $290,000 in grants in recognition of more than 9,000 hours of volunteer service recorded by over 1,350 employees. 
Gift Matching
For more than 50 years, we’ve been matching employee contributions and non-employee directors of American 
Express Company up to a maximum of 
$8,000 a year. In 2015, we matched  
$6.1 million of contributions.
In 2015, the U.S. Give2Gether 
campaign continued to drive industry-
leading participation with 80 percent 
of our U.S. employees making a donation. The campaign engages hundreds of employee volunteers who organize charity events and develop creative promotions to rally support 
for the campaign.
2015 Serve2Gether Consulting Impact
In 2015, 220 employees donated over 11,000 
hours which equates to nearly $1.7 million  of support to charitable organizations in eight 
countries: Canada, India, Mexico, Singapore, 
Hong Kong, Australia, the U.K. and the U.S. We also awarded organizations $375,000 in seed funding.2015 GIVE2GETHER IMPACT
3
Canada + USA + India.COUNTRIES
4,800
charities supported in 2015.
$6.0M
donated by employees. 
$6.1M
matched by our company. Green2Gether
The platform’s newest initiative seeks to engage employees in the company’s environmental responsibility program.  
For more information on Green2Gether, see the Serving Our Environment section.Serve2Gether Consulting
Serve2Gether Consulting matches nonprofits with American Express employees on short- and medium-
term consulting projects. Each 
spring, teams of our employees assist nonprofits with marketing, finance, strategy, technology, legal, organizational structure and capacity. The objective is to provide an action 
plan that addresses the partner’s 
area of need. T eams can also submit their business plans for a chance to secure a $25,000 American Express Foundation grant to put their improvements into action.
51GRI INDEX
THE LEADERSHIP 
ACADEMY IMPACT 
Growing American Express’ leadership 
pipeline by attracting, developing and retaining top talent is a business 
imperative we invest in heavily. This 
commitment to developing leaders extends to the communities we serve.
For nearly a decade, we have dedicated 
a pillar of our philanthropic mission 
to strengthening nonprofit and social 
purpose leadership by creating and funding programs for those working to solve the world’s biggest challenges. We have been doing this since 2008. LEADERSHIP 
T raining the leaders  
of tomorrow
Founded in 2008, the American 
Express Leadership Academy builds the personal, business and leadership 
skills of emerging nonprofit leaders and 
social entrepreneurs. 
We have trained world-class leaders 
who are focused on improving education, the arts, social services, 
health and the environment.
The Leadership Academy has grown 
from a single, New Y ork-based program for 24 participants to an international movement, encompassing 10 
Academy partners and 19 programs. 
T o date, we have hosted nearly 70 Leadership Academy sessions across nine countries – including the United States, the United Kingdom, India, 
Japan, Mexico Canada, China, Senegal 
and Kenya – training more than 2,200 nonprofit and social sector leaders. 93% 
of participants are still working in the nonprofit sector.
64% 
are still in touch with others who participated in their Leadership Academy group.70% 
have been promoted or taken positions with greater responsibility.
73%   
cited the value of a national network of peers as 
extremely meaningful.
2015 LEADERSHIP GRANT IMPACT
$9.1 
TOTAL VALUE OF 
GRANTS10 
ACADEMY PARTNERS19 
PROGRAMS9 
COUNTRIES   
(U.S., U.K., India, Japan, Mexico, Canada, China, 
Senegal, Kenya)6K+ 
LEADERS WERE 
TRAINED 
52GRI INDEX
Scaling our impact through 
digital learning
While we continue to invest in and 
expand our in-person leadership training programs, we are using 
technology to bring leadership 
development to scale. In 2015, we invested $800,000 in online leadership training platforms. We are the keystone funder and partner for three new online leadership development platforms:
+ACUMEN:  +Acumen, a nonprofit 
that is changing the way the world tackles poverty, developed an online 
course platform and global learning 
community for social change leaders. Launched in 2013, +Acumen shares unique leadership tools and guidance on building social enterprises through its free and low-cost online courses 
that are globally accessible. In 2015, 
+Acumen was the world’s largest open online course provider in the social purpose sector, garnering more than 400,000 sign-ups from 170+ countries. In 2015, leaders from more than 10,000 
organizations took online courses  
from +Acumen. PRESIDIO INSTITUTE:  Leaderosity , 
launched in 2015 with the Presidio 
Institute, is a new online leadership 
development platform for social 
purpose leaders. Courses are tailored to each participant’s preference and pace, with added peer-to-peer interactions challenging participants to be more adaptable and collaborative 
leaders. This networking aspect gives 
participants the opportunity to build lasting, local, national and international relationships with a community of like-minded people.
LEADERSTORIES.ORG: A storytelling 
platform to share the leadership journeys of social purpose leaders, 
LeaderStories.org, uses video 
storytelling to share key resources  
and insights on leadership development from innovators and experts. These stories inspire,  
inform and connect emerging  
leaders across the nonprofit sector.Our inaugural Leadership 
Academy Alumni SummitWe held our first Leadership Academy Alumni Summit in New Y ork City in March 2015, 
celebrating eight years of the 
program. Fifty distinguished alumni from around the globe joined Academy partners Aspen Institute, Ashoka Changemakers, Arizona State University Lodestar Center, Center for Creative Leadership, Common Purpose, 
the Community Foundation 
of Broward County, Points of Light and the Thunderbird School of Global Management to collaborate on opportunities to develop the next generation of social purpose leaders. Each year, the leader of an alumni organization is honored with the 
American Express Leadership 
Academy Alumni Award.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
For nearly a decade, we have 
invested more than $50 million to develop over 33,000 high-potential, emerging leaders  
in the nonprofit and social sector globally.
53GRI INDEX
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Our roots in the travel services industry 
have given us a deep respect for the cultural and economic value historic 
sites bring to communities around 
the world. Promoting stewardship of these sites is both a commitment and an opportunity to ensure that future generations can enjoy them.
Preserving five American 
National Treasure sites
In 2015, we provided $1 million in 
funding to the National Trust for 
historic preservation to support 
the restoration and preservation of 
five diverse National Treasure sites. 
National Treasures are endangered 
buildings, neighborhoods, communities 
and landscapes that reveal the vibrancy of the American story. The sites 
selected to receive these grants reflect 
important chapters in U.S. history, from 
Negro League baseball to architectural 
modernism, and the railroad boom to the Civil Rights Era. The sites include: Hinchliffe Stadium (Paterson, New Jersey), Pullman National Monument (Chicago, Illinois), Painted Desert 
Community Complex (Petrified 
Forest National Park, Arizona), Sweet 
Auburn Historic District (Atlanta, 
Georgia), and Federal Hall National 
Memorial (New Y ork, New Y ork). 
Refurbishing the  
Singapore River Walk
We provided a grant to the National 
Heritage Board to refurbish the 
Singapore River Walk. The River 
Walk traces the development of Preserving our collective past 
for future generations
We are the founding sponsor of World 
Monuments Watch (WMW), which draws attention to cultural heritage sites 
around the world threatened by neglect, 
vandalism, armed conflict, commercial development, natural disasters and climate change.
Our grants to the WMW, which total $16.5 
million, have preserved 160 sites in 70 
countries ensuring their legacy and cultural significance for future generations.
Revitalizing cultural legacies 
In 2015, we made a $1 million commitment to Massey Hall, T oronto, for a large-scale revitalization project. This marks an 
important chapter in the story of a unique 
Canadian cultural institution. Massey Hall is not just a national historic site; it’s a place where music history is made. Over the past 120 years it has hosted some of the world’s most renowned artists, from Bob Dylan and B.B. King, to Aretha Franklin 
and Adele, along with a host of Canadian 
talent such as Gordon Lightfoot, RUSH, Glenn Gould and Neil Y oung.
Since 1974, American Express 
has contributed nearly $60 million to preserving more than 500 iconic historic sites including The T emple of Hercules in Rome and the Palace of Fine Art in Mexico City.
the Singapore River spanning from 
Collyer Quay to Robertson Quay. The 
Walk focuses on the contributions 
of the river in Singapore’s mercantile 
development, tracing the various 
communities on its banks, as well 
as the spectacular architecture and 
history of its bridges. The National Heritage Board honored American 
Express with its Friend of Heritage 
award for supporting the project.9.1M
TOTAL VALUE OF GRANTS
 
33 
HISTORIC SITES PRESERVED 
7 
COUNTRIES  
(U.S., U.K., Netherlands, Mexico, 
Canada, Singapore, China)2015 HISTORIC PRESERVATION  
GRANT IMPACT:
5456 Operational efficiency
60 Enabling customers
61 Empowering employeesDoing our part to sustain 
the world’s resourcesSERVING
OUR ENVIRONMENT
55GRI INDEX
Becoming the world’s most respected service brand means recognizing our responsibility to 
help preserve natural resources for future generations and limit the environmental impact of 
our business operations. 
We focus on three main action areas: building a clean, efficient enterprise; enabling our 
customers to reduce their environmental impacts; and encouraging employees to help us 
achieve our goals.
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCYINTRODUCTION
ENCOURAGING  
Employees to help 
us achieve our goals. 1 2 3ENABLING   
Customers to reduce their impacts.BUILDING   
a clean, efficient enterprise.
2015 AWARDS
The Environmental Protection Agency 
recognized American Express as a top user of sustainable energy, naming our 
company 48th on its annual National 
T op 100 list of the largest green power users in the U.S. GREEN POWER PARTNERSHIPS 
NATIONAL TOP 100
Each year, Newsweek ranks the world’s 
largest companies on corporate sustainability and environmental 
impact. American Express has been 
recognized as a T op Green Company, ranking 89th in the U.S.TOP GREEN COMPANIES IN THE U.S.
56GRI INDEX
Reducing our carbon footprint
We aim to minimize the effects our operations 
have on global climate change.
Between 2007 and 2012, we reduced our 
carbon emissions by 27 .5 percent. We achieved this reduction through on-site green power generation, energy efficiency initiatives and purchasing renewable energy credits (RECs). In 2015, we reduced our absolute carbon 
emissions by 10 percent compared to 2011, 
putting us firmly on track to achieve our 2016 goal of a 10 percent reduction.
At the end of 2015 we achieved an efficiency 
increase of 38 percent compared to 2011, 
exceeding our 2017 goal of an efficiency 
increase of 35 percent.
Our carbon footprint  comprises: the electricity we use to power our offices and data centers; the fuel we use for freight and employee business travel by air, rail and cars; 
and the diesel and natural gas we 
burn to heat our facilities and power back-up generators.
We follow the GHG Protocol for 
measuring and reporting our 
emissions. Since 2007 , we have 
reported our carbon emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the world’s leading environmental disclosure and performance rating system, and 
have steadily improved our score 
each year.35%  
Increase in energy 
efficiency by 2017 .38%  
achieved efficiency increase at the end of 2015.
10%  
absolute carbon emissions reduced compared to 2011.10%  
decrease in absolute carbon 
emissions by 2016.CARBON AND ENERGY GOALS AND PROGRESS
OUR GOALS 2015 PROGRESS
63% 
Energy 
consumption168,895  
METRIC TONS CO2 
12%
Corporate vehicles 25%
Employee business 
travel (air, rail, car)2015 CARBON FOOTPRINT BREAKDOWN
57GRI INDEX
In 2015, we signed the American Business Act on Climate 
Pledge to show our support for a strong climate deal at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting, COP21, in December 2015. COP21 resulted in The Paris Agreement, the world’s first globally binding treaty on climate change that took a strong step forward toward a low-carbon, sustainable future.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
Our U.S Data Centers offset 
100% of their electricity consumption through the purchase of renewable energy, on-site solar generation and 
renewable energy credits.
American Express’ newest 
Information Processing Center in North Carolina is Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certified 
and incorporates solar and 
thermal energy.Our U.S. Data Centers are certified for ISO 14001-2004 and ISO 9001-2008, best-in-class environmental and quality management systems.
American Express Information Processing Center in Arizona is EPA Energy Star certified, consuming 35% less energy and generating 35% less carbon 
emissions than similar buildings 
in the U.S.Investing in clean power and 
green data centers
Data centers are crucial to how we 
deliver the products and services our customers rely on. However, we know that 
the energy used to data storage has an 
impact on the planet we all depend on. Housing thousands of servers and our data storage and networking equipment accounted for nearly 35 percent of our total energy use in 2015. 
As our business services expand, so  
will our need for data storage. We are 
finding ways to use energy as  
efficiently as possible. 
In 2015, we purchased nearly 174 million 
kilowatt-hours of green power. Much of this power came from purchasing renewable energy certificates (RECs) and on-site solar panels.100%  
of the electricity powering our headquarters in New Y ork City and 65 percent of the 
electricity purchased to power 
our operations worldwide were carbon-free and came from a mix of wind, biogas, biomass and solar energy. 
58GRI INDEX
Sustaining a safe, healthy and 
efficient workplace
A safe, healthy and efficient work 
environment is vital for our employees and our business. We continually invest in the 
design and maintenance of our facilities. 
We use environmentally responsible and 
resource efficient processes and materials in our buildings. If we need to renovate buildings or undertake new construction, 
we aim to meet LEED or other green 
building certifications. By 2018, we aim to have 40 percent of our global square footage green building certified.
10
Our flexible workplace program, BlueWork, is designed to help employees achieve work-life balance and makes efficient use of 
our workspace. BlueWork helps to reduce 
our carbon footprint through the use of sustainable furniture and construction materials, and ensuring our electronics adhere to best-in-class energy efficiency standards. The program also encourages 
telecommuting and virtual meetings.
We also replace older or less efficient 
equipment with newer, more efficient technologies – such as LEDs for lighting. We have set up a tri-generation system at 
our Brighton facility in the U.K., and a new 
building management system in India that automatically manages our heating and cooling equipment, switching away from dirtier fuels to natural gas. Since 2011, our energy efficiency initiatives have enabled us to reduce our overall energy consumption by 24 percent. 
Finally, we have various programs that 
promote ridesharing, cycling to work and taking public transport. Our carpooling partner Valley Metro recognized the American Express T rip Reduction 
Program as 2015’s Best T rip Reduction 
Program for a Public Company with over 500 employees in Arizona.
Reducing waste, water and 
chemicals
Reducing waste, water and chemicals 
is one way we strive to better serve our planet. Paper and decommissioned 
technology products are primary types of 
waste for financial services companies. T o manage our waste, we encourage employees to reduce the amount of paper they use and to recycle printed materials. 
We follow industry best practices for 
recycling our technology waste by using an ISO 140001 certified recycler that safely and responsibly recycles IT assets we no longer need. 
Although water risk is generally not a 
significant issue for the company, we have also put water-reduction measures into action at key offices. We also prioritize the use of green cleaning products. 2015 HIGHLIGHTS
47% 
of our waste was 
diverted from landfills 
by recycling or 
composting it.23% 
reduction in waste generation 
compared to 2014.11% 
reduction in office printed paper 
compared to 2014.
2% 
water reduction 
compared to 2014.
35% 
of our global real estate portfolio is green-
building certified.
21% 
energy consumption 
reduction compared 
to 2014.
Putting sustainability  
on the menu
American Express Food Services 
and Facilities Management are on a quest to ‘green’ every American Express cafeteria in the U.S. The program focuses on reducing waste 
and offering our people healthier 
and more sustainable choices. Initiatives include:
• Recycling fryer oils, which can be 
reused for bio-diesel fuel. 
• Offering local, organic products.
• Using sustainable seafood from certified fisheries.
• Offering bulk condiments instead of, or in addition to, portion packs.• Encouraging the use of reusable dinnerware and mugs and using tree-free napkins.
• Installing aerobic food digesters to turn food waste into water. One machine can eliminate around 50 pounds of waste every hour, saving about 400 pounds of waste from being sent to landfills every day.
59GRI INDEX
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
ENABLING CUSTOMERS
Customers increasingly expect to 
see sustainable practices from the companies they do business with.  
That’s why our approach to managing our environmental impact extends to how our products and services are delivered to and used by our customers. We look at this through two lenses:
We see the resource consumption and waste created by customers using our products as a shared responsibility. 
We recognize that our 
customers increasingly expect us to support their efforts to reduce their environmental 
impacts as part of the service 
we deliver. 91% 
of paper used in our 
U.S. direct-marketing 
area is certified from 
sustainably managed 
forests.
43% 
of Card Member 
statements are 
paperless.
85% 
of Card Member 
payments are 
electronic.11We offer a variety of convenient, 
sustainable options to help customers reduce their personal environmental 
footprint such as:
• Online alternatives to traditional 
paper-based documents.  
• Account information and documents 
stored virtually in data centers where 
100 percent of the electricity is off-set by renewable energy. 
We also encourage customers to  
choose paperless statements and 
electronic payment through marketing 
campaigns such as our 2015 Go Paperless campaign. 
When it comes to sourcing, we prioritize 
environmentally friendly paper, 
electronics and other commodities, like fiber. Right now, we work with suppliers to ensure fiber is sourced from well-managed forests.
Carbon Savings Assessment Manager (Carbon SAM) 
Our Carbon Savings Assessment Manager (Carbon SAM) is an 
innovative method that allows organizations to measure air travel CO2 
emissions at the touch of a button. The system, which we provide to our new and existing Commercial Card customers in Europe, suggests a range of travel alternatives to reduce emissions. Designed for a host of stakeholders, from T ravel and Procurement Managers to Financial 
Officers, the reporting system measures the emissions on airlines by 
class of travel, route and time of travel. 1
2
60GRI INDEX
ENGAGING EMPLOYEES IN 2015
EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
Our current and prospective employees 
increasingly expect us to manage our impact on our environment. 
Our employees are critical to our 
environmental sustainability initiatives. We partner with them to make our facilities and communities more climate-friendly through everyday work 
practices, volunteer-led Green T eams and 
environmental events such as Earth Week and Earth Hour. 
$1M
in support for 
environment and 
wildlife through 
Gift Matching and 
Serve2Gether grant 
programs.80% 
of our global real estate portfolio participated in 
Earth Hour.4000+ 
employees participated 
in our Green2Gether 
Promise during Earth 
Month.
1650
employees volunteered for more than 50 
green projects, 
contributing 8,250 
hours of environmental 
stewardship.Launched in 2015, Green2Gether leverages the 
expertise and passion of our employees with the following objectives:
• T o provide networking and development opportunities for 
purpose-driven employees.
• T o empower employees to create a positive social and environmental impact in their personal lives and at work.
• T o advocate for sustainable practices within our workplace and to 
become an employer of choice for tomorrow’s change-makers.
• T o create a sustainable business innovation platform that 
improves our company’s bottom line and competitiveness.Through our Green2Gether 
teams, employees design and lead environmental initiatives tailored to 
their workplaces and local communities. 
Events such as recycling drives, lectures and awareness campaigns give sustainability-minded employees the opportunity to enhance their professional and personal development 
while making a vital contribution to 
reducing our environmental footprint. 
61GRI INDEX
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 
UNIT122013 2014 2015
EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT FTE 62,800 54,000 54,800
ANNUAL REVENUE $USD (MILLIONS) 32,870 34,188 32,818
BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE13 FT2 9,209,766 9,668,145 9,109,237
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFIED SQUARE FOOTAGE10 FT2 1,491,688 2,889,990 3,189,113
GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
SCOPE 1 (DIRECT)
STATIONARY COMBUSTION MTCO2E 8,924 7,667 4,657
MOBILE COMBUSTION MTCO2E 25,002 25,535 19,949
FUGITIVE MTCO2E 2,232 2,301 2,746
TOTAL SCOPE 1 MTCO2E 36,158 35,503 27,352
SCOPE 2 (INDIRECT)
PURCHASED ELECTRICITY MTCO2E 123,656 105,192 95,476
DISTRICT HEATING MTCO2E 2,001 1,991 2,160
DISTRICT COOLING MTCO2E 613 167 816
TOTAL SCOPE 214MTCO2E 126,270 107,350 98,452
SCOPE 3BUSINESS RENTAL CARS MTCO
2E 836 789 781
BUSINESS AIR TRAVEL MTCO2E 32,167 32,628 42,176
BUSINESS RAIL TRAVEL MTCO2E 170 170 134
TOTAL SCOPE 3 MTCO2E 33,173 33,587 43,092
TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS MTCO2E 195,601 176,440 168,895
CARBON REDUCTION OVER 2011 BASELINE15% 10
RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS (RECS)
RECS PURCHASED MWH 97,562 114,117 173,98016
62GRI INDEX
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
UNIT 2013 2014 2015
GLOBAL ENERGY USAGE17
ELECTRICITY MWH 332,844 301,250 267,206
STEAM MWH 8,832 8,789 9,533
CHILLED WATER MWH 9,944 2,546 10,969
NATURAL GAS MWH 45,300 39,594 22,025
DIESEL MWH 2,822 1,940 2,626
GASOLINE MWH 74,310 70,937 60,367
JET FUEL MWH 25,116 30,684 21,850
TOTAL MWH 499,168 455,740 394,576
GLOBAL WATER USAGE18
M319681,846 665,427
GLOBAL WASTE20
WASTE GENERATED MT194,961 3,839
WASTE RECYCLED MT191,818 1,485
PAPER USE
U.S. DIRECT MAIL LBS 98,095,369 131,545,596 110,922,327
% U.S. DIRECT MAIL FROM CERTIFIED FROM SUSTAINABLE 
SOURCES91% 91% 91%
COPY PAPER PAGES PRINTED GLOBALLY 152,697,647 136,914,826 121,522,510
CDP
CLIMATE CHANGE SURVEY SCORE 86C 95B B
ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATIONS
0 0 0
631According to T aproot Foundation, services donated by business professionals are valued at $150 per hour compared to $ 23.07 for more traditional volunteering 
which is the estimated value of volunteer time, as per the 2014 Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
2T elePresence is a state-of-the-art video collaboration tool that offers a realistic “in-person” experience through full, high-definition video and audio. It allows 
individuals to engage and collaborate virtually anytime, anywhere and across multiple platforms. ”
3 The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted in the United States among a nationally representative sample of 1,847 males and 
females 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The study was conducted anonymously by independent 
marketing performance specialist Ebiquity on October 19-27 , 2015. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.3%, at the 95% level of confidence.
 
4The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted in the United States among a nationally representative sample of 2,363 males and 
females 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The study was conducted anonymously by independent 
marketing performance specialist Ebiquity on November 29, 2015. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence.
5Source: 2015 State of Women-Owned Businesses Report
6Based on average spending estimates: Average annual spending on gasoline in 2013: $2,418; Average annual spending on groceries 2012-2013: $6,602; 
Average annual spending on dining out 2012-2013: $3,977; Average annual spending on apparel and services 2012-2013: $17 ,148; Average annual spending on transportation 2012-2013: $9,004; Average annual spending on entertainment 2012-2013: $2,482. T otal annual spending = $41,631 (Bureau of Labor Statistics US 
Department of Labor)
7Source: 2011 FDIC National Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households  
8Source: CFSI, November 2013 Market Sizing Report
9Source: Asli Demirgüç-Kunt and Leora Klapper, ‘Measuring Financial Inclusion: Explaining Variation in Use of Financial Services across and within Countries’ ,  
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Spring 2013
10Green building certified square footage is total square footage of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot square 
footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental building rating system as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, BREEAM, 
NABERS, GreenMark, and Energy Star).
11“Electronic” includes payments received via phone, online, Auto Pay, third party remits and wire transfers.
12FTE: Full-time Equivalent; ft2: Square Footage; MtCO2e: Metric T ons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; MWh: Megawatt Hours; m3: Cubic Meters; Mt – Metric T ons; 
Lbs.: Pound Weight.
13Building square footage includes all leased and owned facilities actively occupied by American Express, excluding parking lot square footage.  
14Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market-based method outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, updated in 2015.
15Reflects net carbon emissions reductions for scope 1, 2 and 3 (using the market-based Scope 2 method) against our 2011 baseline. In 2011 our total scope 1, 2 and 
3 emissions were 188,349 MtCO2.
1678,980 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2015 scope 2 market-based inventory calculation resulting in 36,101 tCO2e emissions reduction. 
17Energy usage based on combination of metered energy consumption billing data and estimated energy consumption data based on energy intensity per square 
footage standards outlined in the GHG Protocol, where metered data not currently obtainable.
18Water usage reported only for facilities where metered data is obtainable.  Currently no estimates are performed for other facilities.
19Data not available for the periods indicated.
20Waste/recycling generation reported only for facilities where waste/recycling hauling data is currently obtainable. Currently no estimates are performed for other 
facilities.ENDNOTES
64Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  
Health, Safety and Environmental Services  
1665 Scenic Drive, Suite 200  
Costa Mesa, CA 92626  Main : (714) 431.4100 
Fax :   (714) 825.0685 
www.Bure auVeritasHSE.com  
VERIFICATION STATEMENT
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. ( BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reported by American Express for the calendar year (CY) 2015. This Verifica tionStatement 
applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.
The determination of the GHG emissions isthe sole responsibility of American Express .BVNA’s sole responsibility 
was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying 
systems and processes used to collect, analyz e and review the information.
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:
•Operational Control 
•Worldwide 
•Exclusions: None 
Emissions data verified:
American Express Entity Wide GHG Emissions for CY 2015
Scope 1 Emissions
27,352 metric tons (mt) of CO 2equivalent (CO 2e)
Scope 2 Emissions –Location Based
131,937 mtCO 2eScope 2 Emissions – Market Based
98,452 mtCO 2e
Scope 3 Emissions
Category 6–Business Travel 43,092 mt CO 2e
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in most cases 
historical in nature.
Data and information suppor ting the Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature.
Period covered by GHG emissions verification:
•Calendar Year 2015 – January 1 to December 31, 2015
65 
 
  
 
American Express  Page 2 
April 2 0, 2016 
 
GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was  conducted:  
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol , Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 
and 2)  and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an am endment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.  
• WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)  Accounting and Reporting 
Standard.  
GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the v erification:  
• ISO 14064- 3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions  
Level of Assurance  and Qualifications : 
• Limited  
• Materiality Threshold ±5% 
• Qualifications:  None  
GHG Verification Methodology:  
• Interviews with relevant personnel of American Express  and their consultant ;  
• Review of documentary evidence produced by  American Express ;  
• Review of American Express data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, 
analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions at American Express’s New York City 
headquarters  office ;  
• Audit of samples of data used by American Express to determine GHG emissions.  
Assurance Opinion:  
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions assertion shown above:  
• is not materially correct ; 
• is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and 
• has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard
. 
It is ou r opinion that American Express has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of  these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  
66 
 
  
 
American Express  Page 3 
April 2 0, 2016 
 
Statement of independence, impartiality an d competence 
The Bureau Veritas  Group is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, 
Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance 
services.  
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest.  
The Bureau  Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to -day business activities.    
The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social,  ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of The Bureau Veritas  Group standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas 
emissions data.  
Attestation:  
 
      
David Reilly, Lead Verifier      Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer  
Senior Project Manager      Technical Director, Climate Change Services   
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.     Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  
Costa Mesa, Californi a      San Ramon, California  
 
April 2 0, 2016  
 
This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express  and is solely for the benefit of 
American Express  in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the CDP  
in order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our 
part to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement.  
67GRI INDEX
STANDARD DISCLOSURE STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1 CEO Letter CSR report (page 4)
G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunitiesCSR report (page 9)
CDP submission 2016 (CC5.1)
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 Name of organization CSR report (page 3)
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Annual Report (pages 1-3)
G4-5 Location of headquarters CSR report (page 15)
G4-6 Where the organization operates CSR report (page 15)
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report (page 1)
G4-8 Markets servedAnnual Report (pages 1-20)
CSR report (page 15)
G4-9 Scale of organization CSR report (page 15)
G4-10 T otal number of employees by type CSR report (page 15)
G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period Annual Report (pages 1-2)
G4-14 Precautionary principle CSR report (page 21)
G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives CSR report (page 16)
G4-16 Membership of associations CSR report (page 22)
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 Entities included in financial statementsCSR report (page 9) 
Subsidiaries of the company
G4-19 Material aspects included in the report CSR report (page 9)This report covers calendar year 2015 and responds to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core reporting guidelines.  
The table below shows where you can find the information required for each Standard Disclosure we have fulfilled. 
While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include: our 2015 Annual Report, Form 10-K, 2016 
Proxy Statement, 2016 Carbon Disclosure Project submission and our corporate website.GRI G4 INDEX
68GRI INDEX
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 Stakeholder groups CSR report (page 8)
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement CSR report (page 8)
REPORT PROFILEG4-28
Reporting period CSR report (page 3)
G4-29 Date of most recent report CSR report (page 3)
G4-30 Reporting cycle CSR report (page 3)
G4-31 Reporting contact CSR report (page 65)
G4-32 “In accordance" option, GRI index and report assuranceCSR report (page 3, 65)
See top of GRI Index
G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance CSR report (page 3)
GOVERNANCE
G4-34 Governance structure of the organization CSR report (page 12, 20)
G4-35Process for delegating authority for sustainability 
topics from the board to senior executives and other employeesCSR report (page 12)
G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topicsCSR report (page 12)CDP submission 2016 (CC1.1)
G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees American Express Investor Relations  
G4-39Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officerProxy (pages 16)
G4-40Nomination and selection process for the board and its commiteesProxy (pages 12-13)
G4-41 Board conflicts of interest CSR report (pages 16-19)
G4-42Highest governnce body’s role in creating strategy related to economic, environmental and social impactsCSR report (page 12)
G4-43Measures taken to develop the highest governance body’s knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics
Proxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 31)
G4-45Identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
CDP submission 2016 (CC2.1)
G4-46Highest governance body's role in reviewing risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics
Proxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 31)
G4-47Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
Proxy (Public Responsible Committee, page 31)
69GRI INDEX
G4-49Process for communicating critical concerns to the 
highest governance bodyThe Code Of Conduct (page 4)
G4-50Nature and total number of criticalconcerns communicatedCSR report (page 17)
G4-51Remuneration policies for the boardand senior executivesProxy (pages 42-73)
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Proxy (pages 42-59)
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56 Code of conduct CSR report (page 16)
G4-57 Helplines or advice lines for employees CSR report (pages 16-17)
G4-58Mechanisms for reporting concerns
about unethical or unlawful behavior + Code of Conduct (p4)CSR report (pages 16-17)
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Annual Report 98-105
G4-EC2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
for the organization’s activities due to climate changeCDP submission 2016 (CC5.1, CC6.1)
ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
G4-EC8Significant indirect economic impacts, including the 
extent of impactsCSR report (page 45)
ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 44)
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTALG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 55)
G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume CSR report (page 62-63)
ASPECT: ENERGYG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 55-58)
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization CSR Report page 63
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumptionCSR report (pages 52-54)
CDP submission 2016 (CC3.3)
ASPECT: EMISSIONS
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 8, 15, 52)
70GRI INDEX
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)CSR report (pages 52, 57-58, 62)
CDP submission 2016 (CC8)
G4-EN16Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) CSR report (page 57-58, 62)CDP submission 2016 (CC8)
G4-EN17Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) CSR report (page 57-58, 62)CDP submission 2016 (CC8)
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity CDP submission 2016 (CC12.2)
G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsCSR Report (page 57 , 62) CDP submission 2016 (CC12)
ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
G4-EN23 T otal weight of waste by type and disposal method CSR report (page 57-58)
ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICESG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CDP submission 2016 (CC3.2)
ASPECT: COMPLIANCEG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
G4-EN29Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsCSR report (page 63)
ASPECT: OVERALL
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 8, 46-56)
ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-EN34Number of grievances about environmental impacts 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsCSR report (page 57-58)
CATEGORY: SOCIAL  SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 8, 23, 28)
ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATIONG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 14, 22, 27)
G4-LA9Average hours of training per year per employee by 
gender, and by employee categoryCSR report (page 27)
G4-LA10Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endingsCSR report (pages 16, 21, 24, 27)
71GRI INDEX
ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 16, 24)
G4-LA12Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 
men by employee category, by significant locations of operationCSR report (pages 24, 27)
ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 44)
ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
G4-LA16Number of grievances about labor practices filed, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsCSR report (page 17)
SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS
ASPECT: INVESTMENT
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATIONG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16, 37)
SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY
ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 8, 12, 45)
G4-SO1Percentage of operations with implemented local 
community engagement, impact assessments, and development programsCSR report (page 45)
G4-FS14Sector-specific: Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged peopleCSR report (page 42)
ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICYG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management ApproachCSR report (page 16)
Company statement
ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
72GRI INDEX
ASPECT: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 16)
SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITYG4-DMA
Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 32)
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction CSR report (page 32)
ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 37)
ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (pages 21, 36)
ASPECT: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR report (page 37)
73Thank you for reading our 
2015 CSR report.
 
We value feedback from our stakeholders. If you would like to get in 
touch, please email corporate.social.
responsibility@aexp.com
If you would like to stay up-to-date with 
our CSR activities, you can follow the blog posts of our Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Timothy J. McClimon.