AIG CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20 17
} Get startedOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE2Table of Contents
A Message from Brian Duperreault ............................ 3 
At a Glance .................................................................... 4
Sections .......................................................................... 5
Our World ..................................................................... 6
 Sustainability in Practice ....................................... 7
 Sustainable Investments ........................................ 8
 Disaster Resilience ................................................. 9
 Microinsurance ................................................... 10
 Innovative Partnerships ....................................... 11
Our People ................................................................... 12
 Employee Involvement ....................................... 13
  Citizenship Programs .................................... 13 
  Leveraging Expertise ..................................... 14
  Global Volunteer Month ............................... 15
 Community Impact ............................................. 17
  Global Partners .............................................. 17
  Local Partners ................................................. 19
Our Workplace ........................................................... 21
 Diversity & Inclusion ........................................... 22 
 Employee Resource Groups ............................... 23
 Early Career Talent Pipeline ............................... 24
 Awards and Recognition .................................... 25
Governance ................................................................. 26
OUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE
A Message from Brian Duperreault
In difficult times, you learn a lot about each other.  
In 2017 – a record-breaking year for catastrophes – I witnessed firsthand the strength, generosity, tenacity, 
courage, and kindness that reside in the DNA of AIG’s people. 
One of the things I love most about my job is that as an insurance company, our work makes a difference 
in the lives of our clients every day. Through this, along with our commitment to being a good corporate 
citizen, we aim to step up and do the right thing whenever and wherever we can for those in need. 
In this Corporate Citizenship Report, we are pleased to share stories about how we show up as a company 
for our clients, our communities and each other.  
You’ll read about how AIG employees donated generously toward disaster relief and other causes last 
year, raising nearly $6.5 million in employee gift matches through our 2:1 Matching Grants Program.  
This was in addition to approximately $1 1.7 million in corporate contributions to nearly 600 organizations 
in 30 countries across the globe.  
Our people also donated something priceless: their time. In 2017 , AIG colleagues dedicated over 54,000 
hours to causes that were meaningful to them. During our annual Global Volunteer Month in April alone, 
nearly 3,400 AIG employees contributed over 10,000 hours to more than 1 50 projects in 25 countries. 
Thousands of AIG employees supported our global partners – including Rise Against Hunger, which 
distributes meals to those in need internationally, and to Junior Achievement, which teaches financial 
literacy and entrepreneurship to young people. 
We also made a positive impact through our more than 100 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) 
worldwide, whose 1 2,000 members help us celebrate the diversity of our workforce. That respect for 
our differences is ultimately carried home to the communities where we live and work, promoting greater 
acceptance and open-mindedness globally.
I’m so proud of our colleagues worldwide who give of themselves toward a greater good. I believe that the 
best hope for building a brighter tomorrow can be found in our actions today.
Sincerely,
3
Brian Duperreault, President and CEOTOC
OUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE4
30
countries engagedAt a Glance
Corporate Giving
   *as of 1 2/3 1/201 7  
 **as of 1 1/1/201 7
***dollar total is approximateOver88%
Fortune  
Global 500  
companies  
AIG serves** 49K+*
AIG employees
80+
countries and jurisdictions where  
AIG serves customers 
~$32B
Gross claims paid in 201 7 
$49.52B
AIG’s revenue in 201 7
1 9 1 9-201899+
years in  
operation
593
organizations
$1 1.7M***
in monetary contributionsOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE5OUR WORKPLACE OUR WORLD OUR PEOPLE
Taking a strategic approach  
to sustainability.Investing time, talent and funds  
to help make our communities 
strong and vibrant.Fostering diversity, developing 
talent and promoting the well-
being of our workforce.Sections
GOVERNANCE
Ensuring AIG operates as 
a good corporate citizen.OUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCEDisaster Relief  }Sustainability in Practice  }
Sustainable Investments  }
Microinsurance  }
Innovative Partnerships  }OUR WORLD
Taking a strategic  
approach to  
sustainability. 
6TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE7Sustainability in Practice
Technology Investments
AIG has made a commitment to investing in 
technology to operate more sustainably.
•90,000+ devices recycled
•13,500 devices reused 
•9% reduction in power consumption through  
 infrastructure and facilities modernization
•Reduced commuter footprint through increased  
 electronic collaboration, including telepresence  
 and webcasting capabilitiesPaper Reduction Efforts
In 2016, AIG initiated a campaign to reduce paper 
waste and cost across its U.S. operations. The program 
continued in 2017 , resulting in a 17 4 ton reduction 
(32%) compared to 2016. 
•Trees saved – 4 ,173  
•Paper saved – 174 tons
•Electricity saved – 700,000+ kWh
•Water saved – 1.2+ million gallons 
•Air pollution prevented – 5 tons of CO2
•Landfill consumption prevented – 522 cubic yards
Document lifecycle costs were reduced by 39%  
compared to 2016: 
•30% reduction in copy paper purchases
•33% reduction in internal print services
•18% reduction in postage & shipping costs
•53% reduction in file disposal costsSustainable Consumption
AIG’s NYC headquarters has partnered with Rescuing 
Leftover Cuisine to help eliminate food waste onsite. 
•18,522 pounds of food rescued 
•1 5,435 meals provided with rescued food 
•6,946 pounds of CO2 equivalent avoided What we do today impacts our business and our world tomorrow. AIG is committed to reducing its carbon footprint and promoting sustainable business practices across 
the company. Our people are engaged on sustainability issues through products, services and industry relationships. While we are making significant strides in building 
a more sustainable company, we know there is more work to be done. We will continue to focus on the impact we’re having on our clients, investors, employees, the 
communities where we have a business presence and the environment. It all works together and is a long-term investment.
Sustainability Working Group 
As a 40-member global team spanning all major business and functional areas, the group meets regularly 
to advise on sustainability issues, share best practices and work toward building sustainability solutions. 
In 201 8, this work has been elevated with the formation of a Sustainability Task Force, charged with 
conducting a comprehensive assessment of current sustainability practices and opportunities to enhance 
our efforts. The results will help drive the direction of our strategic approach to sustainability.Eco-Office Label
AIG Singapore was the first and only insurer to 
obtain this highly regarded certification assessing 
an office’s environmental performance. They are 
currently working on implementing a number of 
sustainability practices, including decreasing the 
number of printed personal insurance policies and 
making all policies available online by 2020.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE8Sustainable Investments
AIG invests in E-CO, one of Norway’s leading energy groups. Its core 
activities are the ownership, operation and development of hydroelectric 
power plants.
Renewable Investments
AIG has been a leading investor in renewable energy 
projects for more than 30 years. The company is also 
a leading investor in green energy projects, such as 
waste-to-energy, fuel-cell, transmission and 
distributed generation.
Social Strategy Investments
The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, or VALIC, a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc.,  
specializes in tax-qualified retirement plans, supplemental tax-deferred and after-tax investments.
VALIC Company II
Socially Responsible FundVALIC Company I
Global Social Awareness Fund
Morningstar Sustainability Rating Morningstar Sustainability Rating
Morningstar Overall Rating Morningstar Overall RatingSustainable Investing by Type
62%3%$2.8B $2.7B $2.7B $3.0B $3.5B
3% 2% 2% 1%
2013
Renewable2 014 2015 2016 2 01735% 34% 33% 25% 21 %
63% 65% 73% 78%
Gas Coal
“A growing number of companies are 
incorporating ESG standards into their 
business models and are finding that  
by addressing environmental, social  
and governance issues, they have the 
potential to improve financial returns.”
Timothy Pettee, Chief Investment Officer,  
SunAmerica Asset Management, LLCAIG Environmental Social and 
Governance (ESG) Dividend Fund: 
Launched in 2016, this fund uses ESG practices 
and a rules-based investment approach to seek 
capital appreciation and current income with a  
positive social impact.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE9Disaster Resilience
Confirming Employee Safety
Houston is home to over 3,000 AIG employees. 
When Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Houston, 
AIG’s first priority was to account for the safety of 
every employee and to deploy resources to assist  
in rescue efforts of stranded AIG employees.2017 was a year of unprecedented catastrophes, and one of the most active hurricane seasons on record. Here are a few examples of how AIG 
supported impacted communities.
Colleagues Helping Colleagues 
AIG employees from near and far stepped up to 
support one another. On the ground, colleagues used 
water vehicles, including canoes, to rescue those 
trapped in rising water. Others volunteered to clean 
out flooded houses and assist at local food banks, 
and bilingual staff members helped translate Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) forms at a 
community clinic. A global “Support an AIG Family” 
campaign raised donations for colleagues in need. Commitment to the Community
AIG donated $1,000,000 to Hurricane Harvey 
Relief, with $500,000 to support five local nonprofit 
organizations that AIG and its employees have 
relationships with through employee volunteerism.  
The remaining $500,000 was directed toward 
medium- and longer-term recovery efforts through  
the Center for Disaster Philanthropy.
Watch now:
AIG’s Houston Heroes video
Protecting Employees and Clients 
Irma’s path of destruction covered a large region across the Southeast U.S. and the Caribbean. Puerto 
Rico then braced for Hurricane Maria, which caused unprecedented devastation to the island. As each 
of the hurricanes approached, AIG adjusters and engineers were already in place across regions, 
proactively offering clients guidance and setting up to fulfill claims. In the aftermath of the storms, AIG 
Global Security, AIG Travel and Human Resources coordinated with local management teams to ensure 
100 percent of employees were safe and accounted for. Due to the devastation to Puerto Rico’s electrical 
grid, AIG purchased and delivered portable generators and fuel to local employees. The spirit of AIG 
was evident during this time, colleagues were dedicated to helping their clients, rebuilding the community 
and supporting one another. 
Watch now:
Moments that Matter: Puerto RicoTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE10Microinsurance
Solutions to Meet an Emerging Demand
Access to insurance for indigent individuals is often 
scarce or non-existent, and some turn to local 
governmental or other agencies for support.  
Microinsurance provides affordable protection  
to people who are generally not covered by 
government programs or traditional insurance. 
AIG was one of the first companies to offer 
microinsurance when we began offering solutions  
in Uganda in 1997.Blue Marble
AIG is a proud member of Blue Marble, a consortium 
of nine companies that collaborates to extend socially 
impactful, commercially viable insurance to the 
underserved. Members of the consortium leverage  
the talent of their workforce by temporarily assigning 
a group of employees to serve as a small core 
management team to implement microinsurance 
solutions. This allows the companies to innovate in 
emerging markets and learn from them, yielding 
positive results toward Blue Marble’s commitment to 
value creation and offering employees meaningful 
professional development opportunities. “AIG has been a pioneer in micro- 
insurance, offering a means for the 
underserved to mitigate their risks and 
have suitable insurance protection. 
Joining forces with the other eight  
Blue Marble consortium companies  
puts us in an even stronger position to 
offer meaningful insurance products  
and provide enduring protection for 
individuals, families and communities 
around the world.”
Gaurav D. Garg, CEO Personal Insurance  
and Chairman of Blue Marble 
Microinsurance in India 
Tata AIG has been an active player in the Indian 
microinsurance space, which includes rural and social 
insurance segments. In 2017 , 1.38 million farmers 
were covered under a program protecting around  
10 million hectares of crops. Modern technology such 
as mobile application and satellite imageries were 
used for the implementation and monitoring.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE11
Enactus, Wood plc and Rockefeller 
Foundation Partnership
AIG partners with Enactus, Wood plc and the 
Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities initiative 
to focus on the challenges cities face. 
•Enactus connects AIG to the global student social  
 entrepreneur community, acting as an external  
 innovation incubator to help develop ideas on how  
 to empower locals with business-driven solutions to  
 societal issues.   
•Wood plc provides leading engineering expertise  
 to design and implement a resilience project.  
•The Rockefeller Foundation provides grants to 100  
 cities to hire a Chief Resilience Officer (CRO) who  
 reports directly to the mayor. This ensures direct  
 access to CROs so that AIG, Enactus and Wood  
 plc can best understand what their challenges are,  
 and help them design for resilience.Innovative Partnerships
Clemson University Risk Engineering & 
System Analytics (RESA) Center
The RESA Center was established in 201 5 through 
AIG funding. 2017 marked the first year under 
sustained operations. 
•Research: RESA and AIG collaborated on 1 8  
 individual research projects supporting 10 faculty,  
 eight post-doctorates and over 1 5 PhD and  
 master’s level students, resulting in1 4 peer-reviewed  
 journal articles, 1 4 conference publications  
 and eight internal reports.
•Training: Through RESA and the AIG training  
 program, the Greenville area has hosted over  
 24 classes and 32 1 visitors from AIG.
•Education: Thirty students received a Certificate   
 in Risk Engineering. In March, two graduate  
 certificates and a Master’s of Engineering degree  
 program were approved.Rising Up to Common Challenges 
Faced by Global Cities: 
Promoting Equitable and  
Inclusive Development 
± Click cover to read.
AIG IT University Challenge
College students at the AIG IT University Challenge presented 
innovative ideas to improve insurance to a panel of AIG executives. 
The winner developed a chemical-suppression solution that can 
prevent or extinguish fires utilizing an environmentally safe gel that 
brings fire to an immediate stop.
“Insurance is about helping people 
prepare for life’s big moments — 
understanding their worries about  
the future, as well as their hopes for  
the future. Citizens have high 
expectations for government and 
private businesses to work together  
to keep a city healthy.”
Brian Duperreault, President and CEO
TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCEOUR PEOPLE
Employee Involvement
Community ImpactCitizenship Programs  }
Global Partners  }Leveraging Expertise  }
Local Partners  }Global Volunteer Month  }
12Investing time, talent 
and funds to help make 
our communities strong 
and vibrant.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE13Employee Involvement – Citizenship Programs
Volunteering
AIG encourages employees to give back to their local 
communities throughout the year. 
•9,488 employee volunteers  
•54,007 volunteer hours 
•$1 ,818,498* donated in time and talent 
•2 paid days off per year to volunteerMatching Grants Program
•2:1 match for donations up to $10,000  
 per employee each calendar year 
•$6.4 million+ matched in 2017  
•3,000+ employee participants 
•3,345 organizations supported
Giving Tuesday Campaign 
For #GivingTuesday, employees around the 
globe shared photos and stories of their Volunteer 
Time Off for a chance to win a $5,000 grant 
to their charity of choice. Entries poured in from 
employees in over 32 cities in 1 2 countries.
*As per the 201 5 Points of Light Economic Impact of Volunteers Calculator
“I consider it a privilege to be able to 
contribute to nonprofit organizations. 
The Matching Grants Program is a great 
program, so why not utilize it? It’s 
something I feel very fortunate to do.”
Jim Dudzinski, Tax Manager and volunteer 
with Pilots N Paws Pet Rescue ServicesTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE14AIG Legal Pro Bono Program
Providing free legal services to nonprofit organizations 
and people of limited means. 
•174  attorneys and 182  professionals engaged 
•4,319  volunteer hours  
•$172,500 invested in local community projects 
•52 events, 600 participants, 10  cities throughout  
 Pro Bono Month in OctoberCareerVillage Online Advising
Crowdsourcing virtual career advice and school 
guidance for youth through an online platform. 
•139,290+ views on advice and comments 
•140+ pieces of advice given  
•23 AIG locations engagedEnactus Student Mentoring
Inspiring university students to improve the world  
by creating sustainable solutions to society’s  
biggest challenges. 
•300 employee mentors 
•1 ,000+ students  
•9 countries engaged
Employee Involvement – Leveraging Expertise
Communications Pro Bono Speed  
Consulting Project
AIG hosted an annual Communications Pro Bono 
Speed Consulting project in partnership with 
Taproot Foundation. The event brought together 
nine nonprofits in New York City for counseling on 
digital marketing, social media, and communication 
strategies to help build more impactful campaigns.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE15Employee Involvement – Global Volunteer Month
Watch now:
2017 Global Volunteer Month videoAIG celebrates Global Volunteer Month in April. Employees dedicate their time, talent and enthusiasm to help build better, stronger communities around the world.
164projectshours10K+3,376
employee 
volunteer s 
25countriesApril 2017
Global
Volunteer
Month“The best thing I discovered on  
the various projects I participated  
in was how AIG employees  
across departments got involved, 
worked together and supported 
important causes.”
Deborah McNeil, Business Analyst SpecialistTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE16Employee Involvement – Global Volunteer Month
Russia
Lending a hand at a boarding school for handicapped children.Brazil
Donating blood to help meet life-saving demands.
United States
Expanding a garden at a local education center.South Africa
Tending the grounds of a home for orphaned and abandoned children.Bulgaria
Assisting at an animal rescue shelter.
Singapore
Preparing meals at a school for intellectually disabled children.
United Arab Emirates
Planting drought-tolerant trees to withstand the desert.South Korea
Making kimchi for low-income households.Australia
Cleaning up a home for families enduring hardship.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE17Community Impact – Global Partners
Junior Achievement
Junior Achievement
Junior Achievement inspires and prepares young 
people to succeed in a global economy by offering 
programs that teach students how to generate wealth 
and effectively manage it, create jobs that make their 
communities more robust and apply entrepreneurial 
thinking to the workplace.
•392 AIG volunteers
•22 cities
•21 ,365 students impacted
•810  classrooms “The most important and special thing in our professional life is the responsibility 
of sharing experiences and helping people. And, not surprisingly, we learn in the 
process, too. We learn about ourselves, our work, our people and life itself.”
              Luis Ricardo, Chief Operating Officer, AIG Brazil
Program Recipient CountriesTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE18Community Impact – Global Partners
Rise Against Hunger
In nine AIG locations globally, employees teamed  
up with Rise Against Hunger to pack meals to feed  
the world’s most vulnerable populations. The meals  
do more than just provide hunger relief; they help  
build resilience, self-sufficiency and empowerment 
within the countries that receive them.
•212 ,112  meals packaged
•17 meal packing events 
•931  employees engaged  
•2, 1 21 lives impacted 
Meal Recipient Countries“The impact of the food on the community allows us to keep the boys and 
teenagers in good physical and mental health.”
           Hugette, Director of the Don Bosco Lakay School for Boys in Port-Au-Prince, Haiti TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE19Community Impact – Local Partners
Together for Safer Roads  
Bringing together global private sector companies 
across industries to collaborate on improving  
road safety. 
•Road safety initiatives in 3 cities.
 - 40% reduction of crashes in North Avenue  
  Corridor, Atlanta
 - 13%  reduction in fatalities (496 lives) between  
  201 5 and 2017 , Sao Pãulo
 - 90% reduction in fatalities on intervened roads;   
  30% reduction in risky driver behaviors, Shanghai
•1.5 million people across 85 countries  
 engaged on World Safety Day Habitat for Humanity   
Transforming lives and communities by building and 
preserving affordable homes. 
•13  cities participated globally
•160+ employee volunteers 
•1 ,300+ volunteer hoursMake-A-Wish Foundation   
Sponsoring Make-A-Wish Shanghai in its mission 
to grant the wishes of children with life-threatening 
medical conditions. 
•7 wishes granted
•50+ AIG employee volunteers  
•Provided sponsor accident insurance to children  
 whose wishes were fulfilled at the Shanghai  
 Disney Resort 
G4G Design Hackathon  
AIG partnered with Greenlight for Girls to run a 
design hackathon for 60 girls, aged 1 2 to 1 8, to 
use creativity and science to build a solution to 
a societal issue: how to secure strong financial 
futures for women and girls from all backgrounds.  
The winning team designed an educational app, 
demonstrating creativity, collaboration and  
strong research skills.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE20Community Impact – Local Partners
American Heart Association  
National Walking Partner  
Walking to build healthier lives free of cardiovascular 
diseases and stroke. 
•$136,000 raised by employees   
•1 ,350 employee participants 
•17  participating U.S. citiesThailand Road Safety  
Educating youth on the importance of road safety. 
•1 2,000+ children in 8+ provinces received  
 helmets for the “Governor Mind Your Head”  
 and “Helmet for Kids” campaigns   
•AIG internal road safety campaign provided  
 helmets for children of employees 
•Ambassador campaign in local communities  
 led by persons with disabilitiesVidya Integrated Development  
for Youth & Adults (Vidya) 
Supporting initiatives for youth and women through 
micro-level intervention, holistic education and 
empowerment programs.
•29 scholarships provided for the 2017-201 8  
 school year
•10  volunteer events  
•Tuition assistance offered in a range in subjects  
 including mathematics, computers and analytics
AIG Winter Summit 
The AIG Winter Summit is attended by AIG 
business partners and professionals from across 
the insurance industry. Over the past 1 1 years, 
they have been joined by Disabled Sports USA’s 
wounded warfighters and youth with disabilities, all 
of whom participated in ski and snowboard races 
to raise over $4 million for DSUSA’s Warfighter 
Sports and Empower Youth Sports programs.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCEOUR WORKPLACE
Diversity & Inclusion  }
Employee Resource Groups  }
Early Career Talent Pipeline  }
Awards and Recognition  }
21Fostering diversity, 
developing talent and 
promoting the well-being 
of our workforce.TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE22Diversity & Inclusion
The diversity of our people is one of AIG’s greatest assets and brings us great pride. Through 
our colleagues, we learn how to better understand our clients, increase innovation and reduce 
risk. That is why, as part of our journey to build the AIG of the future, we continue our focus on 
fostering a culture of inclusion that is designed to attract, develop and retain diverse talent.
Talent
Attract, develop and retain talent
  WORKFORCE *OUR
•Women make up 51.4% of  
 the U.S. workforce 
•Minorities make up 36.1%  
 of the U.S. workforce 
•36.4% of management    
 positions are held by women 
•26.8% of management    
 positions are held by minorities 
•Over 50% of our Executive   
 Leadership Team is represented  
 by either women or minorities
•40% of our Independent Directors  
 are represented by either women  
 or minoritiesWorkplace
Foster and advance a culture of inclusion
Marketplace
Support AIG’s reputationDiversity & Inclusion Focus Areas
DEVELOPING
DIVERSE
TALENT
Several leadership programs have been designed to grow and 
develop our diverse talent and future leaders, including: 
Accelerated Leadership 
Development (ALD) 
strengthens and deepens  
the diversity of our  
leadership pipeline.Women’ s Development 
Program creates a pipeline 
of highly talented women 
who are ready to take on 
larger leadership roles  
within AIG.
Executive Men’ s Devel-
opment Initiative (EMDI) 
creates a pipeline of highly 
talented men from under-
represented groups who 
are ready to take on larger 
leadership roles within AIG.Women’ s Executive 
Leadership Initiative 
(WELI) accelerates the 
development of the female 
talent pipeline.TOC
 *as of 1 2/3 1/201 7OUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE23Employee Resource Groups
2017 ERG Highlights Video
13THIRTEEN
Dimensions of  
DIVERSITY  
Represented:
•Asian Leadership Network
•Black Professionals
•disAbilities & Allies
•Generations
•Interfaith
•Latino Network
•LGBT & Allies
•Middle Eastern Leadership Network
•Multicultural
•Veterans Leadership Network
•Women & Allies
•Working Families
•Young ProfessionalsAIG’s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) bring together employees of similar interests and experiences 
to provide a forum to share, support career development and serve as ambassadors both internally and 
externally to enhance diversity and inclusion efforts at AIG.
100+
chapters globally
45
AIG locations30
countries
1 2,000+
global members“Our ERGs provide vast opportunities  
for our employees while also benefiting 
AIG. They create a sense of community, 
help to retain employees and engage  
our outstanding talent while also helping 
to build understanding. As a strategic 
priority within AIG’s overall global 
Diversity and Inclusion agenda, ERGs 
help to drive a positive climate of 
inclusion and employee engagement, 
and facilitate networking with  
employees from across the company.”
Ellen Robles, Director, Employee Resource GroupsTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE24Early Career Talent Pipeline
AIG High School Diplomats Program  
Developing Japanese and American high school 
students into the next generation of global leaders 
through cultural exchanges and homestays,  
language classes, tours and visits to AIG offices.
•30th program year in 2017
•40 Japanese and 20 U.S. participants  
 per year
•3,600+ alumni in the U.S. and Japan   AIG Insurance Academy  
Providing global career talent with the core skills, 
knowledge and support to build careers in the 
insurance industry and develop the next generation 
of insurance professionals who are equipped with 
the necessary skills to give back to society as well-
rounded individuals. 
•314  participants across 5 regions
•1 ,256 volunteer hours
American Corporate Partners (ACP)  
American Corporate Partners (ACP) helps our nation’s veterans transition to the 
private sector through one-on-one mentoring with business leaders. Mentors and 
veterans spend time together each month by phone, email, video conference or in 
person. In 2017 , AIG matched 62 protégés with AIG employee mentors from all 
levels in the organization and across the U.S.
Read more: How the Insurance Industry  
Can Build the Workforce of Tomorrow }
“Talent is an annuity you secure for  
future business growth. You have to  
plan ahead.”
Jennie Anderson, Global Head of Talent Acquisition TOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE25Awards and Recognition
The Kemperlesnik Award 
for Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Insurance 
Business Awards America100% Corporate Equality 
Index (seventh consecutive 
year); Human Rights 
Campaign
Gold Award, Excellence in 
Diversity & Inclusion, Hong 
Kong HR Innovation AwardsMost Outstanding 
Resilience Award, 
National Conservation, 
Transportation, and Logistics 
Category, Association for 
Resilience, Japan2017 Workplace 
Equality Index, Stonewall 
Organization, UK
2017 LGBTQ Business 
Equality Excellence Award, 
Business Equality NetworkSocially Responsible 
Enterprise Award, Mexican 
Center for Philanthropy 
(CEMEFI)
Gold Award, LGBT Index, 
Japan Corporate Social 
Responsibility Responsible 
100 Distinction, City & State 
New York
Film Festival Finalist for AIG’s Houston Heroes, 
Boston College Center for Corporate CitizenshipN-pika Employee-Friendly 
Company Recognition, 
Japan Prime Minister Road Safety 
Award, ThailandImpact Award, Global 
Equality and Diversity 
Awards, UK/AEL 2017 Mayoral Service 
Recognition Program 
Corporate Honoree,  
New York City25 Noteworthy Companies 
for Diversity list (third 
consecutive year), 
DiversityInc
Workplace and 
Marketplace Award, APAC 
Disability Matters Citizenship Awards Diversity & Inclusion AwardsTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE
Governance  }
26TOCGOVERNANCE
Ensuring AIG operates as 
a good corporate citizen.OUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE27Governance
AIG’s corporate governance helps ensure the 
independent and effective functioning of the Board 
of Directors. In addition, governance practices 
foster transparency and clear communication 
with stakeholders, as well as promote high ethical 
standards and integrity in financial reporting.
•AIG has a highly engaged Board with balanced  
 tenure and the substantial and diverse expertise  
 necessary to evaluate and oversee strategy  
 and performance.
•An independent Chairman is required in  
 AIG’s bylaws.
•The Independent Chairman’s role is clearly defined,  
 and the Chairman generally does not serve longer  
 than a five-year term.
•Directors are elected annually by a majority of  
 votes cast (in uncontested elections).
•All directors are independent (except the CEO).
•Former AIG CEOs cannot serve on the Board.
•The Board, through the Nominating and Corporate  
 Governance Committee, conducts annual  
 evaluations of the Board and individual directors,  
 and all Board Committees conduct annual  
 self-evaluations.
•No director attending less than 75% of meetings  
 for two consecutive years will be re-nominated.
•Directors generally may not stand for election  
 after reaching age 75.•All directors may contribute to the agenda for  
 Board meetings.
•The Board Committee structure is organized  
 around key strategic issues and designed to  
 facilitate dialogue and efficiency.
•Board Committee Chairs generally do not  
 serve longer than a five-year term.
•The Board provides strong risk management  
 oversight including through the Risk and  
 Capital Committee, Audit Committee and  
 other Board Committees.
•AIG has an extensive shareholder engagement  
 program with director participation.
•AIG’s bylaws include a proxy access right  
 for shareholders.
“AIG’s Board is committed to 
representing the long-term interests  
of all of AIG’s stakeholders. The Board 
believes that its diverse and 
complementary set of skills creates a 
strong, well-functioning, highly qualified 
and independent Board of Directors 
with the necessary expertise and 
experience to oversee the company.”
Doug Steenland, Independent Chairman of the BoardCompliance
AIG Global Compliance Group (GCG) has oversight 
responsibility for managing compliance risks and 
sustaining compliance management across AIG’s 
businesses, functions, legal entities and countries of 
operation. GCG oversees compliance risks across the 
enterprise through policy and procedure development 
and implementation, risk assessments, monitoring 
and testing, training and advisory activities. AIG is 
committed to complying with the letter and spirit of 
the laws and regulations governing all of our business 
activities. See AIG Code of Conduct
Contacting Corporate Compliance
AIG encourages employees to voice their concerns 
and prohibits retaliatory actions against anyone who, 
in good faith, reports suspected violations of laws, 
regulations or policies. Employees can report ethical 
concerns anonymously (where permitted by law) to 
the Compliance Group in various ways, including a 
toll-free global help line available 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, in multiple languages.
AIG Compliance Group: (646) 857-1 877   
or email: CorporateLegalCompliance@aig.com
AIG Compliance Help Line: (877) 244-22 10  
or online at: www.aigcompliancehelpline.comTOCOUR WORKPLACE OUR PEOPLE OUR WORLD GOVERNANCE28Governance
Enterprise Risk Management
Risk management includes the identification 
and measurement of various forms of risk, the 
establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of 
processes intended to maintain risks within these 
thresholds while optimizing returns. AIG’s risk 
management is an integral part of managing its  
core businesses and a key element of its approach  
to corporate governance.
Cybersecurity 
AIG looks at cybersecurity as both:
•An employer protecting the company from cyber  
 threats in partnership with AIG colleagues.
•An insurer leading the way to help companies  
 and consumers mitigate their cyber risk, working  
 with our clients and distribution partners.
AIG offers:
•Internal training for all employees. 
•24/7 Cyber Defense Center to quickly detect  
 and contain cybersecurity threats to employee,  
 client and company data. 
•Cybersecurity Awareness Month to inform  
 employees of the actions they can take 
 to protect themselves, their families and our  
 company from cyber threats.
•Thought leadership on cybersecurity.Political Engagement
AIG may make political contributions and engage in 
political activities in support of candidates and parties 
at the federal and state levels where applicable 
laws and regulations permit. It is the policy of AIG 
that employees involved in lobbying, advocacy 
and political activities do so in accordance with the 
AIG Code of Conduct, AIG and AIG-related Entity 
Policies, Standards, Procedures, Guidelines or other 
policy-related documents, and in accordance with 
all applicable registration, disclosure and other laws, 
rules and regulations governing such activities.
Global Security
AIG Global Security ensures that employees 
and clients throughout the world have access to 
comprehensive crisis response services. AIG Global 
Security leverages new tracking technologies to 
increase its monitoring and response capabilities. 
AIG’s Business Continuity program aligns business 
strategy and principles with the requirements of our 
customers and our employees.
Read more:
The Washington Post: Cybersecure Your World }
“Companies can take steps to better 
protect themselves, learn about what’s 
out there and protect the consumer  
as well.”
Tracie Grella, Global Head of Cyber TOC