American Electric Power 
Corporate 
Accountability 
Report201228%20%18%
Ohio PowerAPCO AEP TexasI&M PSO SWEPCOKPCO11%10%10%3%Percentage of Customers by AEP Operating Company 
 Company Overview 2011
American Electric Power has been providing electric service for more than 10 0 years  
and is one of the nation’s largest electric utilities, serving 5.3 million customers in 
portions of 1 1 states.   
Revenues ( in billion s ) $15.1 
Net Income ( in million s )  $1,941 1 
Earnings Per Share  $4.02 1 
Cash Dividends Per Share  $ 1.85
Service Territory  200,000 square miles
Transmission  39,000 miles
765-kV Lines  2,116 miles
Distribution  223,000 miles
Generating Capacity  37,400 M W  2
Generating Stations  69 3
Renewable Portfolio ( hydro )  364 MW 4
Pumped Storage  586 MW 5
Renewable Portfolio ( wind, sola r ) 1,994 MW 6
Total Kilowatt-hour Sales ( in million s ) 216,000  
Total Assets ( in billion s ) $52.2
U.S. Customers ( year-end, in millions  ) 5.3 
1  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
2  Represents nominal capacity; includes 270 MW of mothballed / decommissioned generation, AEP’s inter-   
 est in Ohio Valley Electric Corp., purchased power agreements and renewables.
3  Unit 1 of Rockport Plant is owned one-half by AEG & one-half by I&M; Unit 2 is leased one-half by AEG and  
 one-half by I&M. PSO & TNC and others are joint owners of Oklaunion Plant. Unit 3 of Amos Plant is owned  
 one-third by APCO and two-thirds by Ohio Power. APCO owns Units 1 and 3 of Sporn Plant and Ohio Power 
 owns Units 2, 4 and 5.
4 Excludes pumped storage; includes owned capacity and purchased power. Nameplate capacity.  
5 Nominal capacity.
6 Regulated wind and solar capacity on line or under contract. Nameplate capacity.About This Report
5.3million
approximate number 
of AEP customers
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportThis is AEP’s third integrated report combining the An -
nual Report to Shareholders with the Corporate Sus-  
tainability Report. This is our sixth year of reporting our  
sustainability performance. This printed report is sup-  
ported by a website – www.AEPsustainability.com  
– that includes significant additional data and inform-
ation about AEP’s performance. This report is based on  
calendar year 2011 with some early 2012 data as noted.  
For more information, visit www.AEP.com .
Global Reporting Initiative 
AEP follows the Global Reporting Initiative ( G RI ) report -
ing principles in terms of data quality, report content and organization. We use GRI’s G3.1 guidelines as well  
as the GRI Electric Utility Sector Supplement for report -
ing on industry-specific information. Our report is re-  
viewed by GRI. This year’s report was validated as an  
Application Level A, which reflects a high level of trans-  
parency in our reporting. This is the fourth consecutive year we have achieved this Application Level.
 AEP Service Territory AEP’s utility units operate as Ohio Power, AEP Texas,  
Appalachian Power ( A PCO in Virginia & West Virginia ),  
AEP Appalachian Power  in T ennessee  , Indiana Michigan  
Power ( I&M  ), Kentucky Power ( K PCO ), Public Service 
Company of Oklahoma ( P SO ), and Southwestern Elec -
tric Power Company ( S WEPCO in Arkansas, Louisiana 
and east Texas  ).
 AEP is based in Columbus, Ohio.Market Price  — Common Stock   
  High   $  37.94
 2010  Low   $   28.17
  Year-End    $   35.98
  High   $   41.71
2011  Low   $   33.09
  Year-End    $   41.312011 Ongoing Earnings Contribution  
APCO   13 %
SWEPCO  13 %
AEP Texas  11 %
I&M  10 %
PSO 8 %
Others   6 %
Kentucky Power  3 % 36 %
Ohio Power2011 Energy Sales  
Industrial  28 %
Commercial  24 %
Wholesale*  19 %
* Wholesale includes  
 sales to municipal and  
 cooperative power  
 systems, other wholesale  
 and miscellaneous retail sales. 29%
ResidentialAEP Economic Impact 2011  
Employees (  year-end  ) 18,71 0 1
Wages   $1.7 billion   
Construction Expenditures  $2.7 billion  2
Local Taxes  $547.7 million
State Taxes  $335 million
Federal Taxes  $119.5 million
Goods & Services ( does not include fuel ) $4.5 billion  
Goods & Services from Diverse Suppliers $451 million   
Remaining Value of All Contracts $1.2 billion  3
Coal Purchased (  tons ) 63 million
Coal Average Purchase Price ( p er ton  ) $46.76
Corporate Giving  $37.4 million  4
Economic Development Contributions  $4.3 million  5
1 Includes subsidiaries of AEP.
2 Construction  expenditures include those expenses listed in the Cash  
 Flow Statement.
3 Supply chain purchased contracts and inventory system.
4 Includes  $22.2 million of AEP Foundation grants.
5  Includes  all grants and contributions by utility units to support economic  
 development.4,843 megawatts
of nominal natural  
gas capacity added  
to the AEP system  
since 2005Applying the New Integrated Reporting Framework  
Organizational overview  
& business model
Operating context,  
including risks  
& opportunities
Strategic objectives  
& strategies to achieve 
those objectives
Governance & remuneration
Performance
Future outlookThree  years ago, to reflect the connections between our 
financial and nonfinancial performance, we began to inte -
grate performance reporting to present a more holistic view 
of AEP. This year’s report marks our third integrated report. Until now, there was no guidance on integrated report -
ing. The International Integrated Reporting Council ( I IRC ), 
working with companies, financial institutions, account -
ing firms, environmental and sustainability advocates and  
others worldwide, released a working framework in late 2011. AEP’s 2012 report reflects this framework in an at-tempt to build upon the foundations of financial, manage -
ment commentary, governance and sustainability reporting  
in a way that shows their interdependencies. The icons used in this report indicate the type of content within each section. More complete definitions of the icons can be found on Page 48 of this report; the IIRC’s discussion paper can be found at www.iirc.org .
Total System  — Annual SO 2 Emissions 
( in thousand U.S. tons )   
 2006   853
 2007    749
 2008    638
 2009    457
 2010   416
 2011   416Total System  — Annual NOx Emissions 
( in thousand U.S. tons )   
 2006   270
 2007    266
 2008    249
 2009    121
 2010   125
 2011   131Total System  — Annual CO 2 Emissions 
( in million metric tons )   
 2006   143.9
 2007    147.7
 2008    148.2
 2009    129.7
 2010   134.0
 2011   136.0This report was printed by Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer 
with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification, on 55 percent recycled paper, including 30 percent post-consumer waste, with vegetable-formulated inks. 
© 2012 American Electric Power Co., Inc.Audit Review of This Report 
AEP Audit Services performed a review of the information included in this 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report. Financial information was recon -
ciled with AEP’s audited financial statements, if applicable, or to such other sources as deemed appropriate. Processes used in accumulating the signifi -
cant nonfinancial data were reviewed and the data were reconciled to the source(s). The appropriateness of the context in which data are presented was also reviewed. Finally, the forward-looking information presented was verified as consistent with other public information disclosed by AEP. Based upon our review, we believe the information contained in the report is ap -
propriately stated, and that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and nonfinancial information are reasonable.
Richard A. Mueller  
Vice President, Audit Services
Contact Information
For information about this report, the content of our website or AEP’s sustain-ability initiatives, or to provide feedback, please contact Sandy Nessing at smnessing@AEP.com .
www.AEPsustainability.com
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 1Table of Contents 
2 A Message from the President & CEO  
  Nicholas K. Akins 
6 Corporate Governance
  Leadership, Management & Strategy
The Business of Governance: A Perspective from the Board
14 Business Performance: Financial & Operational
 18 Business Performance: Energy Reliability, Security & Growth
 24 Environmental Performance: Environment & Climate
 32 Social Performance: Regulatory & Public Policy
 36 Social Performance: Our People
 42 Social Performance: Engaging Stakeholders
 47 Corporate & Shareholder Information
 48 GRI Index
  Forward-Looking Information
Charts & Graphs
the company’s plans and of its environmental, 
social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized to management that it will continue to be evaluated by its success in ex -
ecuting the company’s strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to chang-ing circumstances while respecting the com-mitments in this report.
Lester A. Hudson, Jr.
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors 
April 2, 2012The AEP Board of Directors has assigned the 
responsibility for monitoring and overseeing the company’s sustainability initiatives to the Board’s Committee on Directors and Corpo-rate Governance. This is the third year AEP has integrated its sustainability reporting with financial reporting. The Committee fully sup-ports this approach. Stakeholders have ex -
pressed approval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting. 
The Committee and company manage-
ment thoroughly reviewed the company’s sus-tainability objectives, challenges, targets and progress and reported the results of the re-views to the full Board. The Committee review-ed and discussed the final text of this report  before recommending its approval by the full Board of Directors. T he AEP Board of Directors receives fre-
quent reports both from management and from the Committee on Directors and Corpo-rate Governance about the company’s sustain-ability initiatives and from management and Board committees about the company’s fi-nancial reporting and economic performance. Topics in this report have been the subject of active discussion at the Board and Committee meetings. All members of the Board reviewed the report in detail and at the conclusion of this review process the Board of Directors ad-opted a formal resolution approving the report. T he Board believes this document is a 
reasonable and transparent presentation of 
Statement of the AEP Board of Directorsto economic security and growth and to maintaining and improving the 
quality of people’s lives. A robust, efficient electricity grid is also vital to our sustainability.
Our Strategy for Success
Times of change and uncertainty also bring new opportunities. We have a clear, four-part strategy to manage our risks so that we are ready to seize new opportunities to deliver shareholder value and meet our customers’ needs during these dynamic times. Our focus is on execut -
ing that plan. We face formidable challenges, as we have many times in the past, but we are confident that we will emerge a stronger and more successful company.
Our strategy is our competitive advantage as we build a more sus -
tainable company, enhanced by strategic investments and good man-
2 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportA Message from the President & CEO
Dear Friends:I am pleased to share American Electric Power’s 2012 Corporate Accountability Report, my first as president and chief executive officer. We are opening a new, exciting chapter in our 106-year history. Funda -
mental change is occurring in our company and our industry that will have lasting impacts on our communities, our customers and our envi -
ronment; on how we produce, consume and move electricity around the grid and within our system; and what it will cost now and in the future. Yet, at the beginning, middle and end of the day, the power that our customers rely on must be there when and where they need it.
We are proud to have delivered quarterly dividends to our share -
holders continuously for more than a century. We have a strong bal -
ance sheet, investment-grade credit ratings and tight control over spending. We understand the social and economic value of electricity to our service territory and to society at large.  
We manage our system as a strategic asset that is fundamental agement that create long-term value. We will continue to identify spe -
cific, integral connections between our balance sheet, our daily opera -
tions and our responsibility to the environment and to society. By treat -
ing sustainability as a strategic investment, we expect to demonstrate that the strength and durability of these connections are vital to our growth and our long-term success. We believe this underpins our abil -
ity to deliver 4 percent to 6 percent annual earnings growth on average.  T he first part of our strategy is to invest in our regulated utilities 
and optimize returns on those investments. Our 11 states have differ -
ent regulatory frameworks, customer bases and weather patterns that make our operating and investment flexibility a strength that we will leverage. We will look closely at each operating company to determine where we can earn the best return, and our decisions will be tied to making those investments and companies as successful as possible.  W e have changed our business model to provide our operat -
ing companies with more influence at the corporate level and more 
autonomy at the local level to enable better, more locally attuned 
business decisions.  T he second part of our strategy is to reposition our generation 
assets for a more sustainable fuel mix. Several factors are driving us in this direction, including new environmental regulations; the econom -
ics of coal versus natural gas; the operating cost, age and efficiency of some coal units; increased competition; and grid reliability. We will retire more than 5,100 megawatts ( MW ) of c oal-fired generation and 
retrofit nearly 11,000 MW with new, advanced pollution controls or upgrade existing control equipment. Additional coal-fired generation may be refueled with natural gas.  E ven as we add more natural gas to our portfolio, coal will con -
tinue to be a critical resource. The startup in January 2012 of the 580-MW Dresden combined-cycle gas plant in Ohio, and completion of the 600-MW coal-fueled John W. Turk Jr. Plant in Arkansas later this year, reflect this move toward a sustainable balance. We are advocating for the regulatory flexibility to minimize both the cost burden of this transi -
tion on our customers and the economic impact on our communities, while achieving the desired environmental outcomes. 
Times of transition  and uncertainty  
also bring new opportunities. I am  
confident we have the right strategy,  
a strong operating model and the talent 
to execute our plan and achieve our  financial goals.2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 3www.AEPsustainability.com
The third part of our strategy is to grow our short- and long-term 
earnings through our transmission business. We are changing our strat -
egy regarding transmission; in the near term, our new AEP transmis -
sion companies will invest more than $ 2 billion during the next four 
years on projects to enhance our transmission system. 
Our long-term transmission strategy includes development of 
larger interstate projects through our joint ventures across the country. 
Larger projects can create benefits for customers. As regional grids are upgraded or connected to new lines, access to energy improves. This results in better reliability, greater availability of renewable energy, and downward pressure on prices. 
The fourth part of our strategy is to create a robust competitive 
retail business that can reduce business risk while providing significant growth potential. Customer switching has become a growing concern, financially and operationally, in Ohio. The creation of AEP Retail Energy and the acquisition of BlueStar Energy Holdings Inc. strengthen our fuel mix and address aging plants and facilities across our system. This will be costly and require rate increases, which affects our customers.  O ur tasks are made all the more difficult, lengthy and expensive by 
the lack of a comprehensive national energy policy. Our industry must deal with and try to reconcile uncoordinated and often conflicting policy and regulatory decisions emanating from different federal agencies or from the many state and local agencies that have oversight. Some of this conflict is inevitable, but much of it creates unnecessary confusion, delay and costs that are borne by customers and shareholders.  T he ambiguity around issues such as proposed environmental 
regulations and the transition in Ohio to a competitive market are good examples of the challenges we face. We need a clearer path forward in the future to make the decisions and investments we now face. T he lack of coordination among federal and state regulators is a 
matter of increasing concern for our shareholders, our customers and our communities. We have spent much time and effort to ensure that 
ability to compete in Ohio as well as other competitive markets and provide customers with customized products and services from a com -
petitive platform. 
This is an ambitious strategy and it will not be an easy road to 
travel, but I am confident that we have the right game plan, a strong operating model and the talent to execute our plan and achieve our financial goals. As with all of our commitments, we will hold ourselves accountable for results. 
New Risks, New Opportunities
We face new realities and a challenging transition, both as an industry and as a company. But I am confident we will navigate this transition successfully. We must manage a combination of economic, business, social, environmental, political and regulatory risks at the federal, state and local levels. These include a slower-than-expected economic re-covery; intense competition in the competitive parts of our business; and burdensome government regulations that will necessitate the pre -
mature retirement of coal-fired generating units in six states, causing further economic hardship. We must, at the same time, diversify our our state regulators and legislators know about national policies that affect our customers and their constituents. O ur need for clarity about energy policy is made even more 
urgent because, unlike most private-sector companies, the prices we and other electric utilities can charge our customers, and the returns we can earn on our investments, are determined by state and federal regulators. If we make investments and are not allowed to recover our costs or earn a reasonable rate of return on those investments, the company’s earnings suffer and our shareholders may lose value. W e stepped forward as a clear leader in our industry on cer -
tain environmental issues, such as climate change and greenhouse gas reductions, because we believe in the importance and potential long-term benefit of developing solutions such as carbon capture and storage. Unfortunately, our efforts were penalized when regulators re-jected our request to recover the cost of those investments. We took a $ 76 million write-off, for example, on our carbon capture and storage 
projects in West Virginia. We still believe there will be benefits from our work in developing this technology, but we can’t afford to move ahead with it at this time.Ongoing Earnings Per Share History   
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 2.41  %  
( $ / share  )  
2006   $ 2.77
 2007   $ 3.00
 2008   $ 3.24
 2009   $ 2.97
 2010   $ 3.03
 2011   $ 3.12Earnings Per Share History  ( GAAP  )
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 9.62  %  
( $ / share  )  
 2006   $ 2.54
 2007   $ 2 .73
 2008   $ 3.43
 2009   $ 2.96
 2010   $ 2.53
 2011   $ 4.02AEP Dividend History
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 3.84 %  
( $ / share  )
 2006   $ 1.50
 2007   $ 1.58
 2008   $ 1.64
 2009   $ 1.64
 2010   $ 1.71
 2011   $ 1.85
 2012   $ 1.88 *
 * Current annual rate subject to board of directors approval.4 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportMarket Changes 
Our shift to natural gas and other resources reflects a market change. A key factor is the recent development of massive shale gas forma -
tions throughout the United States, which places downward pressure on natural gas prices. In fact, natural gas prices have been consistently low for the past two years. Another significant factor is the prospect of major environmental compliance investments in coal units, driving up the cost of coal-fired electricity. 
By 2020, we estimate natural gas will account for 27 percent of 
AEP’s generating capacity, compared with 24 percent today. At the same time, we expect our coal capacity to decrease to about 50 per -
cent of our total capacity by 2020, compared with 67 percent in 2011. The remainder of our fuel portfolio will consist of nuclear, renewables, hydro and pumped storage and energy efficiency. This effort to create a more sustainable balance of our generation assets will be challeng -
ing and expensive but will provide long-term fuel stability and allow us for AEP. However, this all depends on regulatory support for our smart grid investments. I n 2008, we set an aggressive goal to install 5 million smart meters 
by the end of 2015. Unfortunately, a combination of factors slowed this effort. We found that regulators are reluctant to allow rate increases associated with these new technologies, especially in a difficult econ -
omy. We also learned that it takes time for customers to adapt to com -
pletely new ways of thinking about how they use electricity. Through 2011, we have deployed more than 612,000 smart meters, along with many other smart grid technologies and customer programs. We will continue to pursue our existing gridSMART 
® objectives and expand 
where and when regulators give us the go-ahead.
Addressing Climate Change 
Although global climate change has lost ground politically in the United States, we continue to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Many aspects 
to adapt to the major upcoming market and operational changes. 
Modernizing Our Grid 
Upgrading to a smart grid is no longer a luxury; it is an important step toward a more efficient energy delivery system that can meet custom -
ers’ needs now and in the future. Through our gridSMART 
® initiative, 
AEP is preparing to meet these challenges with a comprehensive undertaking that will redefine the way we operate our distribution  
grid and revolutionize how we interact with customers. With distribu -
tion grid technology, AEP is improving reliability and service restoration for customers.  W e have proven that we can achieve substantial energy efficiency 
without affecting customers through the use of voltage management on our grid. Our smart meters are enabling two-way communication with our customers, sending them price signals that allow them to make more informed decisions about their energy use. Smart appliances and other technologies such as plug-in electric vehicles will provide excit -
ing new options for customers. All of these advancements will result in energy and cost savings for customers and business opportunities of our business strategy will help lower AEP’s greenhouse gas emis -
sions even further. Limiting emissions of greenhouse gases is a global challenge that requires a global solution. AEP is committed to being part of that solution through effective environmental stewardship. O ur goal is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent 
from 2010 levels by 2020. We will meet or exceed this goal as we retire coal-fired units. Every coal-derived megawatt-hour we replace with natural gas will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by about 50 percent. Even so, we anticipate that, ultimately, we will need to address the carbon emissions of natural gas. Technology development and deployment will be an important part of the solution. 
Meaningful Relationships Foster Informed Decision Making
We truly value the working relationships we have developed with our many stakeholders over the years. We have invested time and effort to earn their trust and respect by being honest and straightforward about our thoughts, strategies, actions and impacts. We seek to collaborate, not only with customers and community leaders, but also with envi -
ronmental and consumer advocates, on a range of issues including cli -A Message from the President & CEO
“I am personally dedicated to eliminating injuries;  
this is what we seek to  
accomplish through our  
focus on zero harm. I know it can be done because many of our business units have proven that it can. ” Historical & Projected Environmental  
Investments ( $ in thousands  )
 2009    $ 457,200
 2010    $ 303,800
 2011    $ 186,800
 2012    $ 510,700
  Estimated
 2013    $  999,000
  Estimated
 2014   $ 1,100,000   
Estimated2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 5www.AEPsustainability.com
mate change, environmental regulations, reliability concerns, the cost 
of electricity and energy efficiency. 
Although we have not always shared common objectives with 
regard to environmental or other issues, we have held many discus -
sions and have listened and tried to work cooperatively, with candor and in good faith. During the last two years, we have had some sharp disagreements and pointed conversations about the appropriate bal -
ance between economic development and reliability issues on the one hand, and environmental regulations on the other. As a consequence, some of our stakeholders engaged in an anti-AEP campaign.
We were the first electric company to unveil our plan for compli -
ance with proposed environmental regulations. We openly shared our concerns about reliability, the potential loss of jobs, and other adverse economic effects that premature plant retirements would have on com -
munities in our service territory, especially in a struggling economy. 
While we remain at odds with some stakeholders and are disap -
pointed in the atmosphere surrounding these relationships, we value seek to accomplish through our focus on zero harm. I know it can be done because many of our business units have proven that it can, by working without incident, year-in and year-out. This dedication to safety and health is the reason our overall performance has improved during the past several years. We are very proud of their commitment and honor them accordingly. B eyond safety, our future depends on a skilled work force that 
can quickly respond to the changing landscape around us, including the need for additional or new skills for the future. Work force planning is important to ensure we have the talent we’ll need to run the company and compete aggressively in the years ahead. Although we are more focused on retention than hiring right now, we must be thoughtful and strategic about preparing our work force for the future. 
Final Thoughts
Succeeding Mike Morris as CEO is an enormous challenge and privi -
lege. Mike’s leadership has left an indelible imprint on the stature of our company within the industry and the business community, and on AEP’s culture. AEP is a better, stronger company because of him. I am humbled and honored to succeed Mike in his role. T he longest-serving member of our board is leaving us this year. 
Dr. Lester A. Hudson, Jr., who was elected to the AEP Board of Direc -
tors in December 1987, is retiring. Les has brought years of business leadership experience and, more recently, academic experience to his service on behalf of AEP. His wise counsel, especially on governance issues, has been invaluable. Les has served as the board’s lead director since the post was instituted in 2003. He will be sorely missed. I n addition to delivering on our strategy and addressing the many 
challenges before us, we have many new opportunities ahead. This is an exciting time for our industry and for AEP. Change is not easy for any organization and sustainable transformation is perhaps the hardest change of all. But we are committed to being candid, straightforward, trustworthy and collaborative.  K nowing our leadership team and the men and women of AEP, 
I know that we are up to these challenges. We welcome your thoughts and suggestions, and we will continue to work to earn your support. With that, I firmly believe that we will continue to have a very bright future together.
Thank you for your interest in American Electric Power.
Sincerely, 
Nicholas K. Akins 
President & Chief Executive Officer
April 2012AEP Total Shareholder Return  
2006   19.6%
   2007   1 3.1 %
 2008    –  25.4 %
   2009   10.4 %
   2010   8.7 %
   2011   20.8 %
continued engagement because we believe it leads to better decisions. 
I have reached out to our stakeholders many times and will continue to do so. We remain far apart on some fundamental issues, but my per -
sonal commitment and that of our senior leadership is to find common ground so that we can move forward. I sincerely hope our stakeholders are also willing to stay engaged with us. 
Our People, Our Future
Finally, and most importantly, I am deeply grateful for our employees’ personal dedication to serving our customers and for the mutual care and respect they demonstrate. When power outages occur, our line crews and customer service teams are committed to restoring service as safely and efficiently as possible. While doing so, they look out for each other to ensure everyone goes home safely at the end of their shift. There is nothing more important to me, to our leadership and to our employees than the safety, health and well-being of our work force.  W e suffered together when one of our employees and three 
of our contractors lost their lives while on the job in 2011. These are immeasurable losses for their loved ones, their colleagues and for AEP. These tragic events are a reminder to me and to everyone at AEP of the importance of having strong safety and health systems to ensure we manage the risks we face on the job.  I am personally dedicated to eliminating injuries; this is what we 
6 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportThe connections between environmental and social 
issues and our financial performance have caused us to rethink how we operate, the decisions we make, our approach to governance, how we conduct business and how we are perceived. We have worked to understand and align these forces with our strategy, risk manage -
ment and competitiveness, and business results. At the same time, investors, employees, regulators and other key stakeholders have paid close attention to how we are managing these risks and opportunities for both today and the future. O ur core responsibilities are to produce and deliver 
reliable, cost-effective electricity to our customers, keep our employees safe from harm, and demonstrate environmental responsibility while providing a fair return to our investors. The leadership team develops and Corporate Governance: Leadership, Management & Strategy
understand all the ways in which our financial success is connected to our ability to succeed in other areas. From the board room to the front line, we are working to man -
age these connections by setting clear goals, holding ourselves accountable, having the right people in the right places and rewarding high performers. 
A New & Different Future
Our industry is undergoing restructuring of a magnitude that we have not seen in decades, and our business will be affected by these changes. We are repositioning our generation business to create a sustainable fuel mix for the future, in part due to environmental and economic reasons. Our coal-fired capacity is projected to be 50 percent of total capacity by 2020. We will rely more on natural gas, renewable energy and energy efficiency, 
executes the strategic plan with the board’s approval. Despite significant operational and financial challenges, we are confident that we will continue to grow our earn -
ings and keep pace with the many changes affecting our company and our industry to become stronger, leaner and even more competitive.  W e are in business to be profitable, yet we are 
sensitive to the impacts our product has on the envi -
ronment, the price our customers are able to pay for electricity, the economic strength of our communities, and the value of informed stakeholder engagement. We seek to simultaneously create financial, social and envi -
ronmental prosperity.  O ur operating environment is causing fundamental 
changes to our business model. These will increase our enterprise risks but also will create long-term opportu -
nities that benefit the environment, our shareholders, our customers, and our communities. We need to be simultaneously strategic and adaptable so that we can among other resources.  O ur earnings strength lies in our regulated opera -
tions. A combination of reasonable returns on our rate base and the diversity of our service territory will con -
tinue to allow us to optimize the investments we make in our regulated business and provide fair returns that meet the expectations of our shareholders.  O ur transmission business continues to be an area 
of near-term and long-term growth where we will invest significant capital. Our distribution system is becoming more digitized to improve efficiency and reliability while providing two-way communication between customers  
and the company. We are building our retail energy business to be more competitive in markets where customers have a choice of generation providers. Our acquisition of BlueStar Energy Holdings Inc., with its approximately 23,000 customers and energy services and demand-response programs, will strengthen our capabilities and give us a stronger platform for growth. 
The John W. T urk Jr. Plant in Southwest Arkansas will be one of the most  
efficient coal-fired plants  
in the country when it begins commercial opera-tion, scheduled for the  
fall of 2012.2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 7www.AEPsustainability.com
Governance in Times of Change
At the core of corporate governance is the role of the  
board of directors, the highest governing authority with-  
in a company. The board is the protector of sharehold -
ers’ long-term interests with a responsibility to ensure  
those who invest in the company earn a fair return on their investment. Effective governance is guided by  
policies and by directors who are informed and engaged. The independence of directors is a hallmark of strong corporate governance. AEP’s Board of Direc -
tors is largely composed of independent directors. Mike Morris, who previously was chairman and chief executive officer ( C EO ), currently serves as chairman,  
while President and CEO Nick Akins is the board’s only  
member from management. Learn more about the  
policies, principles and code of conduct that guide and  and management team has also changed. Mike Morris  
retired as chief executive officer in November 2011 after eight years at the helm. Nick Akins is AEP’s sixth CEO and has formed a strong management team that reflects the breadth and strength of AEP’s leadership capabilities and our abilities as an organization to adapt successfully to change. The executive team consists  
of: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Offi -
cer Bob Powers, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Brian Tierney, Executive Vice Presi -
dent and Chief Administrative Officer Dennis Welch, and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secre -
tary David Feinberg. 
Managing Risk in Times of Change 
We are faced with an array of risks, some well estab -
govern AEP’s Board of Directors at http://www.AEP.com/investors/corporateleadersandgovernance/ .
 T o deal with the rapid changes occurring in our 
industry, we rely on the strength of our operating com -
pany model, under which the companies have financial and operational responsibility for their performance. This makes us better able to adapt to the needs and limits of each jurisdiction. It also gives us a better understanding of regulator interest and support, impacts to customers, and the ability to successfully secure cost recovery for our capital investments. 
Leadership for Results
Organizations do not change for the better without strong leadership. Effective leaders at all levels look at the world and at the operating environment as it is, not tainted by personal biases about how they would like it to be, or as it might be in the future.  J ust as our business is in transition, our leadership lished and controlled and others emerging and not as well defined. Still others are related to areas that are shifting so rapidly that they defy static definition, such as cyber security. We must effectively manage our risks and strengthen our risk management capabilities, which include our ability to respond successfully to unforeseen risks.  W e continuously evaluate our levels of accept -
able risk based on internal and external operating con -
ditions. We have created management systems and a culture that support our abilities to identify, evaluate and manage risk. For example, our culture encourages self-reporting if noncompliance is suspected; and we recently created a “Watch List” for the board of direc -
tors that augments our enterprise risk management pro -
cess by identifying issues that could become material risks. It reflects our commitment to comprehensive and forward-looking risk management by putting a process in place to identify emerging risks or issues that could 
Mike Morris helped to create a culture of openness and team-work at AEP , one that encourages employees to share ideas and  
concerns and to collaborate on solutions. Real teamwork  
requires candor to encourage and model this capacity at all levels of our organization. 8 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Reportbecome material risks. Read more about how we man -
age risk online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Cyber Security 
Cyber security is currently on the Watch List because of the heightened risk of a cyber-attack that could affect critical energy infrastructure.  Breaches to the cyber 
security of the grid or to our system are potentially dis -
ruptive to people, property and commerce and create risk for our business, our investors and our customers. We protect our critical cyber assets, such as our data centers and transmission operations centers and busi -
ness network, using multiple layers of cyber security and authentication. We constantly scan the system for risks or threats.  D uring 2011, cyber security issues and breaches with the rest of the industry, AEP has collected cus -
tomer information for decades and we have maintained its confidentiality, along with the trust of our custom -
ers. However, we recognize and share our customers’ increasing concern regarding unauthorized third-party access to data. We have conducted an external review of privacy requirements, along with an internal review of our policies and practices. We are developing recom -
mendations to strengthen our customer privacy stan -
dards accordingly. Read more about how we manage cyber and physical security issues online at www.AEP  
sustainability.com .
Ethics & ComplianceAs an organization, we are guided by our Principles of Business Conduct, which require us to operate with 
in security became almost a weekly news event across all industries and government agencies. Cyber hackers were able to breach a number of very secure facilities, from federal agencies, banks and retailers to social media sites. As these events became known, we assessed our own cyber security tools and processes to determine where we might need to strengthen our defenses.  W e took several steps to enhance our capabilities 
for identifying risks or threats. AEP became the first utility in the country to build a Cyber Security Opera -
tions Center. Funding was included as part of a larger American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Department of Energy Smart Grid Demonstration Project grant. This facility is designed as a pilot cyber threat and informa -
tion-sharing center specifically for the electric sector.  P rivacy is an emerging area of risk. We formed a 
Customer Information Privacy Oversight Committee in August 2011 to provide strategic recommendations for the oversight of customer energy information. Along integrity, fairness, respect and care. Anyone who raises concerns about ethics, safety or compliance issues needs to be able to do so without fear of retribution. This freedom is what fosters a risk-aware culture.  W e have made significant progress toward this 
goal during the past few years, according to an ethics and compliance risk assessment conducted in 2011. It also showed that we have more work to do. If employ -
ees are unwilling to report an ethics or compliance vio -
lation for fear of retribution, our corporate culture, the financial health of the company and our reputation are put at risk. We are addressing this by being clearer about our expectations to do the right thing and holding people accountable for their actions. This is especially impor -
tant as our business evolves. 
Engaging Stakeholders Informs Leadership
A sustainable business strategy is informed by stake -
holder engagement. Stakeholder dialogues keep us fo-Corporate Governance: Leadership, Management & Strategy
AEP’s executive team consists of:  David M. Feinberg
, Senior Vice President,  
General Counsel & Secretary
Dennis E. Welch , Executive Vice President &  
Chief Administrative Officer
Robert P . Powers , Executive Vice President &  
Chief Operating Officer
Nicholas K. Akins , President & 
Chief Executive Officer
Brian X.Tierney , Executive Vice President &  
Chief Financial Officer2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 9www.AEPsustainability.com
cused on the future and often result in collaboration on 
projects that are good for people, the environment, the economy and our shareholders.  A EP’s Board of Directors values engagement, and 
in September 2011, Ceres President Mindy Lubber met with the board to discuss a wide range of issues. Ceres is a national coalition of investors, environmental organi -
zations and other public interest groups that work with companies on sustainability issues. AEP has worked extensively with Ceres during the past five years. In addition to raising concerns about AEP’s environmen -
tal positions, Ms. Lubber presented Ceres’ plan, called “The 21st Century Electric Utility,” which highlights actions electric utilities could take to be better prepared for a low-carbon future. The dialogue was robust, and all parties appreciated the opportunity to have a candid pany’s finances or operations; 2 ) have or may have sig -
nificant impact on the environment or society, now or in the future; or 3  ) can substantially influence the assess -
ments, decisions and actions of our stakeholders and shareholders. This report reflects those issues we con -
sider material to our business.  T his materiality assessment follows the criteria 
AEP uses to identify what constitutes enterprisewide material risks:•	Risks with significant potential to affect the compa -
ny’s strategic plan.
•	Risks having the potential to significantly affect earn -
ings, cash flow, or access to capital.
•	Risks that can affect company operations, resulting in poor asset performance, inability to meet customers’ needs, unsafe operations, and  / or negative effects on 
Chairman of the Board Mike Morris, right, hands over the title of chief executive officer to Nick Akins at an employee meeting and webcast in November. Akins became AEP’s sixth CEO. 
internal processes, people, or systems.
•	Risks potentially affecting regulatory and legal out -
comes and / o r damaging the company’s reputation. 
Scope of This Report This is our third integrated report, combining informa -
tion about our financial performance with data on our environmental, social and governance performance. It also is the sixth year we are reporting on our sustain -
ability performance. We are committed to integrated reporting because it gives a complete picture of how we operate, the decisions we make, the positions we take, our engagement with stakeholders and the conse -
quences of our actions. 
Our intent is to conform to the integrated reporting 
framework being developed by the International Inte -
grated Reporting Council.
In response to stakeholder interest, we report our 
progress twice a year. A full update is provided in the exchange. It was the first time in nearly a decade that a nongovernmental organization, such as an environmen -
tal group, met directly with AEP’s board. 
In February 2011, we interviewed board members 
Thomas Hoaglin and Lionel Nowell about the value of engagement and their thoughts were published in our 2011 Corporate Accountability Report. This year, we asked three board members – L inda Goodspeed, Rich -
ard Sandor and Richard Notebaert – a bout policy mat -
ters and the company’s transformation. 
We conducted or participated in nearly a dozen 
stakeholder meetings or calls during 2011 on a wide range of issues important to us, our stakeholders and our industry. For a description of our material issues, visit www.AEPsustainability.com .
MaterialityWe define issues material to our sustainability as those that: 1 ) have or may have significant impact on the com -10 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Reportspring of each year. A shorter update of key commit -
ments is published on the Web in the fall at www.AEP
sustainability.com/reporting . 
Our Material IssuesWe consider our material issues to be: •	Financial & Operational Performance
•	Energy Reliability, Security & Growth
•	Environmental Performance
•	Global Climate Change
•	Regulatory & Public Policy
•	Our People
•	Stakeholder EngagementOur Primary StakeholdersWe consider our primary stakeholders to be: •	Equity shareholders, debt holders, prospective investors and lenders
•	Customers
•	AEP employees and retirees
•	Labor unions
•	Local communities
•	Federal and state legislators, regulators,  
policymakers and other elected leaders
•	Prospective employees
•	Suppliers and others doing business with AEP
•	Nongovernment organizations
•	Professionals in industry, government, labor  
and educationCorporate Governance: Leadership, Management & Strategy
Michael G. Morris
Northville, Mich.Age 65; Elected 2004;  
Nonexecutive Chairman, retired President & Chief Executive  Officer, AEP – E, P
Nicholas K. AkinsDublin, OhioAge 51; Elected 2011;  
President & Chief Executive  Officer, AEP – E, P 
David J. AndersonMorristown, N.J.   
Age 62; Elected 2011;   
Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Honeywell  
International Inc.  – A, F, P James F. CordesThe Woodlands, Texas  
Age 71; Elected 2009;  
retired Executive Vice President, The Coastal Corp.  – H, N, P 
Ralph D. Crosby Jr.McLean, Va.  
Age 64; Elected 2006;  
Chairman & retired Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, EADS North America Inc.   
– H, N, P 
Linda A. GoodspeedMemphis, Tenn.  
Age 50; Elected 2005;  
Senior Vice President & Chief Information Officer,  
The ServiceMaster Co.  
– A, N, PThomas E. HoaglinColumbus, Ohio  
Age 62; Elected 2007;  
retired Chairman & Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Huntington Bancshares Inc.  – D, E, H, P
Dr. Lester A. Hudson Jr.  
Charlotte,  N.C.  
Age 72; Elected 1987;  
Professor, McColl School of  Business, Queens University  of Charlotte – D, E, H, P
Richard C. NotebaertChicago, Ill. Age 65; Elected 2011; retired Chairman & Chief Executive  Officer, Qwest Communications International Inc.  – D, H, P Lionel L. Nowell III Cos Cob, Conn.  
Age 57; Elected 2004;  
retired Senior Vice President  & Treasurer, PepsiCo Inc.   
– A, D, E, F, P 
Dr. Richard L. SandorChicago, Ill.  
Age 70; Elected 2000; former Chairman, Chicago Climate Exchange Inc.  – E, F, P 
Sara Martinez TuckerSan Francisco, Calif.Age 57; Elected 2009; former Undersecretary, U.S. Department  
of Education, and former  
President & Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  
Hispanic Scholarship Fund – A, D, PJohn F. TurnerMoose, Wyo.Age 70; Elected 2008;  
Managing Partner, Triangle X Ranch, and former  
Assistant Secretary, U.S. State  
Department – A, N, P
Committees of the Board:  
The chairman is listed in (  ). 
A – Audit ( Nowell ) 
D – Directors and Corporate   
 Governance ( Hoaglin )  
E – Executive ( Morris )  
F – Finance ( Sandor )
H – Human Resources ( Hudson ) 
N – Nuclear Oversight ( Crosby ) 
P – Policy ( Goodspeed )Left to right: John F . Turner, Dr. Lester A. Hudson Jr., James F . Cordes, Sara Martinez Tucker, Thomas E. Hoaglin, Lionel L. Nowell III, Nicholas K. Akins, David J. 
Anderson, Linda A. Goodspeed, Ralph D. Crosby Jr., Michael G. Morris, Richard C. Notebaert and Dr. Richard L. Sandor.
AEP Board of Directors2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 11www.AEPsustainability.com
Companies increasingly recognize that sustainability is a 
business imperative that begins in the board room and can affect almost any aspect of a company’s business performance and significantly alter its overall competi -
tive position or financial condition. As the legal guard -
ians of companies, boards of directors are more aware than ever of the connections between environmental, social and financial performance, also known to many  
as the “triple bottom line.” Companies with strong cor-  
porate governance can create significant business advantages if and when they turn this capacity toward addressing sustainable business issues. 
The regulatory and public policy environment with-  
in which we operate is a key influencer of AEP’s evolv -
ing business model. Sustainability is very important to the electric industry and to companies like ours, where 
public policy and regulatory outcomes play a major role 
in determining our business model, strategies, and, ulti -
mately, our potential for financial growth and success.  
Public policy regarding energy almost always considers environmental, social and economic issues. 
AEP’s Board of Directors, and its Policy Com-  
mittee, considers sustainability a business imperative. The Policy Committee is the only board committee that includes the entire board. The board’s diverse experi -
ence and knowledge give the company an edge in understanding policy issues and working with manage -
ment to develop and execute its strategy. 
We asked three independent AEP board members 
about the role of the Policy Committee, how the board evaluates policy, some of the issues we face now and in the future, and the importance of stakeholder engage -
ment. The full interview is online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Please describe the role of the Policy Committee, how it interacts with management and whether it makes decisions or provides guidance.
Linda Goodspeed:  The Policy Committee works closely 
with the company’s leadership to form a broader and deeper understanding of the public policy issues fac -
ing AEP, including how to address those issues in the strategic plan or in response to a particular situation if necessary. We meet with people who might have an impact on or different opinion about AEP. We do not mandate positions or make decisions for the company; we offer our advice and guidance based on our wide-ranging knowledge, experience and opinions, after extensive discussion with senior management and among ourselves. The Policy Committee is made up of 
the entire board because we feel it is important to get as 
many perspectives as possible in advising the company about these important issues. 
Richard Sandor:  I think our commitment to both good 
governance and sustainability is noted by the fact that the corporate accountability report must be approved by the entire board of directors. Every director not only sits on the Policy Committee, but also must agree on our commitments and expectations of performance for AEP’s sustainability. This makes AEP and our board a very unique organization both in terms of strong gover -
nance and our commitment to sustainability. 
How do board members keep informed about key 
public policy issues as they may affect AEP?
Richard Notebaert:  In between regular board and com -
mittee meetings, there’s constant feedback to the board  Richard  Sandor , left, who chairs the board’s  
Finance Committee and sits on the Executive Com-  
mitee, has served on the AEP board since 2000. 
Linda Goodspeed  is chair of the Policy Com-  
mittee and has served on AEP’s board since 2005.  
She also serves on the board’s Nuclear Oversight  
and Audit committees. 
Richard Notebaert  joined the board in 2011. He  
also serves on the Human Resources and Direc -
tors and Corporate Governance committees.THE BUSINESS OF GOVERNANCE: A Perspective from the Board12 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Reportfrom management and among ourselves and we follow 
things closely through our own channels. The board has remarkable diversity of experience, relevant knowl -
edge and understanding. Some of us have regulatory experience while others are very familiar with the politi -
cal landscape in Washington, D.C. As a board, we can therefore see not only what laws may get passed but also how they might be interpreted and implemented. Having that understanding is critical. 
How important is it to the board to hear from 
external stakeholders?
Linda Goodspeed:  In my opinion, we definitely need to 
continue to meet from time to time with stakeholders. Last year we met with Mindy Lubber of Ceres. We exchanged views and had a good discussion. This was very helpful for us; it may not always be popular to hear someone else’s opinion that may differ from ours, but just as the board is diverse, so are stakeholders’ opinions of AEP. Bringing in people who especially diverge from the popular opinion may be the best type of learning we can possibly have. And that’s true whether you bring in experts who have first-hand knowledge that is opposite of what we feel, or public policy experts who don’t favor AEP. It educates us and helps us to develop a full under -
standing that the company can then fold into its strategic thinking and decision making. 
Richard Sandor: Hearing from people inside our organiza -
tion who understand the issues, as well as from outsid -
ers or advocates who give us their viewpoint, is criti -
cal. It helps us to deal with issues, and in some cases, specific situations such as with the Turk Plant. AEP had big differences with some stakeholders over this plant. But having a familiarity with those groups, being able to understand them and reach out to them, allowed the company to reach a valuable compromise, and I think that can’t be underestimated.
Richard Notebaert:  The board tries very hard to see the 
world through the eyes of stakeholders, starting with our customers. We also work to understand things from the perspective of our regulators, and to ensure collabo -
ration with them whenever we can. This is crucial if we are going to provide dependable, competitively priced power, especially in these times of regulatory change and uncertainty. How many organizations meet with people who may be diametrically opposed to them, only to find that the interaction creates an understanding and maybe a bridge to a solution that benefits everyone?In your experience serving on other boards and organizations, is this a somewhat common prac -
tice or is AEP unique in that regard?
Linda Goodspeed:  In my experience, it is unique. But I  
think AEP as a company is unique in terms of how it works with its stakeholders and how that becomes part of the learning process. AEP always strives to do the right thing for its employees, its shareholders and the public, and to understand and learn from everyone. That’s a core value for AEP, so to me, this is a unique trait for a company.
Climate change is not the front-burner issue 
politically that it was just a couple of years ago. Do you see climate change coming back to the forefront and, if so, how is the board thinking about that?
Richard Sandor: AEP took a leadership role as a founding 
member of the Chicago Climate Exchange. By the time we reached the Exchange’s maturity, 25 percent of the power sector was involved and AEP was the largest util -
ity involved. While the prospect of federal cap-and-trade legislation is gone, it is still an issue and AEP has to deal with it. It’s ironic that the United States is moving toward command-and-control regulation while China is mov -
ing toward a market approach to the environment. The Environmental Protection Agency continues to make new regulations on carbon, but AEP is wisely looking at it as a business efficiency issue – getting more by 
using less. The company is also diversifying its fuel mix, which makes sense from both a business and public policy perspective. From a financial perspective, we are concerned about the magnitude of capital expenditures we’ll be making to comply with environmental regula -
tions, which forces us to move in a different direction than we had envisioned. 
Linda Goodspeed:  While climate change may not be the 
hot topic it was in the recent past, it still exists from at least a political if not a scientific standpoint. But just because it’s not front-page news doesn’t mean it has gone away. Climate has been wrapped up into energy policy, so from an engineering perspective and as a member of the board’s Nuclear Oversight Committee, I think the best solution is to continue to understand and develop new technologies that would deliver a better climate solution in a more affordable fashion. 
Richard Notebaert:  It hasn’t gone away at all. In fact, if Corporate Governance: Leadership, Management & Strategy2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 13www.AEPsustainability.com
anything from an AEP point of view, it’s really become 
a much more critical issue for us because we are mov -
ing away from discussion and cloud charts to the real -
ity of execution. And I think one of the challenges we have is that, as we look at phasing out certain carbon-based generation, we have to ask, what is the alterna -
tive? What’s the best path for the longer term, because we’re not a company that looks out a few days or a few years  – we must plan for decades into the future. 
A cap-and-trade system would’ve given us more flex -
ibility rather than forcing us to retire plants or not retire plants. I worry about our customers if there’s a peak and brownouts occur. We have to be very disciplined in how we comply with the new environmental regula -
tions, whether it is reducing greenhouse gas emissions or reducing mercury emissions, to protect our custom -the electric industry, AEP, its customers, shareholders and other stakeholders have certainty about energy policy and energy security in this country. 
Richard Notebaert:  I am usually an optimist, but I’m 
really not sure we’re going to see a national energy pol -
icy because I think the states feel very strongly about their jurisdictional rights. And the rates people pay in Columbus, Ohio, or Corpus Christi, Texas, or wherever they are, are set by state regulators. This will make it very challenging to establish a national policy. 
What do you see for the future of the electric 
utility industry?
Richard Notebaert:  I think it’s a great sector. When you 
look at everything that’s been said, whether it’s worry -
ers and shareholders. It is a very challenging time for us.
Linda Goodspeed:  I worry beyond AEP, frankly. AEP is 
one entity, and when you look at all of these energy companies facing the same challenges and having to shut down or retrofit plants, it is a tremendous effort for everyone to execute all at the same time. 
How difficult is it for companies such as AEP 
to operate and plan for the long term in the absence of a coordinated national energy policy? What should such a policy encompass?
Richard Sandor: The United States needs an energy 
policy. Unfortunately, there is very little push from the grassroots up to demand this of leaders in Washington. In 1973, then-President Nixon called for an energy pol -
icy; 40 years later we still don’t have one. We need to advocate for a policy that creates an environment where ing about the safety of our employees or the service we provide to customers, we are an energy-driven society. AEP produces a product and a service that people want. When there’s no power, see how well you function. That’s a great product to have. AEP is a great company and I think we’re in a very exciting time. Now, how we navigate the journey is the challenge before us.
Linda Goodspeed: I also think it’s an exciting time. The 
number of gadgets per person is growing, electric cars are coming, so the need for electricity will grow natu -
rally. AEP may not look the same in five or 10 years, but it will be around in a different format serving the needs of its customers. I think that’s very exciting.
Richard Sandor: Energy is a vital part of this country. AEP 
participates in all aspects – transmission, distribution 
and generation  – and I think if you believe in the United 
States, which I firmly do, you have to believe that energy infrastructure is going to keep us preeminent.“Hearing from people inside our organization who understand the  
issues, as well as from outsiders or advocates who give us their  
viewpoint, is critical. ”  
– Richard SandorThis Competitive  
Renewable Energy  
Zone transmission project  
in T exas is just one of 
many transmission projects that AEP will invest in through wholly owned subsidiaries or joint ventures with other companies. 
14 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportBusiness Performance: Financial & Operational
This year, we are incorporating a broader range of per-formance measures within the financial performance section of this report. In addition to traditional financial indicators about our various business operations, we include key information from our environmental, safety and health, and reliability sections to provide a more comprehensive overview of our performance.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  
At AEP, we believe that sustainability is a key business 
strategy and opportunity. Incorporating sustainability throughout our business enhances our ability to deliver profits to shareholders, meet our obligations to lenders and fulfill our environmental and social commitments. Improving our environmental and social performance, in turn, contributes to our financial well-being. We have governance and management systems in place that embed sustainability in our operations, integrate sus -
tainability with risk management, and promote sustain -
able practices within our business and to our customers,  shareholders and the public. AEP is undergoing major changes in its business operations, but the actions we have taken during the past several years position us for future success. O ur balance sheet is the strongest it has been in 
many years. We believe investments in our regulated businesses will support annual earnings growth of 4 percent to 6 percent on average. This growth, coupled with our stable and attractive dividend and combined with our business strategy and fiscal discipline, posi -
tions an investment in AEP as a 9 percent to 10 percent total return proposition.  B ecause AEP’s credit ratings are investment-grade  
( BBB from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, Baa2 
from Moody’s Investors Service  ), we expect to con -
tinue to access the debt capital markets at a reasonable cost. Maintaining these ratings requires strict attention to spending decisions and a stable outlook in the states that we serve. W e rewarded our shareholders in the fourth quar -
ter of 2011 with a dividend increase of 2.2 percent. This  
closely followed two dividend increases in 2010 that totaled 12 percent. AEP was among the stable, regu -
lated, dividend-paying electric utilities with strong bal -
ance sheets that were rewarded by the market during 2011. AEP shareholders received a return of nearly 21 percent for the year, including dividends, slightly exceeding the total composite return of our peer com -
panies and far outperforming the broader market.  We need to be simultaneously 
strategic and adaptable so that we can understand all the ways in which our finan -
cial success is connected to our ability to succeed in other areas. Our 
performance  is  
a measure of this. 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 15www.AEPsustainability.com
AEP has paid dividends for more than a century, a 
testament to the historic commitment of AEP manage -
ment and the board of directors to rewarding sharehold -
ers for their investment. Very few American corpora -
tions can claim such a record.
2011 Consolidated Results
AEP’s ongoing earnings for 2011, excluding special items, totaled $1.50 billion, up from $1.45 billion in 2010. On a per-share basis, ongoing earnings rose to $ 3 .12 
in 2011 from $3.03 in 2010. The Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (  GAAP ) result was $1.94 billion  
or $ 4 .02 per share in 2011, compared with $1.21 billion 
or $ 2 .53 per share in 2010.
 G AAP earnings were $ 4 37 million higher than 
ongoing earnings for 2011 mainly because of a Texas Supreme Court ruling that resulted in a $ 5 58 million 
favorable adjustment, net of tax, relating to recovery of stranded costs in Texas. W e further strengthened our balance sheet in 
2011, ending the year with a debt-to-total-capitalization ratio of 55.3 percent. Our available liquidity at the close of 2011 was $ 2 .4 billion, down slightly from the prior 
year but still substantial. We have access to $ 3 .25 bil-
lion in credit supported by 27 banking institutions across the globe. During 2011, we replaced the $1.5 billion credit facility that was due in 2012 with a new $1.75 bil -
lion facility that matures in 2016, and we repriced and extended to 2015 the maturity of a $1.5 billion facility due in 2013. We also significantly diversified the geo -
graphic dispersion of our banking group in order to dilute significant exposure to any certain region. Our current breakdown is 45 percent domestic, 12 percent Cana -
dian, 25 percent European and 18 percent Asian. A EP paid roughly $1 billion in federal, state and local taxes in 2011 and employed approximately 18,700 employees, accounting for an annual payroll of $1.7 bil -
lion. We took advantage of federally approved tax incen -
tives that resulted in a refund of $118 million. AEP typi -
cally is one of the largest employers in the areas where we operate, and tax revenue and wages support the economic well-being of our communities.
Utility Operations
AEP’s Utility Operations includes the generation, trans -
mission and distribution of electricity for retail and wholesale customers and represented nearly 99 per-  
cent of the company’s ongoing earnings for 2011. AEP  
earned an overall 10.6 percent return on equity ( R OE ) in  
2011 on a pro forma basis. The performance of our utility  
companies is reflected in Utility Operations. O ngoing earnings from our Utility Operations in-
creased $  56 million, from $1.43 billion in 2010 to $1.49 
billion in 2011, largely due to favorable rate changes, especially in our eastern footprint. However, regulatory disallowances, customer switching, and other factors in 2011 materially mitigated the increase. G AAP net income was $1.91 billion in 2011, up 
from $1.19 billion in 2010. GAAP earnings were $ 459 million higher than ongoing earnings for 2011 mainly because of the Texas Supreme Court ruling related to the recovery of stranded costs in Texas.  W eather can help or hurt our results, and in 2011, 
it had a favorable impact of $113 million. Although the weather impacts to our performance lessened from 2010 to 2011, the hot summer in our western service territory worked to our advantage. In fact, 2011 ranked third out of the last 30 years in terms of total degree days for all of AEP. I n Ohio, a growing number of retail customers 
Total Debt  / Capitalization  ( GAAP  )
2007   60.7%
 2008   62.5 %
 2009   5 7.2 %
 2010   5 7.0 %
 2011   55.3 %Environmental Performance Index 
( number of incidents per year )
 2009    9
 2010   15
 2011    9
This environmental performance index includes  
incidents for opacity, NPDES, and oil and chemical  spills at our power plants.Liquidity Summary  ( $ in millions  ) 
 Amount  * M aturity
Revolving Credit Facility  $ 1,500  June 2015
Revolving Credit Facility  $1,750  July 2016
Total Credit Facilities   $ 3,250 
Plus 
Cash & Cash Equivalents  $  221 
Less    
Commercial  
Paper Outstanding  ( $ 967 )
Letters of Credit Issued  ( $ 134 ) 
Net Available Liquidity  $ 2,370 
* Actual Dec.  31 , 2 011   483 million
common shares 
outstanding as of Dec. 31, 201116 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportBusiness Performance: Financial & Operational
have switched to alternative generation providers and 
additional customers have given notice of their intent to switch. Customer switching accounted for the loss of approximately 10 percent of our Ohio electricity load in 2011. This trend is increasing, but we have a strategy to address it. See Energy Reliability, Security & Growthfor more information.   O perations and Maintenance spending for utility 
operations increased $118 million, to $ 3 .55 billion, in 
2011 as a result of Ohio regulatory orders and expenses related to dollar-for-dollar rate recovery. O ff-system sales, or sales to non-AEP entities, 
were up $ 4 4 million, to $ 3 43 million, in 2011, reflecting 
greater plant utilization and higher power prices in AEP’s eastern region during the first half of 2011.
Transmission Operations
The Transmission Operations unit develops, builds and operates transmission facilities through investments in our wholly owned transmission subsidiaries that were established in 2009 and through our transmission joint ventures. Transmission Operations’ ongoing net income increased from $10 million in 2010 to $30 million in 2011 mainly due to an increase in transmission invest-ments by Electric Transmission Texas and the separate transmission companies. GAAP net income was $ 30 million in 2011, up from $ 9 million in 2010. See Energy 
Reliability, Security & Growth for more information. 
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
Environmental Compliance
Compliance is the foundation of all of our environmen -
tal efforts at AEP. We are required to comply with hun -
dreds of state and federal environmental regulations at all of our facilities, ranging from coal pile water runoff to hazardous chemical handling and air emissions from our stacks. We need to be able to demonstrate our per -
formance because environmental agency oversight and public interest have significantly increased. Federal and state officials frequently make unannounced inspec -
tions of our sites to check our compliance. In 2011, there were 174 regulatory inspections, during which everything from physical structures and procedures to record-keeping practices was scrutinized.  W e believe that, overall, our compliance perfor -
mance record is excellent. Even so, our facilities were the subject of two formal environmental enforcement actions in 2011, and we did not meet our goal of zero enforcement actions.* The first enforcement action resulted from an inspection at the John Amos Plant in West Virginia in 2010 that revealed improperly marked containers of used oil, used fluorescent light bulbs, and related materials, as well as other alleged violations. AEP settled the case with a fine of $ 4 8,624 in 2011.
 A second action came as a result of our alleged 
failure to report a leak in a chlorine gas cylinder at the Lieberman Plant, a natural gas-fired plant in Louisiana, in a timely manner. We are discussing this event with the Louisiana agency, but this matter is not resolved. While these incidents did not pose a major environmen -
tal threat, they did expose procedural issues that we have since addressed. W e maintain an internal Environmental Perfor -
mance Index for our generation business in which we set annual targets for compliance that are tied to com -
pensation. We recorded nine incidents in 2011, which was our best performance since 2005. 
Employee Safety & Health Path to Excellence  $350
million
expected investments by 
Transcos in 2012*We define a significant enforcement action as one that arises from events 
that are within our control, has more than a minor environmental impact and results in a fine greater than $1,000.annual payroll  
in 2011$1.7
billion
Recordable Injury Rates
2010    1.00
2010  1.05
2011    0.97
2011   1.00
2012   0.97 *
l  Targeted    l  Actual   
Recordable  injury rate = total deaths + lost work injuries  
+ lost work illnesses x 200,000 ÷ hours worked. Excludes  
AEP River Operations. 2008 – 2011 performance includes  hearing loss. Starting in 2011, goals exclude hearing loss,  
which is cumulative and cannot be attributed to a given year.     
Injury Severity Rates     Severity
     Days
 2010    21.73
 
 2010   22.62 4,229
 2011    19.94  
 2011    23.07  4,193
 2012   19.94  *
l  Targeted    l  Actual   
Average  injury severity rate = lost work days + restricted  
activity days x 200,000 ÷ hours worked. Excludes AEP River Operations. Excludes hearing loss. Severity days represent lost productivity due to lost work days or restricted duty.* Pending board of directors approval.2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 17www.AEPsustainability.com
Safety & Health Performance
Working safely and investing in health and wellness are core values at AEP. We have made significant progress to reduce both the number and severity of injuries to our employees. The achievements of many work sites and business units are testament to a commitment to mutual care and our belief that zero harm is possible. 
Our interim goal on the way to zero harm was 
to achieve top-quartile performance among our peer companies in the number of recordable injuries and the severity of injuries that lead to lost work days. When we first set this goal in 2006, we established a five-year Path to Excellence and recognized that it would be a challenge to achieve. Even though we were just shy of our goal in 2011, we developed a new five-year Path to Excellence target to achieve top-decile performance among our peers, which is under review by the board  
of directors.
Measuring performance is typically focused on 
past performance rather than proactive, forward-looking actions. We do both. Our recordable rate in 2006 was 1.66 and our severity rate was 31.77. We completed 2011 with a recordable rate of 1.00, just short of our 0.97 target, and a severity rate of 23.07 versus our tar -
get of 19.94. This compares to actual performance in 2010 of 1.05 and 22.62, respectively, but fewer sever -
ity days were recorded in 2011. The numbers show us trends and areas of concern that allow us to take correc -
tive and proactive action. The leading causes of injuries at AEP continue to be slips, trips, falls and being struck by objects. Learn more in Our People .  
System Reliability PerformanceExtreme weather conditions and natural disasters affected the reliability of our system in 2011 and tested our readiness for the unexpected. From drought and floods to extended cold and heat spells, tornadoes and earthquakes, 2011 was a year of weather extremes. These extreme conditions caused rolling blackouts,  
coal delivery issues related to flooded rivers, tornado damage, downed transmission towers, and a low-level event at our nuclear plant following an earthquake. Most customers were unaware of the operational difficulties we faced – b ut they were very aware of the time it took 
for us to restore service when they lost their power.  
We use several measures to track our performance. 
One measure of distribution and transmission reliability is the total number of minutes the average customer expe -
riences an interruption in their electric service in a year, called the System Average Interruption Duration Index ( SAIDI ). In 2011, our customers experienced an increase 
in the number of minutes their service was interrupted  because there were significantly more minor weather-related events and associated equipment failures than  
in 2010. The three-year rolling average for SAIDI was 200.2 minutes compared with 194.7 minutes in previ -
ous years. The primary cause of increased outages was trees or tree limbs coming into contact with power lines, particularly in our eastern service territory, where our states are more heavily forested.
During the past four years, the AEP system spent 
approximately $  881 million, or an average of $ 2 20 million 
per year, on vegetation management. In 2011, we spent more than the average – $ 2 35 million. We continue to 
look for innovative approaches and improvements to  
our integrated vegetation management practices that create habitats for wildlife yet ensure reliability. Read more in Energy Reliability, Security & Growth.
Outlook for 2012 & Beyond
Our performance in 2012 through the transition to our new business model will depend on the extent to which our operating companies can optimize their ROEs, our ability to reposition our generation resources, and the success of our transmission strategy. The pace of eco -
nomic recovery, the outcomes of rate cases and our spending discipline also will factor into our success. 
Maintaining the dividend for our shareholders will 
remain a priority. We expect the dividend, supported by our regulated operations, to maintain a payout ratio of 50 percent to 60 percent going forward. The yield recently has approached 5 percent.
Had we not taken steps to strengthen our financial 
condition in recent years, we would be in a much less secure position today. The near-term challenges ahead are substantial. But, looking a few years ahead, we feel confident that a resolution that provides long-term clar -
ity in Ohio and the promise of earnings growth inherent in our regulated investment strategy will reap benefits. 
We project continued economic recovery in our 
service territory in 2012 but expect electricity sales growth will remain modest, at about 1.4 percent. The capital budget for 2012 is set at $ 3 .1 billion compared 
with approximately $ 2 .7 billion in capital invested in 
2011. We forecast capital budgets of $ 3 .5 billion to  
$ 3.7 billion for 2013 and 2014. A detailed 2012 outlook  
is at www.AEPsustainability.com.Capital Expenditures
 
( $ in millions  )
2010  2011 2012
   Projected
 $ 2,243  $ 2,734 $ 3 ,114
l AEP Transco  
l Transmission JV  
 Equity Contributions
l AEP River Operations  
 & Other  Non-Utility
l Environment  
l New Generation
l Nuclear Generation  
l Corporate  / Other
l Distribution  
l Transmission
l Fossil & Hydro GenerationSporn Plant Unit 5  
was officially retired in 
February 2012 after  
serving the AEP system for 52 years. The last of the Sporn units to be built, it was the first supercritical unit on the AEP system when it came on line in 1960. 
18 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportBusiness Performance: Energy Reliability, Security & Growth
The nation’s electric grid is an increasingly sophisticated network of components, such as transformers, digital switches, and other technologies that work in unison to provide reliable power. When one part of the grid isn’t functioning properly, a loss of power can occur. Whenever that happens, no matter the cause, custom -
ers expect us to restore service as quickly as possible. Failure to do so can lead to political, economic, regula -
tory and social implications for communities, customers and for us that can be far worse than any damage to the system itself.  R eliability refers to our ability to provide energy so  
that it is available upon demand. To be reliable, we must prevent outages to the extent we can and restore power as safely and efficiently as we can if it does go out. Security refers to our capacity to protect the supply of energy  – under any circumstances  – from external and 
internal interruptions. Our ability to secure energy and deliver power reliably depends upon a mix of regulatory, economic, environmental and social factors.  O perating and maintaining the electric grid is more 
complex than ever. We are faced with a number of sig -
nificant challenges that affect our ability to maintain the existing system while also upgrading the system for the future. These challenges include an aging system, the threat of external disruption, the need for additional capacity, the difficulty of siting new facilities, and new and more challenging environmental regulations. We also have to figure out how to pay for these investments.
When Mother Nature Strikes
Sometimes AEP has no control over power reliability or availability; we simply take direction from those who manage the grid. For example, AEP Texas operates as a transmission and distribution company and does not generate electricity for its customers or provide retail service. During an extreme cold spell in February 2011, the state’s grid operator imposed rolling blackouts for only the second time in more than two decades because frozen power plants couldn’t come on line to meet the demand. AEP Texas was ordered to impose those blackouts on its customers. Texas faced a simi -
lar situation in August 2011 when extreme heat pushed demand to the brink of supply availability. Demand in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas ( E RCOT  ) peaked on 
Aug. 3, 2011, at 68,379 megawatts ( MW ) within a sys -
tem that can supply a maximum of 73,175 MW of elec -During weather extremes, 
the availability of backup capacity is critical to keeping  
the lights on. That’s one  
reason we are so concerned about the 
reliability  risks 
posed by new environmental  
regulations. 
Betty Miller: Thank you AEP! I now have electric!!             @StephDAustin: It warms my heart to see a crew from my home state of AR here to help restore 
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 19www.AEPsustainability.com
tricity. Although no rolling blackouts were required, the 
threat was real and customers responded when asked to conserve. 
Across our service territory, floods and tornadoes 
caused problems in 2011. Heavy spring and summer rains led to floods that hampered our ability to deliver coal to a plant in Indiana. A sudden storm that dropped four-and-a-half inches of rain within 45 minutes, flooding the coal yard at the John Amos Plant in West Virginia, required employees to wear life jackets to do their jobs until the water receded. Read more about these weather challenges online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Mutual Aid Fundamental to Electric IndustryWhen events occur that result in significant widespread outages, electric utilities often call upon peer compa -
nies to help restore service. It is a decades-old practice to address potential social, economic and humanitar -
ian impacts from extended outages. With experienced AEP staff working in established industry networks, we assist each other with workers and equipment to help secure a rapid response and to restore service safely and efficiently. Mutual aid also helps the industry miti -
gate the risks and costs associated with major incidents through the sharing of resources. The companies that seek assistance pay all associated costs of those utilities and contractors that provide resources and equipment. 
Due to the extreme weather in 2011, the Electric 
Sector Mutual Assistance program was used through -
out the country. AEP was called upon to provide assis -
tance to others 14 times. During three of the events, we offered assistance to multiple utilities at once. The most significant events affected the East Coast and New England  – a hurricane in August and an unusual snow-
storm in October. 
Balancing Regulations & Reliability
We believe that certain environmental regulations, such as the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule ( C SAPR  ) and the 
Mercury and Air Toxics Standards rule ( M ATS ), have 
the potential to adversely affect reliability industrywide if not implemented thoughtfully and in a reasonable time frame. Although fuel source diversity is an impor -
tant factor in assuring reliability, we generate approxi -
mately two-thirds of our electricity from coal, in large measure due to the location of our plants in coal-produc -
ing regions of the country and the historic importance of coal to the economies of our states.  M any of our coal-fired units play a critical role in 
maintaining regional transmission grid reliability. For example, some of our plants have what is known as “black start” capability. It means they can deliver power 
 2009   $ 2,630
 2010   $ 2,840
 2011   $ 2,953
  Industrial
 2009   $ 1,849
 2010   $ 1,993
 2011   $ 2,254
  WholesaleUtility Revenues by Class  ( $ in millions  )
2009   $ 4,405
 2010   $ 5 ,125
 2011   $ 5,207
  Residential
2009   $ 3,171
 2010   $ 3,406
 2011   $ 3,319
  CommercialAEP Operating Company* Profiles  ( $ in thousands )
Company   Customers  R evenues  N et Income  Total kWh Sales
Appalachian Power  960,000  $  3 ,205,225  $ 162,758  38,941,000
Indiana Michigan Power   582,000  $  2,214,770  $ 1 49,674  27,887,000
Ohio Power  1,460,000  $  5,431,111  $ 464,993  60,649,000 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma  532,000  $ 1 ,363,388  $ 1 24,628  19,310,000
Southwestern Electric Power   521,000  $ 1,653,826  $1 65,126  26,625,000
* SEC registrants
Three-Year Rolling Average  
Systemwide Reliability Performance
 2 007 2008  2 009 2 010 2011
SAIFI*  1.547 1.526  1.471 1.397 1.387
SAIDI**  198.9  201.0 198.1 194.7 200.2
* System Average Interruption Frequency Index is the 
average number of interruptions a customer experi -
ences annually.
** System Average Interruption Duration Index  
represents the total minutes of interruption the average 
customer experiences annually.milliontons65
coal 
consumed in 2011
power to the residents of CT .  Thank you, @SWEPCoNews!             @carstations:  New Electric Car Charging Station: Walmart/AEP – Columbus, OH             20 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportBusiness Performance: Energy Reliability, Security & Growth
to the grid without assistance from the electric system, 
making them critical to grid reliability. In the case of a major blackout, black start plants are the units that help restore power to the grid. Some black start plants will be retired because of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (  EPA ) new emissions rules. Other plants that 
supply critical transmission support functions may be retired as well.  T o put this into perspective, the AEP system has a 
total generating capacity of nearly 37,400 MW, of which 
24,302 MW is coal and lignite-fired. We have re-tired or expect to retire more than 5,100 MW of coal-fired capacity to comply with the rules. Emission controls will be installed, or existing con-trols will be upgraded, on almost 11,000 MW of capacity. Yet another 1,070 MW could be refu -
eled with natural gas. W hen we first raised 
concerns about reliabil -
ity, we were accused 
by some of being misleading about the threat to grid reliability. But our concerns were validated by the fed -
eral regulatory bodies that oversee the nation’s bulk power system. The North American Electric Reliability Corp. ( N ERC ) released a report in 2011 stating that 
“existing and proposed environmental regulations in the U.S. may significantly affect bulk power system reliability, depending on the scope and timing and the rule implementation and the mechanisms in place to preserve reliability.”  I n a letter to the EPA, the Southwest Power Pool 
said: “The EPA must provide time to allow the industry to plan an approach to comply with its rules in a reli -
able and reasonable fashion. As it stands now, South -
west Power Pool and its members may be placed in the untenable position of deciding which agency’s rules to violate  – FERC or EPA. Putting an industry with critical 
infrastructure in the position of choosing which agen -
cy’s rules to violate is bad public policy.”
Fostering a Culture for Reliability Compliance
Overheated transmission lines, inadequate vegetation management, insufficient tools and lack of training were the root causes of the 2003 Northeast blackout that left 55 million people in the dark in Canada and the United States and brought international travel and finan -
cial markets to a halt. Since then, NERC has been given authority by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) to enact and enforce rules that protect the bulk 
power system in the United States. These rules and standards are constantly evolving and affect everything we do in operating the grid day-to-day.  I n 2011, NERC conducted an audit of its Critical In-
frastructure Protection (  CIP) standards that are designed 
to ensure the security of cyber assets that support criti -
cal reliability functions. Auditors from NERC, SPP, Reli -
abilityFirst and Texas Reliability Entity Inc. participated in the audit. While they did find a few instances of non -
compliance, the audit team indicated that AEP’s culture of reliability compliance had improved compared with their observations during a partial CIP audit in 2009. Efforts to address the audit’s findings and recommen -
The Dresden Plant in Dresden, Ohio, is a 580-MW combined-cycle natural gas plant that provides power  
to Appalachian Power. It began commercial operation in January 2012. 
“The EPA must provide  
time to allow the industry to 
plan an approach to comply with its rules in a reliable  
and reasonable fashion. As  
it stands now, SPP and its  
members may be placed in the untenable position of deciding which agency’s rules to violate — FERC or EPA.
” 
@mizzmamamia:  is #swepco gonna credit me for this outage?             Eddie Kirkendoll Washington:  Man so glad to see these SWEPCO trucks. It’s really  
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 21www.AEPsustainability.com
dations are under way. We expect to be audited this 
year on additional reliability standards, including a CIP audit of Electric Transmission Texas. 
Noncompliance with these standards can have sub-  
stantial financial consequences and create reputational risks. For example, FERC fined one company $25 million for a 2008 blackout caused by a faulty substation that  
led to cascading outages of critical transmission lines.
ENERGY SECURITY
A Balanced & Reliable Energy Future
We need multiple sources of energy to ensure our energy security as a nation. A diverse fuel mix adds to energy security by allowing us to be more flexible in adapting to changing conditions or economic circum -
stances that might impede our ability to provide power from one source or another. 
We anticipate our fuel generating capacity to shift 
from 67 percent coal and 24 percent natural gas in 2011, to about 50 percent coal and 27 percent natural gas by 2020. The remainder of our resource needs will be filled by renewable energy, nuclear, hydroelectric and pumped storage, energy efficiency and demand response programs.
Coal is, and will remain, an important part of AEP’s resource base and is essential to the economic growth of much of our service territory. Our intent is to use this resource responsibly and efficiently. The addition of the 600-MW base load John W. Turk Jr. Plant in southwest -
ern Arkansas reflects our commitment. The plant will be among the country’s most efficient coal plants, employ -
ing ultra-supercritical pulverized coal technology for the first time in the United States. All legal challenges against the plant were settled in 2011, paving the way for commercial operation by the end of 2012. South -
western Electric Power Co. ( S WEPCO  ) owns 73 per -
cent (  440 MW ) of the Turk Plant. The total cost of the 
plant is estimated at $1.8 billion; the current estimate of SWEPCO’s share of that cost is $1.3 billion. SWEPCO will operate the completed facility.   T he United States also has abundant resources of 
natural gas, which offers potential environmental and price advantages. Natural gas constitutes an increasing share of the electric generation market and, according to the Energy Information Administration, that will con -
tinue during the next decade. A EP consumed 40 percent more natural gas in 
2010 than in 2009, and 25 percent more in 2011 than in 2010. This dramatic increase was due largely to lower natural gas prices that made it cost-effective to increase operation of our Lawrenceburg and Water -
ford combined-cycle plants in Indiana and Ohio and the availability of SWEPCO’s new 543-MW base load J. Lamar Stall combined-cycle gas plant. With the startup of Appalachian Power’s 580-MW Dresden natural gas combined-cycle plant in January 2012, we have further diversified our fuel mix in what has traditionally been a region that relies heavily on coal. The efficiency of these gas plants, coupled with sustained lower natural 2012 Operating Company*  
Projected Construction Expenditures  ( $ in thousands )
Company  Total
Appalachian Power  $  448,500
Indiana Michigan Power   $ 468,400
Ohio Power  $ 569,400  
Public Service Company of Oklahoma $  204,100
Southwestern Electric Power   $  475,400
* SEC registrants 37
hybridtrucks
medium-duty 
hydraulic trucks placed in service  
by AEP in 2011
Crews from AEP and 
nearby utilities work to  
restore power after tornadoes hit in April 2011. AEP received EEI’s Emergency Assistance Award for the assistance it provided to other utilities after Hurricane Irene and a late-October snowstorm. hot in my house. I wonder if they’ll give us a refund on our bill? It’s been over 3 hrs.             @953MNC:  I&M warns of possible outages during storm.22 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportBusiness Performance: Energy Reliability, Security & Growth
gas prices, has supported this shift in resources. And 
as shale gas development continues to place downward pressure on gas prices, generating power from these gas plants is increasingly economical. A ll of this is being closely watched by the NERC, 
which is concerned that the interdependencies of the electric and gas industries could increase exposure of the nation’s power grid to fuel interruptions. A typical coal-based power plant maintains a several-day supply of fuel on site, partly as a physical hedge against sup -
ply interruptions. By contrast, a just-in-time delivery system, which characterizes natural gas, is vulnerable to supply disruptions. Unlike coal, a multiday supply of gas generally can’t be stored on site, leaving plants that run on natural gas vulnerable to reliability issues. 
Transmission: A Growth Engine for the Future
A significant portion of our investment capital will go to our transmission business in 2012 and beyond because transmission offers great potential for earnings growth, shareholder return and customer service, both short term and long term. W e have a two-fold plan: Create near-term expan -
sion through our new AEP transmission companies ( Transcos  ) and invest in long-term joint ventures with 
other electric utilities to develop new transmission facili -
ties across the United States.  W e operate Transcos in Indiana, Michigan, Ohio 
and Oklahoma and are engaged in regulatory activities necessary to initiate operations in Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Virginia and West Virginia. The Transcos can separately raise capital and are able to build new transmission without affecting the balance sheet or credit ratings of the operating companies. This organiza -tional design provides long-term benefits to customers by relieving our operating companies of the burden of incurring debt for those projects, thus preserving debt issuance capacity for other system needs while, at the same time, facilitating the completion of transmission system improvements by the Transcos.  W e expect the Transcos to invest approximately 
$ 350 million in 2012 and to grow to more than $ 2 bil-
lion in assets during the next four years. With FERC-approved formula rates that adjust annually, these invest -
ments support the transmission needs of the operating companies, providing additional reliability and efficiency while delivering stable earnings and shareholder value.  O ur longer-term strategy includes pursuing joint 
ventures to build transmission lines within and outside of our service territory. These partnerships allow us  
to leverage both expertise and financial assets. We expect to invest approximately $116 million in 2012 to  
support construction and other expenditures. Many will modernize the grid and improve reliability, alleviate  
congested power corridors and facilitate the develop -
ment of renewable generation. Read more about the projects  online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Retail Competition in OhioAfter progressing slowly for more than a decade, retail competition hit AEP Ohio’s regulated customers in a big way in 2011. 
The ability to switch suppliers of electric-
ity has been in place in Ohio since 2001, fol-lowing restructuring legislation approved by the Ohio General Assembly in 1999. While competition began appearing in some of the higher-priced markets in Ohio shortly after, AEP’s low rates made it difficult for competi -
tors to gain a foothold through much of the first decade of the 21st century.  T hat began to change in 2011, however, 
as AEP was forced to increase rates to pay for environmental improvements while other companies were able to offer lower prices brought about by a slow economy. Suddenly,  AEP customers were being enticed with lower rates than they were getting from their  
regulated utility.  A EP’s commercial customers were the 
first to benefit from competition. The cus -
tomer shopping levels at AEP Ohio were further exacerbated by a subsidy that com -
petitors were obtaining for capacity at AEP’s expense. Suppliers then began targeting residential customers, who have been able to save 10 percent of their generation and trans -AEP Utility kWh Sales  ( in millions )
Customer Class  2 009 2 010 2 011
Residential  58,232  61,944  61,655
Commercial   49,925 50,748 50,767
Industrial   54,428 57 ,333 59,667
Miscellaneous   3,048 3,083 3,100
Total*   165,633  1 73,108  175,189 
Wholesale  29,670 32,581 40,519
Total   195,303  2 05,689  215,708
* Includes energy delivered to customers served by AEP’s  
Texas companies.27%
projected natural 
gas capacity of total generation by 2020
@rushgirl302003: @aepohio why did my electric bill nearly triple for Jan when I wasn’t home half of the month??? Paycheck only goes so far2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 23www.AEPsustainability.com
mission charges. The result is that more than  
70,000 of AEP Ohio’s 1,460,000 customers had switched to a competitive supplier by the end of 2011. AEP Ohio lost $132 million in regulated revenues in 2011 to competition.
 A EP has formed its own competitive 
retail supplier, which has captured a portion of the customers who left AEP Ohio’s regu -
lated business. But in the case of AEP’s for -
mer regulated customers, it means that AEP will continue to provide those customers with generation and transmission services at a lower margin.  T he key to a successful retail strategy 
is to expand into other deregulated markets. In January 2012, AEP purchased BlueStar Energy Holdings Inc., a Chicago-based com -
pany founded in 2002 that specializes in retail energy marketing. Recognized as one of the fastest-growing energy suppliers in the country, BlueStar brings a staff of more than 200 people and approximately 23,000 retail customers to AEP, most outside of our service territory. More importantly, it brings industry-leading back-office systems, expe -
rienced marketers, and market expertise to lead AEP’s growth into competitive retail markets. Besides Ohio, BlueStar operates in Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C., and expects to begin marketing in Texas this year. Energy Efficiency  – Saving Money & Resources
We have always encouraged our customers to use energy wisely and efficiently. But recently we have begun to look differently at energy efficiency. A decade ago, we did not view energy efficiency as a resource and did not give it serious consideration when develop -
ing our integrated resource plan. Today, we see energy efficiency and demand response as very important resources, and we have increased our commitment accordingly. Energy efficiency and demand response will become even more important in the future as regu -
lators will want to know what we have done to delay the need to build new power plants.  E nergy efficiency has been a priority for many of  
our stakeholders, and it was at their urging that we began to fully appreciate the need for expanding this resource. Our goals to reduce demand by 1,000 MW and energy consumption by 2,250,000 megawatt-hours ( MWh ) by the end of 2012 were driven by the ongoing 
discussions we have with so many of our stakeholders. These goals are reflected in our integrated resource plans, and we track and report our progress routinely.  F rom 2008 through 2011, we achieved 1,972,000 
MWh of reductions, reaching 88 percent of our energy target, and we are on track to meet our goal at the end of 2012. We also have achieved 716 MW, or 72 percent, of the demand reduction goal and continue to aggressively pursue opportunities to meet it as well.  E nergy efficiency and demand reduction programs 
have received regulatory support in many of our states. This cost recovery will continue to be integral to our use of this resource in the future. Between 2008 and 2011, we invested approximately $239 million in these con -
sumer programs. In 2011 alone, we invested more than $115 million. Going forward, we expect investments across the AEP system will continue to exceed $100 million annually, subject to regulatory approval and cost recovery. Read more about what we are doing includ -
ing a state-by-state breakdown of energy savings and investments, online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
gridSMART  
®: The Future of Energy
Our responsibility to our customers extends to helping them use electricity efficiently. Under our gridSMART 
® 
program, we have deployed new technologies and developed new programs and pricing options to help customers make choices that will save energy and money. The gridSMART 
® initiative includes smart grid 
technologies such as smart meters, voltage optimization equipment and smart appliances. It allows us to test and deploy these new technologies that can reduce our own energy use and teach us how the technologies interact with the grid. The gridSMART 
® initiative includes more 
than 100 energy efficiency programs across our sys -
tem. We work closely with many different stakeholders, from regulators and environmental groups to customers and policy makers, to better understand what motivates people to become more energy efficient.  N ew electric transportation technologies also are 
being tested. As the auto industry continues to ramp up its development and production of plug-in electric vehicles, we are taking steps to understand how they interact with our grid and how we will respond to the changing needs of our customers. Learn more about all of our gridSMART 
® projects in our states online at 
www.AEPsustainability.com .The AEP corporate  
headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, was awarded  
LEED Gold certification in the existing building category by the U.S.  
Green Building Council.
         @OneLuckyGuitar: Less than my latte! –TIM “@in_mi_power The average I&M customer pays < $3/day for electricity – less than a gallon of gas!24 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportEnvironmental Performance:  Environment & Climate
For decades, one of the lowest-cost resources to pro -
duce electricity in the United States has been coal. In 
addition to providing customers with reliable, afford -
able power, coal has enabled economic growth in those areas where it is plentiful. Because of this, most coal-fired generating stations are located in coal-producing regions, usually in rural areas, and are an important source of jobs, prosperity and economic stability. H owever, the economics of coal-fired generation 
have changed the equation. Compliance with new envi -
ronmental regulations will be costly and will be difficult for many communities in our service territory. Changes in our generation fleet will require thoughtful planning, careful implementation and sufficient time to avoid adverse impacts on reliability and customers.  A  wisely planned transition of our generation 
plants will take longer than the regulations permit, but it will also mitigate grid reliability concerns; provide for cost-effective, achievable compliance; be more afford -
able for customers; and get us to the same point. Along the way, we can help our communities prepare for the change, do more to mitigate the cost to customers, and promote a more stable work force for the long term. We think the slightly longer path is the best, most appropri -
ate route for our customers and our shareholders.  N ew and pending U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency ( E PA ) regulations are mostly focused on air 
emissions, but we are also preparing for changes in other rules that govern cooling water intake structures and wastewater effluent guidelines, and the disposal of coal combustion residuals. The EPA has not coordinated these rules, making compliance extremely difficult for regulated utilities to plan when it’s unclear how the rules will fit together. We maintain that there is a more effi -
cient and effective way to achieve the same environ -
mental results, and we are advocating for an alternative approach with legislators and regulators.  E ven so, we will continue to comply with all appli -
cable environmental laws and regulations as we have consistently done in the past. But as the bar gets higher, compliance gets increasingly expensive and challeng -
ing. This became clear with the scope and stringency of regulations to reduce emissions proposed or enacted by the EPA in 2011. Even as the debate continues about the efficacy of these regulations, their cost and their effect on grid reliability, our regulators, our stakeholders and our customers expect nothing less than full compliance. 
The M/V Michael G. Morris plies the Mississippi River along New Orleans on its dedication voyage Aug. 31, 2011. The tugboat is one of more than 70 that AEP River Operations uses to haul coal and commercial freight on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers.We have retired or will retire 
more than 5,100 MW of  
coal-fired capacity to comply with new environmental rules.  
The 
transition  to a more  
sustainable fuel mix will  
also reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
@SeanCasten: Sign o’the times. 95%+ coal Appalachian Power, building its 2nd ever gas plant in OH.             Vincent Villars: More regulations: EPA’s fantasy 
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 25www.AEPsustainability.com
We frequently are asked why we need more time 
to comply with these regulations when they have been 
under development since 1990. We also are asked why we need more time when other electric utilities say they can comply by the deadlines imposed by the rules.
The notion that these regulations have been known 
since 1990 is incorrect. In 1990, when Congress passed the Clean Air Act amendments, it directed the EPA to study power plant hazardous air pollutants ( H APs ) 
separately from other industrial sources to determine if regulation was appropriate and necessary. The EPA con -
ducted that study and reported at the end of the Clinton administration that the only power plant HAPs emission that merited regulation was mercury.
The EPA formulated the Clean Air Mercury Rule 
( CAMR  ) in 2005 to address that finding. CAMR was 
challenged in court and vacated in 2008. In developing a replacement for CAMR, the EPA under the Obama administration expanded the number of HAPs it would regulate and in 2011 proposed the Utility Hazardous Air Pollutants Rule, which later became the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards ( M ATS ) rule. Therefore, we did not 
know the specific emissions that would be regulated or the level of control required until a final rule was issued at the end of 2011. I n many cases, other companies were required to 
reduce emissions because of state-imposed mandates, which put them on the path to compliance earlier. None of AEP’s states required these emissions controls. While many people would argue that AEP should have installed controls at all of its plants, we generally cannot receive rate recovery for these very expensive invest -
ments unless there is a state or federal mandate. We simply cannot afford to put billions of dollars at risk with -out the promise of recovery. However, we have been preparing for compliance with preliminary engineering work and by preparing regulatory filings.
New EPA Regulations a Catalyst for Change
The EPA issued two major regulations in 2011 that profoundly affect AEP, our stakeholders and the com -
munities we serve – t he Cross-State Air Pollution Rule 
( CSAPR  ) and the MATS rule. We continue to develop 
a plan to comply with these rules as cost effectively as possible, but compliance will be expensive and chal -
lenging under the best of circumstances. D uring the past decade, major emissions control 
systems were installed on our largest plants to comply with regulations established to reduce sulfur dioxide ( SO
2 ) and nitrogen oxide ( N Ox ) emissions. As a result, 
customers in those jurisdictions where the retrofits were made, mostly in our eastern service territory, saw their electricity rates increase by as much as 40 percent during one decade. The new regulations will hit the same regions with additional customer rate increases. Local customers and regulators are pushing back. We continue to work closely with our operating companies, regulators, customers and communities to make these decisions collaboratively.  T he new CSAPR and MATS rules will reduce emis -
sions even further, but it is important that our custom -
ers and regulators understand what we have already achieved. Since 1990, we have invested $7 billion to up-  
grade our plants to reduce emissions and have reduced SO
2 emissions by 73 percent and NOx emissions by  
80 percent as a result.  W e have retired, or plan to retire, more than 5,100  
megawatts ( MW ) of coal-fired capacity, mostly due to 
AEP Coal Consumed  ( in millions of tons )
 2008    75
 2009    65
 2010   67
 2011    65AEP Natural Gas Usage
 MMBtu  Bcf
2007  108,363,927   105.2 
2008   105,007,463   101.9 
2009   98,157,932   95.7
2010   141,289,297   133.6
2011   170,259,309   1 66.8
2012*  182,242,900   1 78.5
* The 2012 data represent the projected natural gas 
consumption contained in the 2012 Control Budget. 
45%
land owned by 
AEP subsidiary companies that is forested
The Timber Road Wind Farm in northwest 
Ohio is part of AEP’s portfolio of 1,494 MW of installed wind capacity.  The 99-MW facil-ity began commercial operation in 2011. solution to unemployment             @jeffmh2: American Electric Power T akes Workers Hostage to Stop Pollution ControlsEnvironmental Performance:  Environment & Climate 
these rules. This capacity reduction will directly affect 
600 jobs at AEP and indirectly affect thousands more in communities where those plants are located. We also will retrofit or upgrade almost 11,000 MW of coal gen -
eration with advanced emission controls.  W e estimate the total capital cost of compliance 
with all proposed environmental rules  – CSAPR, MATS, 
coal ash, 316( b ) and steam effluent guidelines  – at $6 
billion to $7 billion from 2012 through 2020. And this does not include the cost to operate and maintain the units once the controls are in place or future costs asso -
ciated with building additional replacement generation and incremental fuel cost increases.  A nother potential reliability impact that regional 
transmission organizations are still analyzing, and which the EPA did not adequately quantify, are the coal-fired units that will have to be curtailed, derated ( r eductions 
to the maximum capability of a unit ) or potentially idled 
to comply with the new rules. We anticipate possibly curtailing or derating approximately 680 MW of coal-fired generation as a result of the new EPA rules, the equivalent of one medium- to large-size coal unit. S everal of our projects will not be completed by 
the May 2015 MATS compliance requirement. Without fourth-year and, in some cases, fifth-year compliance extensions contemplated by the rule, we may have to idle approximately 1,900 MW of additional coal units until we can complete these environmental control projects. This number will be larger if we do not receive approval of a fourth-year extension. It is still unclear how these issues will affect the reliability of the power grid across the country as multiple companies face these same issues. These rules should be implemented in a way that is technically feasible, cost-effective and minimizes grid reliability risks. For more information about our work with the regional transmission organizations about these issues, see Energy Reliability, Security & Growth.
Cross-State Air Pollution Rule 
This rule would reduce SO
2 and NOx emissions from 
power plants located in 33 Eastern, Midwestern and Southern states. It is intended to reduce ozone and fine particulate matter concentrations in downwind states.  C SAPR, initially proposed as the Clean Air Trans -
port Rule, was enacted in July 2011. The scope of reductions and the implementation schedule were sig -
nificantly more stringent than proposed. Phase I was to begin Jan. 1 , 2012. On Dec. 30, 2011, the U.S. Circuit 
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stayed enforcement of the rule as part of a lawsuit filed by several parties, including AEP. Oral arguments in the lawsuit were heard in April 2012, with a ruling expected later this year.  I n the interim, compliance with the Clean Air Inter -
state Rule ( C AIR ), which was enacted in 2005, will con -
tinue. Although CAIR was overturned by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2008, it had remained in place pend -
ing the development of CSAPR. In developing CSAPR, the EPA chose not to recognize the air quality improve -
ments that had already been achieved through retrofits since 2005. A supplemental rule that includes Oklahoma in the 
CSAPR seasonal NOx program was finalized in Decem -
ber 2011. The EPA has announced that the provisions of the supplemental rule will not be enforced while the stay of the final CSAPR remains in effect. D elaying enforcement of CSAPR won’t have a  
major effect on the installation of emissions control  
Superintendent of Main-tenance and Engineering Joe Brantley, left, and Port Engineer Ron Culp review plans to transform the M/V Donna Rushing with new engines, LED lighting and other improvements, making it one of the most efficient tugboats on the  
Mississippi and Ohio rivers. 
26 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Reportmetric tons 
of CO 2 
emissions in 2011136 million
@danielburk:  RT @PSOklahoma was recognized for tree care at the state capitol.             @ARCpointLVL: Ky. Power’s decision to stick with coal leads to 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 27www.AEPsustainability.com
equipment in 2012. First-year compliance largely in-
volves changing the way some plants operate, versus installation of new equipment. Market forces, in the form of low natural gas prices, also will reduce those potential impacts.
Mercury & Air Toxics Standards
MATS was signed on Dec. 16, 2011, and is the rule with the greatest potential impact on AEP. The MATS rule is designed to reduce mercury, other metals and acid gas emissions from coal- and oil-fired power plants.  T he MATS rule became effective on April 16, 
2012. The initial compliance deadline is three years after the effective date, or April 16, 2015. A one-year extension (  a fourth year  ) may be obtained from the per-  
mitting authority in each state for units undertaking  emission control projects or for retiring units that are  
essential for maintaining reliability. An additional one-year extension ( a fifth year  ) via an enforcement order 
with the EPA may be available for reliability-critical units.  W ork to comply with MATS is under way. We have 
initiated proceedings with public utility commissions to  
install additional emissions control systems at coal plants in Arkansas, Indiana and Kentucky, while concep -
tual engineering work is being completed for additional filings, where appropriate.  B ut we have learned that we must be cautious 
about getting too far ahead of regulatory requirements. State utility commissions often require federal man -
dates to be final before they grant recovery of invest -
ment costs. In the past, we have taken risks to the detriment of our shareholders. For example, we took a $ 76 million write-off of our investments in the West Vir -
ginia carbon capture and storage project. We attempted to lead the way, proactively searching for solutions to issues that had not yet seen mandatory actions. 
2020 Projected AEP Generating Capacity
by Fuel ( 39,740 MW  )
Natural Gas   27 %
Hydro, Wind,  10 %
Solar & Pumped  
Storage
Demand  7 %
Response &  
Energy Efficiency  
Nuclear   < 6 % 50 %
Coal / Lignite2012 AEP Generating Capacity by Fuel
( 40,189 M W  )
Natural Gas   24 %
Nuclear   < 6 %
Hydro, Wind,  > 5 %
Solar & Pumped  Storage
Demand
 2 %
Response & Energy Efficiency  
Capacity portfolio as of March 31, 2012. Includes the  
Dresden Plant and the retirement of Sporn Unit 5.  
Includes first-year Demand Response & Energy Efficiency. 63%
Coal / Lignite2011 AEP System Fuel Usage
Natural Gas   11%
Nuclear  10 %
Hydro, Wind,   < 1%
Solar & Pumped  
Storage
Does not include  
purchased wind generation;  
does not include wholesale  wind generation. 78 %
Coal / LigniteRecent & Planned AEP Generating Unit Retirements  ( in MW )
Company   Plant Name & Unit  State Capacity
Appalachian Power  Clinch River Plant, Unit 3 Virginia  235 
Appalachian Power   Glen Lyn Plant Virginia  335 
Appalachian Power   Kanawha River Plant   West Virginia  400 
Appalachian Power  / Ohio Power  Philip Sporn Plant, Units 1- 4  West Virginia  600 
Appalachian Power  / Ohio Power  Philip Sporn Plant, Unit 5 *  West Virginia  450 
Indiana Michigan Power   Tanners Creek Plant, Units 1- 3  Indiana  495 
Kentucky Power Company  Big Sandy Plant, Unit 1  Kentucky  278 
Ohio Power  Conesville Plant, Unit 3   Ohio  165 
Ohio Power  Kammer Plant   West Virginia  630 
Ohio Power  Muskingum River Plant, Units 1-  4  Ohio  840 
Ohio Power  Picway Plant  Ohio  100 
Ohio Power  W.C. Beckjord Generating Station  *  Ohio  53 
Southwestern Electric Power   Welsh Plant, Unit 2  Texas  528 
Total      5,109
* Units recently retired
tense case             @industrial_info:  #WindPower contracts allow SWEPCO to complete John T urk ultra-supercritical coal-fired plant in Arkansas.             Environmental Performance:  Environment & Climate 
 W e must weigh physical and financial risks in 
implementing our plan. We aren’t prebuying materials, 
for example, which puts us at risk for not having the materials and equipment when we need them. Because AEP will not be the only utility making these upgrades, we will compete for the same labor pool, engineering services, materials, capital and timely regulatory ap-proval as other utilities. The result may be higher prices as demand for goods and services exceeds supply. T here are also issues with implementation. While 
physical construction of the control equipment is pos -
sible within three years, the upfront time required to obtain permits and complete the design work greatly extends the project schedule. Based on our extensive experience installing scrubbers on other plants, these projects typically take five years from permitting and design to completion. Because of the number of proj -
ects that may be submitted for state authorities to review  – more than two dozen for AEP alone – t hat time 
frame could be even longer. So, in terms of implement -
ing new regulations, we can go only so far so fast. G rid reliability is another major concern. Despite 
assurances from the EPA that it considered grid reli -
ability when developing these rules, we believe there are too many elements beyond the EPA’s control. Tak -
ing a plant out of service, synchronizing the new equip -
ment and bringing the units back on line can take 17 to 20 weeks. Many tie-ins likely will occur in early 2015, immediately prior to the effective date of regulation, because most of these projects will take at least three years to complete. W e are concerned that the EPA insufficiently 
addressed concerns about the scale of retirements, ret -
rofits and uncompleted transmission projects that will occur simultaneously. The MATS compliance schedule creates reliability concerns with respect to both the location and unique reliability function of certain units. Addressing this issue will require balancing the scope and timing of unit outages to install emission controls and unit retirement plans with the need to complete new generation and transmission mitigation projects. 
A Different Way Forward
We believe that extending the compliance deadline by two years will allow AEP and the industry to meet dead -
lines and better coordinate projects so that grid reliability is less compromised. This will better control costs and fee increases, and enhance job safety as these projects bring hundreds of skilled workers to each location. We would achieve the emissions goals in a slightly longer period. Emissions would continue to decline as projects are completed during the compliance period. A n extension of the deadline also would give the 
communities that are affected by plant retirements more time to prepare. The International Brotherhood of Electri -
cal Workers, one of the industry’s largest labor unions, supports an extension of compliance deadlines and has actively lobbied members of Congress to allow this. R ead online about other EPA regulations that will 
affect AEP and how we are preparing for them at www.AEPsustainability.com.
Water Quality, Water Risk
Water quality, use and management are important is-sues to our industry. While our industry faces new rules related to the Clean Water Act, we are taking steps to reduce our water consumption, improve water quality and address availability issues in drought-prone regions.
28 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportU.S. Electricity Generation Capacity Additions by Fuel Type  ( gigawatts  )
   2010 – 2015  2016 – 2020  2 021 – 2025  2026 – 2030  2 031 – 2035  
50       
40       
30       
20       
10       
0   
l  Nuclear   l  Coal   l  Renewables    l  Natural Gas
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2011.Last summer’s drought in T exas threatened the ability of some plants to operate because of low lake levels. This photo of Lake Kemp, taken in Jan-uary 2012, shows how far some lake levels had fallen. Winter rains have restored some lakes to near-normal levels. Nikki Cole: 3 major AEP power plants in WV are shutting down in the next 3 yrs … at the cost of nearly 1,000 WV jobs … due to the new EPA regulations. 
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 29www.AEPsustainability.com
Water Availability 
The severe droughts in Texas raise concerns for several of our plants there even though they are located on res -
ervoirs built specifically to supply the plants.
Operation of the 896-MW natural gas-fired Wilkes 
Plant, near Avinger, Texas, was threatened last summer because of low water levels. The Oklaunion, Welsh, Knox Lee and Pirkey plants in Texas are all dealing with periodic low lake levels that will require monitoring. If rainfall does not return to normal levels in 2012, some production could be threatened. 
We have been working with the U.S. Army Corps 
of Engineers and other agencies to dredge channels to improve water flow and have pump intakes lowered. We may be able to acquire additional water rights in some locations, but adequate rain is the ultimate solution.
Water Quality Trading 
In 2011, we reported on a water quality trading project in the Ohio River Basin that we have been working on with the Electric Power Research Institute and other part -
ners. It is a market-based approach to improve water quality in the river by reducing discharges of nutrients, such as phosphorous and nitrogen, by paying farmers to install best management practices such as fencing to keep livestock out of rivers and streams. Participation in this voluntary program is in lieu of installing costly waste water treatment equipment at various power plants and other municipal and industrial sites. 
Managing Waste 
We continue to reduce the amount of PCB-containing equipment in the AEP system. PCBs have not been used in new electrical equipment for more than 30 years but are still present in much of our older equip -
ment, such as transformers. We removed and recycled approximately 30,000 pieces of electrical equipment in 2011; 115 ( a pproximately 0.38 percent  ) of t he items 
were found to contain greater than 500 parts per mil -
lion ( p pm ) of PCBs. Only 2 percent of the 1,901 trans -
mission and distribution electrical equipment spills that occurred involved oil that contained 50 ppm or greater of PCBs. All were cleaned up properly. T he EPA continues to develop a proposed rule that 
may mandate the phase-out of various levels of PCB-containing equipment. This rule could potentially be very costly because of the sheer volume of equipment that would be affected and the cost associated with identification and replacement. I n 2011, we disposed of more than 2.6 million 
pounds of hazardous waste – a n unusually large volume 
of hazardous waste for AEP. This includes 2.4 million pounds of fluid from the carbon capture and storage project at the Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. Some of the waste came from heavy metals and PCB-contam -
inated soil. About 1 percent was recycled, with the vast majority disposed of in licensed hazardous waste sites. W e also recycled approximately 1.2 million gallons 
of oil, 1.2 million pounds of paper, 35 million pounds of metal, 216,000 light bulbs, 287,000 pounds of batteries and about 205,000 pounds of electronic equipment such as computers and phones, keeping it out of landfills.
Nuclear Waste
The federal government is responsible for the perma -
nent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and assesses fees to plant owners for this disposal. But the federal govern -
ment has stopped development of the Yucca Mountain 
approximate  
number of acres  
of forest land  
AEP domestically 
has under Forest  
Management170
thousand
Dry-cask storage 
of spent fuel at the Donald C. Cook Plant will allow the plant to continue to operate despite the federal govern-ment’s failure to provide long-term spent-fuel storage. Cardinal Plant’s Unit 3 is the first unit in the country to vent flue gases through a natural-draft cooling tower. The design was the safest option com-pared with building a new stack.
The cost of our electric could go up by 35%!!!             Andrew Sidesinger: Boo. I support the clean air act and AEP cleaning up their act.
30 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportEnvironmental Performance: Environment & Climate 
storage facility in Nevada, leaving the issue unresolved. 
Indiana Michigan Power Co. owns and operates the two-unit 2,107-MW Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Michigan. Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we have a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel.  W e began a series of four dry runs to test equip -
ment, qualify workers and evaluate procedures in March 2012 for the dry-cask storage process. In June, actual loading of 16 casks, each holding 32 used fuel assem -
blies, will begin and will take 20 weeks to complete. B y moving the 512 spent-fuel assemblies from the 
plant’s spent-fuel pool, we will support an additional three years of dual-unit operation at full power. With -
out removal of the used-fuel assemblies, the spent fuel pool would reach capacity in 2014 and force us to shut down one or both units of the plant. 
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change may be one of the most significant sus -
tainability issues for AEP. And while AEP took a lead -
ership role publicly on the issue, national public policy-makers and regulators in our 11 states have conflicting views about global warming and the need for green -
house gas ( G HG ) regulations in the United States.
 A EP proactively supported a number of proposed 
climate bills in Congress, despite backlash from many of our states, and made significant investments in clean-coal technologies. We voluntarily reduced or offset car -
bon dioxide ( CO
2 ) emissions through the Chicago Cli -
mate Exchange between 2003 and 2010 and set a new goal for 2020. We also set a goal to increase the renew -
able energy on our system. We are proud of the progress we’ve made to reduce our CO
2 emissions during the last decade, and the transformation of our generation busi -
ness will further reduce those emissions in the future. Yet, there still is no mandate to drive these investments. Absent legislation or regulation, our shareholders are exposed to paying costs without corresponding ben -
efits. We must focus on what we can afford to do until there is clear federal direction on climate.  W e are focused on taking practical, short-term 
actions to reduce our carbon footprint, such as improv -
ing energy efficiency, investing in the development of cost-effective and less carbon-intensive technologies and evaluating our assets  – power plants, office build -
ings, and mobile fleet – a cross a range of reasonable 
scenarios. Longer term, the transformation of our gen -
eration business is expected to reduce our reliance on coal from 67 percent of our generating capacity in 2011 to about 50 percent in 2020. This balancing of our fuel resources also will keep us on the path to continued CO
2 reductions, helping us achieve our 2020 goal to 
reduce GHG emissions by 10 percent from 2010 levels. 
The Politics of Climate Change
For nearly two decades, the international community has tried to reach a negotiated settlement regarding GHG emissions. While some progress was made at the December 2011 United Nations climate summit in  
Durban, South Africa, there is still no binding agreement to reduce GHGs. Nearly 200 countries did agree to set up a new global, legally binding climate deal by 2015 and extend the Kyoto Protocol for another five to seven years. A Green Climate Fund was created to help devel -
oping countries adapt to climate change and invest in renewable energy. T he most significant action was the agreement, 
The carbon  
capture and storage project at AEP’s  
Mountaineer Plant captured more than 51,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide.2011 AEP Coal Combustion Products ( C CP ) Utilization Summary  
Total CCP Produced ( tons ) 9,454,402
CCP Donated ( tons ) 82,724
CCP Used Internally ( tons ) 1,499,866
CCP Sold ( tons ) 1,468,333
Total CCP Avoided Cost $ 17,635,414
Total CCP Revenues  $ 11,217,630
Total Worth  $ 28,853,044
CCP Utilized ( tons  ) 3,050,924
Percent Total Utilization Based on Total Production 32.27%@sparkedcsr:  What companies R doing 4 #csr: AEP helps build wind-diesel hybrid system, reduces CO2 emissions2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 31www.AEPsustainability.com
for the first time, by China and India to make GHG 
reductions. Our position on global warming remains unchanged: We believe it is a global issue that requires a global solution. The global community faces a dilemma. All we can do is focus on what we can change and what we can afford. 
Carbon Capture & Storage on Hold
There are occasions where it is prudent for us to invest in research and test the applicability of new technolo -
gies. One of our largest technology investments was the 20-MW validation-scale carbon capture and storage ( CCS ) system at the Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia. 
Mountaineer, which was the world’s first integrated CCS project at a coal-fired power plant, proved that the technology worked, as it captured more than 51,000 metric tons of CO
2 between September 2009 and May 
2011 and permanently stored more than 37,000 metric tons underground. The project was successfully com -
pleted and removed from service in May 2011. B ased on the lack of financial support, we an-
nounced in July 2011 that we would not continue with the commercial-scale project. It is on hold until the cost recovery issues are resolved. We did complete the engi -
neering design for the CCS facility, including extensive geologic work for underground storage and 
a detailed 
cost estimate. While the project’s closure is unfortunate,  
we believe that the work we completed will provide sub -
stantial benefits for this and other CCS projects.
Renewable Energy
As we transition our generation business to a more balanced fuel mix, renewable energy will be a larger part of our portfolio. Seven of our states have laws or regulatory orders that establish requirements or goals for renewable and alternative energy sources, such as Renewable Portfolio Standards (
 RPS ) or Alternative 
Energy Portfolio Standards (  AEPS  ): Indiana, Michigan, 
Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia have some form of an RPS or AEPS. The requirements in Indiana, Oklahoma and Virginia are voluntary; the oth -
ers are mandatory.  F rom 2007 to 2011, AEP’s operating companies 
entered into wind and solar contracts for 1,500 MW. In January 2012, an additional 100.8 MW of wind was added, bringing our total to 1,601 MW toward our 2,000 MW goal. Regulatory approval for an additional 49.9-MW solar project in Ohio is pending. Total renew -
able energy under contract from wind and solar is now 1,994 MW. Read more about renewable energy online at www.AEPsustainability.com .
Our International Work Although global action on climate change made only slight headway in South Africa in 2011, AEP participated in discussions in Durban during World Business Day, hosted by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (
 WBCSD  ). We helped explain climate  
recommendations being considered as part of the United Nations activities to several country represen-  
tatives. AEP participates in the WBCSD, working with  
electric utilities from around the world to develop guidance for new technology development and de-  
ployment, to help outline the need for new policies, and  
to make recommendations for individual solutions. AEP Waste Stream 2007 – 2 011
Measurement  2007 2 008 2 009 2010  2011
Hazardous Waste Generated (  lbs ) 1,471,562   571,939   141,414  1 ,535,336   2,639,251 
Hazardous Waste Disposed ( l bs ) 1,453,567   545,106  1 10,888  1 ,524,675   2,607,762  
Hazardous Waste Recycled ( l bs ) 17,996   26,833   30,426  1 0,661   31,489  
Spent Blast Material Recycled ( l bs ) 1,810,000   1,778,000   n/a   n/a   n/a 
Paper Recycled ( l bs ) 1,509,963   1,412,851   1,878,265  1 ,965,389   1,233,816  
Metal Recycled ( l bs ) 49,338,000   54,181,468   50,852,301  7 7,286,081   35,158,825  
Light Bulbs Recycled ( b ulbs ) 195,818   240,045   250,319  2 11,945   215,730  
Batteries  / Lead Recycled ( l bs )  369,482   415,314   367,063  4 29,932   287,721  
Electronic Equipment Recycled (  lbs ) 426,051   235,792   134,489  1 92,880   205,102  
Oil Recycled ( g allons  ) 545,366   1,241,121   1,732,701  1 ,016,306   1,230,104  
Beneficially Reused CCP ( tons )  3,130,450   4,137,069   2,971,688   3,200,146   2,943,736  
Parts Washer Solvent Recycled ( g allons  )  14,307   42,929   47,725  3 3,778   39,643  
Oily Water Cleaned and Recycled ( g allons  )  28,929   142,693   341,021  9 4,047   324,087  
Antifreeze Recycled (  gallons  ) 2,579  11,564   8,260  1 8,604   22,170  
Plastic  / Aluminum Cans  / Cardboard * ( lbs )  –     209,729   250,354  2 86,582   336,932 
*These items were not tracked prior to 2008.10%
projected  
reduction in 
CO2 emissions 
by 2020 from 2010 levelsSocial Performance: Regulatory & Public Policy
The United States desperately needs a comprehensive 
national energy policy. Without a common vision at both the federal and state level, strategic planning is difficult and less than optimal. State public utility commissions ( PUCs ) are put in the untenable position of having to 
reconcile conflicting mandates to ensure the lowest possible prices for customers while ensuring environ -
mental compliance and grid reliability. This situation is occurring while the power sector addresses more strin -
gent environmental requirements at the national level and a rapidly changing and complex energy market.  T he need for a coherent national energy policy  was more pronounced in 2011 as the U.S. Environmen -
tal Protection Agency (EPA) issued new environmental rules without meaningful coordination with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( F ERC ) or the state 
PUCs. These regulations not only make compliance unnecessarily expensive and difficult, but they also threaten grid reliability and create financial and opera -
tional obstacles to invest in the electric utility industry.  I f the United States had clear federal and state poli -
cies, we could better manage the costs associated with environmental compliance, developing renewables and new sources of energy, and expanding our transmission grid. We could improve our environment, stabilize our energy future and enhance our global competitiveness more efficiently.   W e face many challenges: the imposition of new 
environmental regulations and the related transition of our generation fleet; future market competition; sepa -
ration of generation from transmission and distribu -
tion assets in some jurisdictions; the inability to obtain regulatory recovery of certain operational costs; and changes in our business operations. While we have gained greater certainty over some issues, disjointed and uncoordinated regulatory treatment will continue to lead to expensive and suboptimal results. 
Strong Operating Company Model
Unlike most private sector companies, the prices we charge our customers and the returns we can earn on our investments are determined by state and federal regulators. Our shareholders lose value and the com -
pany’s earnings suffer if we make investments and are not allowed to recover our costs or are unable to earn a reasonable rate of return. To address this issue, we 
Lack of coordination between  
our federal and state regula-  
tors is a matter of increasing 
concern. We are accountable   
for keeping the lights on,  
but disjointed policies and  
regulations make compliance  
more costly and difficult, especially for customers.
The U.S. Department of 
Energy should have a larger role in determining the impact of environ-mental regulations, AEP President Nick Akins told a U.S. House subcommittee in October 2011.
32 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report@jwassmer: AEP wants to raise its KY electric rates 31%. Thank unreasonable environmental regs!             @DavidBKeller1: #AEP Ok, it’s not in the public
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 33www.AEPsustainability.com
have decentralized our business operations to put more 
responsibility and accountability in the hands of our operating company management. 
Today, our operating company presidents have far  
more autonomy along with greater responsibility for their companies’ balance sheets, credit ratings, liquidity, earnings, capital allocation, rate base growth, regulatory relationships and overall performance. Our operating companies work collaboratively with all other business units to meet the needs of their customers and com -
munities with a far better understanding of what local regulators will support. 
The Socioeconomic Impacts of Cost Increases
The cost of energy is important to customers and to the economic conditions of our service territory and the nation. High electricity prices have particularly severe impacts in the eastern part of our service territory due to the large concentrations of energy-dependent heavy industry. In industrial states, where electricity is a major cost of production, companies need to be able to plan and budget with some certainty if they are to continue operations there. Rapidly increasing energy prices will result in a downward spiral for our regions as manu -
facturers leave, creating higher unemployment, which drives household income down even further. Our ser -
vice territory consists of many states in which mean household incomes are already below the national aver -
age. These are very real social and economic concerns as the cost of electricity goes up.
Even though our electricity rates are among the 
lowest in our states, price increases during challeng -
ing economic times are difficult for our customers to absorb. This is especially true in regions of double-digit poverty rates, which describes much of our service  
territory. This concerns us, our regulators and the policy-makers in our states, especially as we face the prospect of another $ 6 billion to $  7 billion environmental compli -
ance program. A EP is following several issues at the federal level, 
including legislation that would allow us to more cost efficiently comply with new EPA regulations, the tax treatment of corporate dividends, and improvements to the inland waterways.    
 A EP supports legislation, such as the Fair Com -
pliance Act of 2011 introduced in the U.S. Senate late in 2011, to extend the amount of time utilities have to comply with new environmental regulations. We also supported the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation ( T RAIN  ) Act, which passed 
the U.S. House last fall, which would require the EPA and other federal agencies to determine the cost of its new regulations on the economy before they would be implemented. And we support legislation that would prohibit the EPA from regulating coal ash as a hazardous waste, which passed the House in October 2011. The EPA’s rule dealing with how coal ash must be treated is expected later this year.     T axes on corporate dividends is an issue related to 
the tax cuts first enacted by President George W. Bush. Before the Bush cuts, dividends were treated as ordi -
nary income and taxed at the taxpayer’s marginal rate. Beginning in 2003, the rate was reduced to the same level as for capital gains. Those cuts were temporary but were extended by President Obama during the recession. We support making that change permanent because it stimulates investment in dividend-paying companies such as AEP and the economy overall.
Components of a Residential Electric Bill  – AEP Appalachian Power Customers   
( average residential customer using 1,000 kWh per month, includes monthly service charge of $ 8 .35 )
Total Cost Per Kilowatt-hour – 1 0.67¢ ( as of March 1, 2012 ) 
Generation
Power production from  
a power plant
4.898¢  / kWh
Distribution
Electrical equipment, like power lines in neighborhoods that deliver electricity to  households and businesses
2.674¢  / kWhFuel Factor  ( last adjusted August 2010  )
2.197¢  / kWh
Consumption Tax
0.152¢  / kWh
Transmission
High-voltage lines that move bulk electricity from a power plant to a substation or between substations
0.744¢  / kWh
Base Rate                        Fuel & Taxes Electricity Compared with Other  
Consumer Goods   
( increase in price from 1990 – 2010  )  
Electricity    50 %
Transportation    60 %
Consumer Price Index    67 %
Food & Beverages   67 %
Housing    68 %
Natural Gas    105 %
Health Care    139 %
Gasoline  ( regular  )   159 %
Source: 2011 Edison Electric Instituteapproximate  
lobbying  
expenses in 2011 $11million
interest to raise electric rates. Now if we could regulate gas prices like that.             @AEPOhio: AEP Disappointed In Ruling By PUCO On Revised ESPSocial Performance: Regulatory & Public Policy 
Public Policy Changes in Ohio
The shift toward a competitive generation market in Ohio has been somewhat tumultuous, for the company and for our customers.  T wo of the biggest policy and regulatory challenges 
we faced in 2011 were the disposition of our Electric Security Plan and our transition to market rates in Ohio. In September 2011, AEP Ohio reached a stipulated agreement with 21 of 31 parties regarding how the com -
pany would transition to a market rate structure, sepa -
rate generation, and set standard-service offer default prices over the transition period. We believe the rate structure and the pace of the transition were fair and would provide for a smooth transition for AEP Ohio and our customers. In December 2011, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) issued an order amending the agreement and increasing the pace at which AEP Ohio customers could switch to alternate suppliers.  I n January 2012, the December 2011 order was 
amended and finally, in February 2012, the PUCO re-voked its approval of the agreement entirely, ordering the company to return to rates that were in place in December 2011 until a new plan can be adopted.   O n March 30, 2012, AEP Ohio filed a modified  
Electric Security Plan for the period of June 2012 through May 2015. The plan seeks to address customer concerns that arose from the stipulated agreement, while keeping the core structure intact and enhancing customer benefits. The plan continues to support and promote retail electricity competition in Ohio and pro -
vides a reasonable transition to a competitive market.   T he modified plan would result in rate increases of 
approximately 5 percent for all customers beginning in June. Components of the filing include freezing charges on a customer’s bill related to the operation and mainte -
nance of AEP Ohio’s generation facilities, excluding fuel costs; recovering deferred fuel expenses beginning in June 2013, a year later than originally authorized by the PUCO; implementing a Retail Stability Rider to provide financial stability for AEP Ohio during the Electric Secu -
rity Plan period; and continuing a mechanism to recover distribution-related expenses, as previously included in the settlement agreement. The plan also offers compet -
itive suppliers two tiers of discounted capacity prices for use of AEP’s generating facilities throughout the plan’s three-year term. The prices are proposed at levels that are known to allow suppliers to make competitive offers to customers.
Other Rate Cases 
To foster more timely recovery of expenses and greater regulatory certainty, AEP supports the use of alternative ratemaking models. During 2011, AEP filed a series of rate cases at the FERC and at the respective state com -
missions for recovery of environmental expenses, fuel costs, system reliability costs, investment costs, and other costs to maintain, operate and earn a reasonable return on our system. The traditional rate case process cannot accommodate the scale and speed required for timely recovery of necessary utility investments, which puts upward price pressures on our customers. More timely recovery reduces regulatory lag, which translates into more uniform rate increases for customers. S ecuritization is a process in which certain large 
recoverable costs ( i .e., storm costs, fuel costs, stranded 
costs  ) are converted into cash through a sale of securi -
ties. In addition to providing faster cost recovery for the utility, securitization can mitigate the adverse impact of 
34 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportSummary of Significant Rate Cases ( $ in millions )
  Requested  R equested   A pproved  A pproved  A pproved
 Annual  Return on  Annual  Return on 
Jurisdiction  Base Rate Change C ommon Equity   Base Rate Change C ommon Equity  Effective Date
Indiana  $ 149 1 1.15  %  $  ( * ) ( * ) ( * ) 
Michigan   $   25 1 1.15  %  $ 15  1 0.2  % April 2012
Ohio   $   94 1 1.15  %  $  ( ** )  1 0.2  % January  2012  
Virginia   $  126  1 1.65  %  $  55  1 0.9  % February  2012  
West Virginia   $  156  1 1.75  %  $  51  1 0.0  % April 2011  
* The Indiana base rate case is under review at the IURC.
** Although Ohio Power’s distribution base rate did not change, approximately $47 million was being recovered through the Distribution  
Investment Rider (  DIR ). Due to the February 2012 PUCO Electric Security Plan ( ESP ) entry on rehearing, which rejected the modified stipulation for 
a new ESP, collection of the DIR terminated. The company has the right to withdraw from the stipulation in its distribution base rate case.@ThePostCampus:  A new rate plan from American Electric Power (AEP) could mean higher energy prices for #OhioU2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 35www.AEPsustainability.com
a large recoverable cost by spreading the cost to cus -
tomers over several years at a lower interest rate. For 
example, in Texas, AEP has used securitization three times to recover state-mandated restructuring and stranded costs. 
While recovery of stranded costs caused by the 
transition to a competitive market is a proper regulatory use, it is also the responsibility of AEP to ensure that the cost impacts to customers are acceptable and mitigated where possible. Securitization legislation has been pro -
posed in other AEP jurisdictions whose customers may experience similar upward price pressures.
Competition Ramps Up
Competition for retail electricity customers among various service providers accelerated rapidly in Ohio in 2011. Customer switching in Ohio has resulted in the generation- and transmission-related gross margin loss of approximately $132 million. 
We created an unregulated subsidiary, AEP Retail 
Energy, which is one of many companies offering competitive services in Ohio. With our acquisition of BlueStar Energy Holdings Inc., we now have additional technology systems, energy services and demand-side management programs to expand our retail and whole -
sale businesses inside and outside of our service terri -
tory. Read more about this in Energy Reliability, Security  & Growth.  D emand response curtailment service provided 
by third parties, called curtailment service providers ( CSPs ), remains a contentious issue for local utilities. 
These are services offered by nonutilities to commercial and industrial users. In exchange for a percentage of the savings, CSPs create programs in which our custom -
ers reduce their energy demand and receive incentives provided by regional transmission organizations such as PJM Interconnection.
To date, approximately 1,200 customers ( r epre-
senting more than 1,800 MW ) are registered in a PJM 
Interconnection demand response rate directly through a CSP. AEP strongly supports the notion that par -
ticipation by retail customers in such programs should be offered only through their utility and under terms approved by the responsible state regulatory commis -
sion, which is the case in a couple of our states.
Transmission Remains a Priority
The need for a robust transmission system in the United States is as important as ever. We expect transmission will be an area of strong growth for AEP, and we have adapted our business model to take advantage of op-portunities in the near and long term. Read more about transmission in Energy Reliability, Security & Growth.  
Public Policy Affecting Inland WaterwaysOne public policy matter that is not as visible as environ -
mental issues is the deteriorating condition of our inland waterways, which are maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Corps estimates that 33 per -
cent of all main or auxiliary locks on the Ohio River will be in poor or failing condition in 2012. Lack of funding to make repairs will only exacerbate this situation.
In 2011, we experienced significant delays at the 
Markland Lock near Warsaw, Ky., as the Corps began an extensive repair project. Repairs have taken longer than normal and are extending into 2012. Because our crews must break up their tows into a smaller number of barges to pass through the lock, each passage takes several hours longer. Along with other delays, each pas -
sage up or down the Ohio River takes 24 to 36 hours longer in each direction. We estimate the delays at Markland alone cost us $ 5 .5 million for a seven-month 
period ending in February 2012.
AEP continues to support a 20-year capital devel -
opment plan proposed by the Inland Waterways Users Board and various trade associations. This plan would in-crease the fuel tax that commercial users of waterways would pay to help fund infrastructure improvements.
Political Involvement
We actively participate in the political process to ad-vance our long-term business interests and the interests of our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. We also lobby and work for what we believe is in the best interests of our communities and the nation. We maintain five political action committees ( PACs ) – one for federal issues and separate state PACs 
in Michigan, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Approximately 30 percent of the employees eligible to participate in one of our PACs do so. AEP’s federal PAC, the AEP Committee for Responsible Government, contributed $  510,555 to 
candidates for public office in 2011 and received about $ 628,000 from employees. 
In 2011, we spent about $11 million on internal and 
external lobbying activities at the state and federal level. This includes dues to trade or national associations for which a portion is used for lobbying.$510,555
contributions  
to candidates 
by AEP’s federal PAC in 201136 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportSocial Performance: Our People
Our employees define who we are, what we do and 
how we do it. They bring values, skills, diversity and expertise to AEP that make us unique and successful. As we undergo one of the biggest transformations in the 106-year history of our company, our people will lead the way. N othing is more important to us than the safety, 
health and well-being of our employees and our contrac -
tors. We invest time, effort and resources to protect all of our workers from harm. We are committed to zero harm, which is central to us, our employees, our con -
tractors and their families.  D espite our commitment and our efforts, we failed 
to achieve target zero when an AEP employee and con -
tractor, both working in our River Operations unit, lost their lives on the job Dec. 30, 2011, when their work boat capsized in the Mississippi River. This was a heart -
breaking loss for their families and both tragic and unac -
ceptable for AEP. We are working with the U.S. Coast Guard to investigate the accident. Two other contractors lost their lives working for AEP last year. W e work in a dangerous industry, but we do not 
accept that injury is inevitable. Zero harm is not a slogan or even an aspiration as much as it is a reality that we envision and work for every moment.  A s this report will demonstrate, AEP has improved 
dramatically in terms of workplace safety and health during the last five years. But for us, it is not about numbers. We care about safety because it is about our people and their loved ones who want them to come home every day safe and sound. T hat means we must use all of the tools at our 
disposal, from job hazard assessments and workplace procedures to our human performance error-reduction initiative and our awareness of personal health issues. It also means that all of us must have the courage to speak up if safety or health is being compromised. We must all be our sisters’ and brothers’ keepers. 
Checks & Balances
We continue to implement and refine the environmen -
tal and safety and health management systems in our Generation business unit through the Managing Envi -
ronment, Safety and Health ( M ESH ) initiative. Most 
recently, this has involved the use of expanded soft -
ware tools to manage safety and health policies, assess hazards and minimize their risks, and track incidents and develop plans to prevent their recurrence. Power plants now have electronic MESH manuals that link to 
The success of our company 
depends on having skilled employees in critical positions. We also must learn from and look out for each other and hold ourselves accountable  
for our 
performance . 
AEP workers at the  
John W. T urk Jr. plant line 
up as construction of the 600-MW ultra-supercritical plant continues. Once fully operational, it will employ 110 people.@CCforHomeless: On #Safety – Do you know how to respond to an #ElectricalEmergency? #AEP offers online training             @roanokenews: AEP only2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 37www.AEPsustainability.com
corporate resources yet are customized to plant-specific 
processes. These integrated tools create a sustainable platform for continuous improvement. 
Internal audits of our safety and health manage -
ment systems and compliance processes also are part of our zero harm efforts. In 2011, auditors undertook a review of live-line distribution work practices across AEP to identify gaps, concerns and best practices in one of the most hazardous types of work performed. In addition, 10 sites representing a cross-section of AEP operations were audited. At the generating plants, these were combined with audits of Environmental and Dam Inspection and Maintenance programs.
Getting to the Root Cause
When we find a reason to be concerned about a safety issue or event, we form experienced teams to  
conduct cause analyses and recommend solutions that can be applied by all work groups with potential for similar occurrences. This process, called Uniform Event Analysis, was refined and expanded in 2011.
Our Enterprise Hazard Analysis Process (  EHAP ), 
which provides the individual steps for most of the tasks we perform and identifies the hazards of each step, was formalized in 2011. EHAP is a one-stop shop for the resources and templates that enable work groups to develop job hazard analyses for their specific assigned tasks. The EHAP website, launched on the AEP intranet last year, can help employees find the safest way to complete a task from repairing a downed power line to changing a light bulb. 
Identifying potential hazards and preventing unin -
tended events are keys to achieving zero harm, but how those events are handled is equally important. “Just Culture,” launched about a year ago, is a structured approach to how employees are treated when unin -
tended events happen. It also is used to analyze events to determine what happened and where the manage -
ment system failed. Just Culture helps leaders ensure fairness, consistency, impartiality and shared account -
ability when performing this analysis. It’s the opposite approach from a punitive culture that is focused on finding someone to blame rather than figuring out what happened  – a culture that inhibits the reporting that is 
needed to attain zero harm.
The closer we get to achieving zero harm, the 
harder it is to get all the way there. We need to switch from measuring what we don’t want to see (  accidents  ) 
to measuring what we want to see ( h azard detection 
and accident prevention  ). We must focus on completing 
each job and each step within that job without injury. We must learn from and look out for each other. When we reach a performance plateau, we must find ways to get above it.  
Contractor Safety Receives More Emphasis
We set the same expectations for the safety and health of our contractors as we do for our employees, and we continually challenge them to improve. Our contractors’ safety can affect our risk profile and our reputation. 
Three AEP contractors were fatally injured while 
working for AEP in 2011. One contractor died when a work boat capsized on the Mississippi River, a second died while working for our Transmission business unit, and a third was fatally injured while trimming trees in Kentucky. This is not acceptable, and we continue to focus our efforts on preventing fatalities.
We set an overall recordable injury rate for contrac -
Targeted Contractor Recordable Rate  
Path to Excellence
2011    1.70
2011    1.52
2012   1.60
2013    1.50
2014   1.40
2015  1.29
l  Targeted    l  Actual    
Contractors covered by this target are defined as large  
O&M contractors such as construction, tree trimmers, etc.53safety
& health
policies and 
procedures at AEP
2011 Wages Paid by State  ( approximate $ i n millions  )
State  Total  S tate Total
Ohio  $569.8  Arkansas  $23.7  
Texas*  $169.8  Missouri  $17.7  
West Virginia  $164.9  Illinois  $4.7  
Michigan  $120.0  Tennessee*  $3.1  
Oklahoma  $112.1  Pennsylvania  $2.9  
Indiana  $90.6  Nebraska  $1.4  
Virginia  $74.3  Alabama  $1.4  
Louisiana  $70.8  D istrict of Columbia  $0.2  
Kentucky  $53.1   
* Based on federal wages ( n o state income tax ).utility on list of top 50 companies for executive women             @malcolm_smoak: @SWEPCoNews: Working in your yard this weekend? Call 811 before you dig38 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportSocial Performance: Our People
tors in 2011 of 1.70 and a rate of 1.52 was attained, bet -
ter than target.
 W e established a contractor Path to Excellence in 
2011 that sets recordable injury rates through 2015. The target for 2012 is 1.60. All of our major contractors per -
forming construction, maintenance and other physical work have their performance tracked each year.
Public Safety
Protecting the public from dangerous contact with our electrical equipment is a difficult challenge. We have little control over individuals whose work or recreational activities bring them close to our facilities or those who choose to trespass.  I n 2008, we launched a five-year Path to Excel -
lence  – patterned after our internal initiatives  – to reduce 
public fatalities by 20 percent and electrical contacts by 10 percent annually. We improved our performance but we did not meet our goals. We had six public fatalities and 35 additional electrical contacts in 2011, compared with nine fatalities and 37 contacts in 2010. T hree of the six public fatalities and four electrical 
contacts in 2011 were the result of attempted copper theft, which continues to occur in parts of our service territory. The value of copper has increased nearly 50 percent during the past five years, making it an attrac -
tive target for thieves despite life-threatening risks.
Work Force Planning
Our ability to conduct work force planning is hampered by the uncertainty we face as our business transforms and as our operating environment changes. It became more difficult in February 2012 when the Ohio Public Utilities Commission rejected a rate settlement and rolled back customer rates in an order that could lead to significant financial impacts. A EP had 21,426 employees at the end of 2009 
compared with 18,710 at the end of 2011 – a nearly 13 
percent decrease. Workloads have increased for many as a result of our 2010 severance program and subse -
quent reorganization, when about 2,500 people left the company. Although some areas have been stretched thin, we have taken special care not to compromise safety or electric service reliability.  W e are gearing up to help the estimated 600 
employees whose jobs are at risk because of our plans to retire certain coal-fired generating units. We want them to be as prepared as possible for other employ -
ment opportunities, within AEP or elsewhere.  I f employment in another AEP position is not pos -
sible, our goal is to make our employees marketable to other employers. We’re informally contacting businesses in some communities where AEP units are scheduled to be retired, to identify potential job opportunities and the skills those jobs will require. A lthough our work force was reduced, we still 
must find people with the skills we need at the time we need them, especially in areas where a high percent -
age of experienced employees have already left and gaps in expertise exist. Some of our employment needs relate to environmental issues; as we start retiring gen -
erating units, for example, we will no longer monitor air emissions, but groundwater quality monitoring will be needed for decades after the retirements.
Focus on Employee Retention
In the current economic climate, we are working to retain employees as opposed to hiring new ones. AEP hired 
30%
approximate 
percentage of  
employees  
represented  
by labor unions
Contractor safety is the 
focus of a new Path to Excellence goal set in 2011. Here, workers construct a substation as part of a Competitive Renewable Energy Zone transmission line in T exas. @BrandoKiser: “ American Electric Power” closing all their energy plants in the region. HUGE employer…             @appalachianpowe: Cable and telephone 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 39www.AEPsustainability.com
hundreds of employees annually from 2005 through 
2008 but hiring has slowed since then, with fewer than 800 posts filled in 2011. A small number of business units were permitted to add staff as a way to reduce overtime. Voluntary turnover – t he measure of those 
who leave AEP for jobs elsewhere, return to school or leave for personal reasons – h as begun increasing after 
a period of decline. About 2 percent of employees from both exempt and nonexempt ranks left in 2011, citing lack of advancement opportunities and dissatisfaction with compensation and supervision as primary reasons in exit interviews. Turnover at AEP and utilities in general is very low compared with other industries.
Our work force is aging, with the highest percent -
age of employees now between ages 45 and 54. We project that approximately 10 percent of our work force will retire during the next five years, but many employ -
ees will not leave until the latter part of that period. In general, employees everywhere are choosing to work longer because they are healthier and because changes to Social Security make it financially beneficial for them to do so. 
Opportunities for advancement within AEP are, in 
fact, more limited than in past years, and lateral trans -
fers have also declined due in part to uncertainty about staffing needs. Supervisors are encouraged to offer employees new development opportunities within their existing jobs because career advancement options have diminished for the time being. 
A Pool of Future Utility Workers Still Needed
Despite the current hiring climate, AEP recognizes the value of maintaining relationships with trade schools, colleges and universities across our service territory and beyond. We continue to offer internships and co-op programs, although we have scaled back the number offered. We want to be sure a skilled group of prospec -
tive employees is available when needed.
AEP works with a number of four-year and two-
year colleges  – such as Lake Michigan College, Zane 
State College in Ohio, West Virginia State Community and Technical College, the University of Arkansas Com -
munity College at Hope and Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology – t o develop programs that pre -
pare students for occupations in generation, transmis -
sion and distribution.
Military veterans are often well-suited for jobs in 
the energy industry because of the skills they possess from their military service. AEP has established relation -
ships with veterans’ support organizations across our service territory, such as State Vocational Rehabilitative Services and National Guard Yellow Ribbon programs. 
Partnering with Labor
Nearly 30 percent of AEP employees are represented by labor unions. We have a strong relationship with our unions, which traditionally have partnered with us on projects that assist our local communities, such as United Way and Operation Feed in central Ohio.
That relationship has expanded in recent years. For 
the second time in five years, in 2011 our unions joined us in advocacy relating to climate change legislation and proposed EPA regulations. We share a mutual concern about the business and work force impacts involved as well as the environmental issues at stake.
During 2011, we successfully negotiated 12 col -
lective bargaining agreements and 50 wage reopeners with the unions representing our employees. Negotia -
2011 AEP Work Force Demographics
Baby  40 %
Boomers  
( 1943  –1960  )
Millennials  9 %
( or Generation  Y 
–1982 & after )
Traditionalists   < 1 %
( 1942 & before ) 50 %
Generation  X
( 1961  –1981)2011  Employment Data – EEO-1  (  as of Aug. 31 , 2 011   ) 
 Employees  Females  ( % ) Minorities  ( % )
Total Employment  18,398  3,344  ( 1 8.2 % ) 2 ,666 ( 1 4.5 % )
Officials & Managers  3,276  379  ( 1 1.6 % ) 2 67 ( 8.2 % )
Professionals  4,394  1,245  ( 2 8.3 % ) 681 ( 15.5 % )
2010 Employment Data – EEO-1  ( as of Aug. 31 , 2010   ) 
 Employees  Females  ( % ) Minorities  ( % )
Total Employment  18,650  3 ,417 ( 1 8.3%  ) 2 ,732 ( 1 4.6 % )
Officials & Managers  3,200  3 67 ( 1 1.5%  ) 2 61 ( 8.2 % )
Professionals  4,427  1,240  ( 2 8.0 % ) 684 ( 15.5 % )wire can become energized if they touch electric wires. Stay away from downed wires.             @7sicPOWELLsic7:  Does AEP pay an electric bill? #puzzledtweetSocial Performance: Our People
tions on a master contract with the International Broth -
erhood of Electrical Workers ( I BEW  ) have concluded 
and the local unions have ratified the updated agree -
ment. Agreements with the Utility Workers Union of 
America, United Steelworkers, The International Union of Operating Engineers and United Mine Workers also expire in 2012.
The Economics of Health & Wellness
Health issues affecting America – h ypertension, high 
cholesterol, chronic back pain and diabetes – c ertainly 
impact U.S. corporations and their work forces, includ -
ing AEP’s. Rising medical costs associated with coming health care reform, lost productivity, increased safety risk, and the human toll of poor health are causing us to seek new and better ways to support employee health and wellness. N ationally, companies have seen workers’ com -
pensation costs decline an average of 4 percent since 2001, but AEP has experienced a 6.4 percent reduction during that same period. Although AEP experienced a 2.6 percent increase in 2011, that was near the low end of the national average increase in workers’ compensa -
tion costs that year. We believe our focus on safety and health contributes to this. A EP is self-insured and covers approximately 80 
percent of medical plan costs. Our net cost of providing this benefit for active employees in 2011 was approxi -
mately $168 million. Employees paid an average of $2,800 for health care premiums in 2011. T he company’s medical expenses grew between 
7 percent and 13 percent annually from 2005 through 2009 but have remained essentially flat since. This is good news in that it suggests people’s health has improved overall. Another factor is the possibility that people are deferring elective medical procedures. We expect costs to increase when the economy recov -
ers further. Another unknown is how implementation of national health care reform initiatives will affect our medical costs, although we project that it would cause additional increases. C ompanies that focus on helping employees man -
age their health and well-being are more likely to have a healthy and productive work force. The “AEP Wellness … Energy for Life” program completed its fourth year, 
with participation in 2011 declining dramatically. Less than 16 percent of eligible employees completed all three steps of the program, down from 36 percent the prior year. The program consisted of a health screening, health assessment questionnaire and health improve -
ment program such as health coaching, cardiovascular activities, maternity management or wellness condi -
tion management. Employees who completed all steps were eligible for a reduction in their medical premiums and those of their covered spouses or partners if they also finished the program. T o promote worker wellness, we are implementing 
changes to make it easier and more attractive for em-ployees and their families to make healthy life choices.   T he new wellness program will provide more 
generous incentives that are based on health screen -Organized Labor at AEP
Labor Union  Number of Employees
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers  3,293
Utility Workers Union of America  1,150
United Steelworkers of America  496
United Mine Workers of America  268
International Union of Operating Engineers  2
40 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report$168
millionnet health care  
costs in 2011AEP annually  
provides flu shots  
for employees and  
their families as part of its employee  Health & Wellness program.
@T echColumbus: AEP names Pablo A. Vegas president & chief operating officer of AEP Ohio             @Mia_Chanel34: AEP talking about raising our electric 23,000
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 41www.AEPsustainability.com
ing results rather than simply on participation. Health 
coaching will continue to be offered. Personal informa -
tion will continue to be kept confidential by the vendor, but screening results in the aggregate will be provided in order to track employees’ overall health and identify trends we need to address. 
In addition to the wellness program, AEP offers 
more than 30 work/life programs, including flexible work schedules for certain jobs, parental leave, adop -
tion assistance and benefits for same-sex partners and their dependents. 
External groups and publications in 2011 once 
again honored AEP for its adoption policy, for supporting military veterans transitioning to civilian life, for provid -
ing a positive environment for working mothers and for promoting women into management roles.
A Culture of Openness
Our employees are vital to the success of AEP , and we have made candid, respectful communication a hallmark of our employee relations. This openness is becoming ingrained in company culture, and CEO Nick Akins has emphasized that it will continue during his tenure.
We use the Web and the company intranet site, 
AEP Now, to stay in constant communication with our employees, who can comment on internal blogs, including one written by the CEO called “Nick’s Notes. ” Akins also meets at regular intervals with small groups of employees across the company; this initiative is called “Nick’s Network. ”
The Benefits of Diversity
We value and celebrate the diversity of our work force and of the communities in which we operate. To us, diversity is about ethnicity, gender and age as well as the differences that our employees or community mem -
bers offer in terms of experiences, ideas and opinions, all of which help to make the work environment, or com -
munity, a richer and better place.
We track the advancement of females and minori -
ties from craft-level positions to executive posts. Because of a slowdown in hiring and a comparatively low turnover rate in 2011, we did not meet our diversity staffing goals. We will continue to be deliberate in our efforts to fill positions, being mindful that demograph -
ics vary greatly across our service territory. Beyond that, we need to change the ways in which prospective employees view AEP. We want to be seen as a career path, not simply as a utility company.
Employee resource groups (  ERGs ) are another 
valuable asset to help strengthen our work force diver -
sity. They support AEP’s values and goals, strengthen communication between AEP and its employees, pro -
vide a forum for exchanging new ideas and enhance the company’s desirability as a prospective employer. AEP’s ERGs are the Asian-American Employee Part -
nership, Hispanic Heritage Employee Resource Group, African-American Employee Resource Group and the AEP Pride Partnership. The last group, the newest to be formed, is a forum for lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans -
gender employees and their allies.
Our commitment to provide more opportunities to 
small, women-owned and minority-owned businesses through our supplier diversity initiative remains strong. Adoption of a new supplier registration tool in 2010 and more educational outreach to the buying community will help us further strengthen our commitment.More than
views of our  
electric  
public safety 
campaign on 3BLMedia.com
Contract crews install switches on AEP lines  
as part of the Ohio gridSMART ® project.  
Contractors make up a significant portion  
of the work force in our major business units.  
We track and report the safety performance  
of major contractors who perform construc-tion, maintenance and other physical work  
for the company.bill. #AreY ouKiddingMe.             @EnergyAuditTx: SWEPCO offers rebate program for energy efficient appliancesOur ability to make sustainable business decisions is 
enhanced by the relationships we have with many dif -
ferent stakeholders, primarily our customers and share -
holders but also our other stakeholders. Our business has always depended on the strength of our relation -
ships, and this is so now more than ever before.  W e seek to work closely with many stakeholders. 
Successful relationships require good faith, honesty and transparency about the reasons for our decisions. Our relationships with the environmental community were deeply strained in 2011 when we sharply disagreed about how new environmental regulations should be implemented. We were accused of trying to circumvent or weaken the Clean Air Act, which was never our intent. We believe there is a strong case for extending the dead -
lines, both on economic and environmental grounds.  S ome advocates felt blindsided by our lobbying Social Performance: Engaging Stakeholders
efforts and believed we should have provided them with advance notice about our plans, which we had done in the past on other issues. They were especially unhappy about our decision to pursue both a legislative and a more flexible regulatory outcome simultaneously. Believing we had violated their trust, they chose to end discussions with us and turned to campaigning against AEP. We continue to reach out to them in the hope that we can reopen our dialogue. We still believe that we were acting in good faith and in the best interests of our customers and shareholders; we heard from many cus -
tomers who support our position as a way to help them avoid paying higher electric bills that they cannot afford. W e held or participated in 12 stakeholder meet -
ings or calls in 2011. Much of the focus was on environ -
mental issues, but we also discussed energy efficiency, coal, supply chain, climate change and water issues.  W e have had a formal stakeholder engagement 
process for more than five years. In 2012, we will under-take a strategic planning process to plan for future en-gagement. This process will include revisiting our mate -
rial issues and key performance indicators. We intend this to be a collaborative process internally and with external stakeholders. 
How We Engage
There is nothing as important or effective as develop -
ing relationships face-to-face, but the pace of change requires us to find other ways to engage with our stake-holders and to stay in touch more generally. Social media plays a significant role in this evolution, although it will not replace the personal connections we value.  W e regularly connect with stakeholders using re-
sources such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn  
42 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportOur well-being as a company  
increasingly depends on 
working closely with  
stakeholders, reporting our performance and holding ourselves 
accountable . 
AEP supports employee 
involvement throughout our 11-state system, such as these riders in the 2011 Pelotonia bicycle ride to raise funds to fight cancer.
AEP has teamed  
up with Wal-Mart  
to provide the first  
public charging  
station in Columbus for plug-in electric vehicles.
Johnny Davidson: Thank you to AEP-SWEPCO for sponsoring Harvest T exarkana!             @3BLMedia: Save paper, help the #environment with #PSO’s online
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 43www.AEPsustainability.com
and blog posts, among other ways. We can engage 
those who have an interest in our business, and we can see what people are saying about us, our activities and our industry. This engagement helps us to under -
stand the perceptions some may have and gives us the opportunity to respond or engage if we so choose. 
Stakeholder Dialogues & Issues
Although the use of social media is more immediate, personal engagement is unmatched in building trust -
ing, long-lasting relationships. It informs our decision making and goal setting and gives us new and different perspectives we might not have otherwise considered. 
In February 2012, we held a multistakeholder  
meeting with AEP’s leadership team, led by President and CEO Nick Akins. We met with more than 40 cus -
tomers, analysts, investors, environmental organiza -
tions, trade groups, coal suppliers and labor leaders. It was Nick’s first stakeholder meeting as CEO. He emphasized the importance of these types of discus -
sions, particularly during this time of change, and encouraged stakeholders to come forward with their ideas and concerns. The dialogue focused largely on AEP’s business transformation and Ohio deregulation. 
Environmentalists challenged us on our plan that 
calls for more time to comply with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( E PA ) regulations. One stakeholder 
expressed concern that the legislative path AEP is pur -
suing appears to be for AEP’s benefit only and pleaded with the company to play a constructive role in the debate. Customers said they rely on AEP and the indus -
try to reach a solution that does not jeopardize reliability and has as minimal an impact as possible on prices. We will continue to update this group and seek their input.Engaging Investors The link between our financial and nonfinancial per -
formance is strong and growing stronger; we can’t be healthy in one without the other. Our environmental performance is directly related to our financial perfor -
mance, for example, and the same is true for worker health and safety. Many investors are increasingly see -
ing this connection. Our job is to inform them specifi -
cally about how our strategies capitalize on these links.  T he uncertainty about Ohio regulations and federal 
and state environmental rules has caused our share price to be discounted, compared with our peers as defined by the S&P Utilities Index. Our four-part strategic plan is designed to reduce our share price discount and maxi -
mize long-term value to shareholders. O ur job is to demonstrate to investors that we are 
ready and able to meet whatever challenge comes our way, but without more certainty from state and federal regulators, we are at a disadvantage. It is senior man -
agement’s priority to narrow this gap and make AEP the desirable, profitable stock that it should be. I n 2011, we participated in 26 investor conferences 
and in-person forums, hosted 11 investor visits to our corporate headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, and met with more than 600 financial analysts and investors in five countries. Our discussions most often focused on the legislative and regulatory uncertainties we faced in Ohio and with the EPA.  W e kicked off our investor relations efforts in 2012 
with an analyst and investor meeting in New York City in February. While our EPA uncertainties seem to have been resolved, the Ohio situation remains opaque and most likely will dominate investor outreach in 2012. We also plan to reach out more aggressively to our retail 
number  
of hours 
employees volunteered 88,323
Assistance Provided in 2011 to Help Customers Pay Their Electric Bills
Company  2008 2009 2010 2011
APCO  $ 14,025,973  $ 3 5,933,394  $ 2 6,990,405  $ 2 9,123,872 
I&M $ 6,762,855  $ 9 ,244,881 $ 9,027,788  $ 9,639,521
KYPCO  $ 2,172,576  $ 4,334,503  $ 4,586,968  $ 4,854,412
OPCO  $ 14,327,569  $ 2 1,103,269  $ 18,017,939  $ 12,904,096
PSO $ 5,853,761  $ 1 0,415,763  $ 11,281,714  $ 10,495,633
SWEPCO  $ 2,051,265  $ 5 ,132,579  $ 5,407,410  $ 6,873,295
Totals  $ 45,193,999  $ 86,164,389  $ 75,312,224  $ 73,890,829
Government-sponsored and private programs.
bill pay program             Jim Corbat: I am retired from I&M. Proud to say that I worked for them for 34 years.
Social Performance: Engaging Stakeholders
investor base in 2012 because a larger retail investor 
base provides more stability to our stock price. At the end of 2011, approximately 33 percent of our share -
holders were retail investors, representing a 17 percent increase from year-end 2010. 
Connecting with Customers
Electricity is often taken for granted, yet it is essential to quality of life. Unlike many other businesses, we have a profound responsibility to our customers to deliver our product safely, reliably and on demand, whenever and wherever it is needed.  Part of this responsibility relates to affordability. This is a concern to all customers, but especially those living in poverty and who are paying a high percentage  
of their disposable income for energy. In eight of our states, an average of 16 percent or more of the popula -
tion lives below the poverty level. This is often reflected in customers’ ability to pay their bills.  N o one should have to choose between basic 
human necessities and electricity, but if electricity  
prices rise suddenly and dramatically to cover the cost  
of compliance with new environmental regulations –  possibly as much as 35 percent – o r for other reasons, 
some of our customers will be forced to make very dif -
ficult choices about what they can afford. We believe in the need for cleaner energy, but we also feel strongly that the associated costs need to be considered.  M any customers already need assistance paying 
their bills. The recession and slower-than-expected recovery have taken a toll on many families and busi -
nesses that were already struggling. We provided approximately $74 million in federal and private energy assistance in 2011, which was almost 2 percent less than in 2010. We also provide other types of aid. In Ohio, for example, our Neighbor-to-Neighbor Program helps customers who are behind on their bills but whose in-comes disqualify them for government assistance. The funds for this program come through customer con-tributions as well as AEP grants. A EP prides itself on quick, responsive and con -
sistent customer service. Last year, our call centers received 1.5 million more customer calls than in 2010. We believe this is due to customers having difficulty paying their bills because of the slow economy; ques -
tions about higher electric rates; questions about the increased gridSMART
® activities in Ohio, Oklahoma and 
Texas; and initial plans for competition in Ohio. Our aver -
age speed of answer ( h ow long it takes to answer a call ) 
decreased by 10 seconds from 2010, while the average length of time on the phone with customers decreased by five seconds. This decrease may be directly related to the increase we saw in online customer transactions. 
Supporting Strong Communities
Being a responsible corporate citizen goes beyond the fence line of our property to the heart of the communi -
ties in which we operate or that we serve. Our invest -
ments in our communities range from the thousands of hours our employees volunteer locally to corporate financial support for important community programs and initiatives. The need for our support is greater than ever as many areas continue to struggle.  O ur plan to close some of our coal-fired units will 
adversely affect local economies. Power plants often provide the highest-paying jobs in the areas where they are located and are a source of vital tax dollars that help pay for schools, roads, and other community needs. The 
44 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportWebcasts are commonly used to keep employees informed about issues affecting the company and to provide updates about the company’s performance. AEP hosted 23 employee webcasts in 2011.AEP President Nick Akins participates in multiple activities during Energy Sustain-ability Week, including answering calls at the help desk.
Bill Jeron Hoelscher: AEP hands over $200,000 to YMCA. Thanks to the American Electric Power foundation, our local  YMCA will soon have a new place to call home.
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 45www.AEPsustainability.com
plants also support local businesses. The loss of jobs, 
taxes and local employee income related to plant retire -
ments is going to hurt communities. When the retire -
ments are complete, 600 AEP jobs will be gone. The loss to our local communities will include approximately $ 30 million in lost tax revenue and about $ 4 0 million in 
lost wages. 
We track the economic value of our employees’ 
volunteerism, which was approximately $1.9 million in 2011 (  using a value of volunteer time of $ 2 1.36 per hour, 
based upon the Independent Sector estimated value ). Our employees volunteered 88,323 hours in 2011 com -
pared with more than 57,000 hours in 2010, resulting in 839 $150 AEP Connects grants. These grants benefit the organizations of employees’ choosing to which they have volunteered 40 or more hours during the year. Dur -
ing the past 10 years, the AEP Connects grant program provided more than $1 million to schools and eligible nonprofit organizations. Unfortunately, due to budget constraints, this program was discontinued in 2012. 
Corporate philanthropy is also important because 
it helps enhance quality of life, advances education and other worthy endeavors and enriches communities. In 2011, AEP and the AEP Foundation donated more than $ 37 million to support more than 3,000 community 
organizations. This was a significant increase over 2010 contributions of $  23.6 million due in large part to 2012 
donations made at year-end 2011. 
AEP formed a new Economic and Business Devel -
opment (  E&BD  ) group in 2011 to work with local com -
munities to attract and retain businesses, because we have as much at stake as they do. This group is working through our operating companies, where they are con -
nected locally. Recently, the E&BD group assembled a task force to work with a number of natural gas compa -
nies investing in AEP’s service area to take advantage of shale gas reserves. The ability to attract new business and enable economic growth is enhanced by our exper -
tise, and the communities we serve welcome it. 
Engaging Our Employees
The transformation of our business will mean big changes for our employees. During times of uncer -
tainty, clear, open and frequent communication with our employees is one of the best ways we can support them. We try to provide many ways to engage with each other and with management, including a corporate intranet (  AEP Now ) , webcasts, employee meetings, 
town hall meetings, e-mail, online communities, blogs and other vehicles.  B efore being named CEO, AEP President Nick 
Akins embarked on a systemwide employee listening tour. He visited nearly 20 AEP facilities and met with more than 1,000 employees at all levels. They talked about local business issues, stock performance, our transformation plan, his vision for the future and other issues. Read more about Akins’ plans to continue con -
necting with employees in Our People.  
 A EP encourages employees to better understand 
how their jobs support the company’s sustainability and profitability. For the third consecutive year, we held  Energy Sustainability Week in September 2011, work -
ing to connect employees to AEP’s business strategy. For example, we took an electric vehicle to the Rockport Plant in Indiana to help employees understand the con -
nection between the electricity they produce and the new technologies that need it. At Public Service Com -
pany of Oklahoma, Akins participated in an employee activity about energy efficiency. We held more than 50 
Total Philanthropic Giving  ( Corporate & AEP Foundation  )
State  2011
Arkansas  $ 797,872
Indiana  $  2,047,381
Kentucky  $  897,868
Louisiana  $  633,748
Michigan  $  2,843,029
Ohio  $ 18,877,873
Oklahoma  $ 1,015,100
Tennessee  $ 120,599
Texas  $  2,873,747
Virginia  $  2,486,463
West Virginia  $  2,230,522
Other*  $  2,597,260
Total  $37,421,462
* Giving to organizations outside AEP’s service area or those that 
benefit multiple states.26investor
conferences
and in-person 
forums in 2011
46 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportSocial Performance: Engaging Stakeholders
sustainability awareness activities in all 11 states, includ -
ing executive visits to work locations. 
Benchmarking & Ranking
There are many ways to track, report and benchmark performance. From customer satisfaction surveys to industry benchmarks for safety performance, we mea -
sure and compare ourselves to others to identify gaps and opportunities for improvement. T he investment community is increasingly focused 
on comparing the environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) performance of companies. Many financial orga -
nizations and rating companies, such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Goldman Sachs, Bloomberg and the Carbon Disclosure Project, survey and rank com -
panies on ESG issues. We responded to 10 surveys in 2011 and will continue to be selective about those we respond to because of time and resource constraints.  Sustainability ratings are complex and opaque, and 
they are proliferating, which is causing confusion among the stakeholders who wish to rely on them. A new initia -
tive, the Global Index of Sustainability Ratings, is focused on developing a framework that would allow for greater comparability and consistency. We are following this closely with the hope that it will bring some needed stan -
dardization and transparency to the rankings process.  A s a member of SustainAbility’s Engaging Stake -
holders program, this report is benchmarked annually using indicators similar to GRI and on a five-point scoring system based on how completely sustainability issues are integrated into the report. The process enables us to identify strengths, gaps and opportunities for improve -
ment. The 2011 benchmark report noted that we are candid about challenges we face and that we have a strong stakeholder engagement process. Yet we can do better in terms of prioritizing issues in order to provide greater clarity to stakeholders. 
Engaging Suppliers
We work with fuel and nonfuel suppliers to drive con -
tinuous improvement and efficiencies within the supply chain while improving environmental and safety perfor -
mance. We ask suppliers about their sustainability strat -
egy and activities through our procurement process, and we advise them of opportunities to help them reduce or mitigate their impacts on natural resources.  A EP is a founding member of the Electric Utility 
Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance, a 501( c ) 6, 
nonprofit corporation that was established in 2008 to “green” the electric utility industry supply chain. The alli -
ance has 16 utilities that represent more than 50 million customers in 24 states.   A EP also works directly with its fuel suppliers and 
surveys its coal suppliers on their environmental, safety and health performance. We have conducted two sur -
veys of our coal suppliers, a commitment we made to stakeholders to better understand the lifecycle of coal, its impacts on the environment, how our suppliers are addressing those impacts and to share leading prac -
tices. The final report on the results of the second sur -
vey was issued in 2011, based on 2009 data. The third survey has been completed and a report will be issued in 2012.
Letter to the Editor: 
AEP / PSO rocks in Connecticut  
By Matt Pagano, Torrington, Conn.  
Sunday, November 13, 2011
I can email you this letter because for the first time  
in five days, I have power! I’m writing from Connect-  
icut to offer a heartfelt thanks to the ( AEP / P ublic  
Service Co. ) in Tulsa for loaning us your utility crews.  I’ve just had the pleasure of meeting a crew of  
about 15 hardworking gentlemen who drove for  
three straight days to come to our aid here in the  
northwest corner of Connecticut. They arrived in  
town at 6 p.m. and after a quick bite to eat, set  
about working in our neighborhood – not e ven  
waiting until the morning for daylight.
Because of the freak nor’easter Oct. 29,  
which dumped 15 inches of snow on trees that  
were still full of leaves, we experienced unprec-  
edented power outages. At the peak of the storm,  
more than 800,000 customers in our state were  
without power. Add to that the fact that nighttime  temperatures have gotten down into the 20s and  
one can understand how thankful we were to see  
your crews arrive. Cell towers were down, gas was  
scarce, trick or treating was canceled, and the nights  
were really dark.  
You all should be extremely proud of your  
crews and know that they are some of the hard-
est working, friendly and polite guys we’ve had the  
occasion to meet. My hope is that they return to you quickly and safely and if Connecticut Light and  
Power can ever return the favor in your time of  
need I hope they jump at the chance. approximate  
federal & private 
assistance  
provided to  
customers$74million
@MyBizReview:  I’ve been with SWEPCO since 2006 and they made it easy peasy to switch my electric over when I moved!!www.AEPsustainability.com
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability Report 47Corporate Headquarters
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, OH 43215-237361 4-716-1000AEP is incorporated in the State of New York.
Stock Exchange Listing: The Company’s common 
stock is traded principally on the New York Stock Ex -
change under the ticker symbol AEP .
Internet Home Page: Information about AEP , includ-
ing financial documents, Securities and Exchange Commission filings, news releases, investor presen- tations, shareholder information and customer ser -
vice information, is available at www.AEP .com/investors.
Inquiries Regarding Y our Stock Holdings: Regis- 
tered shareholders (  shares that you own, in your 
name ) should contact the Company’s transfer 
agent, listed below, if you have questions about your account, address changes, stock transfer, lost certificates, direct deposits, dividend checks and other administrative matters. You should have your Social Security number or account number ready; the transfer agent will not speak to third parties about an account without the shareholder’s approv -
al or appropriate documents.
T ransfer Agent & Registrar
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.P .O. Box 43078Providence, RI 02940-3078For overnight deliveries: Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 250 Royall Street, Canton, MA 02021-1011Telephone Response Group: 1-800-328-6955
Internet address: www.computershare.com/investor Hearing Impaired #: TDD: 1-800-952-9245
Beneficial Holders: ( Stoc k held in a bank or broker -
age account  ) – When you purchase stock and it is 
held for you by your broker, it is listed with the Com-
pany in the broker’s name, and this is sometimes referred to as “street name” or a “beneficial owner. ” AEP does not know the identity of individual share-holders who hold their shares in this manner; we simply know that a broker holds a certain number of shares which may be for any number of investors. If you hold your stock in street name, you receive all dividend payments, annual reports and proxy mate-rials through your broker. Therefore, questions about your account should be directed to your broker.
Dividend Reinvestment & Direct Stock Purchase 
Plan: A Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan is available to all investors. It is an economical and convenient method of purchasing shares of AEP common stock, through initial cash investments, cash dividends and  /or additional op- 
tional cash purchases. You may obtain the Plan pro- spectus and enrollment authorization form by con-tacting the transfer agent or visiting www.AEP .com  
/investors/buyandmanagestock.Financial Community Inquiries: Institutional in- vestors or securities analysts who have questions about the Company should direct inquiries to Bette Jo Rozsa, 614-716-2840, bjrozsa@AEP .com; Julie Sherwood, 614-716-2663, jasherwood@AEP .com;  or Sara Macioch, 614-716-2835, semacioch@AEP .com. Individual shareholders should contact Kath-leen Kozero, 614-716-2819, klkozero@AEP .com.
Number of Shareholders: As of Dec. 31, 2011, 
there were approximately 87 ,000 registered share-holders and approximately 407 ,000 shareholders holding stock in street name through a bank or bro-ker. There were 483,422,868 shares outstanding on Dec. 31, 2011 .
Form 10-K: Upon request, we will provide without 
charge a copy of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2011 . A copy can be obtained via mail with a written request to AEP Investor Relations, by telephone at 1-800-237-2667 or electronically at klkozero@AEP .com. 
Corporate & Shareholder Information
l  American Electric Power Co., Inc. l  S & P 500  l  S & P Electric Utilities
* $100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends.
Fiscal year ending Dec. 31.
©2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Cos., Inc. All rights reserved.Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return     
Among American Electric Power Co., Inc., The S&P 500 Index & The S&P Electric Utilities Index  
  $123 $91 $94 $101 $122
  $113 $84 $93 $98 $118
  $105 $66 $84 $97 $99
 $100*
 December  December  December  December  December  December  
 2006  2007 2008 2009 2010 2011+2.6
million
poundsof hazardous  
waste  
disposed of  
in 2011 
G3.1, including Electric Utilities Sector Supplement (EU) 
All GRI information and data are on AEPsustainability.com* Electric Utilities Sector Supplement Commentary included  
Strategy & Analysis
1.1 C EO Statement ...........................................................  2-5
1.2 K ey impacts, risks and opportunities ...........................  6
Organizational Profile2.1 Name of the organization .......................................... Cover
2.2  Primary products and/or services  ................ I nside Cover
2.3  O perational structure  ....................................  Inside Cover
2.4  L ocation of Headquarters  .............................  Inside Cover
2.5  Countries with major operations  .................. I nside Cover
2.6  Nature of ownership and legal form  ...........................  47
2.7  Markets served  ...............................................  Inside Cover
2.8  Scale of the organization  ..............................  Inside Cover
2.9  Significant changes 2.10  Awards  ........................................................................  41
EU1  Installed capacity  ..........................................  Inside Cover
EU2  Net energy output  .........................................  Inside CoverEU3  C ustomer accounts  ......................................................  19
EU4  T ransmission and distribution mileage  ........  Inside Cover
EU5  CO
2 emissions allowances 
Report Parameters3.1  Reporting period  ............................................  Inside Cover
3.2  Date of previous report  .................................  Inside Cover
3.3  Reporting cycle  ..............................................  Inside Cover
3.4  Contact point  .................................................  Inside Cover
3.5  D efining report content  ............................................  9-10
3.6  Boundary of report  ........................................  Inside Cover
3.7  Report’s scope  ..........................................................  9-10
3.8  Reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc.3.9  Data measurement techniques  ....................  Inside Cover
3.10  R estatements of information 
3.11  Significant changes from previous reports 3.12  GRI index .......................................  48, Inside Back Cover
3.13  A ssurance  ......................................................  Inside Cover
Governance, Commitments & Engagement4.1  Governance structure of the organization  ....................  64.2  I ndependence of the Supervisory  
 Board Chairperson  .......................................................  10
4.3  B oard independence  ....................................................  10
4.4  R ecommendations to Board 
4.5  Executive compensation and performance goals 4.6  Conflicts of interest 4.7  Board qualification
4.8  Corporate mission, values and Codes of Conduct 4.9  Board-level sustainability monitoring  ...........................  1
4.10  Evaluating Board performance 4.11  Precautionary principle  ..............................................  2-5
4.12  External initiatives 4.13  Memberships in associations  ..........................  35, 43-46
4.14  List of stakeholder groups engaged  ............................  10
4.15  I dentification and selection of stakeholders  .........  42-46
4.16  A pproaches to stakeholder engagement  ..............  42-46
4.17  Response to stakeholders concerns ......................  42-46
Economic – Management Approach
  
(see section on Financial & Operational)
EC1  Direct economic value  ......................  Inside Cover, 14-17GRI Table of Contents / Key Indicators 
48 2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportInternational Integrated Reporting Framework  
Organizational overview & business model: What does the organization do and how does it create 
and sustain value in the short, medium and long term?
Operating context, including risks and opportunities:  What are the circumstances under which the 
organization operates, including the key resources and relationships on which it depends and the key  
risks and opportunities that it faces? 
Strategic objectives & strategies to achieve those objectives:  Where does the organization want  
to go? And how is it going to get there?
Governance & remuneration: What is the organization’s governance structure, and how does  
governance support the strategic objectives of the organization and relate to the organization’s approach 
to remuneration?
Performance: How has the organization performed against its strategic objectives and related strategies?
Future outlook:  What opportunities, challenges and uncertainties is the organization likely to  
encounter in achieving its strategic objectives and what are the resulting implications for its strategies  
and future performance?The International Integrated Reporting Council has established high-level guidance 
and framework for integrated reporting that is designed to build upon the foundations of financial, governance, management commentary, and sustainability reporting. The purpose is to show the interdependencies of total performance that support an orga -
nization’s ability to create and sustain value for all of its stakeholders. AEP’s 2012 Cor -
porate Accountability Report reflects this framework as we attempt to further refine  
our approach to integrated reporting. Following is a description of the framework’s ele -
ments, which appear in each section of this report. Learn more about the work of the IIRC ( www.iirc.org  ) online; a full description of these content elements can be found on 
www.AEPsustainability.com .
Total Overhead Circuit Miles
 Transmission 
 & Distribution  7 65 kV Lines
AEP*  224,475  ** 2 ,116
Appalachian Power  52,312  734
Indiana Michigan Power  22,005  615
Kingsport Power  1,359  –
Kentucky Power  11,113  258
Ohio Power * 46,413  509
Public Service of Oklahoma 21,083  _
Southwestern Electric Power  21,883  _
Texas Central Co. 29,301  _
Texas North Co.  17,212  _
Wheeling Power  1,727  _
*Includes 766 miles of 345,000-volt jointly owned lines.  
**Includes 73 miles of overhead transmission lines not identified  
with an operating company.   Hunger & Housing 8 %
  
EC2  Financial implications of climate change  ....................  30-31
EC3  Benefit pension plan coverage 
EC4  Financial assistance from government EC5  E ntry-level wage by gender
EC6  Spending on locally based suppliers EC7  Local hiring for senior management positions EC8  Investments and services for public benefit  ...............  44-45
EC9  Indirect economic impacts EU6  Short and long-term availabililty and reliability  ..........  20-21
EU7  Demand-side programs  .....................................................  23
EU8  R&D  ...................................................................................  31
EU9  D ecommissioning of nuclear power sites 
EU10  Planned capacity  ...................................................  20-21, 27
EU11  Average generation efficiency 
EU12  Transmission and distribution losses 
Environmental – Management Approach
  
(see section on Environment & Climate)
EN1*  Weight  / volume of materials used  ..............................  25-27
EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials  ......................  29-31
EN3 Direct energy consumption  .........................................  25-27EN4 Indirect energy consumption 
EN5 Conservation and efficiency energy savings  .....................  23
EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy initiatives  .............  23
EN7 Indirect energy reductions 
EN8*  Total water withdrawal by source 
EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal  ......................  28-29
EN10  Water recycled and reused 
EN11  Location and size of high biodiversity land 
EN12*  Significant impacts on protected areas 
EN13  Biodiversity of replacement habitats 
EN14*  Managing impacts on biodiversity 
EN15  IUCN Red List species 
EN16*  Greenhouse gas emissions by weight  ..............  Inside Cover
EN17  Other gas emissions by weight  ........................  Inside Cover
EN18*  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions  .........  25-27
EN19  Ozone-depleting substances by weight  ...........  Inside Cover
EN20*  NOx, SOx and other air emissions  ....................  Inside Cover
EN21*  Water discharge 
EN22*  Waste by type and disposal method  ...........................  29, 31
EN23  Significant spills 
EN24  Hazardous treated waste  ............................................  29, 31EN25  Water and runoff discharges  ......................................  28-29
EN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts  ............  24-31
EN27  Percentage of recycled products .................................  29, 31
EN28  Environmental fines and sanctions  ...................................  16
EN29  Impacts of transport 
EN30  Environmental expenditures  .......................................  25-28
EU13  Biodiversity of offset habitats 
Labor – Management Approach  
(see section on Our People)
LA1*  Total work force  .................................................................  38
LA2*  Employee turnover  .............................................................  38
LA3 Full-time employee benefits  ........................................  40-41
LA4*  Percentage covered by collective bargaining  .............  39-40
LA5  Minimum notice regarding operational changes LA6 Work force represented in health  
 & s afety committees  ...................................................  36-38
LA7*  Rates of injury and absenteeism  ................................... 36-37
LA8 S erious disease prevention  .........................................  40-41
LA9 Health & safety topic in formal agreements 
LA10  Training hours Environment 
7 % Disaster Relief 1 % United Way 5 % Youth 6 %Economic Development 9 % Arts & Culture 9 % Education  29 % Safety & Health 11 % Community  15 %2011 Charitable Giving by Area of Focus 
37,000 of CO 2 stored underground at CCS project  metric
tons  
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportLA11  Skills management and lifelong learning  ...........  38-39
LA12  Performance reviews 
LA13  Composition of governance  ......................................  10
LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to women 
LA15  Post parental leave rates 
EU14  Availability of a skilled work force  .....................  38-39
EU15  Percentage of employees able to retire  ..................  39
EU16  Health and safety policies  ..................................  36-38
EU17  Days worked by subcontracted workers 
EU18  ( S ub )Contractors health & safety training  ........  37-38
Human Rights – Management Approach   
(see section on Our People)
HR1  HR clauses in investment agreements 
HR2  Suppliers and contractors human rights screening
HR3  Human rights employee training HR4  I ncidents of discrimination 
HR5*  Operations with risks to freedom of association HR6  Operations with significant risk of child labor HR7  Operations with significant risk of compulsory laborHR8  Security training and human rights HR9  Indigenous people rights violations HR10  Operations subject to human rights reviews HR11  Grievances related to human rights
Society – Management Approach
  
(see section on Engaging Stakeholders)
SO1*  Community impact management  ......................  44-45
SO2 Business units analyzed for corruption risks 
SO3  Employee anti-corruption training SO4  Action taken in response to corruption SO5  Public policy development  ..................................  32-35
SO6  P olitical contributions  .............................................  35
SO7  A nti-competitive behavior 
SO8  F ines / sanctions  .......................................................  16
SO9  Negative operations impacts on communities 
SO10  Managing operations impacts on communities EU19  E nergy planning stakeholder 
 participation  .......................................................  42-44
EU20  Managing impacts of displacement  ........................  38
EU21  Contingency planning measures  .............................  38
EU22  People displaced by projects  ...................................  38Product Responsibility – Management Approach
  
(see section on Energy Reliability, Security & Growth)
PR1*  Life cycle of products and services PR2  Number of noncompliance incidents  ................... 36-37 
PR3  Product information labeling PR4  Incidents of product labeling noncompliance PR5  C ustomer satisfaction  .............................................  44
PR6  Marketing communications compliance  .................  44
PR7  Marketing noncompliance incidents 
PR8  C ustomer data protection breaches 
PR9  Products and services use fines  ...............................  16
EU23  P rograms for electricity services
EU24  Addressing barriers to electricity service EU25  Number of injuries and fatalities to the public .........  38
EU26  Unserved population EU27  R esidential disconnections 
EU28  Power outage frequency  ..........................................  19
EU29  Average power outage duration ...............................  19
EU30  Average plant availability factor www.AEPsustainability.com$239 
million
approximate  
investment in energy  
efficiency programs  
2008 – 2011Projected U.S. Renewable Energy Generating Capacity ( gigawatts, unless otherwise noted  )
          Annual Growth
Net Summer Capacity 2 010 2 015 2 020 2 025 2 030 2 035 2010  – 2035
Conventional Hydropower  78.03  7 8.41 7 8.95 7 9.62 80.48  8 1.67 0.2%
Geothermal  1 2.37 2.80 3.65 4 .40 5 .48 6.41 4.1%
Municipal Waste  2 3.30 3.36 3.36 3 .36 3.36 3 .36 0.1%
Wood and Other Biomass 3 2.45 2.72 2.72 2 .72 2.72 2.73 0.4%
Solar Thermal  0.55 1.44 1.44 1 .44 1.44 1.44 3.9%
Solar Photovoltaic  4 0.38 2.02 2.02 2 .33 3 .80 8 .17 1 3.0%
Wind   39.05  5 1.39 5 1.42 54.35  5 7.28 6 5.23 2.1%
Offshore Wind  0.00 0.20 0.20 0 .20 0.20 0 .20 –
Total   126.13  142.35  1 43.76  1 48.42  1 54.76  1 69.20  1.2%
1  Includes both hydrothermal resources (  hot water and steam ) and near-field enhanced geothermal systems (  EGS ). Near-field EGS poten -
tial occurs on known hydrothermal sites; however, this potential requires the addition of external fluids for electricity generation and is 
only available after 2025.
2  Includes municipal waste, landfill gas, and municipal sewage sludge. Incremental growth is assumed to be for landfill gas facilities.  
All municipal waste is included, although a portion of the municipal waste stream contains petroleum-derived plastics and other non-renewable sources.
3  Facilities co-firing biomass and coal are classified as coal.
4  Does not include off-grid photovoltaics ( PV ). Based on annual PV shipments from 1989 through 2009, EIA estimates that as much as  
245 megawatts of remote electricity generation PV applications ( i .e., off-grid power systems ) were in service in 2009, plus an additional 
558 megawatts in communications, transportation, and assorted other nongrid-connected, specialized applications.
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2012 Early Release.
U.S. Electricity Generation Capacity by Fuel Type  ( billion kilowatt-hours  )
   2007 2009 2035  
 2,000      
 1,500      
 1,000      
 500      
 0     
l  Coal   l  Natural Gas   l  Nuclear   l  Renewables    l  Petroleum
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2011.www.AEPsustainability.com
2012 AEP Corporate Accountability ReportForward-Looking Information
•	The economic climate and growth in, or contraction within, our service 
territory and changes in market demand and demographic patterns.
•	Inflationary or deflationary interest rate trends.
•	Volatility in the financial markets, particularly developments affecting the availability of capital on reasonable terms and developments impair -
ing our ability to finance new capital projects and refinance existing debt at attractive rates.
•	The availability and cost of funds to finance working capital and capital needs, particularly during periods when the time lag between incurring costs and recovery is long and the costs are material.
•	Electric load, customer growth and the impact of retail competition, par -
ticularly in Ohio.
•	Weather conditions, including storms, and our ability to recover signifi -
cant storm restoration costs through applicable rate mechanisms.
•	Available sources and costs of, and transportation for, fuels and the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters.
•	Availability of necessary generating capacity and the performance of our generating plants.
•	Our ability to resolve I&M’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Unit 1 resto-
ration and outage-related issues through warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.
•	Our ability to recover regulatory assets and stranded costs in connec -
tion with deregulation.
•	Our ability to recover increases in fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates.
•	Our ability to build or acquire generating capacity and transmission line facilities (  including our ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approv -
als and permits ) when needed at acceptable prices and terms and to 
recover those costs ( i ncluding the costs of projects that are canceled ) 
through applicable rate cases or competitive rates.
•	New legislation, litigation and government regulation, including over-sight of nuclear generation, energy commodity trading and new or heightened requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances or  
additional regulation of fly ash and similar combustion products that could impact the continued operation and cost recovery of our plants and related assets.
•	A reduction in the federal statutory tax rate.
•	Timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions,  including rate or other recovery of new 
investments in generation, distribution and transmission service and  
environmental compliance  .This report made by AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are:
•	Resolution of litigation.
•	Our ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs.
•	Our ability to develop and execute a strategy based on a view regarding 
prices of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related commodities.
•	Changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading market.
•	Actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of our debt.
•	Volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, coal, nucle -
ar fuel and other energy-related commodities.
•	Changes in utility regulation, including the implementation of ESPs and the expected legal separation and transition to market for generation in Ohio and the allocation of costs within regional transmission organiza -
tions, including PJM and SPP.
•	Accounting pronouncements periodically issued by accounting stan -
dard-setting bodies.
•	The impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the invest -
ments held by our pension, other postretirement benefit plans, captive insurance entity and nuclear decommissioning trust and the impact on future funding requirements.
•	Prices and demand for power that we generate and sell at wholesale.
•	Changes in technology, particularly with respect to new, developing or alternative sources of generation.
•	Our ability to recover through rates or prices any remaining unrecovered investment in generating units that may be retired before the end of their previously projected useful lives.
•	Other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of ter -
rorism (  including increased security costs ) , embargoes, cyber security 
threats and other catastrophic events. 
•	Our ability to successfully manage negotiations with stakeholders and obtain regulatory approval to terminate or amend the Interconnection Agreement and break up or modify the AEP Power Pool.
•	Evolving public perception of the risks associated with fuels used be -
fore, during and after the generation of electricity, including nuclear fuel.
The forward-looking statements of AEP and its registrant subsidiaries speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made. AEP and its Registrant Subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.American Electric Power
1 Riverside PlazaColumbus, Ohio 43215614
 . 716 . 1
000