2021
 Corporate Accountability Report
BUILDING
A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE TOGETHER
A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE TOGETHER
DELIVERING INNOVATIVE & SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY SOLUTIONS
Achieving America’s clean energy objectives requires a transformation of the electric sector. Our smart investments in
clean energy today — including renewables and advanced technologies — aim to stabilize energy costs and stimulate
economic growth in the future.
A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
“At AEP, we deliver an essential service that improves customers’ lives and supports the health and
economic strength of our nation. It is our purpose and our responsibility. In 2020, we were tested in
ways we could not have imagined. 
I am very proud of our employees who never wavered in their
commitment to serving our customers, regardless of the conditions around us.”
Learn more
FUTURE FORWARD
STRATEGY
AEP's Future Forward strategy
accelerates our efforts to achieve our
net-zero clean energy objectives.
Learn more
DIVERSITY, EQUITY &
INCLUSION
We value a supportive, inclusive
environment for our employees that
reflects the diversity of our
communities.
15 YEARS OF ESG
DISCLOSURE
AEP has been committed to
disclosing our sustainability and ESG
performance for 15 years. Learn
more about our journey.Learn more
Learn more
POWERING FORWARD TO NET-ZERO
We are committed to transitioning to clean energy as fast as we can, without compromising
reliability, affordability, or the security of the electric power system. We undertook a yearlong
assessment in 2020 to better understand the physical, economic and social risks associated with
our transition to a clean energy future. Learn more in our Climate Impact Analysis Report.
Learn moreNicholas K. Akins, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
discusses AEP's Future Forward strategy during an employee
webcast.
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
At AEP, we deliver an essential service that improves
customers’ lives and supports the health and economic
strength of our nation. It is our purpose and our
responsibility. In 2020, we were tested in ways we could not
have imagined. The coronavirus pandemic abruptly
changed our lives in big and small ways, perhaps
permanently. The social and racial justice movement made
us think hard about what we stand for, and several severe
weather events harmed our communities and customers
across the country. These events underscore the need for a
thoughtful transition to a clean energy future. I am inspired by
the triumph of the human spirit in extraordinary times. The
resilience of our employees and customers reinforced our
belief that agility, innovation and technology will guide our
path forward. Our vision of building a brighter future together
in a clean energy economy endures.
The pandemic confirmed the life-saving power of a resilient,
reliable and affordable electric system for all. More than ever, we are committed to delivering a sustainable energy future
that is inclusive, reliable and clean. We are amplifying our advocacy for social justice in our communities and supporting
change and equity through visible actions. No matter the challenge, our plan puts people first. Together, we will achieve
environmental sustainability, and actualize economic empowerment and social justice. Together, we will transition to a
clean energy future.
Safety, Health & COVID-19
We distinguish our success with Zero Harm, a core value of our corporate culture. We strive to send every employee
home at the end of their workday in the same or better condition than when they came to work. In 2020, when the COVID-
19 pandemic tested our resolve, we held fast to both the letter and spirit of Zero Harm. I am proud of our employees who
quickly adapted to new safety protocols. Face coverings and social distancing became the norm. We reconfigured "storm
restoration" basecamps to meet strict COVID-19 protocols and sourced appropriate PPE for our crews. In addition, we
implemented new pay and leave programs to support our employees and their families.
As vaccine rollouts progress and society prepares a post-pandemic reality, our vigilance continues. We encourage our
employees to get vaccinated and we are offering a one-time incentive to do so, helping our communities rebound from the
effects of the pandemic.
2020 ranks among our best years for safety performance. Our five-year safety and health transformation achieved a 34%
reduction in our DART rate (Days Away, Restricted or Job Transfer). We celebrate these achievements – zero employee
fatalities and improved safety performance – as we continue our relentless pursuit of Zero Harm. We learn from every
event that occurs, enabling us to develop new, leading initiatives that help us to be even more proactive in preventing
harm. We do it for ourselves, for each other, and for our families.
Helping Fight Racial and Social Injustice
The killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor and the U.S. Capitol insurrection pushed systemic racism and political
divisiveness into the headlines, leaving a lasting imprint on our communities, our customers and our employees. 
These
events were a call to action to finding unity and improving equity, inclusion and diversity.
We launched “Seize the Moment” in 2020 to accelerate achievement of our diversity, equity and inclusion goals. We held
frank conversations about racism, organized town hall webcasts about biracial marriages and being the only one in the
room, among other topics. We launched Safe Space Conversations to share experiences with racism and bias. These
initiatives have had a profound effect on me personally. Hearing one of our African American employees say that he “can
breathe” at AEP gave me optimism. His experience opened my eyes to how close this pain hits home. I also have met
with Asian American employees who showed remarkable strength in the face of hate and fear. People deserve to be
treated with dignity and respect, at work and in society. Our nation’s divisions run deep, and change requires personalcourage. We must rise to the challenge.
Saying we oppose racism and biases isn’t enough; we must take meaningful action. In 2021, we launched a $5 million
Delivering On the Dream: Social and Racial Justice
 grant program through the AEP Foundation. The program funds
organizations that are doing meaningful work to advance equity and racial justice. We will bring together allies, advocates
and volunteers to stand with us for social justice. We joined other Columbus, Ohio companies that supported a City
Council resolution designating racism a public health threat. We still have a lot of hard work ahead of us to understand and
disrupt biases. I have faith that we have the capacity and the will to come together, open our hearts and minds to new
perspectives, and be catalysts for change in the communities where we live and work.
New Climate Goals, Analysis
Climate change is a defining issue of our
time and one of the top issues of
engagement with many of our stakeholders.
We are committed to transitioning to clean
energy as fast as we can, without
compromising reliability, affordability, or the
security of the electric power system. In 2020,
our CO
 emissions were nearly 74% less
than in 2000, achieving our 2030 carbon
reduction goal a decade ahead of schedule.
So, in 2021, we announced new, accelerated
carbon emission reduction goals, adding net-
zero by 2050.
We have already made significant progress. We have retired, sold or converted to natural gas nearly 13,500 MW of coal-
fueled generation during the past decade, and by 2030 will reduce our coal-fueled generating capacity by 74% from 2010
levels. In April 2021, Indiana Michigan Power and AEP Generating Company reached an agreement to acquire the 1,310-
megawatt Rockport Plant Unit 2 from the current owners when the lease expires at the end of 2022. This acquisition will
provide a short-term capacity bridge for customers as we transition to more renewable generation and will ensure both
Rockport Plant units are retired by the end of 2028.
We undertook a yearlong assessment in 2020 to better understand the physical, economic and social risks associated
with our transition to a clean energy future. 
We published our findings in our 
Climate Impact Analysis Report
 in March
2021. Our scenario impact analysis shows us a way forward to net zero - achieving greater than a 90% reduction in
carbon emissions by 2050; the remainder could be offset. Technology and low-carbon fuels will play a critical role in
getting us all the way there. U.S. President Joe Biden's climate plan calls for decarbonizing the power sector by 2035.
While we believe this plan is overly optimistic, we are working collaboratively to achieve net-zero carbon emissions as
soon as possible for our customers and our communities.
Helping Our Employees, Communities Transition
The effects of a coal plant retirement reach far beyond the fence line of the plant itself. As we prepare to retire our coal-
fueled generation fleet in the years to come, our focus is on providing new opportunities for affected workers, and
addressing the social and economic impacts on the affected communities.
On average, a typical plant operated by AEP generates $160 million in regional economic activity, provides $63 million in
labor income, and supports more than 700 regional jobs annually.
We are identifying potential opportunities across AEP for affected employees, including providing training to ensure they
have the skills needed for different jobs. We also have committed to support union labor in the construction of new wind
and solar facilities on our system, wherever possible. Our long-term strategy for modernizing and strengthening the grid
also provides employment and economic opportunities in the regions we serve.
2The issues of transitioning to a clean energy future are bigger than any company or community can solve on its own. We
have a lot of experience working with all stakeholders, and we are committed to seeking solutions that provide
communities a just transition to the future. We welcome partners and collaborators to ensure the transition is successful.
One example is our collaboration with local leaders to create jobs through our Appalachian Sky initiative. Appalachian Sky
aims to market the Appalachian region to the aerospace industry. Studies have shown that the skills of energy industry
workers are transferrable to the aerospace industry and Appalachian Sky is working to make the region a hub for that
industry. This work aligns with President Biden’s creation of a Working Group on Coal and Power Plant Communities and
Economic Revitalization. We want our communities to be strong and vibrant because their success drives our success.
Future Forward: The Road to Net-Zero
Our commitment for a clean energy future is
accelerating with our new Future Forward
strategy. Under our proposed plan, which
must be approved by regulators, AEP would
add nearly 16,600 MW of new, clean wind
and solar generation to our regulated fleet by
2030. We will do it by building upon our long
history of industry leadership in central power
generation and 765-kV transmission
innovation. In less than a decade from now,
our plan would shift 51% of our total capacity
to renewables. These investments will
transform the electric system while ensuring
its reliability, affordability and resilience.
In putting this plan together, we reviewed the
resource needs for each of our regulated
operating companies. We want to plan and build the right system and the right solutions for the future that meet our
customers’ needs. At the same time, we are optimizing our existing systems to grow value for customers and investors.
Our portfolio includes projects in regulated renewable generation, transmission, energy storage, microgrids, distributed
generation, and other emerging on-grid technologies. We also are working to ensure that public policies are in place to
support new, cleaner resources and solutions.
Today, the first phase of our 1,485 MW North Central Wind energy facilities in Oklahoma is delivering clean, cost-effective
wind energy to customers of Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company
(SWEPCO). The $2 billion project is estimated to save customers in Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma approximately
$3 billion over the next 30 years.
The severe cold and ice conditions in February 2021 that caused significant outages from Texas to West Virginia
reminded us that the clean energy transition must be measured and realistic. Our nation’s energy supply is essential to
maintaining and supporting our economy and our way of life. Although the road to net-zero is daunting, our transformation
has been underway for more than a decade. We have already made significant strides, and we are confident we will
achieve it.
Operational Excellence, Fiscal Discipline
AEP’s track record of steady growth reflects our commitment to operational excellence, continuous improvement, and
fiscal discipline. Despite the challenges of COVID-19, we continued to deliver consistent quality earnings in 2020. Our
Achieving Excellence program is the cornerstone of our resource optimization efforts. Through the program, employees
bring forward ideas that improve processes and efficiency and help us to reduce costs. More than 10,000 ideas have
been submitted since 2019. One outcome of Achieving Excellence was our move to the NASDAQ stock exchange whose
tradition of innovation aligns with our company’s strategic goals. Other examples include streamlining our Distribution LineFor the second year in a row, AEP was recognized for its culture
journey with the annual Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award in 2021.
Training and creating a Project Management Center of Excellence. Such successes fuel productivity and growth,
organizational profitability and longevity.
The pandemic showcased the strength of our business continuity and emergency plans. We can finally see light at the end
of this unprecedented event, but we are not out of the woods yet. We continue to help communities and economies
recover. We do so by optimizing O&M spending and making smart investments to modernize the grid.
Future of Work
Long before the pandemic, we were on a journey to reimagine the future of work. Until then, technology was the biggest
disruptor in the workplace. The pandemic surpassed that, forcing us to revise policies about how and where we do our
work. While a majority of our workforce seamlessly transitioned to remote work, our front line employees continued doing
essential work in the field to maintain and operate the electric system. In the face of unprecedented challenges, our
employees showed resiliency and agility.
Our Future of Work program embraces the lessons we’ve
learned from the pandemic and puts in place a support
system for a distributed workforce. We demonstrated that
we can accomplish work in new ways and cut costs at the
same time. We are leveraging this experience to help us
identify the types of technologies, workspaces, and
structures needed as we move forward. Remarkably, our
employees adapted and excelled in this new environment.
As we reshape our future of work and workplaces, our culture is fundamental to our continued success. Cultural excellence
is as important to us as operational excellence. Investing in our future includes investing in our employees and providing
opportunities for growth. I am very proud that, in 2021, AEP was recognized with Gallup’s Exceptional Workplace Award
for the second consecutive year. Every employee at AEP contributed to our success.
When we began our journey nearly 10 years ago, our culture did not reflect who we are today or the vision we had for the
future. Our culture scored in the 12th percentile at that time. Today, we are in the 91st percentile relative to Gallup’s overall
company database – achieving our goal to attain top decile performance three years ahead of schedule. The Gallup
award affirms the strength of our culture and forms a strong foundation on which to build our best workplace for the future,
wherever the work is being done.
Supporting Our Customers and Communities
Nearly a quarter of the way into our second century of service, our commitment to our customers and communities is as
strong as ever. Today, customer expectations fuel our clean energy transition. From adoption of electric vehicles and
electrification of fleet vehicles, to grid resilience and projects that support the U.S. military’s national security mission, we
deliver innovative, sustainable energy solutions.
The pandemic brought hardships to our customers, who lost jobs, homes and businesses, and loved ones. We
immediately got to work identifying ways to help our customers weather this new type of storm. We temporarily suspended
customer disconnects for nonpayment, provided flexible payment arrangements – including for commercial and industrial
customers for the first time - waived nearly $6 million in late fees for residential customers, and waived credit card
processing fees. In addition, we created a customer service team dedicated to helping small business owners apply for
government assistance. That team has helped more than 2,300 small business customers apply for CARES Act funding.
Our communities also suffered as businesses were shuttered, cultural venues went dark, and students were sent home.
Non-profit organizations that provide vital human services needed support at a time when the community need was never
greater. In response, the AEP Foundation donated nearly $4 million in emergency funds in 2020 to help meet basic
human needs across our service territory.Doing the Right Thing
At AEP, we hold ourselves to a high standard of accountability to always act ethically and with integrity. We are guided by
our Principles of Business Conduct and our political engagement and anti-corruption policies. We’re often asked about
our participation in the political process, including lobbying activities and political contributions. Our ability to engage in
the political process is imperative to our business; we often serve as technical experts to help educate regulators,
legislators, and their staffs about our business and industry. Public policy decisions also impact the cost of our service
and our ability to deliver innovative, cleaner energy solutions to customers. We support candidates whose positions align
with what is in the best interests of our customers, communities, employees, and other stakeholders. And we will continue
to do so because we firmly believe in and support the democratic process and the ideals this nation was built upon.
We believe in transparency and we have adopted a new political engagement policy to enhance our governance in this
area. Beginning with our 2020 disclosure, we updated 
our policies
 and are expanding our reporting to include
contributions we make to 501(c)4 social welfare organizations.
On January 6, 2021, the political divisiveness in this country culminated with the violent attack on the U.S. Capitol. People
were hurt; some lost their lives. I believe in the right to peaceful demonstration and expressing different views, but – like
many Americans – I condemn the violence that occurred that day.
Following those events, we paused all political donations for three months. This gave us time to review our criteria for
making corporate contributions to candidates and political organizations in the future and determine if there are steps we
can take to encourage constructive political dialogue. Our employee-led Political Action Committee leadership teams
also used this time to review their guidelines.
We will continue to actively engage in the political process and advocate for our employees, customers and issues that
affect our business. In doing so, we will strive to support policy makers on both sides of the aisle who are committed to
collaboratively seeking solutions to the serious issues facing our country.
Strong Governance
Our ability to execute our Future Forward clean energy strategy is strengthened by the diversity of experiences, ideas and
expertise of our Board of Directors.
In 2020, Daryl Roberts, senior vice president and chief operations and engineering officer of DuPont de Nemours, Inc.,
was appointed to AEP’s Board. Daryl brings extensive experience in global manufacturing, health and safety, operations,
regulatory and engineering.
In 2021, the long-time service of two Board members came to an end. Ralph Crosby served AEP since 2006 and brought
significant senior management and operations experience from his career in the highly regulated aerospace and defense
industries. His deep knowledge of strategic planning, regulatory, legislative and public policy matters were invaluable to
AEP. Richard Notebaert, a former chief executive officer in the telecommunications industry, served AEP since 2011.
Dick brought experience and valuable insights in the areas of operations, technology, regulatory and public policy matters,
as well as risk management, corporate governance and labor relations.
I will miss their leadership and their many contributions to AEP’s clean energy transition. Most importantly, they have been
friends to AEP and to myself, and we are deeply grateful for their years of service to our company.
Powering Forward To a Brighter Future
At AEP, our most important job is to deliver safe, reliable, resilient, and affordable electric service to our customers. It is
what our customers expect and it is our purpose. The social importance of this took on new significance as electricity
became a lifeline for staying connected in a world that was shut down. It also brought into sharp focus the inequities that
exist in society today. I am very proud of our employees who never wavered in their commitment to serving our customers,
regardless of the conditions around us.In April 2021, the first of three North Central Energy wind farms began
commercial operation.
Despite the challenges of the past year, AEP’s mission to
positively impact the lives of our customers and
communities prevailed. We set new carbon emission
reduction goals, committed to electrify our fleet vehicles and
partnered with peer utilities to build an electric highway in
the Midwest and South. We continued to advance our clean
energy strategy, gaining approval to acquire the North
Central Wind projects to serve customers in Oklahoma,
Louisiana and Arkansas. And in April 2021, the first of three
wind farms began commercial operation, delivering clean
energy to our customers. We also are leveraging our fiber
optic network to help expand broadband to underserved and
rural areas, creating new pathways to prosperity.
We learned many lessons from the pandemic and the social
and racial inequities it exposed. We are taking a stand on
these issues, and are investing in programs to support
social and racial justice. We start by delivering on our promise of clean, reliable, and affordable electricity. And we will
continue to serve by helping our communities recover and thrive.
This is my tenth year as CEO at AEP. We have come a long way and achieved a great deal in the past decade, but the
journey is far from over. We have a unique opportunity to do a lot of social good as the economy electrifies and our energy
becomes cleaner. I want AEP to serve as a beacon of hope, demonstrating that we can bridge the social and racial divide
in this country if we do it together. We believe that clean, reliable energy is the conduit to a prosperous, equitable and just
future.
Thank you, 
Nicholas K. Akins
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
American Electric Power
AEP'S STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE
The strength, resilience and agility of our
employees and company met and exceeded
the unprecedented challenges of 2020. The
critical nature of our jobs and the service we
provide became a lifeline for many during the
COVID-19 pandemic and extreme weather
events. Our workforce remained committed to
keeping our economies and communities
connected as efficiently and safely as
possible, all while remaining dedicated to
continued operational excellence and
financial discipline. This was demonstrated in
our ability to deliver consistent, quality
earnings and dividend growth in 2020.
Our Achieving Excellence program, a disciplined cost optimization process, is successfully driving down costs by
eliminating inefficiencies, improving business practices and advancing technology. This effort, coupled with business
decisions prompted by COVID-19, resulted in significant O&M savings in 2020. We also found new opportunities to
explore how and where we perform our work. Learn more in the 
Future of Work section
.Additionally, our strong 2020 earnings performance was driven by our long-term strategy to invest in infrastructure and
energy solutions which enhances services and reliability for our customers while supporting the transition to a clean
energy future. Our operating earnings guidance range for 2021 is $4.55 to $4.75 per share. Our 5% to 7% long-term
operating earnings growth rate is based on the 2021 guidance range.
In 2021, we announced a strategic review, to
be completed during the year, for the
potential sale of Kentucky Power. This
reflects our ongoing evaluation of our portfolio
of businesses. In the meantime, Kentucky
Power will continue to produce and deliver
safe, reliable electricity to our customers
throughout this process.
We remain committed to our credit quality to
support our ability to continue to efficiently
invest in capital, reaffirming our $37 billion
five-year capital investment plan. This will
enable us to cost-effectively replace aging infrastructure while integrating smart technology and expanding electrification,
such as electric vehicles, indoor agriculture and other future needs.
Grid investments are essential to serving evolving societal needs while building a resilient and secure system. This
includes investing in infrastructure to support our growing telecommunication needs. Over the past five years, we’ve
expanded and modernized our telecommunications system to support our growth. We now have one of the largest private
telecommunication networks in the United States. We are exploring opportunities to leverage our system to support
broadband expansion in rural and underserved areas. Investments in these rural areas proved critical in supporting our
customers and local communities during the COVID-19 pandemic when a large portion of our nation switched to remote
work and education. Learn more about our broadband initiatives in the 
Regulatory section
.
As our business needs continue to evolve, so do the security risks. This requires constant monitoring and protection from
potential cyber and physical threats. Our cyber and physical security strategy includes proactive threat intelligence,
monitoring, alerting and emergency response; employee education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal
activity reporting. Learn more about how we are protecting the electric power system in the 
Cyber & Physical Security
section
.
Balancing culture, employee and customer experience, and flexibility with cost savings is imperative to successfully
executing our strategy. The safety, health and well-being of our workforce remains a top priority as we define our path
forward. We will continue to play an active role in addressing significant issues from racial, social and environmental
justice to COVID-related safety as we help build strong communities.
Advancing a Clean Energy Transformation
The security and reliability of the electric power system protects our nation’s interests, and, increasingly, so does a
cleaner energy future. Achieving America’s clean energy objectives requires a transformation of the electric sector. Our
smart investments in clean energy today — including renewables and advanced technologies — aim to stabilize energy
costs and stimulate economic growth in the future.
Our Future Forward strategy for clean energy growth will transform our generating capacity portfolio from a majority coal-
fueled resource base to a majority renewable portfolio by 2030. We continuously review our resource needs for each of
our regulated operating companies. We are proposing to add nearly 16,600 megawatts of new, clean wind and solar
generation to our fleet by 2030. This will grow our renewable generating portfolio to 51% of our total capacity.
Regulatory support for AEP’s largest renewable project to date — North Central Wind Energy Facilities (NCWEF) —
adds momentum to our clean energy transformation. In April 2021, the first of three NCWEF wind farms began
commercial operation, which in total will deliver 1,485 MW of clean energy to customers of Southwestern Electric Power
Company and Public Service Company of Oklahoma in Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma.We are positioned to be an industry leader in
the regulated clean energy space. This is
reflected in our capital investment plans with
the bulk earmarked for regulated businesses
and renewables. This includes $26.7 billion
for transmission and distribution
modernization projects and technologies to
better serve customers through improved
reliability and resilience. During this same
period, we plan to invest $2.8 billion in
regulated renewable generation and $2.1
billion in competitive, contracted renewable
projects.
This strategy is led by our new Grid Solutions
team, which is focused on accelerating our
energy transformation and advancing the grid of the future. The team identifies and implements the best infrastructure
solutions that seamlessly integrate the regulated generation, transmission and distribution businesses. This includes
acquisition and development of new grid resources, competitive transmission ventures, energy storage and other
emerging on-grid technologies.
At the core of our transformation must be reliability, resilience and affordability of the electric power system.
Unprecedented cold weather, snow and ice in early 2021 stretching from Texas to West Virginia demonstrated the critical
nature of our nation’s energy supply. Extreme weather impacts every source of energy, from natural gas units to wind
turbines. These events, along with others across the country, demonstrate the need for policy changes that focus on
refining the reliability and resiliency of the grid to promote adequate energy capacity levels and regional support. We will
continue to engage in the policymaking process at the federal, state and local levels to ensure the best interests and
needs of our customers and communities are met, as we grow and transition to a clean energy future.
Reducing Carbon Emissions
We have made significant progress reducing our carbon footprint, year after year. Through 2020, we reduced our carbon
emissions by 74% (from a 2000 baseline). This achievement puts us a decade ahead of our original goal to reduce
carbon emissions by 70% by 2030. In February 2021, we announced a new goal to reduce our carbon footprint by 80% by
2030 (from a 2000 baseline) and achieve net-zero by 2050. These new goals include a commitment to review them
annually.
Since 2010, we have retired, sold or converted to natural gas nearly 13,500 MW of coal-fueled generation. We recently
announced plans to retire an additional 5,574 MW of coal generation from 2021 through 2030. By the close of this
decade, we will reduce our coal generating capacity by approximately 74% — a major achievement by any measure.
The transformation of our generation portfolio includes ongoing evaluation of our power plants. In 2021, Indiana Michigan
Power and AEP Generating Company reached an agreement to acquire the 1,310-megawatt Rockport Plant Unit 2 from
the current owners when the lease expires at the end of 2022. This acquisition will provide a short-term capacity bridge for
customers as we transition to more renewable generation and will ensure both Rockport Plant units are retired by the end
of 2028. These investments in our generation portfolio support our goals of making our generation fleet cleaner, more
economical and achieving net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2050.
Our transformation also includes investments in the development of integrated grid solutions such as advanced energy
storage with solar, electrification and research into modular nuclear and the future use of hydrogen. Learn more about the
role of technology in our journey to a clean energy future in the Technology section of 
AEP’s Climate Impact Analysis
Report
.Broadband technology improves growth opportunities for rural
communities by enhancing such things as work-from-home,
telemedicine, and educational and workforce-training capabilities.
REGULATORY AND PUBLIC POLICY
The energy industry is one of the most highly regulated sectors of the U.S. economy and is in the midst of a technology
and innovation revolution driven by the transition to a clean energy future. Advances in technology are creating
opportunities for AEP to integrate and modernize the grid – making it smarter, more reliable and more resilient. A smarter
grid empowers our customers to actively engage in their energy experience – giving them more choice and control over
how and when they use energy.
To meet customers’ evolving expectations, we sometimes
must seek to reshape the regulatory compact. AEP’s
regulated footprint includes 11 states with varying regulatory
frameworks that are primarily governed by state legislatures
that set policy goals, which result in regulations created by
state regulatory commissions. These state legislative and
regulatory environments work in conjunction with federal
policies to define the parameters of AEP’s business and
planning models. They also affect a utility’s business
decisions related to making investments and influence how
the utility is able to recover the costs of its investments.
Our priority is to maintain and operate a safe, affordable
and reliable electric power system that is resilient and
adaptive. Our generation, transmission and distribution
system investments directly affect our customers and
shareholders. These investments must coexist with
regulation and policy considerations, such as environmental
requirements and affordability. As generation becomes more decentralized and the company adopts more renewable and
distributed energy resources, regulations must also evolve to meet the demands of today’s emergent technologies and
customer preferences. In managing the transition, it is essential to ensure the reliability of the system while managing thefinancial risk for our shareholders.
One approach includes identifying flexible or alternative ratemaking models that allow AEP to accelerate our transition to
cleaner energy sources while balancing the impacts to both customers and shareholders. Alternative ratemaking models
help balance different objectives to provide incentives for cost savings and reinforce investments that provide value to
customers while supporting policy objectives. These alternative models can give utilities the ability to explore new and
evolving technology solutions as they determine what delivers the best value for our customers today and in the future. It
also provides payment options and flexibility for customers. This is especially important for disadvantaged customers who
are most sensitive to fluctuations in their utility bills, as evidenced during the global pandemic.
We continue to cultivate relationships with regulators, private and public organizations and other stakeholders to meet
customer demand for new, innovative solutions. We leverage our expertise and experience to inform regulators and key
stakeholders about emerging technologies and associated issues.
Navigating the Regulatory Impacts of COVID-19
Early in the pandemic, AEP’s regulated utilities acted quickly, in recognition that electricity is essential to people’s health,
safety and comfort. We temporarily suspended all service disconnections for non-payment for months (otherwise known
as disconnection moratoria). This ensured customers had access to electricity at a time when they were navigating
remote work and learning. We also proactively reached out to customers with payment options to help them avoid falling
behind, and we helped them enroll in federal, state or local energy assistance programs. This included our commercial,
industrial and residential customers. In spite of these efforts, the lingering pandemic continues to negatively affect some of
our customers.
We continue to work with our regulators and customers on setting up payment arrangements to reduce the financial
burden for them and financial risk for our company. Federal financial support such as CARES Act funding is offered in
some states to help customers pay their bills.
AEP’s geographic footprint, where many of the customers we serve are located in rural or underserved areas, presented
unique challenges during the pandemic. COVID-19 and the switch to remote work and education reinforced the
importance of reliable electricity. The pandemic brought the digital divide to the forefront, exposing the need for
broadband to support virtual work and school. Broadband also provides important access to healthcare, jobs and other
social services. We have a strategy to begin addressing this inequity using our infrastructure to help make it happen.
Broadband
Broadband technology has proven to be critical to the economic development and well-being of rural America and other
underserved areas. Access to the internet and other communication services were a lifeline for many during the COVID-
19 pandemic. As local businesses, schools and economies shut down, many were able to continue working and learning
remotely. Our service territory includes many unserved or underserved areas. Prior to the pandemic, we began exploring
opportunities to leverage our system to support broadband expansion in these areas. Broadband technology improves
growth opportunities for rural communities by enhancing such things as work-from-home, telemedicine and educational
and workforce-training capabilities. Additionally, broadband technology improves a community's ability to attract and
retain large-scale business investments, including data centers and hospitals which create jobs. It also provides a robust
communication platform for a modern electric grid.
We are exploring new options for the dual use of fiber for grid modernization and enabling Internet Service Providers
(ISPs) to make the final connection to areas that lack broadband coverage. We are advocating for legislation in many of
our states that would specifically authorize us to invest in “middle mile” fiber infrastructure that we could then lease to ISPs
for the purpose of their broadband service expansion.
Broadband Initiatives by StateOhio:
 Ohio Broadband Middle Mile Deployment promotes rural middle-mile broadband investment through the
establishment of a broadband expansion program. We are advocating for grant funds for utility middle mile that
supports the new high-speed internet services in unserved regions of the state while also connecting grid facilities.
Pending legislation, we are proposing numerous middle mile projects including a project with the Office of
Appalachia within the Ohio Governor’s Office, which supports Athens, Hocking and Perry counties. This would also
help open the door to a larger broadband deployment effort associated with AEP Ohio’s grid modernization
proposal filed with the Public Utility Commission of Ohio.
Virginia:
 Appalachian Power’s inaugural broadband project in Grayson County received approval from the Virginia
State Corporation Commission in March 2020. After replacing utility poles with larger, stronger poles where
needed, contractors installed the first fiber in December 2020. After the fiber optic lines are installed, an internet
service provider will offer the “last mile” connectivity to unserved customers. Construction is scheduled to be
completed within 18 to 24 months. We are evaluating the potential for a second project in Bland, Montgomery and
Pulaski counties. This three-county initiative would reach roughly 15,000 unserved broadband customers.
West Virginia:
 Appalachian Power,
along with Wheeling Power, submitted
an application to the Public Service
Commission of West Virginia for
approval of a broadband infrastructure
expansion project that will facilitate
access in unserved areas of Logan and
Mingo counties. Appalachian Power is
requesting approval of the project plan and cost recovery for the estimated $61.3 million investment, which includes
installing 430 miles of middle-mile fiber optic cable infrastructure needed to expand high-speed broadband access.
The project plan calls for an internet service provider to own, install and operate the last-mile infrastructure needed to
deliver broadband services to customers in the project area.
Other Noteworthy Legislative Activity
Indiana – 21st Century Energy Policy Development Task Force:
 A task force of legislators and governor-
appointed experts was created in 2019 to examine the reliability, resiliency and stability of the grid as energy
companies continue to transition generation options and use of emerging technologies. In November 2020, the Task
Force released its findings recommending a resource adequacy reporting mechanism by Indiana energy
companies, which was enacted into law in 2021 via HEA 1520. Subsequent legislation was also signed into law (in
the form of HEA 1220) to extend the 21st Century Energy Policy Development Task Force to further the study.
Virginia Clean Economy Act (SB851/HB1526):
 Passed by the General Assembly in 2020, the Virginia Clean
Economy Act (VCEA) seeks to end carbon dioxide emissions from the utility industry in Virginia by 2050. In
November 2020, Appalachian Power filed its first annual plan detailing how it will meet key targets on its way to
becoming 100% carbon-free by 2050. The company intends to meet the VCEA targets primarily through future
investments in solar, wind, energy storage, and energy efficiency measures. Short-term plans are to acquire or
contract 210 MW of solar resources in Virginia and 200 MW of wind in the next five years. By 2050, the company
expects to add 3,400 MW of solar, 2,200 MW of on-shore wind, and 400 MW of energy storage to its current
portfolio of wind and hydro resources.
Virginia Solar (SB966):
 Passed in 2018, Virginia Senate Bill 966 requires Appalachian Power to construct or
acquire 200 MW of solar resources prior to 2028. In February 2021, Appalachian Power issued an RFP for up to
300 megawatts (MWs) of solar and/or wind generation resources. The request for bids is the first in a series of
RFPs Appalachian Power will issue in 2021 to comply with provisions of the Virginia Clean Economy Act (VCEA).
West Virginia Solar (SB583):
 Appalachian Power issued a request for proposals (RFP) in June 2020 for up to 50
MW of solar energy resources as part of the provisions of Senate Bill 583. The bill allows the company to build up to
200 MW of solar generation in increments of up to 50 MW each. To be eligible, the site has to be in West Virginia
and have been previously used in electric generation, industrial, manufacturing or mining operations to include
brownfields, closed landfills, hazardous waste sites, former industrial sites and former mining sites.AEP's NERC compliance governance structure and efforts help protect
the grid to keep it safe, reliable and secure.
NERC OVERSIGHT
We have a responsibility to our customers to keep their lights on 24/7. The growing reality of cyber and physical threats to
our industry’s infrastructure is raising concerns with regulators and customers alike. As a result, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) is driving the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) to develop
unparalleled regulations for our industry. These regulations protect the grid and keep it safe, reliable and secure. Our
challenge is that the regulations are constantly evolving and new rules are being developed. NERC’s Critical Infrastructure
Protection (CIP) Standards reflect the increased focus on protecting the grid from cyber threats.
Today, there are nearly 900 continually evolving
requirements in effect within the NERC Standards. We must
meet each of these requirements to remain in full
compliance and avoid harsh financial penalties. To manage
the risk of non-compliance, we are increasing the number
and sophistication of proactive controls as one of several
methods we are developing to track, manage and prioritize
the ever-growing list of NERC obligations. Due to the
increased number and complexity of the NERC Standards,
along with our significant geographic footprint, we are
continually in the process of completing or preparing for
compliance audits. We must maintain a constant state of
audit readiness across AEP. One of the ways we prepare is
to maintain a strong focus on outreach efforts to internal and
external stakeholders. Focusing on these cross-functional
relationships allows for a comprehensive evaluation and
understanding of requirements to the NERC Standards
across the AEP enterprise.
Our NERC compliance governance structure was developed specifically to respond to the current compliance
environment and provides the direction, agility and organizational support needed to implement an industry-leading NERC
compliance program. This governance structure, in addition to collaboration with regulators and industry leaders, has
resulted in the implementation of a strategic plan for achieving operational excellence in NERC compliance. In addition,
our strong safety culture provides a solid foundation for ensuring that compliance is one of the essential elements of the
program’s strategic plan. Every employee at AEP has a role in delivering reliable, safe, secure electricity to all of our
customers, and compliance plays a critical role in achieving this goal.
Our establishment of the NERC Compliance Strategy and an updated Governance structure helped lay the foundation for
a successful CIP audit with ReliabilityFirst (RF) and Midwest Reliability Organization (MRO). In our first ever virtual audit,
the regulators provided positive feedback on several aspects of AEP’s program, including a statement that our Control
Framework is “an excellent overall program for identifying and documenting internal controls.”
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG STRATEGY
Sustainability strategy and environmental, social and
governance (ESG) disclosure are growing at an exponential
pace, as the view of a company’s non-financial performance
has become as important as its financial health. From the
cost of capital, credit scores and insurance rates to how
shareholders vote, stakeholders demand engagement,
transparency and investment-grade ESG disclosure.
Without question, the public health crisis and racial, social
and civil unrest raised the stature of the “S” in ESG,
prompting an expanded and more granular focus on how we
manage AEP’s ESG performance, disclosure and
governance.
The prominence of material sustainability issues in 2020created an ESG trifecta: climate change strategy, risks and
management; human capital management, including diversity, equity and inclusion; and the resilience and management of
a company’s strategy and business model. Awareness of how ESG impacts the full value-chain helps to strengthen and
inform business decisions and strategies. ESG-informed decisions will be critical inputs as we reimagine a modern,
clean and reliable energy future for our customers; as we rebuild dynamic and thriving economies; and as we develop a
flexible, diverse and inclusive workforce for the future.
Research has proven that companies with strong ESG performance realize short- and long-term value through enhanced
growth, reduced costs, improved stakeholder relationships, increased employee satisfaction, and optimization of
investment and capital expenditures. At AEP, we are integrating our sustainability practices and ESG initiatives into our
corporate strategies and sharing our progress and goals with all of our stakeholders.
How We Manage ESG for AEP
Maintain ongoing monitoring of ESG material issues
Engage third-party research organizations to ensure use of accurate and timely data
Tell our story by engaging our stakeholders
Be transparent about AEP’s ESG performance
Integrate ESG into AEP’s strategy and risk monitoring
Position AEP as an industry and ESG/sustainability leader
ESG MATERIALITY
The evolution of corporate sustainability reporting and ESG disclosure has become more detailed and complex as
stakeholders demand deeper levels of transparency. We live in a hyper-transparent and data-driven world – where ESG
was once seen as qualitative by nature but is now becoming measureable – that drives demand for companies to
enhance the quality, comparability and usefulness of their ESG disclosure.
Materiality matters when disclosing performance. We cannot address every issue, nor should we. To most effectively
manage our resources and focus on the material issues to our business and our stakeholders, we must focus on what is
most relevant to our financial and nonfinancial success. That is what our stakeholders expect of us and how we are best
able to respond to their needs and concerns. AEP defines material issues as those that reflect our most relevant
environmental, social and governance impacts and contributions because they can:
1
. 
Have a significant impact on the company’s finances and/or operations;
2
. 
Have or may have a significant impact on the environment or society now or in the future; and/or
3
. 
Substantially influence the assessments, decisions and actions of our stakeholders.
To identify material and emerging issues, in 2020 we conducted a materiality analysis using Datamaran, a cloud-based
software platform that enables a comprehensive and data-driven process for monitoring external risks. The analysis
monitors ESG issues in real-time, using analytics that give us insights into strategic, regulatory and reputational risks and
opportunities that could impact AEP. This helps strengthen our understanding of ESG, geopolitical, technology and
emerging issues, ensuring alignment with different internal and external stakeholder expectations while enhancing our in-
house capabilities to monitor progress.
This effort provides critical input to the development of our corporate strategy, risk management, and disclosure and
engagement, as well as meets growing stakeholder expectations. This is especially important as new issues, such as
COVID-19 and social justice, continue to emerge, highlighting the rapid pace of the changing ESG landscape.
Purpose and value of a materiality assessment:
Identify ESG/sustainability trends and future risks
Target and improve disclosure and engagement
Reduce risk and exposure
Ensure consistency across risk management, Board oversight and annual reporting
Our integrated reporting is one way we demonstrate the connections between financial and nonfinancial performance, as
well as our commitment to transparency. AEP has been reporting in this way for more than a decade. In addition, weparticipated in an industrywide priority issue assessment, led by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI). This is the
third such assessment at the industry level. EPRI’s deep understanding of the utility industry coupled with the vast research
through their Priority Assessment complements our ESG materiality assessment by providing us with broader
perspectives and insights.
SUSTAINABILITY/ESG GOVERNANCE
When stakeholders evaluate a company, one of the first things they look at is the strength of corporate governance. How
and where sustainability fits into the corporate structure can reveal a company’s priorities. At AEP, we have strong
governance to support sustainability and ESG performance, ensuring alignment with corporate purpose and strategy. Our
approach to transparency links tangibles (such as financial capital and physical assets) with intangibles (such as
reputation, brand, customer loyalty, risk management, trust and credibility) to show bottom line results and benefits.
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to sustainability governance, but we believe it is fundamental to building and
strengthening sustained business value. Strong governance ensures transparency, fairness and accountability, and it
gives us a structured way to manage the challenges of a changing society. We are committed to strong governance
practices that protect the long-term interests of our shareholders.
Our Board of Directors works closely with our executive team to ensure we continually meet or exceed the highest
standards of performance, innovation, ethics and service. In addition, the Board receives educational presentations from
outside experts and board members attend educational sessions.
Through our Enterprise Sustainability Council (ESC) – with oversight from executive management and the Committee on
Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors – we have clear guidance on our ESG responsibilities for
sustainable business development. ESC members, who represent all aspects of our business, serve as strategic
ambassadors, providing guidance and support to ensure the success of our sustainable development strategy. They do
this by enabling integration of sustainability across the enterprise and in corporate strategy.
The fast-paced growth of ESG investing prompted an expanded and more granular focus on how we manage our ESG
performance and disclosure. We have a dedicated cross-functional ESG Team that meets monthly to monitor new and
emerging ESG issues and develop strategies for responding to them. Because ESG performance is also a business risk,
we added it to our risk summary report and are integrating it with our corporate strategy.
In addition to the ESC and ESG Team, the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors
reviews the Corporate Accountability Report annually and monitors our ESG performance. The Committee provides
feedback and develops the Board Statement supporting our commitment to sustainable business development and
performance accountability. In addition, since 2010, AEP’s internal Audit Services team has conducted a limited review of
selected company performance statements. The combined internal audit and governance from the Board of Directors,
executive management and the ESC helps us ensure our disclosure undergoes a disciplined review and validationprocess.
While these issues are discussed by the Board of
Directors throughout the year, we report to the Committee
on Directors and Corporate Governance on our
sustainability-related activities at least twice per year. In
addition, the Lead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors
conducts annual outreach with our largest shareholders to
engage with investors on important ESG matters. The
Chairman of the Board also engages throughout the year
with investors and other stakeholders.
Learn more about AEP’s Corporate Governance
 as well
as Climate Governance in our 
Climate Impact Analysis
Report
.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Listening to and engaging with customers, employees, investors, NGOs, communities, policymakers and other
stakeholders is a priority for us. It allows us to hear perspectives we might not have considered, mitigate risks, identify
opportunities for collaboration, build stronger relationships, and arrive at consensus or shared motivation for meaningful
outcomes.
We engage with a variety of stakeholders on issues ranging from climate change, clean energy transition, energy
efficiency, reliability and affordability, supply chain management and human capital management. New issues arose in
2020 in light of the global pandemic and racial, social and civil unrest. These issues especially focused on the
environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts, risks and management.
Climate change risk, governance and
strategy and a Just Transition continue to be
a main focus as we transition to a low-carbon
future. We recognize that climate change
remains a significant risk and opportunity for
which we are preparing to ensure we can
deliver the clean, safe electricity expected by
our customers. We engage with different
stakeholders, including Climate Action 100+,
to understand their concerns and address
their questions about our carbon emission
reduction goals and climate scenario analysis
work. Our executive management team and
Lead Director are also involved in ourengagement with Climate Action 100+.
During the course of developing our Climate Impact Analysis Report, we shared our plans with Climate Action 100+ as
part of our ongoing engagement. The group reviewed our outline and provided valuable feedback.
The path to a low-carbon energy future requires investments across our service territory and within our local
neighborhoods. Developing and siting infrastructure, such as transmission facilities, is a complex, technical process that
involves balancing disturbance to human, cultural and natural resources with a community’s need for reliable electricity.
We have a team of specialists focused on transmission right-of-way acquisition, siting and community outreach dedicated
to avoiding or minimizing impacts to people and the environment to the greatest extent possible.
In 2020, the Transmission Right-of-Way team logged more than 97,000 interactions with landowners and acquired nearly
3,000 easements, using condemnation on less than 1% of the acquisitions. In addition, the Project Outreach team hosted
a total of 32 open houses, including eight in-person and 24 virtually. The COVID-19 pandemic led the Project Outreach
team to shift from its in-person events to virtual public involvement strategies. Virtual events enabled two-way
communications with landowners and key stakeholders during the pandemic. The team utilized virtual and digital public
engagement tools to ensure the same project information was presented virtually as it would be with a traditional in-person
open house. Open houses, whether traditional or virtual, serve as an excellent opportunity for landowners and members of
the community to learn about the project need and benefits, timeline, right-of-way practices, construction process and view
interactive maps.
We are committed to actively engaging with our stakeholders and appreciate two-way conversations that provide value to
us and them. Below is a list of the stakeholders with whom we engage most frequently, the topics of interest and how we
engage.
AEP’s Stakeholder Engagement Efforts
Issues We Engage On
How We Engage
Employees
COVID-19 policies, procedures,
benefits
Diversity, equity & inclusion
Safety & health
Culture
Training and development
Work/life balance
Future of Work
Incentive compensation and goal
setting
Continuously educate and communicate with employees on
emerging issues such as COVID-19, racism
Seize the Moment: Let’s Keep the Momentum Going” diversity,
equity and inclusion action plan
Safety & health and diversity stand ups
Employees webcasts
Employee Resource Groups
Annual employee culture survey
Culture action plans
Performance review process
Employee development & training
Tuition reimbursement
Volunteerism/community engagement
Targeted development programs
Women’s Leadership Forum
Customers
 (Residential, Commercial & Industrial)
Carbon emissions
Renewables
Electrification
Energy solutions
Energy management
Site selection/property searches
COVID-19
Fleet electric transportation
Advisory services for energy solutions & incentives
Property searches, screening, certification
Relocation and expansion support
EEI Customer Carbon & Energy Report
Host webinars
Newsletters
One-on-one outreach
Special team to support COVID-19 needsSupply chain resilience
Customer Assistance
Small Business Assistance
Fleet
Public safety awareness
Social media
Expanding digital channel engagement
Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) stakeholder process
Investors
Climate risk & governance
Just Transition
Diversity, equity & inclusion
Political engagement governance
Human capital management
Resilience
Cyber and physical security
Political engagement and lobbying
activities
Supply chain resilience
Culture
Incentive compensation and goal
setting
AEP’s Climate Impact Analysis Report (a TCFD Report)
8-12 annual ESG investor-focused frameworks and surveys
Annual EEI ESG/Sustainability investor report
Ongoing engagement with institutional investors
Lead Director conducts governance outreach annually
Ongoing engagement with ESG-focused investors
Climate Action 100+; average 2 meetings per year
ESG Data Center (140+ most material metrics)
Institutional investment advisor reports and direct investor input
are considered in setting incentive compensation goals
Suppliers
Supply chain management
Environmental management
Human rights management
Supplier diversity
Supply chain resilience
Safety and health
Developed a new Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier FAQs
Respond to sustainability-related supplier surveys
Member of EcoVadis
Supplier Diversity Program
Supplier education
Communities
Hunger & housing
STEM education
Diversity, equity & inclusion
Public safety
COVID-19
Economic development
Infrastructure siting
Coal unit retirements
Just Transition
Energy affordability
Corporate giving
Employee volunteerism
COVID-19 grants
Economic development grants
Economic development training programs
Credits Count STEM program
Social & Racial Justice Grant
Public safety education
Landowners, property owners
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
Clean energy transition
Asset retirements
Carbon emissions
Distributed energy resources
Renewables
Electrification
Electric transportation
Outreach via email, phone calls, meetings
Regulatory proceedings (stakeholder forums tied to IRPs)Energy efficiency
Policymakers /Regulators
Clean energy transition
Affordable electricity
Reliable electricity
Environmental performance
Energy management
Electrification
Electric vehicles
COVID-19 customer impacts
North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (NERC) compliance
Emergency response
Ratemaking
Education forums
Political engagement
Regulatory proceedings
Trade Associations
IRP stakeholder forums
Lobbying
EEI State Regulatory Affairs Executive Advisory Committee
Third-Party Research Organizations
ESG
One-on-one conversations
Webinars
Roundtables
ESG Ratings Working Group
EEI ESG/Sustainability Steering Committee
ESG Data Center
Financial Community
 (banks, credit agencies, insurance, etc.)
ESG
One-on-one conversations
Participate in webinars
ESG Data Center
Credit facility linked to ESG metrics
COVID-19 – AEP'S RESPONSE, SUPPORT & RESILIENCE
Enterprise Resilience
Like the rest of the world, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on AEP, our employees, customers and
communities. We are taking proactive and necessary measures to address the pandemic, keeping health and safety as
our top priorities. We activated our emergency oversight structure and incident management teams in accordance with
AEP’s Infectious Disease Response Plan.
Due to the critical nature of the services we provide, we have business continuity and emergency response plans in place
to address all types of emergencies, including a pandemic. This allows our Enterprise Resilience team to take immediate
action when an emergency arises. Our Enterprise Resilience team led an enterprise-wide, cross-functional team using
Incident Command System (ICS) principles to guide response to and recovery from risk events associated with the
coronavirus, mitigating impacts to our operations.
We created a COVID-19 Task Force to closely monitor the virus and regularly educate and communicate with our
employees, partners and customers about the impacts and threats it posed. We collaborated with our peer companies,
government experts and public health agencies to adjust our response as the situation rapidly evolved. In addition, eachoperating company and business unit established an Incident Management Team (IMT). The IMTs are headed by Incident
Commanders who make decisions supported by staff with expertise in operations, communications, safety and health,
HR, logistics, finance, legal and other aspects of the business. The IMTs are responsible for managing the response and
planning for business impacts related to their specific operating companies and business units. We have more than 300
employees directly involved in the coronavirus response effort, and many others who are supporting the work of the IMTs.
Today, portions of our COVID-19 response structure remain in place to closely monitor this virus and its potential
mutations that could affect our company.
Protecting Our Employees
We have taken significant and numerous
actions to keep our employees, customers
and communities safe and healthy during the
pandemic. Our critical front-line employees
are working in smaller teams, practicing
physical distancing, wearing face coverings,
monitoring themselves for symptoms, and
taking other preventive measures
recommended by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC). We are
educating our customers to maintain at least
six feet of physical distance from our workers
when they are in the field. This has been
especially important as our employees
responded to restore service following
multiple hurricanes and storms across our
service territory and beyond. Learn more
about our storm restoration efforts and
protection in the Safety & Health section.
The measures we have taken extend to our
contractors and subcontractors. We require them to report all known positive cases of COVID-19 for those people that
work at our worksites or facilities. This allows us to trace and notify those who may have been exposed to the virus and
prevent the spread to others.
Employees who can work from home have been doing so since mid-March 2020. This accounts for 60% of our workforce.
We continue to review our timeline for returning to the workplace based on the spread of the virus in our communities,
recommendations from our company doctor, and guidance from the CDC. When we do return, it will be a gradual process
that reinforces the protections already in place. Although we have not required our employees to receive a COVID-19
vaccine, it is strongly encouraged. The vaccine is fully covered for employees enrolled in the AEP medical plan, and we
are offering a $100 incentive to employees who get fully vaccinated.
We are leveraging an internal website to provide updates to our employees as the situation progresses. This includes
recommendations on actions to prevent virus transmission, guidance for employees who may have contracted or come
into contact with someone with COVID-19 and other information resources on topics such as the COVID-19 vaccine. Our
Chairman, President and CEO, Nick Akins, communicated with employees through a series of video messages
committing to ensuring employees have the proper support and resources needed during this unprecedented time.
Our COVID-19 Task Force and response is an ongoing effort to protect our employees and communities.
Supporting Our EmployeesWe recognize this has been a challenging year for everyone. In many cases, employees became teachers and/or
caregivers, juggling multiple roles in addition to their jobs. To give employees flexibility as they adapted, we developed a
comprehensive set of pay and leave programs and support mechanisms that cover a wide range of situations, including:
Expanded Medical Risk and Family
Care Leave to include Paid Pandemic
Leave, providing a sick pay “bank” for
employees exposed to or impacted by
COVID-19.
Enhanced Paid Time Off for full-time
employees unable to work from home,
such as field employees needed to
keep the lights on, or those who need
time to address child or adult care
challenges.
Gave all employees accelerated
access to half of their 2021 vacation
hours, after exhausting their 2020 paid
time off. Our goal was to protect and
provide fair continuation of wages and
benefits while limiting exposure risk to
protect the health of employees and
their families.
Enhanced AEP’s Medical Plan and
Retirement Savings 401(k) Plan for
employees impacted by COVID-19.
The AEP Medical Plan changes align
with new federal requirements and
provide temporary enhancements to employees and their families with flexible options, many with no cost, when
seeking health care. AEP’s 401(k) changes provide hardship relief through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and
Economic Security (CARES) Act, which provides options for accessing funds from 401(k) accounts due to financial
hardship related to the coronavirus
Introduced a one-time financial incentive of $100 per employee for those who complete a full series of COVID-19
vaccinations.
Raised awareness about our existing Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support employees and their
families. This includes:
Telephonic support with a counselor for in-the-moment support or a work/life specialist who can assist in
identifying resources to meet individual needs;
In-office or online video counseling visits to manage stress, anxiety, and other issues;
Ability to speak to a work/life specialist who can conduct a search for local resources for full-time, part-time
and back-up child and eldercare;
Telephonic financial consultations with a certified financial professional who can discuss short and longer term
financial concerns;
Legal consultations with an attorney for a no-cost consultation to discuss legal questions; and,
A virtual “health club for your mind” to gain access to tools to help manage stress, anxiety, depression,
insomnia and more.
Held two live “conversation with a counselor” sessions – one navigating feelings during the pandemic and another
focused on parenting during the pandemic.
Frequently communicated our EAP services specific to COVID-19 and more broadly touched on suicide awareness
and resiliency.
Equipping Our Employees with Tools & Resources
We actively focused on providing our employees with the necessary tools and resources to be productive and engaged
during this time. This required us to be agile, adaptive and creative in identifying solutions that supported both our remoteAEP Distribution Dispatcher Micah working from home. Micah and his
wife were expecting their first child during the pandemic and requested
he work from home to reduce exposure to COVID-19. In response,
AEP set him up to successfully and safely dispatch from his home.
employees and field personnel. We had to rethink everything
from onboarding and training to implementing new ways of
working while identifying technology solutions to smooth the
transition to a distributed work environment.
Our agility was demonstrated when we created remote
Distribution Dispatch Centers (DDC) in an effort to
implement additional safety precautions. The DDC serves
as the conduit between our equipment performance and
maintenance and our field workers. A common and
essential task performed by the DDC dispatchers includes
switching. Switching is the process used to isolate
equipment so that work such as maintenance, replacement
or construction can be performed safely and with minimal
interruption to service. Errors in switching can result in
hazardous conditions for employees, damage to equipment
or interruption of service to customers. To provide a safe
and productive work environment for our employees with
minimal to no disruption to our dispatchers and the AEP system, we installed network connections and supporting
infrastructure to enable a secure and functional second DDC location. This allowed our high-risk dispatchers to work from
home, giving them the tools and resources needed to continue to work effectively.
In early 2020, we briefly paused all in-person training offerings to identify new training priorities, safety protocols, and tools
and resources to adapt the training environment to being remote. To support required and critical pre-employment training
activities, we established safety protocols for in-person training and pivoted to technology-based learning.
In-Person/Classroom Learning: We
established protocols to ensure the
safety and health of employees and
trainers. This included smaller class
sizes, adding more sessions,
expanding time between sessions
where trainers have to travel and
staggered settings.
Blended or Virtual Learning: We
streamlined content, session sizes and
delivery style to effectively convey
learning topics using WebEx or other
virtual tools. We are also using AR/VR
as a training delivery approach. For
example, employees who need to know
how to use a fire extinguisher can now
get the training virtually thanks to
augmented reality (AR) and virtual
reality (VR) technology. This is a great
way to replace traditional hands-on
learning in a safe and fun environment.
Despite many challenges, our employees have shown that they are resilient, flexible and adaptable. Our ongoing focus
and commitment to a culture of engagement has allowed us to successfully navigate a challenging year while continuing to
deliver value to our customers, shareholders and the communities where we operate. Our strong culture foundation will
serve as a catalyst to accelerate our movement forward.
Future of Work
As COVID-19 accelerated the move to remote work, it also created new ways of looking at how and where we performour work. This includes everything from how we attract talent, employee development and culture, to the important role
technology plays.
Our Future of Work initiative, which was underway before the pandemic began, is exploring whether work needs to be
conducted onsite or if it can be effectively done remotely. The pandemic showed us that we can effectively work remotely.
As we leverage this to shape the future workplace, we are classifying the different roles into remote (non-AEP location),
hybrid (mixture of working at an AEP location or remote location), or onsite and field job classification. We are identifying
tools, technology, training, and policies needed to support our new work classifications; redesigning workspaces to be
more suitable for collaboration; and, recognizing the cultural needs of our workforce to define a path forward in an
increasingly distributed way of working. We have made significant progress in developing an engaged, healthy culture and
do not want to lose momentum.
We have already learned a lot about what is possible through this pandemic and we continue to learn more every day.
Read more about our Future of Work effort in the 
Workforce section
.
Supporting Our Customers & Communities
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on our customers and communities. In response, we suspended all
service disconnections for non-payment and waived credit card fees. In addition, we created a team to help small
business customers apply for the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, through which we
supported more than 2,300 companies in securing funds. Learn more on our 
Business Assistance site
.
As our states started reopening and
businesses and economies began to
rebound, we planned for our own return to
normal business operations. In many states,
disconnection suspensions have or will be
expiring and we are resuming disconnection
of customers for nonpayment. While difficult,
this is important because it prevents cost
shifting to other customers who may be just
as or more vulnerable.
Our ability to maintain safe, reliable power
relies on customers paying their bills. We
continue working with our state regulators to
offer creative solutions that help customers
manage their energy use as well as pay their
bills. This includes providing flexible payment
options to help them maintain electric service
without building up large past-due balances
that they would have to pay all at once. We
have been communicating with customers
facing disconnection using different methods,
including e-mail, letters, texts, voice mail
messages, social media and door hangers,
encouraging them to contact us if they need
help paying their bills. Previous standards for payment plan arrangements and extensions have been adjusted so more
customers can get the help they need. Disconnecting customers is always our last resort, and customers who work with us
on a payment plan will not be disconnected.
In addition, the American Electric Power Foundation has donated nearly $4 million in COVID-related emergency relief
funds to support basic human needs and help address the hardships faced by customers and communities. Grants have
been made to nonprofit organizations across the AEP service area. We also donated personal protective equipment
(PPE) to support front-line health care providers in the states we serve.Supply Chain Preparedness & Resilience
The global pandemic brought to light supply chain risks and insecurities in nearly every industry. Temporary trade
restrictions, manufacturing shut downs and shortages of critical supplies reinforced the importance of supply chain
preparedness and resilience. We experienced minimal supply issues due to the pandemic or the many storms we
experienced on our system. Foundationally, this has been due to good planning, coordination and communication
between our operational groups and supply chain partners on the front lines.
Early in the pandemic, we began to see lead times for deliveries of many high volume materials start to lengthen. We took
proactive measures to increase inventory levels of many critical operational items to ensure we had adequate supplies. In
addition, over the past several years, our business units have made a significant effort to evaluate and purchase
capitalized spare parts for major critical pieces of equipment. To minimize exposure to the virus and disruption to our
operations, our Emergency Preparedness team worked with our operations and supply chain teams to adapt our major
event material management practices to maintain safety.
AEP was an early adopter of an inventory management system that uses data analytics to determine minimum and
maximum material inventory levels. The system uses five years of data including: historical usage rates, material criticality,
material lead times, available materials that could be substituted, and where/how long it would take to transfer stored
inventory within the system, to predict the best inventory levels to be maintained. Our use of this system helped us weather
the pandemic with minimal disruption and impact.
We invest billions in capital improvements to our business annually. Many of these large projects are in progress and the
materials for them have already been secured. This provides an emergency source of materials if needed during the
crisis. If or when we use these materials, we will replenish them to prevent interrupting project schedules. This gives our
procurement activities added flexibility to meet daily business needs.
AEP continually evaluates cyber and physical security risks
enterprise-wide using our risk management process, providing a
comprehensive approach to understanding and managing these risks in
relation to other enterprise risks.
ENTERPRISE SECURITY
Like all major infrastructure, the nation’s power grid is
subject to an array of threats, from naturally caused
phenomena such as extreme weather to vandalism,
domestic and foreign terrorism, and insider risks that
jeopardize reliability, safety and data security. The stakes
are high; our response to an event affects our customers,
our reputation and the reliability of the power grid.
AEP continually evaluates cyber and physical security risks
enterprise-wide using our risk management process,
providing a comprehensive approach to understanding and
managing these risks in relation to other enterprise risks. It
also enables decision-making based on the level of
acceptable risk, as well as our priorities and resources.
The harsh reality of the digital world is that our infrastructure
is under constant threat from cyber and physical attacks.
Third-party products and services create new and growing
risk to the power grid, prompting new regulations to protect
it. As the threats become more sophisticated and far-reaching, it is a constant challenge to achieve the right level of risk
management. AEP’s comprehensive security strategy – known as “Defense in Depth” – assumes a broader range of
possibilities, such as physical theft, unauthorized access to data, and incidental threats that do not specifically target
protected systems or assets.During social and political demonstrations in 2020, local, state and
federal law enforcement were called upon to protect AEP’s employees
and the critical assets that keep the lights on for our customers.
Cyber & Physical Security
Adoption of new technologies, such as automation and digitization, opens the door to new threats and security risks to the
electric power grid. New mobile apps and services that we develop or purchase for customer use, along with our own
increasing reliance on cloud-based programs, increases external connectivity to our network.
The pandemic caused us to quickly transition our workforce to a remote work environment in March 2020. As a result, the
number of employee users remotely connecting to our network increased tenfold. Fortunately, we had a well-designed and
secure remote connectivity architecture, which easily supported the additional remote connections without introducing
significant risk. Our security access program monitors and manages these connections while providing controlled access
that allows us to get our work done. We consider and test possible ways attackers could breach our systems. It is not a
matter of whether it will occur but when. We are identifying and implementing the right defenses to protect AEP’s networks
and data. Our strategy includes preparation for recovery if a breach occurs, through policies, procedures and technology,
as well as through educating our workforce about the growing threat.
Cloud computing has created new opportunities for us, and as we expand and rely upon these capabilities, we must
mitigate the corresponding cybersecurity risks. We have aligned closely with our Information Technology Cloud Center of
Excellence to establish a proactive approach to address security risks associated with the cloud. Our Cloud Security
focus group leads our efforts to establish a strategy for various forms of cloud computing consistent with the Cloud
Security Alliance (CSA) framework to develop a security roadmap. This will prove helpful as the North American Electric
Reliability Corporation (NERC) is considering updating the NERC CIP standards to include the use, associated risks, and
controls and oversight for virtualization and cloud computing services in association with Bulk Electric System (BES)
operations.
We continue to be a leader in cyber security through participating in – and leading – industry and regulator-hosted
discussions. Our collaboration with the National Governors Association (NGA) allows us to improve our coordination with
government in responding to natural disasters and to physical and cyber risks or attacks. We are participating in
workshops for states and the National Guard due to their pivotal role in disaster response. We also partner with private
sector companies and government agencies to secure the grid.
We learn from and take actions based on real-world events. Our Defense in Depth approach to cyber and physical
security allows us to deal with threats in real time. These strategies include proactive threat intelligence, monitoring,
alerting and emergency response; employee education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal activity
reporting. Through rapid notification and response when attacks and disasters are underway, we can reduce the impacts
of cyberattacks and avoid or mitigate the damage before experiencing the full impact of the threat.
Every two years, we test our operational response to
potential power grid vulnerabilities or emergencies through
GridEx exercises developed by NERC. These exercises
complement our annual exercises, allowing us to practice
and prepare our response to national level emergency
scenarios in a controlled environment. This ensures we have
the proper policies and procedures in place should an event
occur. Through this controlled exercise, we can see how our
policies and procedures are helping us respond to various
events ranging from cyber and physical attacks to loss of our
situational awareness tools. NERC’s next national GridEx
exercise is scheduled to take place in late 2021.
New physical threats emerged in 2020 due to social and
civil unrest, including threats of vandalism and domestic
terrorism to AEP’s facilities and substations. Several AEP-
operated buildings were located near some of the
demonstrations that took place in 2020. 
We actively
monitored potential risks, coordinated with local, state and federal law enforcement and other intelligence sources, and
put safety protocols in place. Our response to an event affects the safety of our employees and customers, our reputation
and the reliability of the power grid.Security Governance
A cyberattack against critical electric utility infrastructure could be devastating to the country’s stability and economy. If
successful, an attack could disable the nation’s transportation, utilities, telecommunications, and financial infrastructure.
This is why strong governance, oversight and regulations are vital to the strength and resilience of our bulk electric system
(BES).
We have a centralized enterprise security program focused on managing security risk across the entire system. The Chief
Security and Privacy Officer leads an interactive monthly CEO Security briefing, which includes the CEO and other top
executives at AEP. In addition, the cyber and physical security of the BES is highly regulated by the federal government
through NERC CIP Reliability Standards. We are routinely audited for compliance with federal standards in both cyber
and physical security. In addition, AEP’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee review our enterprise cyber and
physical security efforts.
The Chief Security and Privacy Officer is also the NERC CIP Senior Manager, which helps ensure one approach to NERC
CIP compliance and compliments the enterprise security program. Our NERC compliance governance structure was
developed specifically to respond to the current compliance environment and provides the direction, agility and
organizational support needed to implement an industry-leading NERC compliance program. Learn more in the NERC
Compliance section.
To ensure our enterprise-wide security controls are comprehensive, effective and in compliance with best practices and
regulatory requirements, we have established a robust, collaborative security policy management program that aligns with
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Our resulting policies and standards
are jointly developed with AEP’s business areas, through the Enterprise Security Advisory Council, to maximize adoption
and implementation of standard controls, thereby reducing security risk to AEP.
We classify all BES facilities based on their criticality to determine the level of physical security needed. This approach
allows us to design security controls for new infrastructure from the start, building the costs into capital projects as needed.
It also allows us to be more proactive with new and existing infrastructure while balancing risks with mitigation solutions.
Supply Chain Security
Third-party risk is a major challenge to power utilities as malicious actors have targeted equipment, software and service
vendors with an increasing number of attacks. As we look to expand our renewable energy portfolio, additional security
controls will be needed to monitor and manage the growing third-party risks to our operations.
Our Third-Party Risk Governance Committee consists of our Chief Security Officer, Chief Procurement Officer, Chief Risk
Officer, Chief Information Officer and Legal Counsel. This committee reviews the performance of our third-party risk
program, provides guidance and approves changes to the program and assessment processes. All primary contracts
must abide by our security requirements.
In December 2020, the Secretary of Energy signed Executive Order 13920 prohibiting utilities that supply critical defense
facilities from procuring certain equipment from the People’s Republic of China. The order singles out specific electric
equipment that poses risk to the power grid, the security or resilience of critical infrastructure, the economy, national
security, or the safety and security of Americans. In response, we are identifying third-party entities that have international
involvement to ensure proper controls are in place.
Following approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), NERC has expanded the CIP Reliability
Standards to require utilities to develop a plan for managing cyber-related risks within their supply chain. The new
standards require utilities to assess vendor security controls, verify the authenticity of the source of software downloads
and integrity of that software, and establish better controls over vendor remote access to the BES.
In 2019, we joined Fortress Information Security in launching the Asset-to-Vendor Network (A2V) for Power Utilities, a joint
venture to promote information sharing among electric utilities and reduce costs associated with supply chain security
assessments. This network collaborates to provide results of assessments of vendor security practices with the goal ofreducing risk to the energy critical infrastructure. We actively support the growth of the program through generation of
ideas for new data elements, client development and contribution of assessment data to the exchange. Additionally, A2V
is in conversations with federal government partners about how to more broadly expand the positive impact of the
program on the utility industry.
Security Awareness & Training
Our most important partners in protecting AEP’s cyber and physical security are our employees. Our Security Awareness
program reduces risk by promoting security best practices and providing awareness education to our employees and
contractors. The success of our program depends on constant communication and reinforcement. Our mission is to
protect AEP’s assets and information, enable the business to work securely and efficiently, and educate employees and
contractors about their responsibility to keep AEP secure.
We leverage Security Ambassadors and local Champions to support our employee security awareness efforts and
training:
Training covers a wide variety of topics such as policies and standards, domestic violence, workplace aggression,
personally identifiable information (PII), password protection and active shooter situations.
All AEP employees and contractors are assigned annual Security Awareness Training, which covers issues such as
tailgating into restricted areas, access management, phishing and other areas that affect day-to-day security.
New employees receive training to educate them on their role in protecting the grid as well as information about
AEP’s security standards and tips to stay safe online.
We provide NERC CIP Cyber Security Training for employees and supervisors with NERC CIP access. We also
provide training on our NERC CIP Information Protection Program.
Learn more about our employee training for 
workforce safety and security
.
Insider Threat
Threats to the grid can also come from within. In response, we established an Insider Protection and Prevention Program
(IP3). To ensure best practices, we use insights and recommendations from security experts to develop a risk-based
approach that continually identifies, assesses and ultimately protects our critical assets from insider threats. All
employees, contractors and other business partners that have access to any critical assets, including personnel, facilities,
information, equipment, networks and systems, are included. A cross-functional executive team composed of Enterprise
Security, Human Resources, Business Ethics and Compliance and Legal oversees the program.
Phishing Accountability
One of our greatest threats comes from phishing attacks on our system. Phishing is a form of attack in which malicious
emails seek to obtain sensitive information such as user names, passwords, credit card details and other corporate data.
Cyber criminals know that humans are the weakest link when it comes to protecting corporate data, and are continuously
creating more sophisticated phishing emails to exploit this weakness. In early 2020, we adopted a new Phishing
Accountability policy to educate employees on how to better identify risky emails and to hold employees accountable for
doing so. We test our employees’ ability to detect malicious emails with periodic phishing simulations. Employees who
fail a phishing simulation receive further education and training. Continued failure to identify risky emails could also result
in disciplinary action.
RISK & RESILIENCYAEP faces many different risks to our business that
we must manage. Fueled by major events such as the
global pandemic; racial, social and political unrest;
extreme weather; and security breaches, companies
require dynamic and agile risk management efforts
now more than ever. As we navigate the unpredictable
future, we must identify the appropriate levels of risk-
management while simultaneously detecting and
deflecting new potential risks and weaknesses. This is
imperative to keep pace with the ever-changing
environment around us while adapting to the next level
of normal.
Enterprise Risk Oversight (ERO) defines and
oversees the consistent application of AEP’s risk
management process, as noted below, in conjunction
with our business units and operating companies.
Application of the risk management process helps us
identify strategic, financial, operational and regulatory
risks, assess the threats and controls, evaluate the
risk, plan mitigation strategies and monitor risks for
changing conditions.
Our risk management process is used to facilitate the identification of a risk and discussion on the possible
consequences resulting from the event.
Risks are reported by business units or operating companies to ERO. The Chief Risk Officer reports a summary of risks
to the Risk Executive Committee, which consists of senior leaders, to illustrate risk ranking and planned mitigations. This
summary of risks is then discussed and reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Enterprise Resilience
Identifying and managing risk is one part of the equation; it is equally as important to be prepared in the event a worst
reasonable case occurs – such as the loss of a data center or a global pandemic. Our Enterprise Resilience team
functions on a 24 x 7 x 365 day basis and is charged with sustaining the enterprise’s emergency management and
business continuity capabilities. Our Emergency Management Core Plan aligns with the National Incident Management
System and adopts the principles of the incident command system, which government agencies across the U.S. use to
respond to local emergencies and large disasters. Our emergency management framework is an integral part of how we
efficiently respond to and manage events to keep critical operations functioning.
To prepare, the Enterprise Resilience team works closely with ERO to identify the drivers that could trigger an event; the
controls for preventing it or reducing the frequency of it occurring; and mitigation strategies if it does occur. We try to
anticipate high-impact, high-probability events to prepare for the ripple effects they could have and to limit the negative
consequences. We’ve established business unit-based and hazard-specific plans aligned to our emergency management
framework to manage the strategic response. Business unit and operating company-specific resilience plans are in place
to protect our critical and non-critical processes to support continuity of operations during business disruptions.
This framework proved critical in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, when the Enterprise Infectious Disease
Response Plan was activated, guiding preparedness activities ahead of the pandemic and ensuring a comprehensive
and coordinated response. Learn more in the 
COVID-19 section
.
The global pandemic is an example of a risk that could interrupt business operations. In 2020, we strengthened the
existing business continuity plans that support critical and non-critical business processes. These plans were expanded to
include more depth around loss of facilities, personnel and supply chain due to coronavirus impacts. This was to ensure all
business functions and assets – critical and non-critical – could continue to operate during the pandemic with little to no
disruption. Well-planned and executed responses can reduce the impacts to AEP and to our customers, shareholders andcommunities we serve.
Our business continuity plans evaluate:
Our business resilience plans, which include continuity and emergency response plans, serve as important training
tools to prepare our workforce to respond and recover when an event occurs. 
During event response and recovery,
real-time adjustments are made based on planning assumptions specific to the event size, complexity, and timing.
Prioritization of critical business process recovery with consideration for special circumstances or cyclical events
that may worsen the impacts of the disruption.
Staffing considerations for critical business processes and identification of niche or highly specialized skillsets.
Adequacy of workarounds specific to the event complexity and estimated time to recover critical business
processes.
Third-party vendors, contractors/consultants, and outsourced partners are also key to our business continuity in a crisis.
Business units and operating companies within AEP that own these relationships must review the external party’s
business resilience plans to determine whether or not they meet our criteria and to guide adjustments that may be
required to our response and business recovery capabilities.
Data Privacy & Protection
We believe that strong data security and privacy protections, using technology and internal policies and practices, are vital
for effective and trusted interactions. To accomplish this, we are enhancing the protection of high-value data through
improved data inventory practices, security protocols, data lifecycle management and leadership accountability. This
aligns with our multi-year Personally Identifiable Information (PII) protection program that lays the foundation for this new
initiative.
For several years, we have focused on minimizing the volume of PII storage repositories to better protect employee,
customer and contractor PII. In 2020, we expanded our PII protection program as we transitioned more than 60% of our
workforce to remote work. Working remotely opened up new vulnerabilities that required adapting enhanced data security
protocols such as tightening administrative controls around installing personal printers on company devices and printing
sensitive company documents.
We continue to leverage the Enterprise Data Privacy Governance Committee to update our 
Privacy Policy
, address third-
party risk of sharing customer data with aligned business partners, and better coordinate data access and privacy-related
activities across our multiple jurisdictions. The Committee also monitors and coordinates our response to the changing
legislative and regulatory landscape regarding data access and customer privacy at the local, state and federal levels. We
have a responsibility to advocate for prudent policies related to data access and customer privacy regarding collection,
notice, use, misuse, disclosure, retention, destruction and loss.
AEP’s Privacy Collaboration Efforts:
Enterprise Data Privacy Governance Committee
Internal stakeholder partnerships
Privacy Champions
Privacy Legislation and Regulatory Risk Working Group
Enterprise Risk Register
Our 
Privacy Policy
 incorporates a clear commitment to customer privacy and data protection, includes details about the
types of data we collect from our customers and website visitors, explains how customers can access the data and offers
information regarding how we use customer data to provide electric power and related services. We remain committed to
providing our customers with information about how customer data is collected, stored, protected, used and disclosed.
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENTWe have been transparent about our political contributions and
lobbying activities for more than a decade. In light of growing public
interest in related activities, we committed to enhanced disclosures.
We participate in the political process at the federal, state and local levels to help advance policies that benefit our
customers, communities, employees and other
stakeholders. We do this through lobbying, political
engagement and contributions, and employee-driven
Political Action Committees (PACs).
In 2020, we reviewed our processes, practices and policies
governing political engagement. We identified opportunities
to strengthen and enhance our governance, resulting in a
revised 
political engagement policy
 and a new 
anti-
corruption policy
. These policies reinforce expectations
already reflected in our 
Principles of Business Conduct
. We
have been transparent about our political contributions and
lobbying activities for more than a decade. In light of
growing public interest in related activities, we committed to
enhanced disclosures. Beginning with contributions made in
2020, we are expanding our disclosures to include
contributions of $5,000 or greater to 501(c)(4) social welfare
organizations – among those groups that are not required by federal law to disclose who their donors are.
In addition, following the attack on the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021, AEP suspended corporate political contributions
and Political Action Committee (PAC) contributions for three months to allow for an additional review of the criteria used
in making contributions to candidates and other organizations. We intend to continue engaging in the political process in
support of finding solutions to the serious issues facing our country.
Learn more about 
Political Engagement and Lobbying at AEP
AEP’s Political Activity Disclosure:
AEP’s Political Engagement Policy
AEP’s Annual Report of Corporate Political and Social Welfare Organization Contributions and Trade Association
Lobbying
AEP’s Anti-Corruption Policy
Federal Quarterly Lobbying Reports
Supplier Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct FAQs
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT & DIVERSITY
Supplier Code of Conduct
In September 2020, we released a new 
Supplier
Code of Conduct
 reflecting expectations for suppliers
to uphold our values around safety and health,
environmental performance, ethics and compliance,
anti-bribery, human dignity, diversity and inclusion, and
security. This reinforces our expectations of suppliers
when they are conducting business with AEP or on our
behalf. It is also part of our commitment to
transparency of our values and supply chain engagement and is supplemental to our contract Terms & Conditions.
We are sometimes asked by supply chain partners or customers to support or commit to additional pledges or Codes of
Conduct related to a range of issues. Often, these requests require adherence to specific protocols that are oftentimes not
suitable for AEP. We are sensitive to the complexities of supply chain management and we have policies, procedures,
terms and conditions, and a Supplier Code of Conduct in place to address these issues. In addition, we must comply with
supply chain-related regulations designed to protect the bulk electric power system. We strive to clearly communicate our
expectations to those doing business with us, including regulatory compliance. When we have questions or concerns, we
address them directly with our suppliers. We believe this is a more effective way of managing our relationship withsuppliers and builds a stronger, trusting relationship with them.
Responsible Supply Chain Management
We are committed to proactively reporting our sustainability performance, governance and
practices, including supply chain management. We joined EcoVadis; one of the most
commonly used platforms by thousands of companies across the globe, to complete its
annual Supply Chain Survey, which generates a company scorecard. This scorecard
outlines AEP’s performance in four key areas: Environment, Labor and Human Rights,
Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. We are proud to have earned a silver medal in
2020.
Supplier Diversity
Small and diverse suppliers enable innovation, increase competition, improve savings and enhance the AEP brand. We
want our pool of suppliers and business partners to align to the diversity of our communities by making it easier for
diverse suppliers to do business with us.
The Supplier Diversity Program focuses on maximizing opportunities for diverse businesses, which include those owned
by women, minorities [including Hispanic, African American, Asian American, Indian (subcontinent) and Native American],
LGBTQ, veterans and service-disabled veterans as well as 
HUBZone
 and disadvantaged businesses. Our goal is to
develop a pool of diverse, strategic suppliers and business partners that mirror the customers we serve, and we set a
target of 13% diverse spend by 2023 [includes Tier 1 (prime) and Tier 2 (subcontractors) suppliers]. In 2020, we
increased our diverse spend to 10.17% of the spend that is managed through Procurement, compared to 7.4% in 2019.
We continue to improve our Tier 2 supplier program, which allows us to understand the impact of our diverse supplier
spend through our direct suppliers. The Tier 2 program demonstrates the importance we place in understanding how our
spend trickles down through our supply chain to affect the communities we serve.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
At AEP, we are committed to health, safety, financial, operational and environmental compliance while holding ourselves
to a high standard of ethical conduct – always doing what is right.
Our 
Principles of Business Conduct
 places responsibility for acting legally and ethically with every individual – from the
Board of Directors and management to employees at all levels. We promote our Ethics Program in tandem with our
culture journey, driving a culture that supports the interests of both employees and AEP by maintaining a vigilant approach
to practicing compliance and acting with integrity.
In early 2021, we converted our Whistle Blower Policy into a Speak Up Policy. This updated policy encourages
employees to speak up if there is a violation of the law or something that is not in alignment with our culture or ethics. We
encourage employees and leaders at all levels to speak up, ask questions and report potential violations without fear of
retaliation. We also revised our 
Political Engagement Policy
 and developed a new 
Anti-Corruption Policy
. In 2021, weplan to update our 
Principles of Business Conduct
 and required training to reflect these revised policies as well as AEP’s
culture transformation.
AEP Business Ethics Policies:
Principles of Business Conduct
AEP’s Speak Up Policy
AEP’s Employee Handbook
Conflicts of Interest
Bribes and Kickbacks
Gifts and Entertainment
Anti-Fraud
PII Data Privacy Protection
Policy
Records Retention Manual
Antitrust
No-Conduit Rule
Security Information Classification Standards
Appropriate Use of Company Assets
Prohibition Against Pornography and Offensive Material Policy
Social Media Policy
Insider Trading Policy
Policy Development & Maintenance Policy
Policy Against Retaliation
Political Engagement Policy
Anti-Corruption Policy
AEP’s company-wide required Ethics & Compliance training:
FERC Affiliate Restrictions
FERC Standards of Conduct
Principles of Business Conduct
Conflicts of Interest
The Power of Respect
Rules of the Road (Ohio and Texas)
The Power of Respect
In 2019, we launched a new Sexual Harassment Prevention Workshop, “The Power of Respect.” This training ties into our
safety culture of “See Something, Say Something, Do Something” to go beyond compliance and to understand what it
means to work in a harassment-free workplace. The sessions include interactive case scenarios tailored to fit the specific
realties of the different workplaces. In response to COVID-19, these interactive, peer-facilitated training sessions were
modified to a live virtual setting – allowing us to expand our geographical reach among leaders. The program was first
rolled out to leaders and starting in 2021 will be offered 
as supplemental training for all employees, satisfying new
legislative requirements in multiple states where AEP operates.
Ethics and Compliance Hotline
The Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board oversees AEP’s Corporate Compliance Program
and receives regular reports from the Chief Compliance Officer. It is important for employees to feel like they have a safe
space to discuss difficult topics. All AEP employees are able to report concerns anonymously or to seek guidance on
ethical, safety or compliance matters through a confidential, 24/7 hotline. The number for this hotline can be found in
AEP’s Principles of Business Conduct. The Concerns Line was a valuable tool for communication and support for our
workforce during the pandemic and recent racial and social unrest.CLIMATE CHANGE
For more than two decades, climate change has been a key issue for us and our stakeholders. Investors and non-
government organizations (NGOs), as well as other stakeholders, ask us about the pace of our transition to cleaner energy
resources, the financial and physical risks associated with early retirement of fossil-fueled power plants, the potential
reliability risks to the electric power system if we move too fast, and the importance of working with regulators and other
public policymakers to arrive at the best solutions for our customers and the environment.
Our position is that there are unmistakable
changes occurring to the climate but that the
speed of change and the future effects of
those changes remain uncertain. We have
experienced it in the form of extreme weather
events across our service territory, from
extreme heat and droughts to more intense
and frequent events such as heavy rain,
flooding and hurricanes. These are some of
the visible impacts that have occurred.
In 2020, we initiated a climate scenario
analysis because it gave us an opportunity to
expand our understanding of how various
scenarios can affect the company now and in the future. This informs our strategic planning, risk management and how
fast we can go. We have long believed that our clean energy transformation strategy is aligned with the Paris Agreement.
Our analysis reminds us that the transition must build resilience into the system to handle extremes. It also shows us that
there are still many uncertainties about technology, resources and the pace and cost of the transition. Our path forward will
evolve, and, as it does, we will continue to engage our stakeholders.
As we transition to a clean energy future, our decision-making is informed by:
Customer preferences for clean energy, particularly those with carbon-free energy and fleet electrification goals;
Availability and cost of advanced technologies, such as energy storage and modular nuclear;
New resources, such as green hydrogen;
Market demand and prices;
Low natural gas prices; and
Regulatory innovation, including alternative ratemaking mechanisms and deregulation.
AEP’s Climate Scenario Analysis is a first step toward gaining clarity on actions, timing, physical and financial impacts,
and possible outcomes. It is not a prescriptive, definitive path to net-zero, but it gives us valuable insights into the work that
still lies ahead. Read the full 
Climate Impact Analysis Report
.
ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND HEALTH PHILOSOPHY
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony
with environmental protection.
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect people and the
environment by committing to MESH:
M
aintain compliance with all applicable Environment, Safety and Health (ES&H) requirements while pursuing the
spirit of ES&H stewardship.
E
nsure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into their
business functions.
S
upport continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention.
H
azard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety improvement.One way we check on our own compliance is through internal audits
which provide additional focus on controlling risks and providing
assurance.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS & COMPLIANCE
At AEP, noncompliance with environmental rules and regulations is not an option. Our goal is zero violations of
environmental regulations or laws and zero enforcement actions. We are committed to complying with all applicable
environmental regulations and being good stewards of natural resources. To help us continue to achieve operational
excellence, we push ourselves toward developing and digitizing data collection processes and projects to make them
more reliable, consistent and trackable.
Throughout the pandemic, COVID-related restrictions
required us to work with state environmental agencies to
temporarily adjust some of our compliance requirements.
Regardless, we continued to meet our environmental
obligations during the pandemic, experiencing no
pandemic-related noncompliance events during 2020.
We are subject to various federal statutes including the
Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, Endangered Species Act and Safe
Drinking Water Act. Environmental regulations developed
under these laws are revised periodically and it is critical
that we stay current with changes to remain in compliance.
As the scope and stringency of environmental regulations
evolve, we face technical, operational and financial
challenges that are common for our industry. These
challenges include uncertainties with timing, scope and
impact of future environmental regulations, which influence
our decisions to upgrade or retire generating units. They also affect the planning process for new generation and
transmission projects across our system.
We actively participate in the development of regulations at the federal, state and local levels to ensure that new
requirements are achievable, based on sound science, consistent with statutory authority and balanced with other
rulemakings. New requirements should also consider the cost of compliance for customers and allow sufficient time to
comply.
Long after we retire fossil-fueled power plants, our responsibility to environmental compliance at AEP-owned properties
continues. This includes many existing federal and state environmental requirements, in particular those related to the
management of water and coal-combustion residuals. We continue to work closely with regulators and our local
communities as we move through the fossil generation decommissioning process.
For additional disclosure on regulations affecting AEP, please read our 
SEC Form 10-K
.
Environmental Compliance
We participate in routine environmental inspections through scheduled and unannounced visits. During these visits,
regulators inspect physical facilities and/or operations and monitor our compliance with regulatory requirements, permit
limits and recordkeeping obligations. If an agency identifies a concern, we work with them to address the issue in a timely
fashion. This could include identifying and implementing corrective measures to mitigate future risks.
One way we check our own compliance is through internal environmental audits. Audits provide additional focus on
managing risks and provide assurance that robust compliance processes are developed and implemented systemwide.
In 2020, we conducted 20 audits of environmental compliance, which included inspections of 31 locations.
Environmental audits may reveal potential gaps in performance that are related to regulatory requirements and company
procedures or policies. These could include areas such as recordkeeping, inspection criteria, training topics and
equipment configuration. Auditors also recognize practices that go beyond regulatory requirements to bring about robust
and sustained compliance. Although reports are site-specific, we aggregate and share results and best practices across
our entire system to improve performance across AEP.Environmental Performance
We tie a portion of the funding for short-term incentive compensation for all employees to environmental stewardship,
which is measured based on the number of environmental enforcement actions with significant fines that are resolved
during the year, if any. In addition, our Generation business unit has long used metrics to encourage self-reporting of
events and to improve environmental performance. Our Environmental Performance Index (EPI) includes annual goals
related to opacity, water discharge permits and oil and chemical spills. The EPI helps keep prevention front of mind,
encourages sharing of best practices, and drives us to be more proactive in protecting the environment. Reinforcing its
importance, we tie our Generation group’s incentive compensation to EPI performance. Since 2015, the number of EPI
events has decreased each year, demonstrating the continuous improvement of Generation’s overall environmental
performance.
We set annual targets focusing on continuous improvement as we strive for zero enforcement actions and zero events. In
addition, AEP’s Generation organization instituted an Environmental Good Catch program, similar in manner to our Safety
and Health Good Catch program. A “Good Catch” is an observation or recognition of a condition that could lead to a
reportable environmental event and the subsequent actions taken by employees to correct the situation, preventing the
event from occurring. A “Good Catch” can also be behaviors or conditions that represent a best practice. This
demonstrates our commitment to an engaging and accountable culture – using knowledge sharing and lessons learned to
prevent future non-compliance events.
Environmental compliance is a high priority for the lifecycle of every project we undertake. In our Transmission business,
where a great deal of construction is taking place, project teams must complete a mandatory environmental compliance-
training program. Our environmental specialists and engineers also provide support to ensure we achieve full compliance
with environmental permit requirements and we are always striving for improvement.
We have made significant long-term investments in environmental controls to reduce the impact of how we generate
electricity. From 2000 through 2020, we invested approximately $9 billion in environmental controls, primarily related to
the Clean Air Act. These investments subsequently resulted in significant emissions reductions. Since 1990, we reduced
our annual emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) by approximately 98% and 96%, respectively.
Since 2001, we reduced our annual mercury emissions by approximately 98%.
Additional information about mercury is located within the 
Toxics Release Inventory program
.
Through 2020, we reduced our carbon emissions by 74% (from a 2000 baseline), a decade ahead of our original goal to
reduce carbon emissions by 70% by 2030. In February 2021, we announced a new goal to reduce our carbon footprint by
80% by 2030 and achieve net-zero by 2050. These new goals include a commitment to review them annually.
We are often asked whether or not our emissions data is third-party verified. AEP’s emissions data is not third-party
verified as the data is derived from calibrated and certified systems that are deemed acceptable for all compliance
requirements.
NEW SOURCE REVIEW
In 2007, AEP entered into a court-approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. Since then, the agreement
has been modified to expand the scope of eligible environmental mitigation projects. The 2020 modification included the
replacement of existing public school and transit buses with new, more energy-efficient electric buses, reducing emissions
of NOx and PM. AEP is currently accepting applications for funding under the program and hopes to announce award
recipients later this year. 
Learn more about how customers in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia can
apply for funding in the 
Electrification section
.
Since 2013, we’ve reported annually on our compliance with the consent decree requirements.2020 NSR Annual Report
2019 NSR Annual Report
2018 NSR Annual Report
2017 NSR Annual Report
2016 NSR Annual Report
2015 NSR Annual Report
2014 NSR Annual Report
2013 NSR Annual Report
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water is essential for the production of
electricity and is critical for many of our
processes, including cooling equipment.
Although approximately 91% of AEP’s power
generating capacity requires water, we return
most of the water we use to its original
source. Our coal and natural gas supply
chains also rely on water to mine the coal and
extract the natural gas. Water consumption
occurs when it is lost to evaporation primarily
due to process cooling and flue gas
scrubbing.
As much as we need access to water, we
also have a responsibility to manage this
resource to minimize potential impacts and to
reduce consumption. Our water withdrawal
and consumption will continue to decrease as
we continue to diversify our generating
portfolio, retire fossil-fuel generation capacity
and set incentive-based environmental
compliance goals. The addition of wind and
solar to our generation portfolio will also
cause water intensity to decrease as these
energy sources do not require any water
input.
Since 2013, we have reduced our surface water use by nearly 45%. During that same timeframe, we have reduced our
surface water consumption by 56%.
Water Use Reporting
Because we place a high value on the importance of transparency, we extensively report on our usage and management
of water throughout our system in different forums. We do this through both required reporting, such as the U.S. Energy
Information Administration, and through voluntary reporting efforts. For example, we annually disclose extensive water data
in our 
ESG Data Center
 and 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) report
, and we participate annually in the
CDP Water Survey
.
Water Management in High-Risk Areas
The effects of drought and flooding conditions have the potential to significantly affect our operations. We operate several
power plants in drought-prone regions of the country that require careful management of water use. We have
comprehensive water conservation plans in place for the Pirkey, Welsh, Wilkes and Knox Lee Power Plants. In 2020,these plants conserved an estimated 900
million gallons of water, demonstrating the
effectiveness of this management approach.
In 2023, we will retire the Pirkey Plant, which
will reduce our water consumption anywhere
between an additional 9,400 to 11,170 million
gallons per year.
In contrast to drought, heavy rain events also
can disrupt the operation of our generation,
transmission and distribution facilities located
across AEP’s service territory. In response,
we continue to search for solutions to mitigate
the impacts of these events. For example, we
are working diligently to find an acceptable
solution to manage excess water at the
Pirkey Plant, which due to lower generating
needs, is not able to maintain its designed
balance of water usage.
Another example involved the expansion of
an existing make-up water storage pond at
the Turk Plant during 2016. The plant was
unable to use water of degraded quality from
the Red and Little Rivers prior to flood events
when water was released from upstream impoundments. 
The expanded storage pond now allows the plant to continue
normal operations prior to and during flood events.
To help manage our watersheds, we participate in various voluntary efforts such as protecting the watershed of Caddo
Lake; a Ramsar Convention designated wetland area and one of only 26 such sites in the United States. We also
participate in the Illinois River Watershed Partnership. Recently, the AEP Foundation presented the Partnership with a
$200,000 grant to support environmental education through 2021.
You can learn more about our responses to changing water conditions by referring to our 
Climate Impact Analysis Report
.
WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING
We manage many types of waste resulting
from the process of providing electricity,
operating office buildings, construction, and
repairing and replacing equipment. We
continue to make progress to standardize
and streamline the collection of waste data.
Through this process, we plan to identify
improvement areas to further reduce and
divert waste from landfills through beneficial
reuse or recycling to minimize our
environmental impacts caused by waste.
We report through the Toxic Release
Inventory (TRI) program, part of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
to-Know Act (EPCRA). EPCRA requires companies with 10 or more employees, in certain industries, to collect and
publicly disclose information about how they manufacture, process or use any of nearly 650 chemicals on a special list
developed by the U.S. EPA. Read more on our 
TRI website
.Middle school students from Moundsville, West Virginia volunteer to
support the local recycling initiative started by AEP employee Jeff
Palmer.
The Power of Our People: Employee
Promotes Recycling
Jeff Palmer, Environmental Management System
Coordinator, leads a local recycling effort in his community
of Moundsville, West Virginia. For years, Jeff has
volunteered his time coordinating a recycling program with
the local middle school and courthouse, recently adding a
local food kitchen, library and trailer park to his program.
Since 2013, his group has recycled 320,000 pounds of
material, averaging 10 to 12 truckloads of approximately
4,000 pounds of recycled material per year. Jeff plans to
expand his program to possibly include the City of
Moundsville. Jeff’s involvement in his community is an
example of how our employees share their commitment to
the environment with others.
Coal Combustion Residuals
Coal ash and flue gas desulfurization material (scrubber by-product) continue to be the subject of additional federal and
state rulemaking. These coal combustion residuals (CCRs) are the solid material left over from the use of coal in
generating electricity and represent AEP’s single largest waste stream.
The U.S. EPA finalized revisions to environmental regulations in 2020 governing CCRs and the related Effluent Limitation
Guidelines (ELG) that set limits for associated wastewater discharges. AEP filed compliance plans for our affected plants
in November 2020 under the CCR rules and in January 2021 under the ELG rules.
These plans include a combination of generating unit retirements or cessation of burning coal as a fuel, as previously
announced by AEP, along with the closure of ash ponds, and upgrades to ash handling and FGD wastewater treatment
systems. In addition, we will continue monitoring groundwater quality at all CCR sites included in the program and post
new reports and data as required by the rule. We will also continue to proactively engage our neighbors and community
leaders on questions and concerns about our CCR program.
Learn more about our CCR Rule Implementation plans and review our compliance reports on our 
CCR website
.
Beneficial Use
CCRs have long been approved for use in concrete, wallboard and a wide variety of construction materials. While this
benefits other industries, it also provides a source of environmental and financial benefits to us. By diverting CCRs to
beneficial uses, we are reducing the need for waste disposal sites.
In 2020, we generated more than 2.9 million tons of CCRs and were able to beneficially use more than 1 million tons, or
nearly 35% of the total produced. Beneficial use of CCRs avoided more than $14 million in disposal costs in 2020 and
generated approximately $11 million in revenues.
NUCLEAR WASTE MANAGEMENT
The U.S. Department of Energy oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has charged fees to
plant owners for this disposal. However, following the government’s decision to cease development of the Yucca Mountain
storage facility in Nevada, nuclear generators no longer have a place for permanent disposal.AEP's current spent nuclear fuel cask storage facility can store 94
casks, or 3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies.
Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we face a significant
future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel.
We need a national solution for the long-term disposal of
spent nuclear fuel, which should be part of a national energy
plan.
The uncertainty associated with long-term storage places
the burden of interim storage on each nuclear facility. We
are addressing this issue through dry cask storage on the
assumption that a workable off-site solution will not exist
before the current operating licenses for both Donald C.
Cook nuclear units expire in 2034 and 2037.
In 2012, the Cook Plant in Bridgman, Michigan, began a
program of loading spent nuclear fuel into dry casks. The
latest loading campaign took place in 2018, bringing the
total to 44 dry casks that have been loaded into storage.
The next loading campaign will occur in 2021. The casks can withstand tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, sabotage,
missiles, aircraft and temperature extremes. Licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the casks meet all
applicable security, environmental and radiological requirements.
The current cask storage facility can store 94 casks, or 3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This would support the
operation of both units through their current operating licenses. Expansion of the pad is possible to facilitate removal of all
fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel pool and full decommissioning of both units.
Nuclear plant operators are required to maintain a plant-decommissioning trust fund to safely decommission and
decontaminate the plant upon closure. At the end of 2020, the trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately $3
billion.
This pollinator plot is part of the ROW Vegetation Demonstration
located at the AEP Transmission headquarters in New Albany, OH.
WILDLIFE PROTECTION
As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure
across our service territory, such as transmission or
renewable generation facilities, we are mindful of the
potential impacts we may have on wildlife. This includes
species protected under the Endangered Species Act
(ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Bald and Golden
Eagle Protection Act, and similar state laws. As committed
stewards of the ecological richness of our geographies, we
take steps to ensure wildlife and habitat protection.
Avian Protection
For more than three decades, the utility industry,
conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and others
have collaborated to understand why and how birds collide
with, or are electrocuted by, power lines. To reduce avian
mortality, we voluntarily adopted a company-specific Avian
Protection Plan to mitigate the risks associated with bird interactions at our facilities.
It is important for both our operations and our customers that we account for avian protection when we design and
engineer new facilities and upgrade existing facilities. For example, we have installed laser technology at substations to
discourage birds from flying into switches and transformers or nesting in the equipment. This technology may also be used
at other substations where adjacent land use encourages avian activity.
AEP manages interactions between birds and power lines through a system-wide plan across our 11-state regulated
service territory. Our primary challenge continues to be larger species, which are more likely to be electrocuted insubstations and on poles or to collide with towers and lines.
The Plan has several key components:
Employee training and compliance
 – Educate and train employees on compliance requirements to proactively
prevent bird collisions and electrocutions.
Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures
 – Design new lines and facilities with bird
safety in mind.
Nest management and avian enhancement options
 – Adopt the use of safety tactics to keep birds away from
wires, such as installing a de-energized pole for bird nesting.
Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies
 – Continuously improve our monitoring and
reporting capabilities.
Public education
 – Promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation, working cooperatively with
federal and state agencies and nonprofits.
In addition to our Avian Protection Plan, we are committed to adherence with all federal, state and local laws as they
pertain to responsibly siting, constructing and operating renewable energy technologies, whether developed by us or
purchased from another entity. This includes compliance with the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, as well as adherence to the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service’s (USFWS)
voluntary Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines. As renewable energy continues to grow, we remain engaged with
organizations such as the American Wind and Wildlife Institute (AWWI)/Wind Wildlife Research Fund and the Electric
Power Research Institute (EPRI), which is conducting research on wildlife interactions with renewable energy facilities.
Habitat Conservation Plans
Our grid modernization efforts require balancing business needs with environmental protection. With the magnitude of our
construction activities, it is conceivable that we will come into contact with, or potentially have an impact on, a range of
species. One way we are addressing this is by working with the USFWS to establish Habitat Conservation Plans (HCPs).
In 2019, we received an Incidental Take Permit (ITP) and began implementing the approved HCP across portions of three
states for the American burying beetle (ABB). At the time the ITP was issued in 2019, the ABB was listed as endangered;
however, in 2020 the listing was downgraded to threatened. The 30-year ITP/HCP allows us to use pre-approved
practices through a regional, programmatic approach to minimize impacts to the beetle and its habitat and to encourage
its recovery. The HCP covers portions of Arkansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas where we currently have operations or
the potential for future development.
We also continued development of a 30-year, system-wide multispecies HCP. This HCP is important because it will not
only protect the covered species but also generate cost and time savings for AEP and our customers. A draft of the HCP
is currently under review by USFWS, and we have initiated the required third-party review under the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
Administered by the USFWS, the HCP will enable transmission construction activities that could impact listed species,
such as the Indiana bat, to proceed without case-by-case agency consultation, as long as the practices and mitigation
methods described in the plan are followed. The plan will cover construction activities in our 11 regulated states.
We are working closely with wildlife protection agencies in each of our states to ensure the HCP is consistent with their
goals and regulations and covers the species affected by our work. In 2021, we anticipate having a complete HCP ready
for public review.
The Power of Our People: Line Crew Rescues Screech Owl
Line Mechanics Zachary Doss and Jacob Jackson, along with Line Crew Supervisor Eric Janney, were working
late-night storm trouble in rural Roanoke County, Virginia, when they discovered an eastern screech owl perched
in the bed of their bucket truck. The area was one of several locations without power after high winds and rain
affected Appalachian Power’s three-state service area. When their work was complete, the owl was still in the
truck. Recognizing that it was sick or injured and unable to reach a wildlife center in the overnight hours, theyDuring a wires upgrade project, AEP crews relocated an osprey nest
without disturbing the birds, to safely enable the completion of the
project.
Line Mechanic Zachary Doss took this photo of an injured screech owl
perched in the bed of the crew's bucket truck.
placed the owl in a large cardboard box and took it
with them back to the service center.
That morning, another employee took the owl to a
nearby non-profit organization for treatment. Within
a few weeks, the owl was healthy enough to be
released back into the wild. The care from
Appalachian Power’s line crew to protect wildlife
while serving customers reflects our commitment to
caring for each other and the environment.
Environmental Stewardship
We value and practice environmental stewardship and
conservation across our service territory. Whether through
reclaiming former industrial land for outdoor recreation, such
as nature trails and campsites, or integrating conservation
measures into new and rebuilt transmission lines, we take
steps to preserve the natural ecosystem as we grow our
business.
We remain committed to following all environmental
regulations and practicing environmental stewardship and
compliance. At times, however, nature has its own plans,
requiring a few extra steps on our part. During a wires
upgrade project in Central Ohio, our crew identified an
osprey nest on top of one of our utility poles. The size of an
osprey nest posed a fire hazard that threatened both our
equipment and the safety of the birds. Moving their nest was
necessary, but, because ospreys are protected under the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, environmental rules needed to be
carefully followed to prevent interfering with their migration or nesting habits. AEP’s engineering, right-of-way,
environmental services and line departments developed a plan to effectively relocate the nest without disturbing the birds,
enabling completion of the work. Before the nest could be relocated, a second nest appeared on a neighboring pole. The
team waited another nesting season and built a new nesting platform, giving the osprey a permanent home while
eliminating a hazardous condition.
Environmental Stewardship Recognition
In 2020, our environmental stewardship efforts at the Flint Creek Power Plant in Gentry, Arkansas, received a silver
Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) Conservation Certification. The designation recognizes the plant’s habitat enhancement
programs, including tallgrass prairie restoration, nesting boxes and other bird habitat improvement, pollinator garden
landscapes, restoration of native plant species, and environmental awareness education. Flint Creek has held certification
under the WHC’s Corporate Lands for Learning and Wildlife at Work programs since 2004 and 2002, respectively, and
since 2016 when the two programs were combined into the Conservation Certification. This certification is indicative of
the decades of dedication and commitment to environmental stewardship by the Flint Creek team.
Approximately 700 acres of the power plant’s 1,600 acres are designated as wildlife habitat. The site used for many
activities is Flint Creek’s 65-acre Eagle Watch Nature Trail, which includes a half-mile walking trail and two wildlife-
viewing pavilions. Built in 1999 on SWEPCO Lake, the power plant’s cooling reservoir, Eagle Watch is located on
Highway 12 one mile east of Gentry. It is open to the public at no charge year-round.AEP was the recipient of the 2020 Pollinator Electric Award.
Right-of-Way Conservation
In 2016, we partnered with the Dawes Arboretum in Newark, Ohio to support research on the use of native vegetation on
utility right-of-way (ROW) sites to support wildlife, biodiversity, and sustainability/cost effectiveness. The pilot research
study demonstrates the feasibility of economically incorporating native plants and pollinator habitats into ROWs through
prairie establishment. The Dawes Arboretum project replicates a post-construction restoration scenario and uses a native
prairie seed mix to meet these requirements. Researchers are documenting rich biodiversity and monitoring habitat
quality, erosion control, succession of prairie development, and invasive tree growth.
In October 2020, the North American Pollinator Protection
Campaign (NAPPC), managed by Pollinator Partnership,
awarded its first Pollinator Electric Power Award to
American Electric Power. 
The award recognized the
collaboration and partnership with the Dawes Arboretum to
research native vegetation use on our ROWs. The award
recognizes AEP’s commitment to the environment and to
collaboration with environmental organizations.
Complementing the Dawes Arboretum study, we are also
researching the use of native seed mixes to restore
vegetation following the completion of Transmission
construction projects. Seed mixes have been tested at sites
in Ohio, Oklahoma, and West Virginia and will be monitored
for germination success, erosion prevention and stability,
species development and drought tolerance. The seed mixes were developed according to regional needs, as well as
compliance with restoration requirements. The study affords an opportunity to understand and learn about the feasibility of
long-range use of native seed mixes on future construction projects. The results to date indicate the regional seed mixes
were successful and complied with local storm water regulations for site stability and vegetation coverage.
We are also involved with other ROW pollinator vegetation management studies, including ROW Vegetation
Demonstration Plots planted at the AEP Transmission headquarters in New Albany, Ohio. After three years of planning,
ROW vegetation demonstration plots have been seeded and are now in full bloom, covering a total of 8 acres. The seed
mixes were developed with help from local conservation organizations, such as the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, Audubon Society, National Wild Turkey Federation and Pheasants Forever. The various mixes are designed
to support birds, pollinators, deer or turkey. We plan to host demonstrations for school groups, NGOs, and other
organizations as soon as COVID-19 restrictions are lifted.
Pollinator Initiatives
Pollinators provide vital support to our natural ecosystems, including food production. A report by the Electric Power
Research Institute (EPRI) notes that globally, pollinators are in decline, with some scientists estimating that 40% of
pollinator species may be at risk of extinction in the coming decades. At AEP, we are taking multiple measures to protect
pollinators and promote their well-being. We are part of EPRI’s Pollinator Program to research ways that electric utilities
can support pollinator habitats and raise public awareness of their importance to society.
Our work to raise awareness extends to our employees. Each year, we organize an annual Pollinator Week in concert with
peer utilities across the country. Through social media and other interactive communications, we share information about
the role of pollinators in plant fertilization and AEP’s efforts to facilitate pollinator population growth through vegetation
management. During 2020, about 150 employees participated in a virtual event to learn more about the value of urban
gardens to support insects and pollinators.
The focus on pollinators has put the spotlight on the plight of Monarch butterflies, the only insect species to
migrate across the continental U.S. It is also a species experiencing population decline. In an effort to supportrobust Monarch populations and habitats, we have several initiatives in place designed to establish flowering
vegetation. These include:
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) registered an official Monarch butterfly waystation outside of
its General Office in Tulsa. During migration, Monarchs depend on waystations, or specific habitats, to
provide abundant nectar sources and shelter from harsh weather.
Native seed mixes were planted at the Big Sandy ash pond closure in Kentucky and at the Mountaineer
Plant (Gatling Mine) in West Virginia as part of reclamation projects.
Butterfly gardens, swamp milkweed, buttonbush and other plants are part of the pollinator gardens at the
Eagle Watch Nature Trail at Flint Creek Power Plant in Arkansas.
Overall, our efforts and initiatives to implement pollinator-friendly projects on managed lands demonstrate the
significant role electric power companies play in boosting pollinator habitats nationwide. These efforts also add
to our knowledge of the feasibility and compatibility of supporting natural ecosystems on our property and within
our ROWs.
Wetland and Stream Habitats
The AEP Foundation donated $35,000 to the City of Port Aransas Joan and Scott Holt Paradise Pond located in Texas to
support the restoration and expansion of the local wetland. Paradise Pond is a freshwater wetland and an important stop
for migratory birds traveling down the Gulf Coast. Saltwater surge and high winds from Hurricane Harvey killed many
native trees and damaged the ecosystem. Restoration of the site will give the community and tourists access to engaging
with nature along the boardwalk and observation decks, which will be increasingly important as the community recovers
from Hurricane Harvey and the COVID-19 pandemic.RENEWABLES
Our vision for a clean energy future focuses on promoting and investing in regulated and contracted renewables. As
renewable resources become more affordable due to advances in technology and support from federal tax credits, we
see these clean options capturing larger shares of our integrated resource plans (IRPs).
Our transition to a clean energy future is tied to our investment strategy. From 2021 through 2025, we plan to invest $37
billion in capital, with the bulk allocated to regulated businesses and renewables. We plan to invest 14% of our capital
through 2025 in renewable energy within and outside our traditional service territory. This includes $2.8 billion planned for
investment in regulated renewable generation and $2.1 billion in competitive, contracted renewables.
By 2030, our current resource plans call for our regulated utilities to add up to 5,910 MW of solar, up to 10,685 MW of
wind and 2,266 MW of natural gas. We expect renewables will represent 51% of our generating resource mix by 2030.
AEP Energy Supply, which includes AEP’s competitive businesses, Energy Partners, AEP Renewables, AEP Energy and
AEP OnSite Partners, provides commodity or asset solutions where allowed nationwide. Synergies among our subsidiary
companies offer customers custom energy solutions ranging from energy supply to technology, sustainability and advisory
services. We own, operate and support behind-the-meter projects and utility-scale renewable projects, as well as third
party renewable assets/projects.
Investing in transmission lines and substations is critical to enabling the nation’s renewable energy strategy. From 2021
through 2025, we expect to allocate 72% of our capital investments to modernize the energy grid and enhance reliability
and resilience. Our experience, skillsets, assets and resources serve as the backbone and integrator of renewables. By
adding and applying new technologies to optimize distribution and transmission networks, we will be better equipped to
continue delivering reliable and affordable clean energy to our customers. Learn more about our grid investments in the
Reliability & Resilience section
.
Recent Headlines
20 Megawatt St. Joseph Solar Farm Unveiled Today; Local Clean Energy
Now Flowing
Today the Michiana area is greener. That’s because the St. Joseph Solar Farm, developed by 
Indiana Michigan
Power (I&M)
, a subsidiary of 
American Electric Power
, in partnership with 
the University of Notre Dame
, is now
generating emission-free renewable energy. 
AEP Energy and Global Energy Generation Execute Solar Power Purchase
Agreement in PJM
AEP Energy, a subsidiary of American Electric Power and one of the largest electric energy wholesale and retail
suppliers in the U.S., and Global Energy Generation LLC (Doral LLC), a leading developer of renewable energy
projects, primarily in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions, announced today that they have signed a long-term
renewable energy purchase agreement for the Mammoth Solar project in Indiana.
SWEPCO Issues Draft Requests for Proposals for Purchase of Wind, Solar
and Short-term Generation
Southwestern Electric Power Co. (SWEPCO), a subsidiary of American Electric Power, today submitted aninformational filing to the Louisiana Public Service Commission, including three draft Requests for Proposals
(RFP) for renewable and economic generating capacity to supply the needs of its customers.
AEP Energy to Provide 100 Percent Clean Energy to Crown Battery
AEP Energy, a subsidiary of American Electric Power, has signed an agreement with the Fremont, Ohio-based
Crown Battery Manufacturing Company to provide clean energy through the company’s Integrated Renewable
Energy (IRE) solution.
First North Central Wind Project Begins Commercial Operation
American Electric Power’s 199-megawatt (MW) Sundance Wind Energy Center in north central Oklahoma has
begun commercial operation. Located in Woods County, Sundance is one of three wind projects that compose
the 
North Central Energy Facilities
, which will provide 1,485 MW of clean energy to customers of AEP’s Public
Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) and Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) subsidiaries.
AEP Energy and OPDENERGY to Provide 100 Percent Clean Energy
AEP Energy, a subsidiary of American Electric Power, has signed an agreement with Opdenergy, an Independent
Power Producer with extensive experience in the development, financing, construction and operation of renewable
assets.
Our stakeholders’ demand for clean energy drives our renewable energy portfolio growth. We listen to their needs and
develop energy solutions that are right for them. Regulatory support in our jurisdictions is vital to our clean energy resource
investments. As renewable resources are becoming more cost-competitive compared with other forms of generation, we
see growth of renewable penetration within the Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs). As a result, RTOs have
been required to both clarify and reconsider some of their rules to accommodate the growth of renewable generation,
which is an intermittent resource.
North Central Wind Energy Facilities Project
In 2020, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) received
approvals needed to acquire North Central Wind Energy Facilities in Oklahoma. The approximate $2 billion investment
will deliver 1,485 MW of clean, renewable energy to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. The project is
expected to save our customers an estimated $3 billion over the next 30 years. It will also support local and regional
economic and business development while helping our customers achieve their renewable energy goals.Distributed Energy Resources
Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) include technologies such as solar panels, wind turbines and battery storage
systems. DERs can provide a self-sufficient generation resource that can be isolated from the rest of the grid in the event
of an outage. AEP is increasingly evaluating DERs to provide cost-effective solutions, at times of peak demand. Learn
more about technology investments that are enabling the usage of DERs in the 
Energy Technology section
.
We support our customers who are installing their own DERs and seek rates that accurately reflect the true cost to serve
them. We launched a new easy-to-use solar calculator providing residential customers with accurate and objective
information on the benefits and costs of rooftop solar energy. With information from the solar calculator, customers can
make fully informed decisions about their options. In only a few minutes, they will better understand their home’s solar
potential through a personal assessment.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our clean energy strategy gives customers the tools and the knowledge to optimize their energy experience. We view
energy efficiency as a readily deployable, competitively priced and clean resource that benefits our customers and our
environment.
Today, we offer customers more than 150 programs across nearly all of our 11-state service territory. In 2020 alone, our
energy efficiency programs reduced energy usage by more than 1.1 million MWh and reduced demand by approximately
320 MW. From 2008 through 2020, these programs combined reduced annual consumption by over 9 million MWh and
peak demand by approximately 2,900 MW. To achieve these savings, we invested $1.5 billion during that same period.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its 2021 ENERGY STAR® awards for businesses and
organizations that have made outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through superior energy efficiency
achievements. AEP Texas, Appalachian Power and Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO – Arkansas)
were named ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence winners. SWEPCO (Louisiana and Texas) and
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) were recognized for an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Energy
Efficiency Program Delivery award as well.
Meanwhile, reducing energy consumption within our own operations continues. We reduced our kilowatt-hour (kWh)
usage, normalized for weather, by approximately 35% in 2020, compared with the 2007 baseline, in nearly 280 buildings.
This resulted in approximately $7.1 million in cost savings. Today, we have nine LEED-certified company facilities across
our service territory.Energy Efficiency/Demand
Response
AEP’s demand response programs lower
costs, reduce emissions, and support the grid
by reducing load in periods of peak demand,
such as during extreme hot and cold weather.
They often include incentive rates to
encourage our customers to reduce their
energy consumption during these peak
demand periods. For some customers,
contract terms allow us to “interrupt” their
power consumption during peak times in
exchange for reduced rates.
As manufacturers create more advanced
technology appliances and lighting, we
continue to explore ways to provide solutions
for customers to manage their energy bill and
environmental footprint.
Home Energy Management
Customers want a more personalized energy experience, and we are delivering custom, high-tech solutions that empower
them to make a difference. Through Home Energy Management (HEM) tools made available on our websites, we give
customers greater control of their energy use and bills.
HEM provides tools such as proactive alerts, and personalized energy efficiency tips and programs – improving the
customer experience and increasing satisfaction. Our deployment of Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), or smart
meters, enhances HEM benefits by providing access to more data to facilitate high-impact, highly personalized solutions.
In 2020, Southwestern Electric Power Company and Appalachian Power introduced the new HEM tool for its residential
customers, giving them a hands-on experience with their energy usage and money-saving tools, such as energy efficiency
programs. The tool offers bill comparisons, home energy analysis, a data browser, energy-saving tips, and account
information and preferences. The tool also provides high-bill alerts, empowering customers to make changes in their
energy use during the current billing period to keep their monthly electric bill affordable. AEP Ohio and Indiana Michigan
customers are also benefiting from the tool.
For customers with AMI and HEM, the two work together to improve the integration of electric vehicles (EV) across our
system. AMI and HEM help us identify customers with at-home EV chargers so we can offer programs that avoid charging
during peak demand periods and can save customers money. We continue to explore cost effective and unobtrusive ways
to provide this functionality.
ELECTRIFICATION
Electrification is the process of converting end-uses — such as HVAC, transportation and industrial machinery — to
electricity and away from fossil fuels. Economics, existing technology, climate goals, and continued advancements of
electric technologies are key factors in the pace of electrification.
The electrification of end-use technologies in industry, buildings and the transportation sector has the potential to enable
customers to be more energy efficient through the use of more — and increasingly cleaner — electricity while replacing
direct fossil fuel use. This trend continues to grow as society seeks to replace fossil fuels with clean electricity to heat
homes and buildings, power vehicles and operate industrial equipment. The benefits are significant for the environment,
society and business. However, the shift to an electrified economy requires planning to ensure infrastructure is in place to
meet our customers’ needs and the right policies and regulations are established to support them.Electrification of end-use technologies 
enables customers to be more
energy efficient through the use of more electricity while replacing
direct fossil fuel use.
Electric Transportation
The U.S. transportation system provides mobility for people,
goods and services. Because transportation relies heavily
on fossil fuels today, electrification of the transportation
sector is vital to achieving long-term carbon reductions and
ensuring our nation’s energy and economic security.
Thanks to aggressive goal setting and technology
advancement, the electric power sector now emits less
carbon dioxide than the transportation sector. EVs are cost-
effective, saving drivers both fuel and maintenance costs.
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) estimates EV drivers
spend the equivalent of about $1.20 per gallon, based on
average residential electric rates. Customers save even
more money where off-peak charging programs are offered.
Enabling wider usage of electric transportation is essential
to building a cleaner energy future. According to the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), an estimated 18.7 million electric
vehicles (EVs) are projected to be on U.S. roads by 2030, and we are working to support this transformation while
promoting a positive experience and benefits for all of our customers and communities.
As of December 2020, there were more than 18,800 EVs in our 11-state service territory. All-electric EVs surpassed
plug-in hybrid EVs for the first time in March 2020 and growth rates suggest this trend will continue. We’re working with our
customers and communities to help them realize the benefits of electric transportation through community outreach,
assessment tools, guides, customer programs and offers, and low-cost off-peak charging rates.
Customer program offerings span our service territory and include infrastructure deployment rebates, off-peak charging
programs, energy efficiency rebates and consultative services. This includes collaboration with vendors and automakers
to raise awareness on fleet electrification and charging infrastructure deployment. Our customer program offerings aim to
optimize the electric grid, thereby benefiting all customers with applications such as corridor fast charging, fleets and
transit agencies, multi-family dwellings, workplaces and residential homes.
Electric Transportation Customer & Community Programs
Across our service territory, we offer programs, rebates and customer support to encourage EV adoption. We
launched many new programs in 2020, including 
Indiana Michigan Power’s IM Plugged In program
. IM Plugged In
covers residential, multi-family dwellings, fleet, workplaces and corridor fast charging. Participating customers get
rebates on charging equipment installation as well as off-peak usage rates to keep their EV charging costs low.
While giving customers more options, we promote adoption, which creates downward rate pressure – and ultimately
benefiting all I&M customers.
AEP Ohio’s Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate program
, launched in April 2019, incentivizes installations of
network-connected charging infrastructure at public, government, commercial, and multi-family locations. The
program will install and activate approximately 75 DCFC and 300 Level 2 Charging Stations by the program
completion in April 2022.
Residential customers of 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
 (PSO) and 
Southwestern Electric Power Company
(SWEPCO) in Louisiana and Texas are eligible for energy efficiency rebates on qualified EV chargers. Efforts to
expand electric transportation offerings continue throughout AEP’s service territory, including AEP Ohio,
Appalachian Power, Indiana Michigan Power, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric
Power Company. Active discussions are underway to innovate, improve and evolve our customer offerings as we
continue to pursue our electric transportation mission with our customers and communities.
SWEPCO hosted its first National Drive Electric Week event in 2019 and moved the event online in 2020. The
virtual event included presentations by four SWEPCO customers who are EV owners, followed by a series of videos
featuring the owners posted on YouTube as part of SWEPCO’s ongoing promotion of EVs.In September 2020, we announced plans to replace 100% of our 2,300
cars and light-duty trucks with EV alternatives by 2030.
AEP’s Fleet Goal
Leading by example, we announced in September 2020
plans to replace 100% of our 2,300 cars and light-duty
trucks with EV alternatives by 2030. Our total fleet
comprises nearly 8,000 vehicles, including medium- and
heavy-duty vehicles. By converting a portion of medium- and
heavy-duty vehicles with electric or hybrid models, we will
achieve our goal of electrifying 40% of our entire on-road
vehicle fleet in less than 10 years.
Transitioning light-duty vehicles to EVs is standard practice
across all of our business units. We’ll begin to transition
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, as well as off-road
equipment, when electric and hybrid alternatives become
available. In addition, we will electrify 50% of forklifts by
2030. The fleet transformation is estimated to avoid 8
million gallons of fuel and to result in savings of $3.8 million
over the life of the vehicles.
Fleet electrification is part of our effort to reduce CO
 emissions by 80% by 2030 and achieve net-zero by 2050. We have
already made significant progress.
Electric Transportation Highlights
The Electric Highway Coalition
In March 2021, AEP along with several peer
utilities announced a plan to ensure that
electric vehicle (EV) drivers have access to a
seamless network of charging stations
connecting major highway systems from the
Atlantic Coast, through the Midwest and the
South, and into the Gulf and Central Plains
regions. The Electric Highway Coalition will
provide drivers with effective, efficient, and
convenient charging options that enable long-
distance EV travel. Sites along major
highway routes with easy highway access
and amenities for travelers are being
considered as coalition members work to
determine final charging station locations.
Charging stations will provide DC fast chargers that are capable of getting drivers back on the road in approximately 20 to
30 minutes.
NSR Consent Decree Electric Bus Expansion
In 2020, we worked with EPA and NSR Consent Decree stakeholders to expand eligibility of mitigation funds under the
agreement to cover the incremental (above traditional vehicle) cost of electric school and transit bus replacements. The
implementation plan was approved at the end of 2020, and we are working with our customers and communities to
encourage them to consider this opportunity and apply for these funds to help them achieve their sustainability goals with
electric transportation options. Customers in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia can apply for funding at
www.aep.com/electricbusfunding
.
2Smart Columbus
We were a founding partner with the City of Columbus in being awarded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
Smart City Challenge grant in 2016. The Smart Columbus project helps community leaders and organizations understand
how electrification can enhance Columbus and positively impact the quality of life. The goals of the program align with our
vision to transform the transportation sector and make the grid smarter and more efficient.
Smart Columbus surpassed its grant goals in 2020 with over 3,400 EVs sold and an EV adoption rate reaching as high
as 2.34% during the grant term. To support these vehicles, over 900 new EV charging ports were installed in the seven-
county region over three years, thanks in great part to the AEP Ohio charging program. We also exceeded our goal to
install 10% of charging stations in low-income areas. Although the grant period expired at the end of 2020, Smart
Columbus is continuing to promote electrification and renewable energy adoption in partnership with our team.
Indian Nations Council of Governments
In 2018, the Indian Nations Council of Governments (INCOG) took the first steps toward creating an accessible, user-
friendly EV charging network in Oklahoma. INCOG allocated federal highway funding through the Congestion Mitigation
and Air Quality program (CMAQ) toward a DC Fast Charging network for the Tulsa Transportation Management Area and
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) provided matching funds to support the installation.
PSO and INCOG deployed the first-of-its-kind ultrafast public EV charging stations in Tulsa in collaboration with the
Gathering Place Park, the Oklahoma Aquarium, and the Tulsa International Airport. The FreeWire Boost Charger™ can
be deployed quickly in dense, high-traffic locations and can use energy stored in batteries to provide the fast charging,
while its internal batteries charge at a lower power from the grid. This allows for lower power input to minimize electrical
infrastructure upgrades and reduce ongoing energy demand for site hosts. The project demonstrates PSO’s commitment
to build partnerships with community organizations to advance electrification while supporting the completion of the EV
corridor through America’s Heartland.
GRID RELIABILITY & RESILIENCE
Having a modern, reliable, resilient and secure grid is critical to our clean energy transformation. From 2021 through
2025, we plan to invest approximately $27 billion on transmission and distribution infrastructure to expand, strengthen and
modernize our network. Our investments to strengthen the reliability and resiliency of the grid supports our generation
transformation and future forward strategy to a clean energy future.
Together with investments to integrate renewable and distributed resources, we’re leveraging data analytics to proactively
address reliability and security risks. We’re preparing for the convergence of the electric, communications and
transportation industries by modernizing the grid to meet our communities’ social and economic needs. 
We are providing
customers with access to reliable, affordable and cleaner energy options and opening access to broadband opportunities
in underserved areas.
Reliability Investments
Our network of 260,000 miles of distribution and transmission lines presents the challenge of ongoing maintenance and
upkeep, which is undiminished as we pursue modernization. While our transmission and distribution system is built to last,
equipment naturally wears over time, which can increase the risk of failure, outages and efficiency loss. To meet reliable
system expectations and create the optimal customer experience, we continue to invest in maintenance and upgrades.
Our transmission strategy focuses on ensuring the grid’s reliability, security and efficiency for our customers. Our strategy
includes a diverse five-year capital investment portfolio of $16 billion across 15 states and four regional energy markets –
delivering significant customer benefits. Benefits include: higher reliability and resilience; lower energy costs; enabling
public policies; customer demand for clean energy; and economic development.
We are also investing in transmission infrastructure to reduce outages and interruption times. We estimate capital
investments of $2.2 billion annually to replace and enhance all assets beyond life expectancy over the next 10 years. WeAEP’s Breakthrough Overhead Line Design® (BOLD®) technology is
an example of groundbreaking innovation designed to improve
reliability, grid resilience and services for customers.
determine renewal projects based on performance,
condition and risk.
We leverage data analytics and digital technology to reduce
system failures, increase safety, improve grid reliability and
minimize risks. For example, AEP’s Asset Health Center
(AHC) uses operational and predictive data as an indicator
for proactive system maintenance and equipment
replacement needs. We minimize risk by identifying safety
issues in real time and by prioritizing urgent needs to
maintain a robust grid.
We are also leveraging the benefits of Geographic
Information System (GIS) technology to capture real-time
intelligence about assets and locations. This analysis and
insight allows us to view data in an intuitive new way.
Location is the common thread connecting all of our data
into a single view, enabling us to uncover hidden constraints
and opportunities, improve predictive modeling and promote safety while giving us a competitive edge. GIS allows us to
rapidly deliver data from the office to the field and vice versa, making information available to those who need it when they
need it.
We are planning on significant capital investments in distribution over the next five years. Our distribution investment
strategy includes:
Investments to support new services, capacity additions, base material and storm resilience and response.
Asset renewal and reliability investments including pole, conductor, cutouts, and station transformer and breaker
replacements.
Implementation of automated technology including distribution supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA),
smart switches and reclosers, volt var optimization and sensors. Investments include telecommunication and system
components.
Advanced metering technology.
AEP-owned energy storage and micro-grid projects connected at distribution voltages.
Investment in fiber assets to provide middle-mile broadband to rural communities and for company use.
Investments in electric vehicle charging infrastructure and ownership of charging stations, if allowed.
Nuclear Investments
Nuclear energy is one of the most reliable carbon-free sources of electricity. It is a secure source that isn’t subject to
weather conditions, unpredictable fuel cost fluctuations or an overdependence on foreign suppliers. AEP’s Donald C.
Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman, Michigan, can provide 2,288 MW of carbon-free electricity when operating at full powerDrones are an effective means of inspecting power lines for regular
maintenance and surveying damage after storms.
– enough to power 1.5 million homes.
We are committed to investing in the long-term viability of this clean energy resource. Cook’s two units originally were
designed for a 40-year life, but, in 2005, the licenses were extended by 20 years to 2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2.
Our climate analysis assumes we will extend the units’ licenses again.
In 2020, Unit 1 undertook its 29th planned refueling outage. Even in the midst of a global pandemic, Unit 1 completed one
of the safest and shortest outages in history. In addition to the refueling of the reactor and the performance of regular
maintenance and testing work, the outage included upgrades to the main control room electrical distribution system, and
inspections on the main generator. In April 2021, Unit 2 began its twenty-fifth refueling outage, which will also include
inspections and upgrades.
The Cook Plant is also part of an industrywide, multiyear strategy to transform the industry and ensure the plant’s long-term
capability. The strategy identifies efficiency measures, adopts best practices and applies new technology solutions that
improve operations, reduce costs and drive regulatory and market change to ensure nuclear energy facilities are fully
recognized for their value and don’t succumb to premature reactor retirements.
Vegetation Management
Keeping power lines clear from vegetation is a priority for electricity reliability. It’s also an expensive and challenging task
because AEP’s service territory includes some of the most rugged terrain across the nation. This makes prevention of
outages and equipment failures from overgrown and/or fallen vegetation one of our biggest and most expensive
challenges. In addition to maintaining what is growing inside our rights-of-way (ROW), we also evaluate the health of trees
outside the ROW as part of our management process.
We manage vegetation growth immediately surrounding our
power lines – within our defined easements for operational
integrity – with a combination of performance-based (such
as targeting low-performing circuits) and cycle-based
(regularly scheduled) maintenance strategies. During the
past five years, we have spent approximately $2.3 billion on
vegetation management, including $569 million in 2020.
Operating companies have worked with state regulatory
commissions to proactively manage vegetation in regularly
scheduled maintenance cycles. We have successfully done
this in Ohio, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Indiana and
Kentucky.
Executing an effective vegetation management program
across our service area is a significant expense that has a
direct effect on service reliability and customer satisfaction.
We carefully manage our programs for efficiencies and savings, using a variety of tools and techniques. This includes
helicopters for aerial inspections, approved herbicide applications and tree trimming.
Drone technology enables low-cost vegetation management in hard-to-reach terrain. In 2020, Southwestern Electric
Power Company partnered with an herbicide application company to deploy drones to manage vegetation along a circuit
in a pilot project. This improves safety for our crews, enabling them to apply the herbicide from the ground without a bucket
truck and away from overhead live wires. In addition, drone spraying covers more miles faster and eliminates the need for
debris removal because the limbs decay over time, which reduces the number of employees on site and eliminates other
environmental hazards. Drones were also used during storm damage assessment following Hurricane Laura.
We also continuously evaluate emerging technology and incorporate artificial intelligence in our planning process to
maximize efficiencies. We use augmented reality (AR) to determine right-of-way clearance for transmission siting to aid in
understanding clearance, vegetation factors and the proximity of obstructions. We also use AR to educate and inform
customers of work conducted near their property.Resilience
A resilient electric grid withstands high winds, powerful storms, cybersecurity threats and other disruptions that could
cause customer outages. We have a long history of investing in grid reliability, resilience and security. We have more than
a century of experience operating and maintaining a reliable electric system, which we call upon to make design updates,
establish operational standards, increase threat awareness and adopt effective technological solutions.
We are a founder of Grid Assurance, an industry-led initiative to enable quicker recovery of the transmission grid resulting
from a catastrophic event, natural or man-made. Grid Assurance’s framework models for high-impact, low-frequency
events. It includes maintaining an inventory of critical spare assets for the grid, such as transformers and breakers, which
can be promptly deployed. During the global pandemic, Grid Assurance provided a level of resilience with access to key
transmission assets when portions of the economy slowed significantly, temporarily halting production and limiting
availability of some critical equipment.
We seek innovative ways to serve the needs of specific customers who require a higher level of resilience. In June 2020,
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) signed a 30-year lease with the U.S. Army for the siting of a proposed
energy resilience project at Fort Sill. The project will build 36 MWs of natural gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion
engine generators and 10.9 MW of photovoltaic solar energy.
In addition to providing more clean energy to the power grid and enhancing power quality and energy supply in PSO’s
southwest Oklahoma service territory, the project provides critical energy resilience the Army needs to carry out its
mission. It would enable the Army to disconnect the new generating facilities from the grid and isolate them to supply
100% of the power needed to sustain Fort Sill’s critical missions for at least 14 days in the event of power disruption on
the grid. The project is pending approval from state regulators.
AEP’s virtual qualified observer training provides a safe and immersive
experience for employees before entering an actual job site.
TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION
Technology and innovation are critical aspects of our strategy to become the energy company of the future. They drive
change, improve efficiency and safety, and enhances the customer experience. Accelerating the advancement of
technology and innovation transforms the way employees work and deliver new technologies to customers. At AEP,
innovation has been part of the fabric of our culture for more than a century.
In May 2020, we named our first Chief Information and
Technology Officer (CITO) to lead technology initiatives
across AEP. This includes information technology,
innovation, digital initiatives and telecommunications. The
CITO organization developed a five-year roadmap to
support transformational programs that are being planned
and executed to build the competencies our business
partners need. This includes strengthening internal
partnerships to identify new technologies that expand or
enhance business opportunities. One focus is on how we
are transforming our work. It involves looking at end-to-end
processes and mapping out how those processes support
advanced data platforms, analytics, technology and
automation.
Technology advancements in analytics are making things
possible today that were unimaginable not so long ago. We
are using these advancements to reinvent what it means to
be a modern energy company. We are using data and analytics to solve problems, optimize processes and discover new
business opportunities. As we continue to improve data management across our company, we are expanding our use of
analytics through technology advancements such as automation, robotics, AI and virtual reality. Already, we havecompleted several initiatives that provide monitoring, prediction and optimization capabilities that did not previously exist.
These efforts are enabling us to enhance safety, reliability and customer value.
Examples of our efforts include:
Field Mobility
 – We are reimagining a work system that travels with our field employees and delivers important
information on demand, regardless of location. For example, our field employees will have the ability to take photos
of a physical asset, such as an overhead line, enter the asset information and associated information into a
mapping tool making it widely viewable by other interested parties. The objective is to provide our field workers with
the opportunity to do their work more efficiently while seamlessly communicating across all business functions.
Radio Program
 – We are undertaking the largest telecommunications project in our history to improve
communications across remote locations in our service territory. Once complete, our new system will enable
dispatchers to work remotely, a critical need during times of crisis such as a global pandemic. Our plans include
replacing an estimated 5,700 radios, upgrading 360 existing tower sites and creating an entirely new radio network.
Reliability Mapping Tool
 – In 2020, we created a new Reliability Mapping Tool that identifies opportunities for
reliability improvements much faster. This could help prevent equipment failures that cause outages. Eliminating the
need to reference multiple spreadsheets and databases, the tool brings data from our geographic information
system together into one place.
Qualified Observer
 – This virtual reality training module instructs the responsibilities of a line worker performing the
role of a qualified observer. Presenting the training via virtual reality reduces potential safety risks through building
muscle memory and repeatable exposure. This fully immersive experience allows the training staff to identify and
correct behaviors before workers enter an actual job site.
Energy Technology
We’re committed to identifying the best energy solutions for our customers that improve the efficient use of energy, reduce
our environmental footprint, enhance customer reliability and strengthen grid resilience. We will achieve this through
collaborative research development and deployment of technologies that show promise or are capable of being
revolutionary. We’ll collaborate with federal, state and local regulators to secure public support. Only then can we arrive at
well-researched and tested solutions that balance environmental attributes, cost and reliability considerations.
In 2020, we formed a Grid Solutions team to accelerate the energy transformation and advance a clean energy economy.
The team is focused on identifying and implementing the best infrastructure solutions for our customers across the
regulated generation, transmission and distribution businesses with an emphasis on seamless integration of the functions.
Grid Solutions is responsible for the commercial structuring, acquisition and development of new grid resources, including
regulated renewables, dispatchable generation such as natural gas, competitive transmission ventures, distributed
generation, energy storage and other emerging on-grid technologies. In addition, they ensure compliance with regulatory
and policy requirements while remaining engaged with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and Regional
Transmission Organizations (RTO).
We support the continuing development of cleaner energy options through technology advancement. Such advancements
will continue to drive favorable economics of existing clean technologies and potentially provide new options in the future.
Technologies of interest include:
Renewable Energy
Energy Storage
Nuclear Energy
Carbon Capture with Utilization or Storage
Hydrogen and Other Chemical Energy
Other technologies as they are identified
As we introduce more renewable generation into our energy mix, the need to invest in energy storage grows. Energy
storage can help smooth the flow of power as generation from intermittent resources such as wind and solar varies over
time. Storage technology supports local reliability and demand response for our customers, and it is integrated into our
distribution and resource planning processes.
We have several energy storage projects throughout our service territory, including three recent projects in AEP Ohio. ThisThe 137.4 kW solar array and 560 kW/1,200 kWh battery energy
storage system will help the Columbus Zoo cut energy costs and
reduce its carbon footprint.
includes a 137.4 kW solar array and a 560 kW/1,200 kWh
battery energy storage system for the Columbus Zoo. This
microgrid system serves the saltwater life support system
providing a constant energy supply to one of the most critical
facilities of the zoo. In addition, AEP Ohio has two new
microgrids incorporating solar arrays and battery storage at
a wastewater treatment facility and a water booster station.
Expected to be operational in 2021, both of these projects
provide the needed resiliency to endure long-term outages
with minimal operational adjustments.
In October 2020, AEP OnSite Partners announced an
energy storage plant project that will serve the City of
Martinsville in Virginia. The project is the first to leverage
technology firm Wärtsilä’s new GridSolv Quantum energy
storage system. The installation will enable the city to offset
peak load periods and more effectively manage their overall
energy usage and costs. It also will reduce their reliance on traditional peak energy resources. The energy storage system
is scheduled to be operational in the second half of 2021.
We are also investigating and actively pursuing the application of Bulk Energy Storage Systems as transmission assets in
situations where they can help to cost-effectively maintain or improve the reliability of the transmission system, compared
to traditional options of building new transmission lines or stations.
Innovative Partnerships for Success
We collaborate with technology experts, developers, start-ups and consortiums to co-develop technologies that are not
currently available today. We are developing initiatives and forming partnerships in the U.S. and around the world to scout
new innovation technologies, validate them fast, demonstrate their benefits to customers and policymakers, secure timely
regulatory support or contractual approvals for innovation and deployment, and deploy them at scale.
We are a founding member of the Low-Carbon Resource Initiative (LCRI), an industry and global partnership with the
Electric Power Research Institute, the Gas Technology Institute and technology developers. The five-year initiative, which
kicked off in September 2020, will provide a framework, coupled with technology advancements, to leverage existing
assets and provide the necessary tools to transition to a low-carbon future. Learn more in the Technology section of
AEP’s Climate Impact Analysis Report
.
We invest in technology funds and start-up companies to enable technology development, gain intelligence about
developing business models, and integrate the latest technologies into our business. Examples of our investments include
ChargePoint, a comprehensive EV charging network with solutions for every type of business, and Mainspring Energy,
who’s dispatchable, linear generator provides the flexibility to generate energy using the cleanest fuels available today
and in the future. We are introducing these innovations to our customers to enable them to meet their energy objectives.
We also participate in global technology information hubs.
We are the only North American member of the Free
Electrons Accelerator, a nine-member global energy
accelerator whose mission is to create the future of energy.
Free Electrons gives AEP direct access to the world's most
innovative energy technology entrepreneurs and their
solutions. This program allows us to monitor and test global
advancements in energy technologies that can help AEP and
our customers meet sustainability and electrification goals.
AEP CEO, Nick Akins, serves as Chairman of the Board of
the Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership (GSEP). GSEP
is a CEO-led alliance of the world’s largest electricity companies committed to leading the transformation of the globalelectricity industry and the energy transition through accelerated clean energy electrification. GSEP provides a forum for
CEOs to share their challenges and solutions with each other and with external stakeholders. Through research studies,
work programs and their first ever public annual CEO meeting held in May 2021, electric utility members are working to
identify sustainable solutions to electrify businesses and communities around the world.
By collaborating with stakeholders, it will be possible for low-carbon, affordable, resilient and reliable electricity to be the
lifeline of a modern decarbonized global community and the backbone of digital and connected cities of the future.SAFETY & HEALTH AT AEP
At AEP, no aspect of our work is more
important than safety and health, whether it is
for an employee, a contractor or a member of
the communities that we serve. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic presented significant challenges to the wellbeing of our
workforce. In response, we implemented critical measures to protect employees and enable our front-line workers to
continue their work. The pandemic has shown the critical nature of the service we provide as we worked to keep the
power flowing to all of our customers.
Zero Harm is at the center of everything we do to protect our employees as well as those we come into contact with. We
believe that all injuries and occupational illnesses are preventable. Our five-year health and safety transformation
culminated in 2020, which resulted in significant improvement in our safety performance. In addition to no employee
fatalities in 2020, our overall safety performance was one of our best historically, demonstrating the substantial impact our
transformation efforts had across the company. This included implementing new systems, programs and policies, as well
as a structure that focuses on learning, sharing information and making continuous improvement.
Thanks to the commitment and focus of employees and
contractors to Zero Harm, Days Away, Restricted Time
(DART) injuries were reduced by approximately 34% during
this five-year transformation. Many of our teams are already
achieving Zero Harm. In 2020, 87% of our work reporting
locations did not experience an employee DART event.
These numbers represent significant achievements and
highlight our ongoing commitment to improving safety and
health. We are learning from their experiences how to replicate Zero Harm in all work locations, however, we still have
work to do.
SAFETY & HEALTH INITIATIVES
We have made significant progress in improving our safety culture over the years. While we celebrate these
achievements, we also recognize there are still opportunities for growth. Whether assessing our existing safety and health
programs or identifying opportunities to improve our standards, we are committed to Zero Harm.
Response to COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic dominated all aspects of our work and personal lives in 2020. Across AEP, employees showed
their resilience and dedication to maintaining our safety culture while encountering challenging conditions.
The pandemic created unforeseen challenges for our workforce and the communities we serve. We adapted, refocused
and found a deeper appreciation for our fundamental safety behaviors while reinforcing our commitment of caring for our
team members.
At the corporate level, the Safety and Health team served as subject matter experts on the virus. They were the main
source for up-to-date and relevant information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA). They also are the link between our leadership team and the company physician.
In the field, the Safety and Health team coached employees on how to distance properly, wear face coverings and adopt
new behaviors. As the pandemic began impacting our workforce through virus clusters and hotspots, the team shifted
gears and became contact tracers, helping to determine if employees contracted the virus on the job or outside the
workplace.Aerial view of the base camp created to house anywhere from 500-800
workers during Hurricane Laura storm restoration efforts.
The Power of Our People: Weathering the Storm During a Pandemic
Hurricane Laura hit the Louisiana coast as a major Category 4 hurricane – one of the strongest to make landfall in the state
since 1856. It caused catastrophic damage in Louisiana and the Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO)
territory. Our COVID-19 safety and health efforts were essential in protecting our employees and our peer utilities during
hurricane restoration efforts.
When Hurricane Laura hit Louisiana in late 2020, more than
3,000 workers were deployed to support power restoration
efforts. Hotel rooms were unavailable as local residents
evacuated the area to safety. In response, SWEPCO mobilized
base camps to house employees and visiting workers.
Each of the base camps housed 500 to 800 people. With
safety and health as the top priority, the bunk trailers were
retrofitted with special air filtration systems, and partitions to
create compartments that allowed for social distancing, even
while sleeping. They were filled to only a third of their capacity
and they were sanitized twice a day. When crews checked-in,
every individual completed a self-observation questionnaire
and a temperature check. They were also required to physically
distance and wear a face covering. Third-party COVID-19 observers also helped remind people to wear their masks and
keep at least six feet from others when they were in common areas.
The safety precautions during restoration efforts allowed for crews to safely replace approximately 1,600 poles, 750
transformers and 1 million feet of conductor, despite the challenges posed by the pandemic.
Overexertion Injuries
Labels were created and placed on tools and equipment to remind employees about the item’s weight.
Overexertions (sprains and strains) are the leading cause of injury at AEP. These injuries can happen in a single event or
build up over time. To reduce these injuries, we studied employees’ awareness of hazards related to lifting tools, materials
and equipment. We learned that employees were more likely to lift items if they were unaware of the item’s weight. In
response, we created a micro learning program to improve employees’ knowledge of ergonomics and awareness of
hazards related to lifting. The program consists of short lessons that build upon each other and are designed to make the
information easier to retain. The lessons include supervisor guides and handouts to discuss as a team. New weight labelswere created to identify the weight of tools, materials and equipment. The labels are visual reminders to lift safely and
serve as a trigger for employees to stop and determine the best ways to lift and move materials.
Targeted CORE Visit Assessments
Coaching through Observation, Recognition and Engagement (CORE) is a leadership tool used to engage with our
workforce and assess a variety of activities. An important part of the Safety and Health Transformation has been
ingraining CORE Visits and their principles into our safety culture. Targeted CORE Visits provide a framework to assess
elements that present high risk to employees and contractors. They evaluate the knowledge of safety and health
policies/procedures and controls that influence outcomes during high-risk tasks. The results identify successes and
learning opportunities associated with knowledge gaps. Training materials are provided with actionable information to
focus attention on areas where there are gaps allowing us to learn without harm. This process promotes a learning safety
culture and sets our employees and contractors up for success in the field to identify issues before they turn into events.
Serious Injuries and Fatalities Reduction
Although Serious Injuries and Fatalities (SIF) are rare events, we continue working to further reduce these occurrences.
Recordable injuries in the electric power generation and delivery sector have steadily declined over the past decade, SIF
rates have plateaued. Because SIFs are infrequent, taken in a small sample size they do not necessarily represent any
meaningful pattern or trend. To overcome this lack of data, AEP is adopting the SIF Safety Classification and Learning
Model, which was developed by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and our peer utilities. The model provides employees
and contractors with new skills to identify the unique hazards that cause SIFs as well as access to valuable industrywide
data.
In 2020, we began the first phase of implementing the SIF model by engaging with frontline employees to decide the best
approach for rolling out the program. This work resulted in the creation of materials and a framework to pilot the model
with employees and contractors in the field. During the pilot, employees and contractors learned the principles of the SIF
model and gained new tools that helped them identify more and different hazards than they had before. They used icons to
serve as visual reminders when identifying high-energy sources and used them to build capacity to prevent serious harm.
The pilot feedback is shaping the training materials for the companywide rollout, scheduled in 2021.
Contractor Safety
In 2020, more than 900 contractor companies worked over 33 million hours on our behalf. Having a standardized and
common set of systems and processes across AEP is foundational to providing our contractors clear and consistent
expectations.
Enhancing contractor safety remained an area of focus in 2020, and a priority of our Safety and Health Transformation.
This work included the adoption of a common data collection and communication program for contractors (the VERO
Data Management System) and the creation of a common set of Safety and Health Supplemental Terms and Conditions.
Additionally, we published a companywide onboarding safety video. All business units will use the video to promote a
strong safety message from AEP’s leadership outlining work safety expectation. All contractors will be required to view
the video before starting work on our projects.
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC
Our commitment to safety extends beyond educating and engaging employees and contractors. Our commitment includes
keeping the public safe, engaged and educated about electricity and our facilities. Regular communication with the publicAEP Line Servicer, Brandon Scott, stopped landscapers from a
potentially deadly tree trim.
The Power of Our People: AEP Line Servicer Halts Dangerous Tree Trimming
In 2020, Line Servicer Brandon Scott was responding to a
power outage in Columbus, Ohio. Upon arriving at a
customer’s property, he saw a landscaping crew in a
precarious spot in the backyard. They were attempting to trim a
massive silver maple tree – approximately 65 to 70 feet tall –
and had already improperly made a deep cut into its trunk. A
huge limb was hanging dangerously close to AEP’s power
lines. In addition, the workers had failed to see the metal cable
braces supporting the heavy branches.
Scott recognized the hazards, so he asked the crew to stop
their work immediately while he called for support from AEP’s
Forestry Department. His quick reaction and questioning
attitude potentially saved lives that day. The work was stopped,
the line was de-energized, and professional tree trimmers were
called to the scene. They secured the branches with ropes and
were able to safely remove hazardous limbs piece by piece
until proper distance of clearance from our equipment was achieved. Scott’s actions demonstrate AEP’s commitment to
Zero Harm.
We use social media to educate our customers on the importance of
electrical safety. This includes our #SafetySaturday series, designed
to provide the public with useful and engaging information about
electricity.
is key to this work, and we engage through multiple channels including social media, videos and direct mail.
We use social media to educate our customers on the
importance of electrical safety and share how our
employees work safely. At the center of these efforts is the
#SafetySaturday series, designed to provide the public with
useful and engaging information about electricity. In total, we
published close to 1,600 safety messages, generating well
over 5 million social media impressions.
We collaborated with the Edison Electric Institute and
utilized an external utilities public safety expert to send
public safety mailers to select third-party contractors
operating within AEP’s territory. These contractors received
electrical safety guidance, which was specifically geared
toward physical workers who might work near overhead or
underground wires. Additional electrical safety materials are
available in multiple languages.
We also support safety education at local schools across
our service territory. Through a third-party contractor,
National Theatre for Children, AEP Texas helped teach children about electrical safety. Because of the pandemic, NTC
changed from live performances to digital livestream and conducted 79 performances, reaching approximately 22,000
students in 52 elementary schools across the AEP Texas Service area in 2020.
Despite our education and outreach efforts, unfortunately, two public fatalities occurred in our service territory in 2020 due
to electrical contact. We remain committed to educating the public about electric safety and bringing awareness to
potential hazards to the public.While in the field or in the office, we believe every employee should
come to work feeling safe and secure.
WORKFORCE SAFETY & SECURITY
Whether in the field or in the office, we believe every
employee should feel safe and secure while at work. Our
quest for Zero Harm reaches beyond occupational safety
and health to include employee and workplace security. As
a result, we have developed policies, procedures and
training to increase employees’ ability to recognize, report
and respond to workplace aggression.
While we take measures to ensure our employees’ physical
security at work or while on the job, we also stress the need
for situational awareness at all times. We offer several
workplace safety training initiatives to teach our employees
to think about safety not just at work but at home and in
public as well.
Remote work due to the global pandemic added another layer of concern, and isolation put more focus on domestic
violence. During this time of increased stress and isolation, domestic situations that are already unstable could turn violent
or existing abuse could accelerate. With many people working from home, the lack of in-person interaction on site hinders
our ability to identify clues of violence, drug and alcohol abuse or other potential violent situations. In response, we
released videos and education courses to inform employees about what domestic violence is, how to spot warning signs,
and what to do if you are a victim or suspect that someone might be a victim.
In addition, we provide workplace safety and security training:
Active Shooter Response:
 An interactive and virtual exercise to build situational awareness of employees’
surroundings and identify ways to respond and protect.
Customer Threat and Aggressive Behavior:
 For our field employees, this includes de-escalation techniques
when someone threatens the safety of our employees.
How to Recognize Workplace Aggression:
 Employees learn how to identify workplace aggression warning
signs and behavioral indicators, and learn what to do if someone displays these signs.
The pandemic necessitated putting additional safety measures and
protocols in place to protect our workers who needed to continue
working in their normal work environments.
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Human capital management (HCM) is one of the most
significant corporate governance issues. It sits at the
crossroads between investors, the workforce and customers
and is increasingly viewed as material to long-term
performance and risk mitigation. Corporate practices and
policies relating to issues such as safety and health,
compensation, diversity, equity and inclusion, well-being and
culture are considered key aspects of a company’s
competitive strategy. It can also impact a company’s
reputation and is essential to innovation and adaptation to
new technologies.
In 2020, the pandemic and racial and social unrest
underscored the strategic importance of HCM. At AEP, our
people are mission critical to our success and we support
them through a culture of engagement, mutual care and
inclusiveness and a commitment to Zero Harm.
Protecting Our Employees During the COVID-19 Pandemic
Keeping our employees safe during the pandemic was a top priority for AEP. Providing them with the necessary
protection and support became our main focus. In March 2020, we launched a companywide effort to shift more than 60%of our workforce to remote work. To facilitate this change, we provided technology, tools and solutions for our newly
remote employees. In addition, the pandemic necessitated putting additional safety measures and protocols in place to
protect our workers who needed to continue working in their normal work environments. We increased the frequency of
communications and resources to keep all employees engaged, and we provided them with additional benefits and other
forms of support to ensure their well-being and work/life balance. All of this was done without losing sight of our
commitment to building a corporate culture of engagement, collaboration and empowerment. Learn more about how we
protected our workforce during the 
COVID-19 pandemic
.
Future of Work
Our workforce of the future will look very different than it does today. So, too, will the work that we do, as well as where and
how we do it. We were already working to frame the future of work before the pandemic. Our efforts were accelerated as
we made the shift to remote work environments and implemented new precautions for front-line workers. The shift has
also created new opportunities for attracting talent, providing employee development and building culture, as well as
highlighting the important role technology plays in keeping us all connected.
Our Future of Work (FoW) initiative includes an assessment of four work classifications, otherwise known as the
distributed work model: remote (non-AEP location), hybrid (mixture of working at an AEP location and remote), onsite and
field. Based on our learnings, the FoW team is enhancing tools, technology, training and policies to support the distributed
work model. In addition, we are exploring opportunities to redesign workspaces to meet our future business needs.
The benefits for employees who work remotely or in the hybrid work model include:
Zero Harm Benefits:
 Reduced driving for thousands of employees (positives for employees and the environment).
Flexibility for Employees:
 Ability to flex around needs at home or with family, as well as ability to work from
locations other than the office.
Retention and Recruitment:
 Decreased office attendance provides us with an opportunity to evaluate the
potential for employees to expand living locations, as well as the potential for AEP to access broader employee
markets.
Office Space Optimization:
 Allows for the adaptation of our office space, which yields cost savings and
efficiencies.
The longer we are in this pandemic, the more we are learning – identifying risks and impacts to our employees and
culture. We conducted pulse surveys to measure how the organization is responding to working remotely. The survey
results indicated that by and large, employees adjusted well and are productive in the remote environment.
Technology investments proved critical to providing employees with the tools they needed to successfully work remotely.
We provided our employees with secure digital tools and resources; completed a major upgrade to our internet
connectivity, adding 10 times more network capacity; and supported our employees through training and tools to enable
them to be successful. The FoW team will continue to analyze options for improved collaboration tools to enhance
efficiency and effectiveness of our distributed work model.
We are identifying and anticipating changes within our business units that may be needed as we implement new work
models. We are conducting extensive research and analysis to understand our current workflows and the way employees
currently do their work. We are also asking ourselves whether it is more cost-effective and efficient to hire contractors, to
engage third parties or to use process automation. This allows us to be more flexible as business needs and skillsets
change as well as to become more efficient. It also enables us to focus finite resources on the work that is most critical to
meeting customers’ needs.
Balancing culture, employee experience and flexibility with cost savings is imperative throughout this journey. The
transition will challenge our culture, driving and challenging us to find new ways to stay connected with team members and
foster a workplace of inclusiveness – regardless of where people are located.The Power of Our People: Celebrating Our Best Friends at Work
When we began conducting an annual employee culture survey, one question sparked great debate and conversation all
across the company. Employees were perplexed and divided on how to respond to the statement “I have a best friend at
work,” asking “what truly defines a best friend” and “why is this question in AEP’s culture survey?” One employee was
inspired to demonstrate to others what it meant to him.
In 2018, Sam Queeno, director of Digital ID and Physical Security, created “Best Friend Fridays” as a fun and light-hearted
way to talk about this infamous question. Every Friday he records a conversation with other employees. He began
conversations with his team and has since extended it to others from across AEP. Queeno uses costumes, skits and humor
to help others understand what it means to have a best friend at work.
“People think ‘best friend’ is some magical term. I see it as someone that you care about – you have their back, and they
have yours,” Queeno said. “You may not always like the people you work with, but you’d still help them because they’re part of
the AEP Family.”
In 2020, Best Friend Friday became virtual events with Queeno interviewing 45 different best friends including AEP’s
Chairman, President & CEO Nick Akins.
For the second year in a row, AEP was recognized for its culture
journey with the annual Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award in 2021.
CULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT
A high-performance culture forms the foundation for long-
term success. An engaged, collaborative and empowered
workforce is more likely to embrace a change mindset, drive
continuous improvement, accept accountability, meet
expectations, take ownership, and value personal growth.
We are committed to driving our culture forward.
To measure our progress, we conduct an annual employee
culture survey through Gallup, Inc. This was especially
important in 2020 as our workforce responded to both work and personal impacts that the pandemic caused. We
achieved significant improvement in nearly every aspect of the survey and 93% of employees participated in the survey
marking our best participation since we began measuring our progress.
Our goal was to achieve top-decile performance by 2023, which we achieved three years ahead of schedule. In 2020, we
achieved the 91st percentile – an improvement compared to our 87th percentile ranking in 2019. In addition, we improved
our scores on nearly every index we measure, including diversity and inclusion, accountability and engagement. The
survey also included a question about personal well-being that allowed employees to candidly share their experiences
through open comment. The results give us a strong foundation upon which to plan the Future of Work. Although our results
are very positive, we are always seeking opportunities to grow and improve.WORKFORCE PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Transformational change requires a vision
and leadership to inspire, motivate and
engage. As we prepare our workforce for the
future, we are fostering an environment that
encourages collaboration, innovation and
communication no matter where we work.
Through training, development and growth
opportunities, employees are acquiring the
skillsets needed to align with our strategy for
a clean energy future. This is especially
important as we move toward a digital and
more distributed work model that requires a
flexible, innovative and diverse workforce.
Through the Achieving Excellence Program
and other efforts, we have been preparing for
anticipated changes in our industry and
workforce. For example, we took steps to
manage the financial challenges created by
the pandemic. While we were able to largely
insulate our employees from the most
damaging economic impacts resulting from
the pandemic, we took steps to proactively
manage our cost structure to benefit
customers, investors and employees. In
2020, we offered an early retirement package
for eligible employees, opening up the
opportunity to organize our company for the
future while creating new growth opportunities
for employees.
We anticipate approximately 4,300 employees will leave or retire from 2021 through 2025. We see this level of turnover
across our workforce as an opportunity to identify our future talent needs within AEP and to continue to diversify our
workforce.
In addition, the global pandemic created new ways of looking at how and where we perform our work. Remote and hybrid
work provides many benefits for our employees and company, including cost savings and flexibility. It increases our
access and ability to hire diverse candidates with unique experiences, beliefs, ideas and backgrounds.
One challenge we must address is the shortage of skilled labor, such as line mechanics. We have workforce development
initiatives focused on eliminating barriers to hire qualified and diverse line workers. In our Transmission and Distribution
departments, we have two Line Mechanic Apprentice training programs registered with the Department of Labor. We
grant journeyman status to all program graduates. In addition, eligible veterans may apply their GI Bill benefits while in the
apprenticeship program. We currently have more than 800 apprentices, with more than 50 using their GI Bill benefits.
From 2017 through 2020, we trained and qualified close to 620 apprentices to advance to nationally recognized journey
worker status. Apprenticeship training has proven to be a safe and effective way to reduce skilled labor shortages.
We are collaborating with the Business Roundtable (BRT), the Ohio BRT, the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers through our Joint Apprentice Training Committee (JATC), and universities and community colleges throughout
our operating regions to meet our future business needs. Together we are working to implement educational programs to
provide students, as well as current and future AEP employees, with the tools to transition into these new skillsets.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) has a strong education and internship partnership with Oklahoma State
University IT Associate in Applied Science in High Voltage Lineman and, the new Cherokee Nation Associate Program.
In addition to training on campus, students can receive hands-on technical training from an accredited program and then
take advantage of paid internships to gain additional first-hand knowledge and experience, some even participating in
storm restoration efforts. Graduates begin work as line mechanics and advance to supervisors, job superintendents, laborleaders, power line estimators and contractors. Oklahoma State University also has a Power Plant Technology program
that enables students to gain hands-on training on cutting-edge technology and equipment. Paid internships, a
requirement for this program, ensure students learn and gain real-world experience before they graduate.
In 2021, we plan to expand the line worker recruitment and development program. This program will attract, qualify and
retain more line workers, while optimizing training costs. The team will develop a recruitment and training playbook that
provides recruiting guidance and standardization. The scope involves implementing the line worker internship program to
all operating companies and expanding the trade school and higher education partnerships. We are designing and
implementing a standard technical bridge between pre-apprentice/intern to formal training program (onboarding)
program.
One example includes launching a comprehensive recruiting and training program designed to increase the number of
women in the AEP line worker role in 2021. In partnership with Dress for Success Columbus, the goal of the program is to
remove historical biases and barriers hindering women from entering line work through the creation of opportunities that
set the stage for long-term career success. It will provide technical training, career readiness, mentoring, training, wrap-
around support services and pre-apprentice educational assistance that will potentially lead to full-time employment with
AEP.
Repositioning Our Employees
The decision to retire a coal plant has profound life-changing implications for the hundreds of employees and contractors
who operate and maintain the plants, including support staff throughout the company. It is not uncommon for a power plant
to employ generations of families or serve as a major employer in the community. Our employees are loyal to the plants
and their communities, so closure often brings challenges that include finding new employment; learning new skillsets;
obtaining additional education, certification or training; and sometimes relocation. As we transition to a clean energy
future, we are working with our employees to help them make the transition as smoothly as possible. Among the
resources we provide when plants are on track for retirement include:
On-site support to provide training for applying for jobs and calculating pension benefits.
Education assistance repayment forgiveness (normally, if employees leave the company less than a year after
completing a degree, they would repay AEP; this is forgiven for affected plant employees).
Engaging outplacement services to help employees prepare for re-entering the workforce, resume building,
improving interview skills, etc.
Inviting outside organizations such as a state’s worker displacement unit, to work with employees on how to apply
for jobless benefits.
Holding internal job fairs with other business units to inform employees about different types of job opportunities that
exist within AEP.
“Loaning” plant employees to other AEP business units (e.g., Transmission) to learn about other jobs and job
opportunities.
Encouraging plant employees to shadow peers in other business units (such as a line crew, welder or mechanic in
Distribution or Transmission).
Learn more about how AEP supports a Just Transition in our 
Climate Impact Analysis Report
.
PREPARING OUR FUTURE TALENT PIPELINE
At AEP, our talent strategy includes preparing our workforce for the future by providing opportunities to learn new talents
and engaging higher education institutions to better prepare the next generation with the skills that we will need. We are
also building a pipeline of future talent by investing in our Credits Count
 STEM education program. We are investing in
our talent recruiting efforts to become more effective at connecting our new, cutting-edge work roles with today’s top
candidates.
Our alliances with community colleges, universities and vocational and technical schools across our 11-state service
territory supports the development of our talent pipeline. We work with these institutions to develop academic programs
that will prepare employees for upward mobility opportunities and to attract external job seekers interested in careers in
our industry. Our education partners include The Ohio State University, Columbus State Community College, Mid-East
SMNick Akins, CEO, speaks to high school students as part of our
Credits Count
 STEM education program.
Career & Technical Centers, Texas State Technical
College, Prairie View A&M University, Morgan State
University, Tennessee State University, Bridge Valley
Community & Technical College and Oklahoma State
University Institute of Technology, among many others.
In 2019, AEP joined several other regional businesses in
launching the Office of Talent Strategy (OTS) at Columbus
State Community College. OTS will focus on the
development of a talent strategy to fill in-demand workforce
needs now and in the future. OTS is securing staff, has
honed a mission with the business partners and is taking
initiatives and partnerships built under Credit Counts, along
with other program incubation efforts, and leveraging those
into the next phase of talent pipeline development efforts.
In October 2020, Columbus State Community College was
awarded the experimental grant we jointly proposed to the Department of Education. We are working with Columbus
State to prepare to hire current federal work-study-eligible IT students, specifically for cyber security, for the 2021-2022
academic year. The students hired will have completed at least two semesters of IT coursework and have received
“Career READY” status (approved resume, mock interview and elevator pitch) from the college. Our participation in the
Department of Education’s federal work study experimental site program will provide us with access to a larger IT talent
pipeline when these students finish school.
In Oklahoma, PSO actively participated in the Oklahoma Energy Workforce Consortium (OEWC) Oklahoma Careers in
Energy Week, promoting careers in energy. The OEWC cites the impending workforce shortage as a major driver for its
mission. Most schools have or are implementing STEM programs and curricula to meet the workforce demands.
We also have robust co-op and internship programs across a variety of business units. In spite of the pandemic, we were
able to provide development opportunities for more than 50 college co-op students, interns and high school interns in
2020. One example of how we were able to do this is through the adaptation of our College Co-OP model. In lieu of
suspending the program, we converted the program to a virtual format that allowed students to engage with AEP teams
and work on projects in a virtual setting. In addition, we developed a new standardized outreach, onboarding and
recruiting process that can be applied company-wide for all internship and co-op programs.
Supporting Our Veterans
We actively support, recruit and hire military veterans. We educate, train and prepare them to successfully transition into
rewarding energy industry jobs. Our talent acquisition team builds direct relationships with military facilities across the
country to provide veterans with a pipeline to careers at AEP. We invest in attracting veterans because they have the
technical training, experience and personal characteristics that make them a great fit for careers in the energy industry.
They also bring a mindset of safety, which is a core value of our business, making them attractive recruits for our
company.
We encourage veterans to actively seek and apply for jobs at AEP that match their training and skills and we partner with
external initiatives designed to provide veterans with mentoring services, career development opportunities or skills
matching services, such as 
U.S. Army Partnership for Youth Success
 (PaYS). In early 2020, AEP signed an agreement
with the Department of Defense to become part of the 
Skillbridge program
. In addition to outreach at local military
facilities, we have a dedicated careers webpage at www.aep.com/careers.
In 2020, the U.S. government awarded AEP the Honoring Investments in Recruiting and Employing American Military
Veterans (HIRE Vets) Gold Medallion. This prestigious award recognizes American employers that are most committed
to recruiting, hiring and retaining military veterans.
SMWorkforce Investment
We provide development opportunities for employees at every level, whether through informal professional development
or formal development programs. Several of our Employee Resource Groups and utility professional groups, such as
Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP), sponsor programs and events that focus on employee
education, career advancement and personal and professional development.
Transmission & Distribution University (TDU) is one way we are building a guided learning path to support career
advancement for our employees. TDU enhances learning, performance and retention; implements processes and
systems to provide flexible learning options and increased access to resources; equips trainers with tools and resources
needed to optimize learning; ensures all employees are trained, qualified and competent for work; and gives employees
more control of their learning path and development. In 2020, TDU pivoted to virtual learning to ensure a continuation of
employee development in a safe and healthy manner. Members of the TDU Team are trained and certified through The
Ohio State University’s Developing a Curriculum (DACUM) and Systematic Curriculum & Instructional Design (SCID)
processes. These processes are the foundation for the TDU Learning Paths and Curriculum.
We also provide a broad range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition development. This
includes performance coaching; operational skills training; resources to support our commitment to environment, safety
and health; job progression training; tuition assistance; and other forms of training that help employees improve their skills
and become better leaders. In 2020, our employees completed more than 775,000 hours of training in programs for which
we track participation. In addition, we invested more than $2 million in employee education, supporting more than 1,000
employees through our tuition reimbursement program.
CARING FOR OUR WORKFORCE
When prospective employees are considering their career options, they look for companies that share their values, offer
competitive wages and benefits, provide opportunities for learning new skills and achieving career advancement, and
allow flexibility to balance work and personal interests. AEP offers a comprehensive set of benefits and programs to
support employees across a wide range of situations, including:
Medical (includes same-sex partner benefits)The Power of Our People: Women’s Leadership Council Podcast
The global pandemic and racial and social unrest brought to light important issues such as employee safety and health;
diversity, equity and inclusion; the value of technology; and the desire for personal and professional engagement. Adjusting to
the new norm required us to be agile, innovative and empathetic to the needs of our employees.
In 2020, the AEP Women’s Leadership Council (WLC) kept these objectives in mind when they created a podcast and blog
series to engage women and men across the organization on important issues, including racism, the benefits and challenges
of working from home, and ways to identify development opportunities in a distributed work environment.
Dental
Vision
Critical illness plans
Accidental death insurance
Health care flexible spending account
Life insurance (and supplemental)
Long-term disability insurance
Training programs
Legal services
Vacation purchase program
401(k)
Wellness program
Employee Assistance Program
Financial planning
Adoption assistance
Tuition reimbursement
Retirement benefits
How we treat and take care of our employees is a commitment that we take to heart. We are committed to the wellbeing
of our employees and ensuring they have a safe and productive work environment; achieve financial security; feel
supported, heard and engaged; have access to healthcare for their physical and mental health; have networks and
camaraderie that provide social support; and feel included and connected to the mission and values of our company.
Today, we provide a wide range of programs that support employee well-being. This includes a wellness program,
financial planning and advice experts, mental health benefits and counseling, adoption assistance, culture efforts,
volunteerism, employee resource groups, and many other benefits that support employees in their personal and
professional lives.
In 2020, we started “safe space conversations” to encourage open dialog among employees regarding issues of race
and biases, and to improve understanding about how diversity shapes and enhances our culture and relationships. Learn
more in the 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion section
.
As employees dealt with unprecedented challenges and personal demands from the COVID-19 pandemic, we offered
additional support and assistance such as pay and leave programs and mental health support. Learn more in the 
COVID-
19 section
.
AEP is committed to disclosing our human capital management performance as it serves as a strong indicator to our
workplace environment and employee wellbeing. This includes:
New Employee Hires, Employee Terminations and Employee Turnover
Average Hours of Training per Employee
Percentage of Employee Receiving Regular Performance ReviewsThe Women’s Leadership Blog is a platform for employees to share powerful content on careers, culture, and connection.
Podcasts provide an environment for our employees to have safe and candid conversations. The honest and relatable
stories also help our employees recognize that everyone’s journey, awareness and experience is different, setting the stage
for empathy, understanding and friendship. The work of the Women’s Leadership Council serves as an accelerator for
progress toward a more diverse and equal future.
LABOR RELATIONS
Nearly one-fourth of our workforce is
represented by labor unions. We value the
relationships we have with our union-
represented employees and believe in a
trusting, collaborative and respectful
partnership with them. We are working with
our labor partners to strengthen these
relationships to ensure we have a culture that
attracts and supports employees who can
adapt to the rapid changes occurring in our
company and industry. Our partnership with
labor unions is critical to meeting the growing
expectations of our customers. We also have
multiyear contracts in place to enhance
continuity for both the company and our workforce. Due to the unknown post-pandemic economic impacts on our company
and organized labor unions, we agreed to extend our current contracts by one year.
Our relationship often goes beyond the confines of a contract. Together, we are expanding our focus on safety and culture
while enhancing productivity. We are working with labor leaders to support infrastructure development across the nation
while developing the talent pipeline and skills needed for the future. Our partnership with organized labor is instrumental
with regulatory, legislative and rate-related issues. We share many common interests on the policy front and collaborate
on issues important to each of us. Our labor-management relationship continues to strengthen as our workforce becomes
more flexible, creative and engaged.
We continue to be a leader in the planning and organizing of the annual National Labor and Management Public Affairs
Committee (LAMPAC) meeting. This collaborative effort of labor and management is designed to bring together energy
company executives and leaders from the IBEW to advance the common objectives of the electric power industry and
IBEW members.
Learn about how we are working with our labor unions affected by the retirement of coal-fueled generating units in our
Climate Impact Analysis Report
.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
In 2020, racial and social justice movements took center stage in the public consciousness as activism for equal rights,
social equity, racial justice and public safety grew at an exponential rate. Many companies took a stand on social issues,
seeking to be part of the change, whether through corporate activism or social responsibility. AEP was among them. We
value a supportive, inclusive business environment for our employees that reflects the diversity of the communities where
we live, work and operate. We are committed to providing opportunities for all employees to advance and unlock the
power of perspectives to better serve our customers, drive innovation and generate sustainable growth for our company.
Diversity, equity and inclusion are key components of our business strategy. A diverse, inclusive and highly engaged
workforce not only improves organizational performance but also improves company culture – creating an environment
that welcomes different experiences, beliefs, ideas, backgrounds and thoughts. It also is essential to remainingcompetitive and being able to attract and
retain the best talent.
Our Diversity & Inclusion Vision:
We are committed to a culture where
differences are valued and recognized
as a significant, positive influence on
AEP’s ability to serve and support our
employees, customers, suppliers and
other key stakeholders.
We continue to work on our Diversity &
Inclusion Strategic Plan Roadmap to 2025
and we are making progress. The Roadmap
sets goals and targets to increase the
inclusion and advancement of
underrepresented groups such as women
and people of color, and establishes
leadership accountability. To help foster
these efforts, we will measure our 2021
progress to enterprise, business unit and
operating company annual incentive
compensation objectives. These objectives
are measured through anonymous responses
to questions in the annual employee culture
survey, relative to Gallup’s overall company
level database.
In addition, the Human Resources Committee
of the Board of Directors provides
independent oversight of our compensation
and human resources policies and practices,
including an annual review of our diversity and
inclusion strategy, results and compliance
with equal opportunity laws.
The importance of diversity and inclusion extends beyond our workforce to include the customers and communities we
serve and our suppliers. Learn more in the 
Supply Chain Diversity section
.
We are committed to disclosing our diversity performance and other human capital management data, including:
EEO-1 Summary
Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men
Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken
Gender, Race and Ethnicity Workforce Diversity
Board Diversity
A Call to Action
The racial and social unrest that swept across the country led to a nationwide call for race education and awareness. In
response, we took a bold stand denouncing all forms of racism and committed to have candid conversations about the
impact of race and racism in the workplace. AEP’s Chairman, President and CEO joined nearly 2,000 other CEOs as asignatory to the 
CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion
 pledge, the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance
diversity and inclusion within the workplace. We also supported a City Council resolution in Columbus, Ohio, declaring
racism a public health crisis.
We believe that to move forward, we have to understand how race, racism, biases and beliefs impact the workforce. That
is one reason we launched the “Seize the Moment: Let’s Keep the Momentum Going” action plan to help accelerate our
diversity and inclusion strategy.
Elements of “Seize the Moment” include:
Town Hall Webcasts:
 We created a series of town hall webcasts featuring AEP employees sharing personal
experiences of biases and racism. The intent of the webcasts is to help employees navigate conversations about
race and hear others’ perspectives. Conversations focused on topics such as biracial marriage; being the only one
in the room; and, the history of racial inequality and white privilege in America, featuring a renowned antiracist
activist.
Leader Video Conferences:
 We conducted a “Let’s Talk” session with the top 20 African American leaders at
AEP to discuss their experience and challenges as leaders. In addition, we brought in a renowned antiracist activist
to speak to our top 250 leaders about racism in the workplace. During the session, leaders were asked to take a
personal inventory of how race has affected their lives and encouraged organizations to take a radical inventory of
policies and procedures at all levels, such as hiring, job evaluations and procurement practices.
Safe Space Conversations:
 We facilitated virtual “Safe Space Conversations” for employees to discuss how
current race and equity issues impact them in the workplace and in their personal lives. AEP’s Diversity and
Inclusion (D&I) liaisons were trained to lead the discussions.
Stand Up for Diversity:
 AEP leaders will participate in a companywide Stand Up for Diversity to have candid and
focused conversations about racism.
Leader Videos:
 Several of AEP’s leaders created video messages to raise awareness about the importance of
diversity, equity and inclusion at AEP.
Social and Racial Justice Grant Program:
 We are expanding the AEP Foundation’s philanthropic reach to help
address social justice in our service territory. We created a new social and racial justice grant program “Delivering
the Dream.” With a multi-year $5 million commitment, our intent is to play a pivotal role in eliminating systemic
racism and embrace change and equity for neighbors of color, customers and employees. We want our corporate
words on these important issues to match with visible actions. Learn more in our 
Community Engagement section
.
 
 
The Power of our People: Driving the Conversation
The racial and social unrest that swept across the country led to a nationwide call for race education and
awareness. During 2020, issues of racism and social inequities were brought to light. Our employees were
often at the forefront of leading change.
Marketta Franklin, Director of Transmission and Distribution Learning and Development at AEP, organized a
group of employees to support the interactive portion of the TEDx King-Lincoln Bronzeville event. Sponsored
by AEP Ohio, the event was held in an historic African-American area in Columbus, Ohio, which is home to the
historic Lincoln Theater and the King Arts Complex. This neighborhood was the heart of an affluent African-
American business and entertainment district in the 1930s and ‘40s. The name TEDx King-Lincoln Bronzeville
commemorates the history and contemporary vibrancy of the area.The 2020 theme was “Kwanzaa 365: Driving the
Conversation Toward Liberation”. Its goal was to
highlight the diversity of the neighborhood and
show how their experiences connect to national
and global narratives. Speakers shared stories
about how to live the Kwanzaa principles
throughout the year and promote diversity in
schools, government and healthcare.
Partnerships for Success
We fuel our diversity efforts through a number of internal and external initiatives, programs and partnerships. Through
educational institutions, professional associations, community organizations, employee resource groups (ERGs) and
leadership development forums, we focus on building and fostering partnerships that give us greater access to diverse
talent.
We are proud to support and participate in a number of partnerships, including 
Paradigm for Parity
®, the CEO Action for
Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge, and the 
Columbus Commitment: Achieving Pay Equity
, and we recently announced our
commitment to the 
City of Tulsa’s Pay Equity Pledge
 in Oklahoma. We also have relationships with many diverse
organizations such as the National Society of Black Engineers, Prospanica and Human Rights Campaign (HRC). These
partnerships provide access to more diverse talent and help us become a recognized partner and leader among potential
employees. We also have alliances with several colleges and universities that are helping us develop a diverse talent
pipeline.
In addition, we are committed to providing a trusting and inclusive work environment by empowering employees to
engage and lead in our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs reflect the diverse makeup of our workforce and
provide valuable insight into the diverse communities we serve. They also help increase engagement across the company
by giving employees a safe space to discuss work-related issues and to develop innovative solutions. ERG members are
active community volunteers supporting efforts such as Project Mentor and Make a Difference Day. ERGs are integral to
AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts, including recruitment of new employees.
ERGs at AEP
Abled and Disabled Allies Partnering Together (ADAPT)
African-American Employee Resource Group (AAERG)
Asian-American Employee Partnership (AAEP)
Hispanic Origin Latin American (HOLA) Employee Resource Group
Military Veteran Employee Resource Group
Native American Employee Resource Group (NAERG)
Pride Partnership
Valuing Organizational Improvement and Community Excellence (VOICE fosters an inclusive work environment that
promotes respect and value of employees through cultural awareness)
LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY
Social movements for racial and gender equity and inclusion underscore the importance of strong corporate governance
and leadership diversity. Having leaders and board members with different experiences, generations, genders, and racial
and ethnic backgrounds provides us with a broader perspective on issues both inside and outside of our company. ItThe Power of our People: Women in Nuclear Leadership Program
Kelly Ferneau, Cook Plant Manager at AEP, was one of 12 women selected to participate in the inaugural U.S. Women in
Nuclear Women’s Leadership Cohort program. The 12-month pilot program is the first of its kind in the nuclear industry and
aims to elevate strong female leaders. It was developed and produced by U.S. Women in Nuclear, with sponsorship and
support from the Nuclear Energy Institute. Women selected are on track for executive level positions across the nuclear
industry.
Women continue to be under-represented in STEM-related jobs and in the nuclear industry, especially in top leadership
positions. This program will help build relationships within the cohort group and with industry executives to provide a strong
and sustainable career network. These female leaders will gain new skills and additional training to help their companies
achieve their long-term business goals. Ferneau’s selection is a groundbreaking accomplishment, and we are proud to have
her represent AEP’s next generation of leadership.
allows leaders to represent the diverse
workforce with which they lead and advances
us to a place of viewing differences as
strengths, while encouraging candid and
tough conversations in order to make change.
We receive recognition for our leadership
diversity efforts at the board level and
beyond. In 2020, AEP was recognized by
2020 Women on Boards
 as a Winning “W”
Company for the third consecutive year. The
recognition is for Russell 3000 companies
whose boards have 20% or more seats held
by women. As of April 2021, 50% of AEP’s
board is represented by minorities and
women.
In 2020, AEP’s Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, Karen Ashley, received the Top 50 Chief Diversity Officers Award
from the National Diversity Council and the Person of the Year Race for Excellence award by the National Black MBA
Columbus chapter. In addition, the President and Chief Operating Officer of Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO),
Peggy Simmons, was chosen for the 2021 Top 100 Most Influential Women in Energy award by the National Diversity
Council. As of April 2021, 50% of AEP’s board is represented by minorities and women.
Leadership diversity lays the foundation for enabling a more inclusive workforce that breaks down silos and creates a
trusting, engaging and collaborative work environment. We set specific targets to champion the attraction and promotion
of diverse leaders. While we are making progress in our journey, we still have a ways to go. As our company and strategy
evolves, we are working to reset goals and build upon the foundation we have put into place.Kelly Ferneau, Cook Plant Manager at AEP, was selected to
participate in the inaugural U.S. Women in Nuclear Women’s
Leadership Cohort program.The Power of Our People: Listening to Our Customers During a Time of Need
Our customer care agents typically are the employees our customers interact with the most. As the friendly and helpful voices
who field customer phone calls, they’re crucial to ensuring a great customer experience. During the COVID-19 pandemic,
their skills proved more important than ever. Charlie Petry, a business solutions associate based in Hurricane, West Virginia,
embraced being the “face” of AEP for our customers.
In his role, Petry works with business customers and non-residential accounts managing standard customer service tasks.
When the economy began to feel the impact of the pandemic, he and his colleagues fielded an increase in calls from
businesses asking for help with their bills.
Petry was part of a team at AEP trained to help customers understand and leverage the loan and federal and state relief
options that were being offered.
“Our jobs and our customers’ jobs and lives have changed so much,” Petry said. “I think one of the greatest services we
provided was just being here to listen to our customers, some of whom faced the loss of their life savings and the investments
they made in their businesses. Being able to help someone who is in dire need is so fulfilling, satisfying and rewarding.”
Petry’s dedication to our customers and his ability to lead with empathy exemplifies the level of service we strive to provide to
our customers every day.
As we transform digitally, customer care will continue to become more
fluid in terms of how it occurs – whether in a digital channel, on the
phone or both.
CUSTOMERS
Technology is changing the way our customers use energy
and how they prefer to communicate with us. We are
committed to delivering a personalized experience for our
customers by engaging with them through their channel of
choice, and technology is the driving force behind our efforts
to improve. We continue to explore how we can best
leverage digital solutions to expand our platforms and
channels. By personalizing engagement, improving
efficiency of existing channels and integrating new
technology, we’re elevating the customer experience and
delivering excellent service.
Supporting Our Customers During
COVID-19
As the COVID-19 pandemic began to impact our service
territory and the nation, we maintained high-quality customer
service while keeping our customer operations employees safe. More than 80% of our customer operations associates,
who are part of our essential workforce, transitioned to working from home as part of our mission to give employees still
working in call centers room to provide for social distancing. IT quickly located laptops and shipped them to employees so
they could do their jobs safely and efficiently. The transition proved to be successful, and customer operations is exploring
the possibility of having additional associates work from home post-pandemic. 
The pandemic brought immense financial
insecurity for many of our customers. With stay-at-home orders in effect across the country, reliable energy service
became more important than ever. Read more about how we supported our customers during the pandemic in our
COVID-19 section
.ENGAGING CUSTOMERS IN THEIR CHANNEL OF CHOICE
In today’s digital world, there are countless ways to communicate. We continue to expand the methods customers can use
to reach us while constantly evaluating and improving the channels available. No matter how our customers choose to
connect with us, we’re dedicated to responding to their needs more efficiently and cost-effectively.
Customer Care Transformation
The expansion of digital channels continues to be a key strategy. We are focusing on providing our customers the ability to
access self-service solutions based on their need for timeliness and engagement. As we transform digitally, customer
care will continue to become more fluid in terms of how it occurs – whether in a digital channel, on the phone or both. We
continue to invest in technology, continuous improvement, and training to provide a seamless experience for customers
and equip our Customer Care agents with information to meet customers’ needs.
Expanded Self-Service Offerings
Customers can reach us through many channels and complete multiple tasks without the need to talk to an agent. In
addition to our website and mobile offerings, customers can find solutions using our automated phone system (IVR) and
two-way text. 
Rising customer expectations and the need to support more sophisticated customer interactions across
various channels are driving the need to deliver a better customer experience. In 2021, we launched a digital assistant
named Aepril. Aepril can be accessed through our website or IVR and offers an automated way to complete common
tasks. Paying their electric bill or setting up payment arrangements are a few examples of tasks customers can complete
without the assistance of a person.
Customer Perceptions
We are listening to our customers and using their insight to transform how we provide customer care. In 2020, we
expanded the feedback gathered through our Voice of the Customer Program and began proactively surveying
customers. These surveys assess our customers’ satisfaction with our service and brand including power quality,
communications, billing process and community involvement. Listening to our customers also helps us identify
opportunities to make it easier to do business with us.
For the first time, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) ranked
the highest among midsize utilities in the South in the J.D. Power 2020
Electric Utility Business Customer Satisfaction Study. SWEPCO scored
highest for power quality and reliability, billing and payment, and customer
contact. The J.D. Power study examines overall business customer
satisfaction across six factors: power quality and reliability; corporate
citizenship; price; billing and payment; communications; and customer
contact. This award demonstrates SWEPCO’s progress in advancing
technology, tools and communication to better provide our customers with an
excellent customer experience they deserve.
In addition, SWEPCO was presented an Emergency Response Award by the
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) for helping restore power following several large
storms in 2020. Emergency Response Awards recognize recovery and
assistance efforts by EEI member companies following service disruptions
caused by extreme weather or other natural events. During these storm
events, crews encountered all types of adverse weather and other conditions,
including flooding, high winds, extreme heat, varying terrains and dangerous
wildlife. Not only were these conditions challenging, crews had to navigate the
health and safety concerns of COVID-19.Our Social Media Center team play an important role in communicating
with our customers. In 2021, they had more than 21,000 one-on-one
conversations with customers and stakeholders.
Data and Analytics
Customer needs and behaviors are constantly changing. Data and analytics inform and help us respond to these changes.
In 2020, we implemented a speech-to-text program that converts customer calls into transcripts. By digitally analyzing
these transcripts, we hope to gain more information about why customers are calling and the issues they’re experiencing.
As we expand our digital channels we also are establishing robust monitoring to ensure our customers are completing
transactions with as little effort as possible. These metrics will provide insight into where we can offer additional self-
service capabilities, continue to match customer preferences and drive continuous improvement.
Social Media
Customers and other stakeholders frequently choose to
contact us through social media platforms. Our Social
Media Center team continues to positively shift customer
sentiment while protecting our brand. Customer Care
Specialists monitor social media seven days a week,
including holidays, so a customer who contacts us through
Twitter or Facebook receives a quick response, often within
minutes. We added Nextdoor to our channels of
engagement in 2020 as we continue to evaluate the best
platforms for interacting with customers.
Social media channels were important for communicating
about our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and our
support for customers and communities. We used our social
platforms to share information about policy changes, what
we were doing to keep customers and our employees safe,
and payment and assistance programs for customers who
were struggling. During 2020, we proactively shared more
than 1,800 COVID-related social media messages that had almost 170,000 engagements (likes, comments and shares).
Our service territory experienced three significant hurricanes, in addition to summer and winter storms in 2021, and our
Social Media Center team shared outage and safety information, while assisting customers who lost service. Our social
media professionals had more than 21,000 one-on-one conversations with customers and stakeholders in 2020, almost
double the previous year. Approximately 40 percent of those conversations were about outages, restoration estimates,
safety hazards and other storm-related topics. In addition, the Social Media Center provided creative and analytical
support to help operating companies effectively communicate with customers.
CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE & PAYMENT OPTIONS
Financial hardships can make it difficult for some of our customers to pay their energy bills. This past year was especially
difficult for many due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Government-sponsored energy assistance programs provided
approximately $92 million in federal and private energy assistance to our customers across our service territory in 2020 –
a 41% increase compared to 2019 – in response to the pandemic. Financial hardship was experienced across AEP’s
service territory as well, where the median income is 20% below the U.S. average and 96% of our customers live in
counties where the median income is below the national average.
In 2020, we received more than 24,200 pledges totaling more than $6.7 million in energy assistance from our self-serve
agency websites. The funding available to support our energy assistance programs comes from a variety of sources,
including the government, social service agencies and voluntary customer contributions. Income guidelines determine
eligibility.Throughout our service territory, we help
customers gain access to energy assistance.
Our success rests on building strong
partnerships with community action agencies,
community based organizations, faith-based
organizations and food banks.
For example, in 2020, Indiana Michigan
Power (I&M) provided customers with
information on income qualified energy
efficiency pilots, education regarding our Low
Income Customer and Senior Citizen
Discount Programs, education on customer
assistance programs including extended
payment arrangements, Energy Share, and
income qualified energy efficiency program updates. In addition, I&M made a $25,000 contribution to Southwest Michigan
Community Action Agency for Energy Share, which grants hardship assistance to help qualified customers with their bills.
Learn more about some of the energy assistance programs helping customers in our service territory:
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)
Appalachian Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
 add 
Light a Life Program
AEP Ohio: 
Emergency Rental Assistance Program
, 
Neighbor to Neighbor Program
, 
Ohio PIPP Plus
Kentucky Power: 
Home Energy Assistance in Reduce Temperatures program
, 
Temporary Heating Assistance in
Winter program
Indiana Michigan Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
, Energy Share
Public Service Company of Oklahoma: 
Light A Life Fund
Southwestern Electric Power Company: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
Flexible Payment Options
Our customers want simple and secure payment options through multiple digital channels. In response, we are continuing
to simplify the payment processes, including working with regulators to structure rates that absorb or recover credit card
fees. We also are implementing more flexible payment options, including pre-pay and basing required customer
payments on their previous year’s energy use.
We also provided billing and payment relief during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more about how AEP supported our
customers in the 
COVID-19 section
.
AEP Community Connections Reports
COMMUNITY
Giving back to our communities is
fundamental to our vision of powering a
brighter future. Through volunteerism and
corporate giving, we proudly support the
vibrancy and resilience of the communities
we serve – as an energy provider and a
system of community support. As 2020
brought many unexpected challenges, our
support of our local communities became a
lifeline for many. In 2020, AEP and the
American Electric Power Foundation
donated nearly $38.5 million to support more
than 1,200 community organizations.Supporting Our
Communities During
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic profoundly
impacted our customers and communities.
The AEP Foundation donated nearly $4
million in emergency funds to support basic
human needs during the pandemic. Grants
were made across our service territory to
nonprofit organizations addressing hardships
faced by customers and communities. As the
pandemic and its effects linger on, we will
continue to support our local communities
through direct financial support and employee
volunteerism. Learn more about our efforts to
support our employees, customers and
communities in the 
COVID-19 section
.
Social and Racial Justice
Grants
The social and racial unrest that swept across
the country led to a nationwide call for race education and awareness but also for dismantling barriers and policies that
contribute to systemic and structural racism. We are committed to fostering a culture where differences are valued and
recognized as a significant positive influence on our ability to serve our employees, customers, suppliers and other key
stakeholders. We want to match our desire to strengthen diversity, equity and inclusion in our local communities with
visible actions.
Beginning in 2021, we are expanding the AEP Foundation’s philanthropic scope through the creation of a 
Social and
Racial Justice grant program: “Delivering On the Dream.” The grants will play a pivotal role in addressing systemic racism
by directing funds to support non-profits that are focused on outcomes that enhance social and racial justice. This new $5
million, multi-year program will provide funding to local and national organizations with operations and/or active programs
within our footprint to embrace change and equity for neighbors of color, customers and employees. We also will
encourage employees to make personal commitments as allies and advocates and support events that create greater
collaboration within communities for equity and racial justice.
Investing in Education
In 2020, we made a significant portion of our philanthropic giving to education programs from pre-kindergarten through
higher education with a focus on science, technology, engineering and math. Focusing on STEM provides a pathway out
of poverty for urban and rural youth. Many 21st century jobs will require proficiency in STEM courses, and these jobs have
a high likelihood of delivering a living wage.
Credits Count
, the signature program of
the AEP Foundation, addresses the issues of
college preparedness and affordability for
underserved urban and rural students who
seek to explore STEM careers and gain
college credit toward a professional
credential or an associate’s degree while still
in high school. The Credits Count
 program,
funded by the AEP Foundation in partnership
with local community colleges and public
school districts, operates in all seven AEP
SM
SMoperating companies.
Since the program’s creation in 2014, the
AEP Foundation has committed nearly $16.7 million to the program across our service territory. The program supports
students through college readiness testing, middle school STEM exploration opportunities, summer and in-school support
to enhance science, math and language proficiency; tuition and materials, as well as earned credits toward college and
college scholarship awards for those who continue in a degree or credentialed field of study. We recently renewed our
program partnership with Columbus State Community College for another five years and will evaluate future funding with
our other current partners.
Nine Future Farmers of America (FFA) chapters in eastern Oklahoma are receiving a share of a $25,000 grant after
being named recipients of this year’s AEP Foundation FFA STEM After-School grants. These grants go to
programs that help advance agricultural education, foster innovation and inspire success. The AEP Foundation
recently announced a $200,000 grant to fund the grant program for another five years.
The AEP Foundation awarded the West Liberty University Foundation with a $25,000 grant to assist in its distance-
learning project. This project will greatly advance the school’s ability to provide distance-learning opportunities for
students and recruit faculty from a larger talent pool. Distance learning is critical due to the pandemic and the
necessity of remote instruction.
In January 2020, the AEP Foundation donated $100,000 to the Texarkana College Betty and Buddy Ludwell
Workforce Training Center. The funding will support the purchase of advanced manufacturing training equipment to
train students in electrical technology, instrumentation and industrial technology programs. Students trained on the
new equipment will develop applied skills for equipment that was previously taught in theory.
AEP supported hands-on STEM education for elementary through high school students with a total of $197,750 in
FIRST robotics grants to 152 teams in 10 states. FIRST is a global organization inspiring students to be science
and technology leaders through robotics competitions at various grade levels.
Supporting Basic Human Needs
Community organizations play a pivotal role
in enhancing the well-being of their citizens as
well as the social fabric of their communities.
These organizations provide assistance for
housing, food, education, skills training and
more. Community organizations help bridge
the gap between the potential of an individual
to be independent and the obstacles to
success that person might face. In 2020,
through corporate giving and the AEP
Foundation, we contributed nearly $5.5
million toward hunger, housing and food
insecurity.
In December 2020, Appalachian Power
donated $50,000 to food banks across West Virginia, Virginia and Tennessee. The donations helped 16 local food
banks and feeding centers provide food during the high-use winter season.
The AEP Foundation provided relief to Appalachian Power’s service area early in the pandemic through the
donation of $288,000 to food pantries and similar organizations, $73,000 to create free Wi-Fi hotspots at schools
and community centers, and $120,000 to United Way organizations to provide facemasks and other personal
protective equipment (PPE) to staff, volunteers and clients.
As part of a $375,000 five-year pledge to the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma’s Rural Produce
Program, the AEP Foundation on behalf of Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO), gave $75,000 in 2020 to
help provide fresh produce to customers living in rural areas.
After the restoration efforts of Hurricane Laura, utility crew base camps were demobilized leaving excess food
behind. SWEPCO sent truckloads of frozen foods and dry goods from these camps to help restock depleted food
supplies at the Natchitoches Parish Schools and the First United Pentecostal Church. 
SWEPCO made additional
donations to Northwest Louisiana food banks and a Central Louisiana sheriff’s office after Hurricane Delta.In 2020, Read to Me Day was transformed into a virtual event, with a
collection of 20 read-aloud videos created, to commemorate the 20th
year of the program.
The Power of Our People: Read to Me
Day Goes Virtual
In 2020, Appalachian Power marked the 20th anniversary of its
annual Read to Me Day event. Read to Me Day is an important
community event for Appalachian Power employees and in
2020 they found a creative way to ensure the 20th year of Read
to me Day was a success. The event usually involves
employees reading books in-person to students at more than
400 elementary schools in our West Virginia, Virginia and
Tennessee service territory. In 2020, Read to Me Day was
transformed into a virtual event, with a collection of 20 read-
aloud videos created, to commemorate the 20th year of the
program.
Schools received a Teacher’s Guide with links to each of the
20 videos. Teachers could show the videos in the classroom,
share them in virtual classes, or provide the links for the
students to access them on their own. Included with the guide was a copy of this year’s book for their school library, Hidden
Figures: The True Story of Four Black Women and the Space Race, by Margot Lee Shetterly.
In central Ohio, the Mid-Ohio Food Collective provides about 140,000 meals every day to help stabilize families,
connect hungry neighbors with community services and work with communities to address the root causes of
hunger. The COVID pandemic led to a 30% increase of people using their services for the first time. In 2020, the
AEP Foundation made grants to the Collective totaling more than $1.2 million, including a $100,000 grant for
emergency COVID relief. Additionally, the Foundation has committed $3 million to the agency’s three-year
Campaign to Re-Imagine Ending Hunger.
VOLUNTEERISM AT AEP
Supporting community projects and programs requires more than financial support. It requires time and labor to make
progress possible. Every year, AEP employees from around our service territory give their time, talent and financial
donations to a variety of organizations in the communities where we live and work. Our employees are a consistent force
making our communities stronger and better when times are good and when hardship strikes.
The AEP volunteer spirit prevailed even in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Employees from across the system
applied for and received AEP Making a Difference grants to help local nonprofit organizations in their service territory.
From Tulsa, Oklahoma to Pikeville, Kentucky, and points in between, 47 organizations received grants of up to $300
each. Teams of employee volunteers worked with the organizations to conduct virtual or COVID-safe back-to-school, food
and clothing drives, beautification projects and more.
In 2021, we will enhance our corporate-wide volunteer program with a more robust tracking tool to capture the good work
being done by our employees. We hope that the new tool will encourage employees to sign up for unique volunteer events
and significantly increase the time our employees spend volunteering to support their local communities.Awards & Recognition
Site Selection
 magazine named American Electric Power one of the nation’s Top Utilities in Economic Development.
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) recognized AEP’s National Customer Account team for its outstanding customer
service. Recognized for the past 11 years.
Indiana Michigan Power was inducted into the Indiana Manufacturers Association (IMA) Hall of Fame for outstanding
contributions to the development of a healthy, dynamic business environment in Indiana, and to the state’s overall
economic well-being.
ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Building strong, vibrant and sustainable communities
requires innovation, investment and collaboration with state,
regional and local business partners. AEP’s Economic &
Business Development (E&BD) team puts its expertise and
partnerships to work ensuring the economic vibrancy of our
communities. Economic development helps our
communities in several ways, including increasing the tax
base, job development, economic diversification and
capacity building for long-term sustainability. Through
training, education and financial support, we work to
strengthen the economic vitality of our communities to attract
jobs, which in turn, builds a stronger social safety net.
In 2020, the E&BD team facilitated, partnered with, and supported approximately 160 projects that will bring nearly 30,000
jobs across our 11-state service territory.
In recognition of the impacts from the pandemic, Appalachian Power donated $50,000 to local and regional economic
development organizations across its three-state service area. The funds were used to help organizations with expenses
related to enabling virtual meetings, online research and digital marketing.
Our National Customers team manages corporate relationships with many of our largest customers to provide customized
solutions to meet their energy needs. Support from this team became especially important during the COVID-19
pandemic. In 2020, we hosted webinars for our commercial and industrial (C&I) customers and personally reached out on
a regular basis to discuss their concerns and payment strategies.
Growing Businesses & Powering Economies
For more than a century, AEP has provided comprehensive support for businesses relocating or expanding in the AEP
region. This includes custom market analysis; property searches; advising them on incentives, and infrastructure and
energy solutions; as well as access to our network of local economic development partners and industry resources. 
Learn
more about this program
 and the location of quality sites in AEP’s service territory.
Beyond current customers, we proactively identify and manage business relationships with prospective customers in
target industries, both domestic and foreign domestic investment (FDI) across the AEP system. This effort can be a key
resource for capital, job creation and innovation.
In 2020, INOX Market Service, an Italian stainless steel processing company, announced plans to build a $15 million
headquarters in Muncie, Indiana. INOX’s nearly 140,000-square-foot facility will bring more than 100 jobs to ourFor more than a century, AEP has provided comprehensive support for
businesses relocating or expanding in the AEP region.
community. The announcement capped a years-long effort by our E&BD team, who had been providing the company with
attractive sites in Muncie. To close the deal, we offered INOX an Economic Development Rider credit.
Identifying New Business Opportunities
We actively support industries experiencing high growth
while also focusing on new business development
opportunities. Two recent initiatives focus on supporting
supply chain resiliency and indoor agriculture.
The shortage of personal protective equipment and other
essential items during the global pandemic exposed the
fragility of global supply chains. The potential for logistics
challenges from trade conflicts and other supply chain
disruptions is shifting the industry’s focus from cost cutting
and efficiency to diversification and resiliency. In addition,
rising global energy, labor and transportation costs makes
domestic manufacturing and sourcing competitive and
attractive. President Biden and his Administration’s
executive orders on “Made in America”, along with an
increased focus on environmental, social and governance
(ESG) issues contribute to companies evaluating the
impacts of overseas sourcing and production. The expansion of manufacturing in the U.S. is a growing opportunity for
economic development in our communities.
In response, our E&BD team is leading a strategic initiative centered on supporting U.S. manufacturing. Through this
initiative, we are targeting existing AEP customers and suppliers, as well as potential new-to-AEP customers that may be
considering shifting some or all of their overseas production to the U.S. and/or may be seeking more domestic U.S.
sources for their supply chains. We joined two key reshoring organizations that specifically work with companies to
analyze the cost advantages of domestic U.S. production and sourcing.
As part of the initiative, we are assessing our own internal supply chain for opportunities to buy local and expand supplier
diversification. Bringing manufacturing opportunities to our local communities could help revitalize some of our most
economically challenged areas – creating jobs, taxes and economic vitality.
Traditional farming has also been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Border closures, quarantines and supply chain
disruptions accelerated issues of food insecurity and logistical challenges of transporting critical food supplies over long
distances. One way this is being addressed is through indoor agriculture - indoor facilities that grow produce using a
combination of electric lighting, HVAC equipment, technology and building controls. Indoor agriculture has numerous
environmental benefits, can produce higher food yields, is climate and weather resistant, and can help address food
insecurity in underserved areas. It also opens up opportunities for electric utilities to play a key role in site location, electric
load growth and load-shifting flexibility, energy management, and rebates and incentives.
Our E&BD team has focused on assisting key players in the indoor and alternative agriculture space for several years.
One community in our Appalachian Power territory will benefit from the world’s largest vertically integrated indoor
aquaculture facility. Located on the boundary of Tazewell and Russell counties in Southwest Virginia, this $228 million
facility will have a significant impact on the economic vitality of the region, which was negatively impacted by the closure of
coal-fueled power plants and mining facilities.
The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) is leading an indoor agriculture investment study to gain insights on
operational models’ impacts, the impacts of weather conditions and resource consumption, and how facilities can affect
grid operations and support sustainability. Through this study, EPRI is deploying 320-square-foot container farms around
the country. AEP Ohio, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company are
participating in the pilot at three locations. AEP’s E&BD team is leveraging their Geographic Information System (GIS)
mapping to identify and inform location decisions. The insights will be invaluable as we look to prepare our infrastructure
and local economies to support this new growth opportunity.Supporting the Federal Sector
The federal government and the armed forces are an important customer segment and growth area for AEP. We provide
electric service through our regulated utilities to over 3,500 federal accounts. Our team works to help our federal and
military customers meet their sustainability and resiliency goals, including those required by law and executive orders. The
federal government has a comprehensive framework that calls for using resources more efficiently and acquiring more
energy from renewable resources.
In 2020, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) signed a 30-year lease with the Army to install an energy resilience
project on approximately 81 acres at Fort Sill, located near Lawton, Oklahoma. If approved by the Oklahoma Corporation
Commission, the $117.9 million project will include the construction of 36 megawatts (MW) of gas-fired electric generation
and 10.9 MW of solar panels. This project adds more clean energy to the power grid, improves the safety and security of
grid modernization efforts, and increases energy supply diversity. The new natural gas units will provide greater resiliency
and reduce service disruptions for customers. The project will also help balance the system as PSO integrates more
intermittent renewables into its generation fleet.
In February 2020, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO), along with its Energy Service Company (ESCO)
partner was awarded a Utility Energy Service Contract (UESC) for Red River Army Depot (RRAD). SWEPCO will provide
RRAD with comprehensive energy and water efficiency improvements and demand reduction services. This UESC
project has the potential to encompass a broad range of energy conservation measures, including system upgrades and
recommissioning, deep retrofit projects, renewable energy, cogeneration plants and microgrids.
Supporting a Just Transition
Our E&BD team plays a significant role in the Just
Transition and revitalization of some of the hardest hit
communities impacted by fossil-fuel plant closures. As we
shift from fossil-based electricity to cleaner resources such
as wind and solar, there are human and economic impacts
including loss of jobs at the plants and in the broader
economy; loss of taxes that support public services,
including education; and decreased economic activity that is
supported by the plant’s ecosystem.
We have long embraced our responsibility to support our
workers and our communities and help them acquire and
find new skills, new industries and new partnerships that
enable them to diversify, thrive and be resilient. Our E&BD team is activated early, often years ahead of a planned
retirement. This gives us the time to assess options and scout the area for other developable properties in or near the
impacted communities that may be more marketable than the plant site itself. At the same time, we provide resources
such as grants and research, including workforce analysis. Learn more in the Just Transition section of our 
Climate Impact
Analysis Report
.ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE DATA
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear, accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. AEP's ESG Data Center reflects our commitment to transparency by proactively sharing data and information
about our sustainability goals, strategy and environmental, social and governance performance. This demonstrates that
we are listening to our stakeholders and addressing issues that are most relevant for our business.
We also map our sustainability performance to several frameworks, including: TCFD, SASB, CDP and GRI Reports.
ESG Reports
The metrics and data points for the ESG Data Center are gathered from several sources, including GRI, CDP and EEI
ESG/Sustainability Report. The quality control and assurance process for the data center differs from that of the 2020 Corporate
Accountability Report, and is not included in the scope of the internal audit process. 
ESG Data Center
ESG Data
ESG Data Glossary
Energy
Owned Generation Capacity (MW)
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity (MW)
25,447
25,490
25,490
Coal
14,056
13,230
13,230
Natural Gas
7,809
7,678
7,678
Nuclear
2,278
2,288
2,288
Total Renewable Energy Resources
1,304
2,294
2,294
Hydroelectric
853
853
853
Solar
190
229
229
Wind
261
1,212
1,212
Other Renewable
0
0
0
 Owned Net Generation (MWh)
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Owned Net Generation
95,667,918
86,252,164
76,459,982
Coal
63,001,348
52,275,888
38,184,607
Natural Gas
13,318,616
13,953,693
14,175,228
Nuclear
17,610,815
16,157,850
18,268,937
Total Renewable Energy Resources
1,737,139
3,864,733
5,831,210
Hydroelectric
871,669
843,360
1,121,235
Solar
273,057
249,440
535,200
Wind
592,413
2,771,933
4,174,775
Other Renewable
0
0
0
 
Purchased Net Generation 
(MWh)
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Purchased Generation
9,985,177
9,600,414
9,302,687
Coal
0
0
0
Natural Gas
0
0
0
Nuclear
0
0
0
Total Renewable Energy Resources
9,985,177
9,600,414
9,302,687
Hydroelectric
288,990
174,893
234,869
Solar
13,048
12,512
11,825
Wind
9,683,139
9,413,009
9,055,993
Other Renewable
0
0
0 
Total Net Generation (MWh)
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Net Generation for the Data Year
105,653,095
95,852,578
85,762,669
Coal
63,001,348
52,275,888
38,184,607
Natural Gas
13,318,616
13,953,693
14,175,228
Nuclear
17,610,815
16,157,850
18,268,937
Total Renewable Generation
11,722,316
13,465,147
15,133,897
Hydro
1,160,659
1,018,253
1,356,104
Solar
286,105
261,952
547,025
Wind
10,275,552
12,184,942
13,230,768
Other Renewable
0
0
0
 
Facility Energy Performance
 
2018
2019
2020
Facility energy consumption (KWh)
151,853,197
135,853,591
125,005,335
Emissions
Scope 1 Emissions Breakdown
 
2018
2019
2020
CO
 (MT)
78,058,873
58,447,520
44,369,322
SO
 (Lbs)
137,291,386
104,466,589
65,521,727
SO
 (MT)
62,274
47,385
29,720
2
2
2NO
 (Lbs)
99,830,243
78,809,057
52,889,173
NO
 (MT)
45,282
35,747
23,990
Mercury (Lbs)
395
311
195
Mercury (kg)
179
141
89
 
Scope 1 Emissions GHG CO
e
 
2018
2019
2020
CO
 (MT)
74,661,649
64,157,262
48,807,820
CH
 (MT CO
e)
225,741
190,755
141,581
N
O (MT CO
e)
310,447
262,141
194,305
SF
 (MT CO
e)
163,408
166,149
127,667
Water
Total Water Withdrawal
* Beginning in 2020 total water withdrawal includes surface, ground, municipal and grey water sources (Comanche Plant)
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons per day)
4,178.13
3,985.25
4,019.68
Total Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/ year)
1,526,912
1,454,614
1,471,202
Total Water Withdrawal (Billions of Liters/year)
5,773
5,506
5,569
Total Water Withdrawal (Millions of m3/year)
5,773
5,506
5,569
 
Water Withdrawal by Source Breakdown
 
2018
2019
2020
Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons per day) 
Excludes groundwater,
municipal and Comanche Plant
4,171.74
3,979.37
4,014.89
x
x
2
2
4
2
2
2
6
2Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/ year) 
Excludes groundwater,
municipal and Comanche Plant
1,524,579
1,452,470
1,469,450
Surface Water Withdrawal (m3/year) 
Excludes groundwater, municipal and
Comanche Plant
5,763,987,404
5,498,194,652
5,562,475,449
Groundwater (m3/year)
7,306,941
6,984,231
5,474,566
Other (m3/year) 
Represents Comanche Plant withdrawal
1,525,092
1,138,772
1,156,019
 
Water Discharge
Water discharge data is derived from plant water balance diagrams and water withdrawal information. All water discharge
represents surface water discharge.
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons per day)
4,065
3,881
3,900
Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons/ year)
1,483,816
1,416,383
1,427,571
Total Water Discharge (Billions of Liters/year)
5,617
5,362
5,404
Total Water Discharge (m3/year)
5,616,852,871
5,361,588,479
5,403,941,000
 
Water Consumption
All water consumption is freshwater. Water consumption data is derived from plant water balance diagrams and water withdrawal
information.
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons per day)
132.06
121.18
140.45
Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons/ year)
48,202
44,230
51,405
Total Water Consumption (billions of Liters/year)
182
167
195
Total Water Consumption (m3/year)
182,463,954
167,428,676
194,589,711
 Water Intensity
Water intensity data is an average value across our steam electric system. AEP does not include renewable MWhs in intensity
metrics because water is not used in the renewable energy process. Plants that AEP only has partial ownership are also excluded
as AEP does not control the way they operate.
 
2018
2019
2020
Consumptive Water use intensity (gallons/Net MWh)
579
739
991
Consumptive Water use intensity (Billions of liters/Net MWh)
0.0000022
0.0000028
0.00000375
Non- Consumptive Water use intensity (gallons/Net MWh)
55,718.00
58,350.06
41,526.00
Non- Consumptive Water use intensity (Billions of liters/Net MWh)
0.00021
0.00022
0.00016
Waste
Facility Waste Generation
Waste data does not include waste streams from competitive portion of business
 
2018
2019
2020
Recycled Paper and Office Waste (Lbs)
382,000
159,300
67,581
Recycled Scrap Metal Waste (Lbs)
50,500,000
28,950,000
87,031,171
Batteries Recycled (Lbs)
216,000
169,000
171,545
Electronic Waste Recycled( Lbs)
234,000
430,000
28,183
Light Bulbs Recycled (Lbs)
40,200
44,500
26,727
Recycled used Oil (Gallons)
400,500
725,500
273,994
 
Coal Combustion Products
 
2018
2019
2020
Total CCPs Generated (Tons)
4,846,451
4,123,466
2,908,761
Total CCPs Diverted from Landfill (Tons)
1,865,401
1,593,164
1,019,205Total CCP Diverted from Landfill Percent
38%
39%
35%
Biodiversity
 
2018
2019
2020
Total acres of habitat protected, enhanced or restored that supports natural habitat and biodiversity
as required for mitigation 
Habitat protected or restored as required by regulation includes wetland
and riparian habitat mitigations to meet Corps requirements, Habitat Conservation Plans to meet
USFWS requirements, New Source Review Consent Decree Projects pursuant to a consent decree,
and the protection/enhancement of hydroelectric project shorelines and reservoirs to meet FERC
requirements.
/
/
28,520
Total acres of habitat protected, enhanced or restored that supports natural habitat and biodiversity
voluntarily 
Voluntary protections include conservation areas set aside to protect unique habitats,
property donations to wildlife management and other organizations, land sales to conservation
organizations, enhancement of cooling water reservoirs to create fish habitat, the reforestation of
mine lands and vegetation restoration beyond regulatory requirements, and the establishment of tree
plantations.
/
/
251,663
Economic
Financial Data
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Revenue
$16.2 Billion
$15.56 Billion
$14.92 Billion
Total Assets
$68.8 Billion
$75.9 Billion
$80.8 Billion
Total Annual Capital Expenditures/investments (nominal dollars)
$5,964 Million
$7,567 Million
$5,893 Million
 
Taxes Paid
 
2018
2019
2020
Local and State
$1,166 Million
$1,220 Million
$1,303 Million
Federal
$80 Million
$118 Million
$70 Million
 
Earnings Performance 
2018
2019
2020
Earnings per Share (GAAP)
$3.90
$3.89
$4.44
Operating Earnings per Share
$3.95
$4.24
$4.44
Cash Dividends per Common Share
$2.53
$2.71
$2.84
 
Financial Disclosures
 
2018
2019
2020
AEP 10K Report Links (by year released)
2018 Report
2019 Report
2020 Report
Customer
Customers
 
2018
2019
2020
Residential
4,649,514
4,661,713
4,709,111
Commerical
709,606
712,800
721,900
Industrial
47,957
47,676
46,576
Other
30,304
30,177
30,183
Total
5,437,381
5,452,366
5,507,770
 
Customer Energy Efficiency Programs and Smart Meters
 
2018
2019
2020
Percent of total Electric Customers with smart meters
47%
56%
67%
Total Investment in Energy Efficiency Programs
/
$161,000,000
$150,299,080
Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from Energy Efficiency Measures (MWh)
1,022,257
1,098,444
1,148,334
Annual Demand Savings (MW)
273
302
320Avoided CO
 Emissions (MT)
525,189
527,212
477,475
Number of residential customers that participate in Energy Efficiency Programs
/
/
1,034,389
 
Customer Disconnects
Credit related service terminations were suspended during a portion of the year due to COVID-19 mitigation. This activity was
initiated again in some areas in a limited manner.
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Number of Customer Disconnects
/
487,943
265,204
Total Number of reconnects within 7 days
/
381,968
206,391
Total Number of residential Customer Disconnects
/
/
252,456
Residential Reconnects within 7 Days
/
/
197,963
 
Customer Assistance
 
2018
2019
2020
Number of residential customers participating in an energy affordability program
401,280
428,057
580,182
Energy Assistance Funds Provided to Low-Income Customers 
2020 data shows a
41% increase in government-sponsored energy assistance programs compared
to 2019 – in response to the pandemic.
$56.3
Million
$64.9 Million
$91.7 Million
Number of Agency Pledges made Online
/
27,221
24,286
Amount contributed to Agency Pledges for Energy Assistance
/
~$6.6 Million
~$6.7 Million
Grid Reliability
Grid Overview
 
2018
2019
2020
Transmission Lines
~40,000
~
40,000
~ 40,000
2Distribution Lines
~220,000
~
221,000
~223,000
 
Reliability
 
2018
2019
2020
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) (Minutes) 
Includes major storm events
256.60
228.80
231.80
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) - Number of interruptions 
Includes
major storm events
1.53
1.41
1.47
Customer Average Interruption Duration index (CAIDI) (Minutes) 
Includes major storm events
167.70
162.80
158.00
Customer Average Interruption Frequency (CAIFI) (Minutes) 
Includes major storm events
2.16
2.00
2.19
Average System Availability Index (ASAI)
99.95%
99.96%
99.96%
Community Impact
Economic and Business Development
 
2018
2019
2020
Economic Development Contributions
$1,323,038
$2,597,874
$1,901,036
Jobs Supported by AEP's Economic and business Development
14,700
21,000
29,808
Amount Spent on Employee Wages
$2.3 Billion
$1.9 Billion
$1.8 Billion
 
Charitable Giving
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Charitable Giving
$25.5 Million
$29.6 Million
$38.5 Million
Percent of Charitable Giving by area of Focus
Education
32%
31%
32%
Community
17%
19%
14%Hunger and Housing
12%
14%
14%
Safety and Health
11%
13%
11%
Arts and Culture
7%
6%
7%
Youth
9%
5%
4%
Covid-19
/
/
10%
Other
12%
11%
8%
Workforce
Employee Type
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Number of Employees
17,565
17,487
16,864
Number of full-time Employees
17,537
17,458
16,840
Number of part-time Employees
28
29
24
Total Number of Represented Employees
4,417
4,133
4,015
Total Number of Veteran Employees
1,814
1,742
1,706
Percent of Veteran Employees
10%
10%
10%
Total number of Professionals
5,598
5,743
5,600
Total number of Officials and Managers
3,288
3,326
3,175
Total number of executive/senior level officials
225
234
232
 
Employee Training and Education Assistance
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Hours of Employee Training (Hours) 
In 2020, we experienced lower than normal
training hours due to reduced in-person, instructor-led training due to COVID-19 safety
protocols. In addition, we transitioned to virtual training where possible, which often
requires less time to complete.
1,007,153
1,130,628
775,500Amount spent on Tuition Reimbursement
2,043,839
2,063,794
2,042,634
Total number of career development advancements
1,241
1,227
787
Percent of workforce receiving Career Development Reviews
/
70.38%
71.66%
 
Workforce Planning
 
2018
2019
2020
Planned Employee Leave or Retirement over the next 5 years
3,859
4,533
4,275
Employee Turnover Rate
6.80%
8.68%
8.56%
Total Transmission and Distribution Apprentices
/
/
804
Total co-op students, interns and high school interns
/
/
50
 
Workforce Demographics
 
2018
2019
2020
Traditionalists (1945 and Before)
<1%
<1%
<1%
Baby Boomers (1946-1964)
36%
31%
27%
Generation X (1965-1980)
35%
36%
37%
Millennials (1981-1996)
28%
32%
34%
Generation Z (1997 and Beyond)
<1%
<1%
1%
Safety & Health
Employee Metrics
 
2018
2019
2020
Employee DART Rate
0.393
0.4120
0.310Total Employee Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
0.672
0.673
0.576
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
0.310
0.329
0.245
Employee Severity Rate
17.568
22.719
15.284
Total Employee OSHA Recordable Events
/
129
106
Employee Fatalities
1
1
0
 
Contractor Metrics
AEP Contractors includes Forestry
 
2018
2019
2020
Contractor DART Rate
0.507
0.544
0.410
Total Contractor Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
/
/
0.927
Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
/
/
0.246
Total Contractor OSHA Recordable Events
/
225
147
 
Employee and Contractor Metrics
AEP Contractors includes Forestry
 
2018
2019
2020
Employee and Contractor DART Rate
0.446
0.477
0.356
Combined Employee & Contractor DART Events
161
178
122
Public Metrics
 
2018
2019
2020
Public Fatalities due to electrical contacts
6
4
2
 Diversity & Inclusion
Workforce Diversity
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Female Employees
3,409
3,454
3,325
Total percent of Female Employees
19%
20%
20%
Number of Female Professionals
1,503
1,578
1,535
Number of Female Officials and Managers
494
543
538
Number of Female employees in an Executive/Senior level position
36
40
44
Percent of workforce receiving Career Development Reviews for female employees
/
/
90%
Number of development advancements for female employees
288
250
175
Total Minority Employees
3,127
3,233
3,187
Total percent of minority Employees
18%
18%
19%
Number of Minority Professionals
1,062
1,128
1,140
Number of Minority Officials and Managers
384
419
419
Number of Minority employees in an Executive/Senior level position
22
25
28
Number of development advancements for minority employees
192
244
156
 
Supplier Diversity
 
2018
2019
2020
Total Supplier Spend (Billions)
$6.9
Billion
$6.8
Billion
$6.5
Billion
Diverse Supplier Spend (Millions)
$365
Million
$401
Million
$653
Million
"Local Based Supplier Spend (Billions) *The term “locally” is used to describe businesses
registered in the traditional 11 states in which AEP operates."
$3.4
Billion
$3.3
Billion
$3.4
BillionSmall Business Supplier Spend (Millions)
$971
Million
$882
Million
$993
Million
Percentage of total corporate spend on Locally based suppliers (as a percent of total spend)
48%
49%
53%
Percent procurement spend on goods and services on diverse suppliers (as a percent of total
managed spend)
6.30%
7.40%
10.17%
percentage total corporate spend on goods and services from small businesses (as a percent of
total spend)
14%
13%
15%
Governance
Governance Overview
2021 data as of April 20, 2021- post annual meeting
 
2018
2019
2020
2021
Board Meetings Held
7
7
7
7
Average Board attendance
98%
97%
97%
100%
Total number on the Board of Directors
12
13
13
12
Number of independent Directors
11
12
12
11
Independent CEO and Lead Director
no
no
no
no
 
Director Gender
 
2018
2019
2020
2021
Men
9
9
9
8
Woman
3
4
4
4
 
Director Age
 
2018
2019
2020
2021
50s
2
2
3
360s
8
9
6
7
70s
2
2
4
2
Board Average Age
64
65
66
64
 
Director Tenure
 
2018
2019
2020
2021
0-5 years
4
4
2
3
6-10 years
4
4
7
6
11-15 years
4
4
4
3
Average years of Tenure
8
9
8
8
 
Director Ethnic Diversity
 
2018
2019
2020
2021
White
10
11
11
9
Hispanic
1
1
2
2
African American
0
1
0
1
Other
0
0
0
0
Governance Disclosures
Proxy Statement
AEP's Principles of Corporate Governance
AEP Director Independence Standards
AEP Bylaws
AEP's Certificate of Incorporation
AEP Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Criteria for Evaluating Directors
AEP Principles of Business Conduct
AEP Supplier Code of Conduct
Facts about AEP's Board
AEP Political Engagement Policy
AEP Anti-Corruption Policy
Consideration of Candidates for Director Recommended by Shareholders
Board Policy on Recouping Executive CompensationRelated person Transaction Approval Policy
Policy and Disclosures
Publicly Available Policies and Disclosures
Anti-Corruption Policy
AEP Political Engagement Policy
AEP's Insider Trading Policy
Related Person Transaction Approval Policy
Environment, Safety and Health Policy
AEP's Annual Report of Corporate Political & Social Welfare Organization Contributions and Trade Association
Lobbying
Internal Policies
Sexual Harassment Policy
Anti-Discrimination Policy
Safety & Health Policy
AEP's PII Data Privacy Protection Policy
AEP's Prohibition Against Pornography and Offensive Material Policy
AEP's Anti Fraud Policy
AEP's Whistle Blower Protection Policy
To help ensure employee safety and security, many AEP policies are internal policies only. All employees have access to
all policies through the AEP intranet database.
Sustainability Disclosures
GRI
CDP Water
CDP Climate
TCFD
SASB Report
Supply Chain Management
ESG Strategy and Performance Report
EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP Sustainability Goals
ABOUT THIS REPORT
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear, accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. AEP’s Corporate Accountability Report (CAR) reflects our commitment to transparency by proactively sharing
data and information about our sustainability goals, strategy and ESG performance. This demonstrates that we are
listening to our stakeholders and addressing issues that are most relevant for our business.
AEP’s 2021 Corporate Accountability Report marks our 12th integrated report and 15th year of reporting on our ESG
performance. This report gives a comprehensive view of AEP’s progress as a business and community partner to build a
brighter future together. It reflects our longstanding commitment to transparency and is an exceptional representation of
our past performance and future strategy.STATEMENT OF AEP’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AEP Management and the Board of Directors recognize the role of environment, social and governance (ESG)
performance in creating long-term value for our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are committed to engagement
as well as transparent disclosure on ESG issues. The Board receives frequent reports from management about the
company’s sustainability initiatives and financial reporting, policy matters and ESG performance. These issues are the
subject of active discussion at Board meetings and Board committee meetings.
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s ESG/sustainability initiatives to the
Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance (the Committee). The 2021 Corporate Accountability Report
integrates financial with ESG/sustainability reporting to provide a comprehensive view of AEP’s forward-looking strategic
commitment to the environment, employees, shareholders and the communities that it serves as well as a transparent
review of its performance in these commonly recognized measures of ESG performance. Stakeholders have expressed
support and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting, as well as the
company’s commitment to transparency and engagement. The Committee fully supports this approach.
The 2021 Corporate Accountability Report provides enhanced, proactive disclosure for our stakeholders. To ensure
statements are appropriately stated, AEP’s internal Audit Services team performs a limited review of selected company
performance statements within the Corporate Accountability Report. This year’s Report includes the company’s ESG
Data Center, which houses approximately 250 of the most relevant metrics AEP is commonly asked to disclose; AEP’s
Climate Impact Analysis Report – a report reflecting the TCFD framework; and a new ESG Report that compiles AEP’s
ESG strategy and materiality assessment, and disclosures consistent with SASB and GRI standards. This provides
enhanced, proactive disclosure for investors and other stakeholders.
The 2021 Corporate Accountability Report also provides comprehensive disclosure about AEP’s response to the
unprecedented events of 2020, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the racial and social justice issues that
reverberated across the nation. This includes the company’s efforts to support its employees, customers and
communities. In addition, the Report outlines AEP’s financial and operational performance, while providing a forward look
of the company’s strategy to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
The Committee believes the 2021 Corporate Accountability Report provides a clear presentation of AEP’s strategy and
ESG performance. The Board has emphasized that management will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing
the company’s strategic plan, including its ability to respond to changing circumstances as we have seen with the events
of 2020.
Sandra Beach Lin
Chair of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
Stephen Rasmussen
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors
2021 AUDIT STATEMENT
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of selected company performance statements within the 2021 AEP
Corporate Accountability Report that were deemed to have reputational, financial, or compliance aspects. Financial
information was reconciled with AEP's audited financial statements and other sources as deemed appropriate.Nonfinancial statements were substantiated with press releases, internal communications, or source data from the
business units. Forward-looking information was verified as consistent with public information disclosed by AEP.
Based upon our limited review, we believe the performance information contained within the report is appropriately stated,
and that the processes followed in accumulating the financial and nonfinancial information were reasonable.
Andrew Reis
Vice President Audit Services
May 13, 2021
AEP'S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
AEP’s sustainability goals are aligned with
our corporate strategy and Strategic
Framework for Sustainable
Development. In addition, they map to the
United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), demonstrating the
contributions AEP is making to create shared
value for our customers, communities,
investors and our company.
Since we last set these goals in 2018, the world has changed dramatically. We are living through a global pandemic;
social and racial inequities have prompted a demand to end systemic racism; technology is advancing; the future of where
and how we do our work is evolving; and, we have significantly moved our clean energy strategy forward by growing our
renewable energy portfolio and setting a net-zero carbon goal for 2050.
As a result, we will refresh our sustainability goals in the near future to reflect our future strategy. We committed to annual
updates on our progress, as demonstrated by this report, however, some targets have been refined where appropriate to
better reflect the changing landscape.
AEP’S Strategy for Sustainable Development
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure that the production and delivery of energy enables positive social and
economic change for our customers, employees and communities as we collaboratively shape our future. We are
grounded by our culture of safety, continuous improvement and customer focus. We commit to aggressively support
economic development, develop innovative solutions, champion education and make smart infrastructure investments that
power our communities and improve lives. AEP will lead by example by setting strategic performance targets and goals,
and we will be guided by these key principles:
BE A CATALYST FOR CHANGE
 – We use our knowledge, voice, skills and relationships to enable innovation,
bring new technologies to market, modernize the grid to optimize all resources and technologies, and develop a
diverse, inclusive workforce for the 21st century.
ADVANCE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
 – We continuously seek to improve operations across our
business to reduce, mitigate or eliminate the resulting impacts on the environment. We are committed to reducing
our carbon footprint.
HELP TO BUILD STRONG LOCAL COMMUNITIES
 – Create shared value for our customers, employees and the
communities we serve. Through philanthropy, we support basic human needs, including affordable housing and food
security. Through our economic development activities, we help our communities to be sustainable by expanding
economic opportunities.
DEVELOP A BRIGHTER ENERGY FUTURE
 – Work with our customers and communities to define and develop
2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
UPDATE
Download Reporta clean energy future, giving them choices and timely information while providing safe, reliable, affordable electricity.
ESG STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE REPORT
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear, accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. We have been reporting on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance for 15 years through
AEP’s Corporate Accountability Report (CAR), which serves as the foundation for our sustainability disclosure. The 2021
ESG Strategy & Performance Report serves as a supplemental report to the CAR, demonstrating our commitment to
reporting on our progress towards a responsible and sustainable energy future.
This report includes AEP’s ESG strategy, governance structure, stakeholder engagement efforts, materiality assessment
and ESG awards and recognition. In addition, it comprises of our ESG Data Center, which includes a three-year trend on
250+ of the most requested ESG metrics; our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) report; GRI Report; and
access to our Climate Impact Analysis Report – a TCFD report.
2021 ESG Strategy & Performance Report
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
This year marks AEP’s second year mapping our disclosure to the SASB Standards for Electric Utilities & Power
Generators. Our response reflects year-end 2020 performance. Our SASB report is mapped to our comprehensive 2021
Corporate Accountability Report and ESG Data Center – which serves as our foundation for all sustainability and ESG-
related reporting.
AEP's 2021 SASB Report
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
AEP's 
Climate Impact Analysis Report
 is aligned with the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
framework, including the scenario modeling and analysis. This provides a comprehensive view of our business and the
potential risks and opportunities created by climate change, as well as strategies for managing them.
Customer Emissions Report
American Electric Power is excited to announce the launch of the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) Electric Company
Carbon Emissions and Electricity Mix Reporting Template for Customers. This template was created in collaboration
between EEI member electric utility companies, corporate customers, World Resource Institute and EEI. The purpose of
this effort is to provide customers with consistent, timely and relevant data that customer can then use for their reporting
efforts or strategy development. EEI’s template provides the following quantitative and qualitative information for 2018 and
2019 year data:
Electricity delivered by operating company (MWh)
Carbon Emissions Intensity Rates (lbs CO
/MWh)
Utility Average
Utility Specific Residual Mix
Resource Mix (%)
Third-party certification/verification.
Qualitative narrative describing reported carbon emissions, resource mix, and clean energy goals.
Notes section for electric companies to disclose whether and how RECs are accounted for in the emission intensity
rates.
Customers can 
access the template here
, which also includes instructions and details about the template.
2
EEI ESG/Sustainability ReportEEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP participates in an EEI-led ESG/Sustainability Committee, composed of electric utilities and financial industry
specialists. The effort encourages voluntary reporting of ESG/sustainability information in both quantitative and qualitative
formats; it was the first industry-focused and investor-driven ESG reporting framework. AEP is a founding member of this
group and issues this report every year.
AEP’s 2020 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
GRI Report
AEP’s 2021 Corporate Accountability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Option and
reflects data for the 2020 performance year. All Standards below are based on the most recent set of GRI Standards
published. AEP discloses additional information through the GRI Electric Utility Sector Supplement, providing industry-
specific information.
The GRI Standards are a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as a basis for
sustainability reporting. AEP uses the GRI Framework as a supplement to our Corporate Accountability Report (CAR),
providing additional detail on data and programs that are relevant to stakeholders but not necessarily covered in the CAR.
For this reason, many of the GRI Standard are linked to sections of the CAR as a response along with other annual
financial company-wide disclosure documents. Links to other AEP websites and company documents are also used to
support our responses. For those Standards not supported by the CAR or other company websites and document, the
detail is contained within the appendix section of this report.
AEP's 2021 GRI Report
CDP Reports
AEP’s commitment to transparency includes responding annually to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
surveys on carbon, water and supply chain. We have been reporting to CDP for almost a decade on the carbon survey
and have participated in the water survey since it began. These surveys are important to our stakeholders, particularly
investors.
2020:
CDP Climate Report – AEP’s 2020 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Report – AEP’s 2020 Response
 (PDF)
ESG AWARDS & RECOGNITION
Forbes JUST 100
AEP has been named to the 
Forbes JUST 100 2021 list
, which recognizes companies that
set the standard in commitment to their stakeholders. AEP earned the top spot for utilities
and was the highest ranked utility in the “Workers” category.
The JUST 100 is a list of America’s best corporate citizens. Forbes partnered with JUST
Capital to assess 1,000 of the nation’s largest publicly traded companies and evaluated
their treatment of workers and customers, community support, environmental impact and
long-term value to shareholders.
This year, JUST Capital expanded its methodology to include COVID-19 policies andresponse. The new analysis includes hourly wages increases, paid sick leave, payment
deferrals for customers, donations to support community relief and other data points. The
ranking recognizes companies’ commitment to transparency on these issues.
CRReporting Award
AEP’s 2019 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report for Investors received the 2020 CR Reporting
Award (CRRA’ 20) second runner-up for the Best Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG) Report by 
CorporateRegister.com
.
AEP’s report was among 152 entries across 11 categories. The awards recognize the
very best in corporate sustainability reporting and are the world’s only independent global
annual awards in this field.
AEP is a founding member of the EEI-led ESG/Sustainability Report steering committee,
which developed the voluntary ESG template in collaboration with a group of investors and third-party research
organizations.
Sustainable Tulsa
For the second year in a row, 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
 (PSO) was
recognized for its sustainability efforts achieving gold level certification by Scor3card.
Scor3card is an online sustainability tracking and assessment tool for organizations that
want to track and improve their sustainability plans. Administered through Sustainable
Tulsa, the Scor3card program sets a rigorous standard for sustainable activities that focus
on engaging organizations around three areas of sustainability: people, profit and planet.© 2021 American Electric Power.