2020
 Corporate Accountability Report
MOVING FORWARD
TOGETHER FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE
TOGETHER FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE
TOGETHER, OUR ENERGY AND FUTURE ARE TRULY BOUNDLESS
At AEP, we never have been more certain of our responsibility to a sustainable future for our customers, communities and
employees. We will continue to take steps to reduce our carbon footprint, to empower customers and to value and
develop our workforce. Together, our energy and future are truly boundless.
2020 Corporate
Accountability Report
Build your own PDF Report
A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
“At AEP, we know the basic needs of our customers are constant and simple – reliable, safe, secure
and affordable electricity. We take to heart our responsibility to help meet those needs every day,
regardless of what is happening in the world around us. As we recover from the challenges created
by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have an extraordinary opportunity to quicken the pace of the
country’s transition to a clean energy economy. ”
Learn more
RESPONDING TO
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a
profound impact on AEP, our
employees, customers and
communities. We are taking
CLEAN ENERGY
FUTURE
AEP's transition to a clean energy
future is well underway. From
diversifying our resource portfolio to
modernizing the grid, we are at the
ESG DATA CENTER
AEP's ESG Data Center reflects our
commitment to transparency by
proactively sharing data and
information about our sustainability
goals, strategy and ESGproactive and necessary measures
to address the pandemic.
Learn more
forefront of this transformation.
Learn more
performance.
Learn more
DEVELOPING A WORKFORCE FOR THE FUTURE
Transformational change requires a more progressive and thoughtful approach in how we train,
develop and retain our employees. Our goal is to prepare our company and workforce for the
skillsets needed to align with our future strategy. This is especially important as we move closer
toward a digital future that requires a more flexible, innovative and diverse workforce.
Learn more2020 Message from the Chairman brochure
Nicholas K. Akins, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
At AEP, we never stop moving forward. Energy is an
essential service that is life-sustaining and crucial to our
nation’s health and economic well-being. Our vision for a
sustainable energy future is unwavering, and we believe it is
more important than ever. We are witness to unprecedented
challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Every person,
every business and every community across the globe is
affected in some way. The availability of safe, reliable
electric service has been essential to sustaining our
communities during this time. The ability to shelter in place,
to stay connected with one another, to work remotely and
safely in the comfort of our homes, to educate students in
virtual classrooms and to simply entertain us by providing a
distraction to the challenging news of the day have all been
enabled by the electric system.
This pandemic has reaffirmed the value of electricity in every
facet of our lives. At AEP, we never have been more certain
of our responsibility to a sustainable energy future for our
customers, communities and employees. We will continue to take steps to reduce our carbon footprint, to empower
customers and to value and develop our workforce. Together, our energy and future are truly boundless.
The 2019 Coronavirus Disease Pandemic: A Storm Like No Other
When the COVID-19 pandemic reached the U.S., AEP’s emergency and business continuity plans were already activated
and preparations underway. Our industry is one of the most prepared to manage crises; we respond to many types of
emergencies, and one of our greatest strengths is our ability to mobilize and adapt quickly to changing circumstances.
The pandemic is a historic storm larger and more impactful than any we have seen, but we were prepared. Our primary
responsibilities are to keep our employees safe and the lights on for our customers. These commitments are not new; they
represent our core values. As this situation unfolds in the months to come, these will always remain our priorities.
The public health crisis has amplified the role the electric power grid plays as a social safety net. In anticipation of the
predicted economic downturn and concern for our customers’ ability to pay for basic needs, support their employees or
maintain their businesses, AEP voluntarily suspended customer disconnections for nonpayment. In addition, the American
Electric Power Foundation committed to donating $3 million in emergency funds to support basic human needs and help
address the hardships faced by customers and communities. We also donated approximately 9,000 N95 masks and
110,000 gloves to help protect healthcare workers at facilities in the states we serve. In addition, our Charge digital hub
converted one of its labs to build 1,200 3-D printed transparent protective face shields for healthcare workers on the
frontline. 
We also trained and dedicated a team of call center representatives to help small business owners apply for
federal programs and to make payment arrangements as they recover.
The service we provide is essential. Our ability to provide uninterrupted service during this crisis required that we
minimize the disruption to our normal workday while maintaining the health and safety of our employees as our top priority.
Our dedicated employees understand the critical nature of the service we provide, and we are taking significant steps to
keep them and their families healthy while ensuring continued service to our customers. For example, we are following the
prevention measures recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for employees critical
to maintaining service. In addition, approximately 12,000 employees who could work remotely did so to help prevent the
spread of disease. In addition, we developed comprehensive pay and leave programs to support our employees in the
event of personal or family illness or the need to provide care to dependents whose traditional forms of routine care were
interrupted. We successfully worked with federal, state and local government agencies to designate our essential
employees as critical responders, allowing them to travel when necessary to keep the lights on and have access to
pandemic child and adult care services. We are also working with our equipment suppliers and support industries
essential to our business so they can continue operating.
While the final chapter of this crisis is yet to be written, I am immensely proud of the response and professionalism of
AEP’s entire team and their dedication to our customers. The power grid is one of the most critical infrastructuresWe continue making significant investments in renewable energy,
inside and outside of our traditional regulated service territory.
supporting the nation’s response to the pandemic, and it will be even more important during our country’s recovery. We
are ready to lead the way forward.
Zero Harm
Achieving zero harm means every employee returns home at the end of their shift in the same or better condition than
when they came to work. Zero Harm is what we value most and commit to wholeheartedly. It is hard work, as it requires full
focus every moment of every day. We hold ourselves accountable and we are always striving to be better. For us, Zero
Harm is not an option; it is a mandate we live by.
Despite our efforts, I am deeply saddened to report that in 2019 we lost an employee on the job when road erosion on the
side of a hill caused his truck to roll over. This is a profound loss for his family, friends, and co-workers and for all of AEP. It
is unacceptable, and we are reminding our employees of the importance to take time to pause to ensure that every job
they do is clear and safe, before they begin.
Now in the fourth year of our Zero Harm transformation, we have put tools, training and processes in place to strengthen
our safety-first culture and mindset. Our focus is on learning from events and developing leading indicators to be even
more proactive in preventing harm.
We still have more work to do to keep our employees, contractors and the public safe, and we will be relentless in our
Zero Harm mission. Our employees are proving it is achievable across AEP, and we are learning from them as we move
forward.
Clean Energy Future
Our vision for a clean energy future is clearer than ever. We are taking actions, setting aggressive goals, investing in
large-scale renewable energy and deploying new technologies to help accelerate the transition to a clean energy
economy. During this time of rebuilding, we have an unprecedented opportunity to lead the nation forward with a clean
electric power grid that delivers secure, reliable energy as well as economic and health benefits. We see the grid as the
enabler of our future. In fact, the electric utility industry is no longer the largest carbon emitter; the transportation sector is
now larger. AEP believes we not only can make a difference within our own operations but also be a catalyst for carbon
reductions in other sectors of the economy, including transportation.
AEP alone cannot make the magnitude of change needed.
We need partners, advocates and collaborators to change
public policies, advance technology development and
deployment, and help our customers and communities
through the transition. We have experience building and
nurturing strong, trusting relationships with our many
stakeholders, positioning AEP to be a convener of change –
a role that is natural for us and one we are ready to lead.
At AEP, we have already made excellent progress in
reducing our own carbon footprint. Through 2019, we have
achieved a carbon emissions reduction of 65%, from a
2000 baseline. We have set aggressive goals for 2030 and
2050 that we review annually and adjust as needed, which
we did in 2019. In 2020, we are undertaking a climate
scenario analysis to understand the risks and opportunities
to our business from climate change. We expect to publish
our findings later this year.
We continue making significant investments in renewable energy, inside and outside of our traditional regulated serviceterritory. Within our footprint, our integrated resource plans call for the addition of more than 8,000 MW of wind and solar
between 2020 and 2030. This includes 1,485 MW from our proposed North Central Wind Energy Facilities project in
Oklahoma. Pending regulatory approval, this project would deliver clean energy and lower bills to customers in Oklahoma,
Louisiana, Arkansas and Texas. In addition, our plans would add 1,607 MW of natural gas.
In our competitive business, AEP Renewables invested $1.4 billion in contracted renewables in 2019, bringing the total of
clean energy projects in its portfolio to 13 across 11 states. Our acquisition of the wind assets of Sempra Renewables in
2019 was critical in helping us grow this arm of our business.
As we continue to reduce our carbon profile, we see many opportunities for the electric power grid to enable other sectors
of the economy to follow suit. Electrification facilitates a quicker path to achieving carbon reduction goals. AEP is
supporting public policies and working with technology and research partners, customers and other stakeholders to
understand the implications of large-scale electrification as we transition to a digital economy.
AEP Ohio’s $10 million fund to support charging infrastructure for electric vehicles (EVs) is nearly fully subscribed – less
than a year after this Smart City initiative was launched. We are encouraged by West Virginia’s expansion of energy
efficiency programs to include beneficial electrification and Oklahoma’s extension of a state tax credit for alternative fuel
vehicles. These are important steps towards electrifying our economy and achieving climate goals. We already see the
impact this could have in major cities in the U.S. and around the world where the reduction in conventional vehicles on the
road during the pandemic has resulted in substantially cleaner air. Think of what we could achieve with wide-scale
adoption of EVs that could unite the objectives of clean mobility, vigorous commerce and healthier communities.
AEP is participating in industry-wide research programs, including as a founding member of a five-year Low Carbon
Resource Initiative with the Electric Power Research Institute and Gas Technology Institute. Technology plays a critical role
in achieving a clean energy economy and these types of initiatives help our entire industry move forward.
Operational Excellence, Financial Responsibility
Our commitment to operational excellence provides a strong foundation for growth. We understand that one operational
error has the potential to negatively affect the safety and reliability of our service, as well as our reputation and brand. Our
focus on continuous improvement ensures that we are efficiently keeping pace with customer expectations and new
technologies that benefit customers.
I am confident we have the agility, commitment and strong foundation to get through this. AEP has a long history of
consistent dividends, earnings and fiscal stewardship. Our capital investment strategy targets projects that deliver the
most value to our customers while strengthening the resilience and reliability of the grid. That focus will not change. In
2019, we launched a program called Achieving Excellence to evaluate and develop recommendations to reduce our
expenses across the company. While this effort is not yet complete, our employees submitted thousands of ideas to help
us become more efficient, optimize operations, and provide additional services and value to our customers. This work is
critical to our future and will have immediate impacts as we weather this storm.
The challenges we face from this COVID-19 pandemic will certainly test our collective resiliency. We are concerned about
the business and social impacts as we resume disconnections for nonpayment. In light of the pandemic, our voluntary
suspension was the right thing to do, but it was not permanent. We are developing plans and working with our industry and
regulators to manage this in the most fair and thoughtful way possible. Our business continuity and emergency plans
prepare us for keeping the lights on during a crisis, as well as ensuring our own financial stability as we meet our
obligation to serve. Our response is consistent with our commitments to clean energy, resiliency and the reliability of the
grid that serves and protects our customers. We came into this crisis with a solid foundation of fiscal responsibility,
strategic investment and a deep commitment to our customers and investors. We have much work to do to manage
through the pandemic crisis, but we are confident we will emerge stronger and more nimble than ever.
Securing the Grid
Protecting the electric power grid from cyber and physical attacks is a high priority for our industry. As our economyAEP is reimagining how we do work. This includes reviewing the
skills our workforce needs now and well into the future.
becomes digital and more connected, the greater the threat becomes. New technologies and apps, as well as our
growing reliance on cloud-based programs, are among the many risks to the system. In terms of cybersecurity protections,
the electric utility industry is one of the most regulated. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC)
develops and enforces Reliability Standards such as the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) regulations that constantly
change to adapt to new threats from malicious hackers or nation-states.
We invest in protecting the grid, participate in drills to test our systems, and work with the federal government and other
partners to anticipate and respond as effectively as possible. AEP is also a member of the Electricity Subsector
Coordinating Council, which is the principal liaison between the federal government and our industry. Our most important
partner in protecting the grid is our workforce. Our employees’ role is that much more critical as bad actors try to take
advantage of the pandemic crisis.
In addition, AEP has a rigorous cyber and physical security governance structure in place that includes an Enterprise
Security Advisory Council. Regular oversight of our efforts also comes from the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors, with an annual review by the full Board.
Our Workforce & Culture
A combination of changing customer expectations, technology advancement and an aging workforce demographic are
leading AEP to reimagine work and how we do that work. This includes reviewing the skills our workforce needs now and
well into the future. The pandemic taught us that we should also be looking more thoughtfully at where we do the work, as
thousands of our employees have quickly pivoted to work remotely and have stayed highly productive in the process.
We are collaborating with academic, business and
government partners to create the talent pool we will need
for the future. In Ohio, Columbus State Community College
created the Office of Talent Strategy in 2019 to build a talent
pipeline for high-demand jobs in cybersecurity, data
analytics and cloud technologies. With an expected
shortage of skilled labor, which is so critical to our industry,
we have two Line Mechanic Apprentice training programs
that are registered with the Department of Labor. Eligible
veterans may apply their GI Bill benefits while in the program
as they seek to obtain their journeyman status. We are also
tapping into our retirees to help us fill temporary gaps as we
transition our business, such as we did at the Conesville
Plant in Ohio, where many returned to staff the plant until its
retirement. Our Credits Count
STEM education program
continues to flourish as we encourage young people to
embrace STEM-related career choices. We want to be on
the leading edge of preparing our employees while developing our future workforce, especially because we expect as
many as 4,500 employees will leave or retire in the next few years.
Our culture reflects the heart and soul of AEP. I am very proud that AEP has been recognized by Gallup with its
Exceptional Workplace Award, a testament to our collective efforts to create a great place to work every day. AEP is one
of 38 companies receiving this recognition and one of two utilities on the list. While we have more work to do to keep our
culture thriving, we are making significant progress. Our employees show their commitment every day by staying
engaged. Our culture survey includes 
indices for accountability, inclusiveness and supervisor effectiveness – all of which
showed marked improvement in 2019. AEP’s culture of Zero Harm continues to be our biggest strength. These are
excellent results, and we are committed to continuously getting better.
We are leveraging and increasing the diversity of our workforce because it is smart business practice. Diversity and
inclusion have the capacity to foster innovation, creativity, resilience and increased profitability. A diverse workforce is a
valuable asset that requires careful nurturing and intentional focus to unleash its potential. We have accomplished quite a
bit in the past few years, but we still have a long road ahead. We formed a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Advisory Council,
conducted an enterprise-wide listening tour, launched an inclusive leadership education and awareness initiative,
SM Building strong, vibrant and sustainable communities requires
innovation, investment and collaboration among state, regional
and local business partners.
implemented a multicultural holiday, and hosted a D&I Town Hall for employees. Our newest initiative is “State of Diversity”
discussions with leaders, to help us continue moving in a positive direction.
Caring for Customers & Communities
Everything we do, we do with the customer experience and the communities we serve in mind. Beyond basic electricity
delivery, customers want more personalization, greater choices and advanced innovation. They want more digitally
enabled products and services closely linked to their energy needs, along with others that are more lifestyle connected,
such as home energy management and an online marketplace. Customer expectations are high and evolving: They want
us to be available 24/7 across multiple communication channels to help them solve their issues, including providing
reliable information when outages occur. We want to be their first choice for providing comprehensive solutions and to be
their trusted resource for technology, sustainability, electrification and economic development.
We are making significant investments to enhance our
relationship with customers, empowering them with
information, choices, convenience and technology. We are
meeting them in their channels of choice and asking them
how we can do better. Our interactions with customers in
social media are having a positive impact on customer
sentiment and customer experience with AEP. In addition,
we are continuously enhancing our mobile apps to put more
decision-useful information in their hands.
As we sharpen our focus on delivering new technologies
and custom energy solutions for our customers, we have
named a new senior vice president and chief information &
technology officer. Therace Risch has extensive experience
in fast-moving customer-focused industries with a record of
accomplishment of driving change and using technology to
evolve legacy business models. This new leadership
position will enable us to coordinate resources and strategy
to support innovation and technology, information technology, telecommunications and our digital innovation hub – all of
which are fundamental to our success.
The strength and vitality of our communities are integral to creating a bright future for all. We are seeking new ways to
leverage the capabilities of our network to improve quality of life in the communities we serve. One exciting new
opportunity is a pilot to expand access to high-speed broadband to underserved parts of rural Virginia. Other states also
are exploring the opportunity to expand broadband access. The availability of high-speed broadband in remote areas
provides social benefits through direct entry to health care, jobs and education. It also enables innovation, expansion, and
e-commerce – all of which will be vital to small business recovery following the pandemic.
Building resilient, vibrant communities takes a village of partners. At AEP, we have pledged to pursue economic
development aggressively to help our states diversify their economies; attract new businesses, people, and jobs; improve
mobility; and support education. We provide training to local economic development officials and offer a Qualified Sites
Program that helps communities attract new business. We are proud of our support for our Appalachian communities that
were the hardest hit during the decline of the coal industry. Working with our regional partners, we created Appalachian
Sky – an initiative to attract the aerospace and aviation industry to our service territory. Through this work, more than 30
counties are now certified as AEROready
. In addition, central Ohio has become a choice location for large-scale data
center development because of AEP’s commitment to ensuring adequate grid capacity and clean energy resources. In
Texas, a new, $1.8 billion steel mill will soon begin construction, creating approximately 600 new jobs when operational.
The road ahead in the wake of the pandemic is going to present a myriad of economic and community challenges for
many, making it more important than ever that we move forward together.
TMStrong Governance
The success of our transition to a clean energy future requires new skills, a diverse workforce and forward-thinking leaders
to mitigate risks and cultivate new opportunities. As we prepare our workforce, we are also expanding upon the expertise
and diversity of our Board of Directors.
In 2019, Art Garcia, retired executive vice president and chief financial officer of Ryder, was appointed to AEP’s Board.
Art brings significant strategic and financial expertise to our Board, including experience developing and executing
corporate growth strategies.
Margaret McCarthy, former executive vice president of technology integration at CVS Health Corp., also joined the Board
in 2019. Meg brings experience and leadership in the highly regulated and competitive insurance and healthcare
industries, particularly in the areas of cybersecurity and information technology. She is also a Navy veteran.
Meg’s election brings to four the number of women serving on our Board. This distinction earned AEP recognition by
2020 Women on Boards as a Winning “W” Company for the third consecutive year. The additions of Meg and Art
strengthen the experience and expertise of our Board in important growth areas for AEP.
In 2020, longtime Board member Lionel Nowell III decided not to seek another term. I will personally miss Lionel’s
leadership, his extensive knowledge in strategy development and execution, and his corporate finance experience. Most
importantly, he is a friend to AEP and myself, and we are deeply grateful for his service.
A Promising and Bright Future
At AEP, we know the basic needs of our customers are constant and simple – reliable, safe, secure and affordable
electricity. We take to heart our responsibility to help meet those needs every day, regardless of what is happening in the
world around us. As we recover from the challenges created by the pandemic, we have an extraordinary opportunity to
quicken the pace of the country’s transition to a clean energy economy.
I believe this is the moment to advance electrification for social good. AEP can be a catalyst for change through advanced
digitization and automation, driving efficiencies in transportation, and leveraging our utility assets to enable greater
access and connectivity through high-speed broadband. We share the vision for a clean energy economy with our
stakeholders, including public policymakers, technology providers, customer groups, NGOs, investors of all types, our
community partners and many others. We believe we are uniquely qualified to be the convening authority to advance these
objectives because this is not new to us. Rather, we engage and collaborate every day with stakeholders to advance
energy-related policies that enable a clean and brighter energy future.
Our vision for the future is clear and we are executing our strategy to achieve our goals. Let us work together to electrify
the transportation and industrial sectors; expand high-speed broadband; create new opportunities for small business
growth and access to basic needs; deploy advanced technologies, giving customers more control and choices; and
enhance the use of information and data to protect and manage the most critical infrastructure in this country – the electric
power grid. As we do this, we can accelerate decarbonization efforts across all sectors of our economy.
Our employees have repeatedly proven their dedication to our customers, in good times and in crisis. We are profoundly
grateful for their hard work to keep our operations running smoothly and the power on for our customers during this
pandemic. I am proud of their commitment to our communities and to each other. Our culture and focus on financial and
operational excellence provide a strong foundation to move us forward as we work together to redefine the future of
energy and develop innovative solutions to power communities and improve lives.
Sincerely, 
Nicholas K. AkinsChairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
American Electric Power
AEP'S STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE
At AEP, our path forward is clear and our strategy is
unchanged. 
We are as committed as ever to operational
excellence, financial discipline, innovation and technology,
and being nimble as we adapt to a changing world. The
global COVID-19 pandemic, a once-in-a-lifetime event,
dramatically changed our lives, severely impacted the
economy and strained our communities. As we pivoted to
adapt, the electric power grid became a lifeline for those
working from home; students who finished the school year
online; and the front-line workers caring for the sick, stocking
grocery store shelves, and delivering mail and packages to
our homes. Our strategy and the investments we are making
to modernize and enhance the resilience, security and
efficiency of the grid are essential to serving societal needs
and demonstrate the critical nature of the service we
provide.
AEP’s record of consistent earnings and dividend growth, a
strong balance sheet and our continued focus on our customers and communities is essential to our mission. Before the
onset of the pandemic, we had already taken steps to further reduce expenses and we are accelerating those plans as we
work with customers hard-hit by the public health crisis to recover and reopen. We remain committed to delivering
technology and digital solutions to customers; diversifying our resources to stay the course for a clean energy future;
working with regulators to modernize the regulatory compact to keep pace with changing customer needs; and preparing
for the future of work through workforce development while building a talent pipeline for the future. At the same time, we
continue to reduce our carbon footprint and deliver excellent environmental performance, remove risk from our business
and deliver the value that our customers and shareholders expect.
The pandemic underscored the importance of nonfinancial risks that we also must weigh as we execute our strategy. For
example, our priority to protect our employees from harm heightened as we pivoted to new ways of doing our work,
expanded benefits for our frontline employees who are most at risk, and took measures to reduce the risk of exposure by
providing protective equipment, sanitization of facilities and vehicles, and enabled thousands of our employees to work
remotely.
Although the pandemic is causing a shift in the timing of $500 million in capital spending from 2020 to future years, our
overall strategy for investing $33 billion through 2024 remains unchanged, with 78% dedicated to transmission and
distribution projects. Our grid modernization capital investment strategy is important because it is creating the platform to
expand distributed resources, enable efficient use of energy, allow two-way flows of power and communication, and
support expanding electrification. The pandemic’s profound changes on everyday life and business underscores this. We
continue to expand our regulated and competitive renewable portfolios within and outside of our traditional service
territory. This will grow further with the pending review and approval of our North Central Wind Facilities in Oklahoma.
Our strategy for a clean energy future is on course. We are building a modern grid that is scalable to support the demand
for more electricity from electrification, such as electric vehicles, data centers and other future power needs. We have
strategic collaborations with start-ups and other partners to explore and pilot an array of technologies so that we can
accelerate our goal of being the digital, clean energy company of the future. The pandemic may have cast a shadow over
the economy and recovery may take some time, but we are optimistic about our ability to balance and meet the needs of
our customers, investors and communities as we continue to execute our strategy.Strong Financial Performance in 2019
In 2019, AEP’s strong earnings performance was driven by
a robust economy, our continued focus on investing in our
system to enhance services for our customers, the
management of our costs and favorable weather throughout
much of the year. AEP plans to continue to increase capital
investments in its regulated operations over the next five
years to provide more advanced, resilient and cleaner
energy solutions for customers. We also committed to
investing $2.1 billion in contracted renewables over the next
5 years.
Our projected long-term operating earnings growth of 5% to 7% is predicated on our ability to continue efficiently investing
capital to modernize the grid. 
We have numerous capital projects of varying sizes that are within our control to execute as
we cost-effectively replace aging infrastructure and transform the grid to a platform of two-way flows of information and
energy. Our fundamentals for growth are strong, giving us options about how we invest today and what we invest in for the
future.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet and credit profile is a priority. We regularly monitor a variety of metrics that help us
know when we will need to access the capital markets for funding to support our capital investment program, which, in turn,
allows us to grow earnings and provide reliable service to our customers. The pandemic has challenged us but we are
well-positioned thanks to the diversity of our service territory and our commitment to financial discipline.
We are proud that we have paid consecutive quarterly dividends to our shareholders since 1910. In 2019, AEP delivered
a total shareholder return of 30.5%, exceeding a 27.5% total return for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. In fact, from
2014 through 2019 we have provided a total shareholder return of more than 85%. This outperformed the broader S&P
500 Index total return of 74% and the 60% total return for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index.
Because we believe that every dollar counts, our focus remains on managing costs to optimize spending for the greatest
impact on the customer experience and to deliver operational excellence. That includes continuing our transition to a clean
energy future and ensuring that every customer has access to the resources and technologies the grid provides.Achieving Excellence
To be a leader, we must constantly check and adjust
business practices and performance to maintain
momentum. AEP has long been a responsible steward of its
costs and expenses to mitigate the impact to customers and
to enable more opportunities for growth. However, with the
advent of new technologies, growing competition for
customers, flat load growth, and a steady decline in
population throughout our service territory over the past
three decades, we are at an inflection point, and our
response will influence our future path. The COVID-19
pandemic is also creating additional challenges we will work
through.
In late 2019, we launched Achieving Excellence, a new
disciplined cost optimization process, with a focus on O&M
reduction and revenue growth, to improve our business. The
purpose of the employee-led initiative is to identify and
eliminate inefficiencies, adopt improved business practices
and processes, and advance the creativity and innovation of
the company. This program will constantly focus
organizations on cost profile improvement to enhance
existing budgeting processes and leverage the skills,
knowledge and creativity of our employees to drive down
costs. We are employing technology such as automation,
digitization and data analytics, exploring outsourcing
options, seeking process improvements, and conducting
strategic workforce planning.
We received thousands of ideas from employees to
improve efficiency, reduce costs and streamline operations.
We are also incorporating added insight from operational
changes that occurred as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic, such as work from home alternatives.
AEP will continue this process annually to ensure we
continue to be focused on meeting financial and stakeholder
expectations. Achieving Excellence will be integrated into
the way we manage our business through alignment with our
Breakthrough Objectives and driving our strategic goals.
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG STRATEGY
Today, the demand for environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosure is growing at an exponential pace, as the
view of a company’s non-financial performance has become as important as its financial health. From the cost of capital,
credit scores and insurance rates to how shareholders vote, the state of corporate culture and the ability to attract and
retain top talent, stakeholders want more transparency and engagement on ESG issues. There is no question the
pandemic has further raised the stature of the “S” in ESG because of societal impacts and the role of corporations in
sustaining our economic recovery.
Research has proven that companies with strong ESG performance realize short- and long-term value through enhanced
growth, reduced costs, improved stakeholder relationships, 
increased employee satisfaction, and optimization of
investment and capital expenditures. At AEP, we are integrating our sustainability practices and ESG initiatives into our
corporate strategies and sharing our progress and goals with all of our stakeholders.
AEP’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy focuses on engaging diverse stakeholders and proactively sharing our goals,strategy, and progress, as well as integrating sustainability across the enterprise to drive shared value. In 2019, the fast-
paced growth of ESG investing prompted an expanded and more granular focus on how we manage AEP’s ESG
performance and disclosure. We established a cross-functional ESG Team to monitor new and emerging ESG issues
and develop strategies for responding to them. Because ESG performance is also a business risk, AEP added it to our
risk summary report, and we are integrating it with our corporate strategy.
AEP's ESG Strategic Objectives
Conduct a materiality assessment to focus our disclosure and inform engagement
Proactively communicate AEP’s ESG strategy
Engage executives and the board on ESG initiatives
Build a web-based ESG Data Center, to ensure full transparency
We continue to engage in industry efforts, such as the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) ESG/Sustainability Committee and
the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to influence standardized disclosure for the electric utility industry. We are
mapping our disclosure to the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) and, in 2020, will map to the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework.
SUSTAINABILITY/ESG GOVERNANCE
When stakeholders evaluate a company, one of the first things they look at is the strength of governance. How and where
sustainability fits into the corporate structure can be revealing of where a company’s priorities lie. At AEP, we have strong
governance to support sustainability and ESG performance, ensuring alignment with corporate purpose and strategy. Our
approach to transparency links tangibles (such as financial capital and physical assets) with intangibles (such as
reputation, brand, customer loyalty, risk management, trust and credibility) to show bottom line results and benefits.
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to sustainability governance, but AEP believes it is fundamental to building and
strengthening sustained business value. Strong governance ensures transparency, fairness and accountability, and it
gives us a structured way to manage the challenges of a changing society. We are committed to strong governance
practices that protect the long-term interests of our shareholders.
Our Board of Directors works closely with our executive team to ensure we continually meet or exceed the highest
standards of performance, innovation, ethics and service. In addition, the Board receives educational presentations from
outside experts.
Through AEP’s Enterprise Sustainability Council (ESC) – with oversight from executive management and the Committee
on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors – we have clear guidance on our ESG responsibilities
for sustainable business development. ESC members, who represent all aspects of AEP’s business, serve as strategic
ambassadors, providing guidance and support to ensure the success of AEP’s sustainable development strategy. They
do this by enabling cross-functional integration of sustainability across the enterprise and in corporate strategy. The ESC
is also responsible for monitoring the progress of AEP’s sustainability goals.
In addition to the ESC, the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors reviews the
Corporate Accountability Report annually and monitors AEP’s ESG performance. The Committee provides feedback and
develops the Board Statement supporting AEP’s commitment to sustainable business development and performance
accountability. The combined governance from the Board of Directors and the ESC helps us ensure our disclosure
undergoes a disciplined review and validation process.
While these issues are discussed by the Board of Directors throughout the year, we report to the Committee on our
sustainability-related activities at least twice per year. In addition, the Lead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors conducts
an annual outreach with our largest shareholders to engage with investors on important ESG matters.
Learn more about AEP’s Corporate Governance
 and see our report titled: 
American Electric Power: Strategic Vision for
a Clean Energy Future
 for climate risk information.MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
Materiality matters when disclosing performance. We cannot address every issue, nor should we. To most effectively
manage our resources and focus on the material issues to our business and our stakeholders, we must focus on what is
most relevant to our financial and nonfinancial success. That is what our stakeholders expect of us and how we are best
able to respond to their needs and concerns.
AEP defines material issues as those that reflect our most
relevant economic, environmental and social impacts and
contributions because they can:
1
. 
Have a significant impact on the company’s finances and/or operations;
2
. 
have or may have a significant impact on the environment or society now or in the future; and/or
3
. 
substantially influence the assessments, decisions and actions of our stakeholders.
The evolution of corporate sustainability reporting has become more detailed and complex as stakeholders demand
deeper levels of transparency. By staying true to this definition, we are able to focus on the most important ESG actions
and issues. Our integrated reporting is one way we demonstrate the connections between financial and nonfinancial
performance, as well as our commitment to transparency. AEP has been reporting in this way for more than a decade.
In 2020, our intent is to undertake a new materiality assessment. Led by our ESG committee, under the auspices of our
Enterprise Sustainability Council, we will seek input from our internal and external stakeholders, use big data and artificial
intelligence to help us identify and validate current and emerging issues, and prioritize those issues on which we should
be focusing. This effort will provide critical input to the development of our corporate strategy and disclosure, as well as
meet growing stakeholder expectations. The timing of this work may be affected by our focused 
response to the COVID-
19
 pandemic.
In addition, we will participate in an industrywide priority issue assessment, led by the Electric Power Research Institute
(EPRI). It will be the third such assessment at the industry level. EPRI’s deep understanding of the utility industry coupled
with the vast research through their Priority Assessment will provide AEP with broader perspectives and insights as we
develop our own materiality assessment.
AEP’s Priority Sustainability Issues
Sustainability Pillar
Issues
Environmental
Air Emissions
Clean Energy Transition
Energy Efficiency 
Energy Reliability and Resilience
Environmental Performance
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Sustainable Procurement Practices
Waste
Water
Social
Employee Safety and Health
Engagement and Collaboration
Job Satisfaction
Public Safety and Health
Economic
Community Support and Economic Development
Economic Viability of Electric Utilities
Energy Reliability
Energy Affordability
Skilled Workforce AvailabilitySustainability Pillar
Issues
Per AEP’s 2017 materiality assessment. Issues not listed in priority order.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Listening to and engaging with stakeholders has long been a priority for AEP. It allows us to hear different perspectives
we might not have considered, mitigate risks and identify opportunities, build stronger relationships, and arrive at
consensus or shared motivation for meaningful outcomes.
When we engage our stakeholders about sustainable electricity, they ask us about reliability and affordability, energy
efficiency, clean energy, distributed resources, and our investments to modernize the grid. The majority of our
stakeholders ask if we are sufficiently prepared for the transition to a clean energy economy and how fast we will get there.
Strategic Priorities for Sustainable Engagement
Our Purpose:
Inspire and engage our stakeholders to co-create a sustainable energy future and make a positive difference.
Customers
Improve our ability to partner with sustainability-oriented customers to meet their needs, prevent
disintermediation and promote regulatory and policy changes that support a cleaner energy future.
Employees
Engage and empower our people to lead the future of sustainability at AEP to attract and retain the
best talent and succeed in our transformation journey.
Investors
Leverage sustainability to position AEP as an attractive investment, and prevent divestment.
NGOs
Strengthen NGO-AEP relationships and continue to raise awareness internally about NGO activities
to capitalize on collaboration opportunities.
Communities
Strengthen our brand and stakeholder relationships locally to build support for infrastructure
investments and new programs and services.
Policymakers
Proactively engage policymakers to enable our clean energy strategy.
Customers
Customer focus has long been one of AEP’s core values. Every time a customer interacts with us, directly or indirectly, it
creates an experience. Our goal is to develop an exceptional experience, every time. By engaging our customers, we are
able to identify energy solutions that save them money, enable efficient use of energy, and optimize the grid to meet their
changing energy needs. This includes everything from giving customers good information when the power goes out and
supporting their use of distributed resources, to delivering the clean energy they want for their homes and businesses.
We use both our regulated and competitive businesses to achieve this outcome. We bring our whole team to the table,
recognizing that being flexible can mean the difference between a satisfied customer and a missed opportunity. This
gives us greater flexibility to deliver on customer expectations.
In 2019, we completed work with the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Clean Power Council and the Edison Electric
Institute (EEI) to develop a new industry-standard carbon and energy report for customers. Accessing their carbon data is
important for customers because AEP is a big part of their Scope 2 emissions. The collaboration included utilities, large
customers, EEI and WRI. Following a successful pilot, the report will be accessible for customers starting in 2020. This
effort reflects the power of partnerships with our customers to deliver the types of solutions they want.AEP engages stakeholders through proactive outreach to
educate and gain support for the company’s plans to address
the needs of its transmission system.
Communities
As we build new or rebuild older facilities on our system, we often impact the communities where that work is occurring.
Whether it is a disruption caused by construction in a neighborhood or the need to restore habitat when the work is done,
it is important that we remain open, honest and responsive about what we are doing.
In 2019, AEP logged more than 79,000 interactions with
landowners and acquired more than 3,600 easements,
using condemnation on less than 1% of these acquisitions.
In 2020, we shifted one of our in-person open houses to
online virtual meetings due to health concerns associated
with COVID-19. The virtual open house is an online version
of the community open house normally hosted by project
teams. Landowners are able to learn about the project
timeline, need, proposed structures and construction
process through interactive maps and information boards.
AEP also provides landowners with the opportunity to
submit comments and discuss their property in detail.
We engage our communities in many other ways, including
volunteerism. It is not unusual to find our employees
coaching youth league teams, organizing food drives, or
serving on local boards and commissions. Learn more in
the Volunteerism section.
In 2019, Sustainable Tulsa recognized Public Service of Oklahoma (PSO) as a Henry Bellmon Award recipient. The
award distinguishes organizations committed to developing people, profit and planet – otherwise known as the “triple
bottom line” – and rewards leadership and effectiveness in social, economic and environmental sustainability.
Investors
The universe of environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings and rankings continued to expand in 2019, as did the
demand for ESG-related information. Climate change, governance, social performance, risk and strategy continue to be
the main issues. Many institutional investors issued clear intentions to consider ESG performance in their investment
decisions, demonstrating the drive for more robust, consistent disclosure and engagement.
We continued our engagement with Climate Action 100+ in 2019 – focusing on climate change, governance, risk and
strategy. In early 2020, the conversation expanded to include AEP’s approach to a Just Transition and climate lobbying.
Learn about AEP’s efforts in the 
Climate Change
 and 
Climate Lobbying
 sections of this report.
In response to this growing interest from our investors, we have sharpened our focus in this area and responded to a
dozen ESG investor-focused surveys in 2019. One challenge we must overcome is the lack of uniformity and consistency
in ESG ratings and rankings, which often creates confusion and frustration for users of this data. We invest significant time
reviewing and correcting data to ensure stakeholders get an accurate picture of AEP’s ESG performance. We will
continue to advocate for a universal, consistent approach to ESG disclosure and the ratings and rankings that accompany
it.
In 2018, AEP published a clean energy report, which outlines our climate-related risk management process and climate
governance, as well as related opportunities and challenges. We plan to update this report in 2020. In addition, AEP
issues an annual EEI ESG/Sustainability investor report. Together, these disclosures provide a complete picture of how
AEP is managing its transition to a clean energy/low carbon future, as well as setting new mid- and long-term goals for
carbon emission reductions.Non-Governmental Organizations
Among our key stakeholders are non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including environmental organizations. We
engage with these groups in many different ways. Sometimes we meet in person to discuss specific topics. At other times
they are intervenors in our regulatory proceedings. These groups are important stakeholders to AEP because they bring
forward different perspectives and ideas, which are effectively used to test the validity of AEP’s approach to managing its
business.
We also look for opportunities to collaborate, such as our mutual support of advancing adoption of electric transportation.
We believe strong relationships with NGOs create better partnerships to address issues that can influence or shape our
business future. Through our commitment to transparency, engagement, candor and honesty, we have seen these
relationships become increasingly complementary and collaborative.
Policymakers
In May 2019, AEP co-hosted the IllumiNation Energy Summit in partnership with The Ohio State University, Battelle
Memorial Research Institute and Smart Columbus. The Summit sparked conversations with policymakers to reimagine
the future of energy. Over 350 utility leaders, public utility commissioners, state legislators, startup companies, technology
providers and other thought leaders attended the event, which featured a large-scale technology exhibit and thought-
provoking panel discussions. The Summit recently was named Best Overall for Event Marketer’s first-ever Hidden Gems
Winners List—the best B-to-B events under 5,000 attendees.
The intent of the conference was to bring together policymakers, technology providers, and others to enable critical
thinking regarding the advancement of the customer experience and the policy framework for execution.
REGULATORY AND PUBLIC POLICY
The energy industry is one of the most highly regulated sectors of the U.S. economy and is in the midst of a technology
and innovation revolution. Advances in technology are creating opportunities for AEP to integrate and modernize the grid
– making it smarter, more reliable and more resilient. With a smarter grid, our customers are empowered to actively
engage in their energy experience – giving them more control over how and when they use energy.
To meet our customers’ evolving expectations, we sometimes must reshape the regulatory compact. AEP’s footprint
includes 11 states with varying regulatory frameworks that are primarily governed by state legislatures who set policy
goals, which result in regulations created by state regulatory commissions. These state legislative and regulatory
environments work in conjunction with federal policies to define the parameters of AEP’s business and planning models.
They also affect a utility’s business decisions related to making investments and influence how the utility is able to recover
the costs of its investments.
Our priority is to maintain and operate a safe and reliable grid that is resilient and adaptive. Our generation, transmission
and distribution system investments directly affect our customers and shareholders. These investments must coexist with
regulation and policy considerations, such as environmental requirements and affordability. As our generation portfolio
becomes more decentralized and the company transitions to more renewables and distributed energy resources, it is
imperative that regulations evolve to meet the demands of today’s emergent technologies and customer preferences. We
must perform this transformation in a reliable and deliberate manner for our customers while managing the financial risk
for our shareholders.
One approach includes identifying flexible or alternative ratemaking models that allow AEP to accelerate the conversion
toward beneficial electrification and the company’s transition to cleaner energy sources while also providing more timely
cost recovery of investments. Alternative ratemaking models help balance different objectives to provide both incentives
for cost savings and reinforce investments that provide value to customers and support policy objectives. TheseInnovative Customer Offerings
A Wind, Water and Sunlight (WWS) option in Virginia; WindChoice in Oklahoma; and the IM Green program in Indiana
and Michigan, allow customers to purchase the environmental attributes from renewable energy sources.
The North Central Wind Energy Facilities project will offer additional opportunities for Southwestern Electric Power
Company (SWEPCO) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) customers to purchase Renewable Energy
Credits (RECs).
I&M’s EZ Bill for residential and small commercial customers offers a predetermined, fixed monthly charge for electric
service. This makes budgeting and financial planning easier for many of our customers.
PSO’s Power Pay offers customers a voluntary prepaid billing option, giving them more control over when and how they
pay for their electric service.
Appalachian Power (APCo) offers a seasonal rate in West Virginia that applies to electricity sales above a specific
threshold during winter months. As a result, customers with higher winter energy use – those with electric heating - will
see relatively smaller bill increases during winter months than they otherwise would.
Virginia, Indiana and Michigan are implementing demand tariffs and time-of-day rates, including electric vehicle (EV)
charging rates. These rates offer customers lower-priced electricity when demand is low, encouraging EV charging
best practices and improving grid reliability and performance.
alternative models can give utilities the ability to explore new and evolving technology solutions as they determine what
delivers the best value for our customers today and in the future.
Our partnerships with regulators, private and public organizations and stakeholders are imperative to meeting customer
demand for new, innovative solutions. We leverage our expertise and experience to educate regulators and key
stakeholders about emerging technologies and associated issues.
Expanding Broadband
Broadband technology has proven to be critical to the economic development and well-being of rural America and
underserved areas where coverage is lacking. It helps communities improve their capabilities for growth by enhancing
workforce-training opportunities. It also enhances the communities’ ability to attract large-scale business investments,
such as data centers and hospitals. It is also essential for the development of a modernized and integrated grid. We are
exploring new options for the dual use of fiber for grid modernization and enabling Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to
make the final connection to areas that lack broadband coverage. We are advocating legislation in many of our states that
would specifically authorize us to invest in “middle mile” fiber infrastructure that we could then lease to ISPs for the
purpose of their broadband service expansion.
In March 2019, Virginia lawmakers took steps to address the geographic disparities in broadband coverage in their state.
Lawmakers approved House Bill 2691, giving the state’s two largest electric utilities – including APCo – the green light to
pilot “middle mile” broadband projects. This infrastructure connects the networks and core routers on the internet to local
service providers and consumers directly. Importantly, the bill allows the companies to recover the cost of the pilot from
ratepayers. The final connection, called the “last mile,” would be the responsibility of third-party ISPs. On March 5, 2020,
we received approval from the Virginia State Corporation Commission to proceed with the Grayson Broadband Pilot – a
six-year program to install approximately 238 miles of fiber optic cable at a cost of at least $17 million.
In West Virginia, with the Broadband Enhancement Council’s support, we have proposed pilot projects to expand
broadband access to 31,000 unserved or underserved customers in Mingo and Logan counties. In Ohio, we are working
to update the law to allow electric utilities to act as broadband facilitators – a role that would allow us to work with ISPs toprovide middle mile fiber to expand broadband offerings to rural areas. We expect Ohio to review a comprehensive
broadband package in 2020. We are also working with legislators and regulators in other states to gauge interest, explore
options and support additional initiatives, such as Kentucky’s KentuckyWired Program, which will expand access to
technology and its benefits.
In addition to delivering modern-day technology to unserved or underserved areas, expanding broadband is a potential
new business opportunity for AEP. Providing the means to extend high-speed internet to these areas also creates new
opportunities for home-based work and helps to power economic stability for customers and communities.
Public Policy & Issue Management
Similar to other companies, AEP has a public policy strategy that seeks to inform decisions made by Congress, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), state
legislatures and regulatory commissions, and Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs).
AEP’s Policy Advisory Team (PAT), consisting of senior executives across all business functions and departments,
considers policy options on issues of relevance to the company and supports internal policy analysis and debate. This
approach ensures that AEP is speaking with one voice and that all employees with external contacts are clear on our
policy positions and objectives. Since its inception in May 2017, the PAT has reviewed more than two dozen issues,
including 13 in 2019.
Climate & Lobbying
Some stakeholders are asking AEP whether our lobbying practices and the policy positions taken by trade organizations
to which we belong are in alignment with the Paris Climate Agreement. We believe in transparency and active
participation in public policy development, regardless of the issue or position. Moreover, AEP is a respected and sought-
after voice when it comes to energy policy-related matters in the U.S.
We report on our public policy positions, 
annual lobbying
and political contributions
, 
policy on political contributions
and trade association memberships. We post our 
lobbying
policy
 online and have consistently acknowledged our intent
to participate actively in the political process and in lobbying
activities at the national, state and local levels. At AEP, we
must consider a number of factors when engaging in this
arena, as public policy develops through negotiation and
compromise. While many divergent issues are of
importance to us, we cannot invest all of our efforts to focus
on a single issue. We are obligated to deliver safe, reliable,
affordable and secure electricity to all of our customers, and
we develop our public policy positions with that in mind.
There are times, however, when the gap between outside organizations’ advocacy and what we believe to be in the best
interests of our customers, employees and shareholders causes us to leave those organizations.
Because climate change issues are intertwined with so many other issues, we need to be open to considering all sides
and compromising, if appropriate, to arrive at the best overall solutions for all involved. Being part of the dialogue is
important to us, because this is how we can ensure our ability to influence and engage on issues that are important to
AEP, our customers and our stakeholders.Innovative Customer Offerings
A Wind, Water and Sunlight (WWS) option in Virginia; WindChoice in Oklahoma; and the IM Green program in Indiana
and Michigan, allow customers to purchase the environmental attributes from renewable energy sources.
The North Central Wind Energy Facilities project will offer additional opportunities for Southwestern Electric Power
Company (SWEPCO) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) customers to purchase Renewable Energy
Credits (RECs).
I&M’s EZ Bill for residential and small commercial customers offers a predetermined, fixed monthly charge for electric
service. This makes budgeting and financial planning easier for many of our customers.
PSO’s Power Pay offers customers a voluntary prepaid billing option, giving them more control over when and how they
pay for their electric service.
Appalachian Power (APCo) offers a seasonal rate in West Virginia that applies to electricity sales above a specific
threshold during winter months. As a result, customers with higher winter energy use – those with electric heating - will
see relatively smaller bill increases during winter months than they otherwise would.
Virginia, Indiana and Michigan are implementing demand tariffs and time-of-day rates, including electric vehicle (EV)
charging rates. These rates offer customers lower-priced electricity when demand is low, encouraging EV charging
best practices and improving grid reliability and performance.
REGULATORY AND PUBLIC POLICY
The energy industry is one of the most highly regulated sectors of the U.S. economy and is in the midst of a technology
and innovation revolution. Advances in technology are creating opportunities for AEP to integrate and modernize the grid
– making it smarter, more reliable and more resilient. With a smarter grid, our customers are empowered to actively
engage in their energy experience – giving them more control over how and when they use energy.
To meet our customers’ evolving expectations, we sometimes must reshape the regulatory compact. AEP’s footprint
includes 11 states with varying regulatory frameworks that are primarily governed by state legislatures who set policy
goals, which result in regulations created by state regulatory commissions. These state legislative and regulatory
environments work in conjunction with federal policies to define the parameters of AEP’s business and planning models.
They also affect a utility’s business decisions related to making investments and influence how the utility is able to recover
the costs of its investments.
Our priority is to maintain and operate a safe and reliable grid that is resilient and adaptive. Our generation, transmission
and distribution system investments directly affect our customers and shareholders. These investments must coexist with
regulation and policy considerations, such as environmental requirements and affordability. As our generation portfolio
becomes more decentralized and the company transitions to more renewables and distributed energy resources, it is
imperative that regulations evolve to meet the demands of today’s emergent technologies and customer preferences. We
must perform this transformation in a reliable and deliberate manner for our customers while managing the financial risk
for our shareholders.
One approach includes identifying flexible or alternative ratemaking models that allow AEP to accelerate the conversion
toward beneficial electrification and the company’s transition to cleaner energy sources while also providing more timely
cost recovery of investments. Alternative ratemaking models help balance different objectives to provide both incentives
for cost savings and reinforce investments that provide value to customers and support policy objectives. These
alternative models can give utilities the ability to explore new and evolving technology solutions as they determine what
delivers the best value for our customers today and in the future.
Our partnerships with regulators, private and public organizations and stakeholders are imperative to meeting customer
demand for new, innovative solutions. We leverage our expertise and experience to educate regulators and key
stakeholders about emerging technologies and associated issues.Expanding Broadband
Broadband technology has proven to be critical to the economic development and well-being of rural America and
underserved areas where coverage is lacking. It helps communities improve their capabilities for growth by enhancing
workforce-training opportunities. It also enhances the communities’ ability to attract large-scale business investments,
such as data centers and hospitals. It is also essential for the development of a modernized and integrated grid. We are
exploring new options for the dual use of fiber for grid modernization and enabling Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to
make the final connection to areas that lack broadband coverage. We are advocating legislation in many of our states that
would specifically authorize us to invest in “middle mile” fiber infrastructure that we could then lease to ISPs for the
purpose of their broadband service expansion.
In March 2019, Virginia lawmakers took steps to address the geographic disparities in broadband coverage in their state.
Lawmakers approved House Bill 2691, giving the state’s two largest electric utilities – including APCo – the green light to
pilot “middle mile” broadband projects. This infrastructure connects the networks and core routers on the internet to local
service providers and consumers directly. Importantly, the bill allows the companies to recover the cost of the pilot from
ratepayers. The final connection, called the “last mile,” would be the responsibility of third-party ISPs. On March 5, 2020,
we received approval from the Virginia State Corporation Commission to proceed with the Grayson Broadband Pilot – a
six-year program to install approximately 238 miles of fiber optic cable at a cost of at least $17 million.
In West Virginia, with the Broadband Enhancement Council’s support, we have proposed pilot projects to expand
broadband access to 31,000 unserved or underserved customers in Mingo and Logan counties. In Ohio, we are working
to update the law to allow electric utilities to act as broadband facilitators – a role that would allow us to work with ISPs to
provide middle mile fiber to expand broadband offerings to rural areas. We expect Ohio to review a comprehensive
broadband package in 2020. We are also working with legislators and regulators in other states to gauge interest, explore
options and support additional initiatives, such as Kentucky’s KentuckyWired Program, which will expand access to
technology and its benefits.
In addition to delivering modern-day technology to unserved or underserved areas, expanding broadband is a potential
new business opportunity for AEP. Providing the means to extend high-speed internet to these areas also creates new
opportunities for home-based work and helps to power economic stability for customers and communities.
Public Policy & Issue Management
Similar to other companies, AEP has a public policy strategy that seeks to inform decisions made by Congress, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), state
legislatures and regulatory commissions, and Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs).
AEP’s Policy Advisory Team (PAT), consisting of senior executives across all business functions and departments,
considers policy options on issues of relevance to the company and supports internal policy analysis and debate. This
approach ensures that AEP is speaking with one voice and that all employees with external contacts are clear on our
policy positions and objectives. Since its inception in May 2017, the PAT has reviewed more than two dozen issues,
including 13 in 2019.
Climate & Lobbying
Some stakeholders are asking AEP whether our lobbying practices and the policy positions taken by trade organizations
to which we belong are in alignment with the Paris Climate Agreement. We believe in transparency and active
participation in public policy development, regardless of the issue or position. Moreover, AEP is a respected and sought-
after voice when it comes to energy policy-related matters in the U.S.
We report on our public policy positions, 
annual lobbying and political contributions
, 
policy on political contributions
 andtrade association memberships. We post our 
lobbying
policy
 online and have consistently acknowledged our intent
to participate actively in the political process and in lobbying
activities at the national, state and local levels. At AEP, we
must consider a number of factors when engaging in this
arena, as public policy develops through negotiation and
compromise. While many divergent issues are of
importance to us, we cannot invest all of our efforts to focus
on a single issue. We are obligated to deliver safe, reliable,
affordable and secure electricity to all of our customers, and
we develop our public policy positions with that in mind.
There are times, however, when the gap between outside organizations’ advocacy and what we believe to be in the best
interests of our customers, employees and shareholders causes us to leave those organizations.
Because climate change issues are intertwined with so many other issues, we need to be open to considering all sides
and compromising, if appropriate, to arrive at the best overall solutions for all involved. Being part of the dialogue is
important to us, because this is how we can ensure our ability to influence and engage on issues that are important to
AEP, our customers and our stakeholders.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
At AEP, we are committed to health, safety, financial, operational and environmental compliance while holding ourselves
to a high standard of ethical conduct – always doing what is right.
AEP’s 
Principles of Business Conduct
 places responsibility for acting legally and ethically with every individual – from the
Board of Directors and management to employees at all levels. We want employees to speak up, ask questions and
report potential violations without fear of retaliation. We promote our Ethics Program in tandem with our Culture Journey,
driving a culture that supports the interests of both employees and AEP by maintaining a vigilant approach to practicing
compliance and acting with integrity. We will continue to build a reputation of trust by holding people accountable and
taking appropriate actions when necessary.
In 2019, AEP’s 
Principles of Business Conduct
 training received a Silver Award from the Brandon Hall Excellence in
Learning program in the Best Advance in Compliance Training category for our compliance training program. This award
recognizes superior programs that are intended to meet a compliance business objective.
AEP Business Ethics Policies:
Principles of Business Conduct
AEP’s Whistleblower
Protection Policy
AEP’s Employee Handbook
Conflicts of Interest
Bribes and Kickbacks
Gifts and Entertainment
Anti-Fraud
PII Data Privacy Protection
Policy
Records Retention Manual
Antitrust
No-Conduit Rule
Security Information Classification Standards
Appropriate Use of Company Assets
Prohibition Against Pornography and Offensive Material Policy
Social Media Policy
Insider Trading Policy
Policy Development & Maintenance Policy
Policy Against RetaliationThe Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board oversees AEP’s Corporate Compliance Program
and receives regular reports from the Chief Compliance Officer. All AEP employees are able to report concerns
anonymously or to seek guidance on ethical, safety or compliance matters through a confidential, 24/7 hotline. In 2019,
there were a total of 281 Concerns Line Calls, a decrease of 3% from the previous year.
Beginning in 2019, we require all employees to complete an annual conflict of interest training and disclosure survey. This
process of soliciting potential conflicts of interest is centralized and documented electronically, allowing our Ethics &
Compliance department to review and clear (or flag) conflicts as needed. We share learnings with employees and
managers to encourage and set clear expectations for ethical behavior.
In 2019, we launched a new Sexual Harassment Prevention Workshop, “The Power of Respect,” and began training
supervisors across AEP. This training ties into our safety culture of “See Something, Say Something, Do Something” to
go beyond compliance and understand what it means to work in a harassment-free workplace. In addition to the
interactive, peer-facilitated training, we provide supervisors with a toolkit to encourage workplace culture discussions. By
the end of 2020, all supervisors will attend a workshop, and we will begin training all employees.
Companywide Required Training:
FERC Affiliate Restrictions
FERC Standards of Conduct
Principles of Business Conduct
Conflicts of Interest
AEP’s Defense in Depth approach to cyber and physical security
allows us to deal with threats in real time. These strategies
include monitoring, alerting and emergency response; employee
education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal
activity reporting.
ENTERPRISE SECURITY
Like all major infrastructure, the nation’s power grid is
subject to an array of threats, from naturally caused
phenomena such as extreme weather to vandalism,
terrorism and insider risks that jeopardize reliability, safety
and data security. The stakes are high; our response to an
event affects our customers, our reputation and the reliability
of the power grid.
AEP evaluates cyber and physical security risks using our
risk management process, providing a more
comprehensive approach to understanding and managing
these risks in relation to other enterprise risks. It also
enables decision-making based on the level of acceptable
risk, as well as our priorities and resources.
The harsh reality of the digital world is that our infrastructure
is under constant threat from cyber and physical attacks.
Third-party products and services create new and growing
risk to the power grid, prompting new regulations to protect
it. As the threats become more sophisticated and far-
reaching, it is a constant challenge to achieve the right level of risk management. AEP’s comprehensive security strategy
– known as “Defense in Depth” – assumes a broader range of possibilities, such as physical theft, unauthorized access to
data, and incidental threats that do not specifically target protected systems or assets.
Cyber & Physical SecurityOur mission is to protect AEP’s assets and information, enable
the business to work securely and efficiently, and educate
employees and contractors about their responsibility to keep
AEP secure.
Businesses need to grow and innovate, which includes adopting new technologies, developing new and improved
products and services for customers, and finding new revenue streams, channels and ways of creating value. Often, this
involves digitalization and automation, opening the door to new threats and security risks to the electric power grid.
In addition, new mobile apps and services that we develop
or purchase for customer use, along with our own increasing
reliance on cloud-based programs, increases external
connectivity to our network. This creates new entry points for
potential attackers and poses new challenges for grid
security. Our security access program monitors and
manages these connections while providing controlled
access that allows us to get our work done. We consider
and test possible ways attackers could breach our systems.
It is not a matter of whether it will occur but when. Our
strategy includes preparation for recovery if a breach
occurs, through policies, procedures and technology, as well
as through educating our workforce about the growing
threat.
AEP learns from and takes actions based on real-world
events. Our Defense in Depth approach to cyber and
physical security allows us to deal with threats in real time.
These strategies include proactive threat intelligence,
monitoring, alerting and emergency response; employee education; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal
activity reporting. Through rapid notification and response when attacks and disasters are underway, we can reduce the
impacts of cyberattacks and avoid or mitigate the damage before experiencing the full impact of the threat.
Every two years, we test our operational response to potential power grid vulnerabilities or emergencies through GridEx
exercises developed by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). These exercises allow AEP to
practice and prepare our response to potential emergency scenarios in a controlled environment. This ensures we have
the proper policies and procedures in place should an event occur. Through this controlled exercise, we can see how our
policies and procedures are helping us respond to various events ranging from cyber and physical attacks to loss of our
situational awareness tools.
In 2019, GridEx V tested operational response to multiple crises, including power outages, cyber-attacks on grid control
systems, and physical attacks on infrastructure. AEP was one of more than 425 organizations from across the electric
power industry and federal and state government agencies that participated in the drill.
In 2019, AEP employed a new scanning technology to check for vulnerability across a wider range of assets. This new tool
allows us to scan both our Information Technology and Operational Technology, giving us greater insight into new areas of
the network that may be vulnerable to a cyberattack. This reduces risks that could potentially jeopardize the security and
reliability of data, the grid and our operating and control systems. It also improves our capability for monitoring, mitigating
and alerting new risks of vendor-supplied equipment, operating systems and software connected to the internet.
Cloud computing has created new opportunities for AEP, and as we expand and rely upon these capabilities, we must
mitigate the corresponding cybersecurity risks. We have aligned closely with AEP’s Information Technology Cloud Center
of Excellence to establish a proactive approach to address security risks associated with the cloud. Our Cloud Security
Focus group leads our efforts to establish a strategy for various forms of cloud computing consistent with the Cloud
Security Alliance (CSA) framework to develop a security roadmap.
AEP continues to be a leader in cyber security through participating in – and leading – industry and regulator-hosted
discussions. Our collaboration with the National Governors Association (NGA) allows us to improve our coordination with
government in responding to natural disasters and to physical and cyber risks or attacks. We are participating in
workshops for states and the National Guard due to their pivotal role in disaster response. We also partner with private
sector companies and government agencies to secure the grid.
Drones have great potential to improve efficiency and safety but can also pose physical and cyber risk. AEP’s Drone
Governance Team develops consistent processes and policies for drone usage. We are currently in the process of
acquiring a new drone management software program to assist in tracking our inventory, training, maintenance and pilotdata. We now require all newly purchased drones to be approved by the Chief Security Officer after review by the Cyber
Security Team.
Cyber Security Governance
The cyber and physical security of the bulk electric system (BES) is highly regulated by the federal government through the
North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards. We
are routinely audited for compliance with federal standards in both cyber and physical security. In addition, the Board of
Directors and the Audit Committee review our cyber and physical security efforts.
AEP’s NERC compliance governance structure was developed specifically to respond to the current compliance
environment and provides the direction, agility and organizational support needed to implement an industry-leading NERC
compliance program.
Learn more in the 
NERC Compliance section
.
To ensure our security controls are comprehensive, effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements, we have
established a robust, collaborative security policy management program that aligns with the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Our resulting policies and standards are jointly developed with AEP’s
business areas, through the Enterprise Security Advisory Council, to maximize adoption and implementation of standard
controls, thereby reducing security risk to AEP.
We classify all BES facilities based on their criticality to determine the level of physical security needed. This approach
allows us to design security controls for new infrastructure from the start, building the costs into capital projects as needed.
It also allows us to be more proactive with new and existing infrastructure while balancing risks with mitigation solutions.
Security Awareness & Training
Our most important partners in protecting AEP’s cyber and physical security are our employees. AEP’s Security
Awareness program reduces risk by promoting security best practices and providing awareness education to our
employees and contractors. The success of our program depends on constant communication and reinforcement. Our
mission is to protect AEP’s assets and information, enable the business to work securely and efficiently, and educate
employees and contractors about their responsibility to keep AEP secure.
AEP’s Security Training Efforts
Training covers a wide variety of topics such as policies and standards, domestic violence, workplace
aggression, personally identifiable information (PII), password protection and active shooter situations.
All AEP employees and contractors are required to complete annual Security Awareness Training,
which covers issues such as tailgating, access management, phishing and other areas that affect day-
to-day security.
New employees receive training to educate them on their role in protecting the grid as well as
information about AEP’s security standards and tips to stay safe online.
We provide NERC CIP Cyber Security Training for employees and supervisors with NERC CIP access.
We also provide training on AEP’s NERC CIP Information Protection Program.
Learn more about our employee training for 
workforce safety and security
.
Insider Threat
Threats to the grid can also come from within. In response, AEP established an Insider Protection and PreventionProgram (IP3). To ensure best practices, we use insights and recommendations from security experts to develop a risk-
based approach that continually identifies, assesses and ultimately protects AEP’s critical assets from insider threats. All
employees, contractors and other business partners that have access to any critical assets including personnel, facilities,
information, equipment, networks and systems, are included. A cross-functional executive team composed of Physical
Security, Cyber Security, Human Resources, Business Ethics and Compliance, Legal, and Information Technology
oversees the program.
One of our greatest threats comes from phishing attacks on our system. Phishing is a form of attack in which malicious
emails seek to obtain sensitive information such as user names, passwords, credit card details and other corporate data.
Cyber criminals know that humans are the weakest link when it comes to protecting corporate data, and are continuously
creating more sophisticated phishing emails to exploit this weakness. In early 2020, AEP adopted a new Phishing
Accountability policy to educate employees on how to better identify risky emails and to hold employees accountable for
doing so. We test our employees’ ability to detect malicious emails with periodic phishing simulations. Employees who
fail a phishing simulation, receive further education and training. Continued failure to identify risky emails could also result
in disciplinary action.
Supply Chain Security
Third-party risk is a major challenge to power utilities as malicious actors have targeted equipment, software and service
vendors with an increasing number of attacks. Our Third-Party Risk Governance Committee consists of our Chief Security
Officer, Chief Procurement Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Information Officer and Legal. This committee reviews
performance of our third-party risk program, provides guidance and approves changes to the program and assessment
processes. All primary contracts must abide by our security requirements.
Following approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), NERC has expanded the CIP Reliability
Standards to require utilities to develop a plan for managing cyber-related risks within their supply chain. The effective
data of the new standards was delayed to October 2020 due to the pandemic. The new standards require utilities to rank
vendors based on risk and verify the authenticity of software manufacturers and the integrity of that software.
AEP has joined Fortress Information Security in launching the Asset-to-Vendor Network (A2V) for Power Utilities, a joint
venture to promote collaboration among electric companies and reduce the costs associated with cybersecurity regulatory
compliance. This network collaborates to evaluate and clear vendors for utility work, augmenting AEP’s existing evaluation
process.
RESPONDING TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Like the rest of the world, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on AEP, our employees, customers and
communities. We are taking proactive and necessary measures to address the pandemic, keeping health and safety as
our top priorities. We activated our emergency oversight structure and incident management teams in accordance with
AEP’s Infectious Disease Plan.
Due to the critical nature of the services we provide, AEP has business continuity and emergency preparedness plans in
place to address all types of emergencies, including a pandemic. This allows our crisis response team to take immediate
action when an emergency arises. During the COVID-19 pandemic, our teams are closely monitoring the situation to
continuously educate and communicate with our employees, partners and customers about the impacts and threats of the
virus. We are also collaborating with our peer companies, government experts and public health agencies to adjust our
response, as the situation rapidly evolves.
We are taking significant steps to keep our employees healthy while ensuring our ability to serve our customers. This
includes:
Instructing all employees who were able to work from home to do so to help prevent the spread of the virus;
requiring employees working within 6 feet of one another for prolonged periods to wear a face covering if socialCharge refactored its 3D printers to produce 1,200 face shields
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
distancing cannot be maintained;
self-monitoring for symptoms by employees and
contractors who are critical to business operations;
closing all AEP facilities to outside visitors; and
curtailing all non-essential travel and participation in
face-to-face meetings.
Our line workers and other employees critical to maintaining
service and deemed Essential Critical Infrastructure
Workers by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security have
been directed to work in smaller teams, adjust work
schedules, practice social distancing, monitor themselves
for any symptoms and take other preventative measures
recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
In addition, as employees grappled with unprecedented
challenges and personal demands arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, AEP worked to develop a comprehensive set of
pay and leave programs to support employees across a wide range of situations. This was guided by a goal to protect
and provide fair continuation of wages and benefits while limiting exposure risk to protect the health of employees and
their families.
Being mindful of the financial hardships and concerns our customers may have been facing, we have temporarily
suspended all service disconnections for non-payment. We urged customers to try to keep their accounts current,
however, if a customer is having trouble paying their bill, they can contact us by phone or through one of our social media
platforms to arrange payment options. We are also continually monitoring and working to heighten employee and
customer awareness of scams and cyber security risks that are emerging during this pandemic.
During the pandemic, the American Electric Power Foundation committed to donating $3 million in emergency relief funds
to support basic human needs and help address the hardships faced by customers and communities. Grants were made
to nonprofit organizations across the AEP service area. In addition, we donated approximately 9,000 N95 masks,
110,000 nitrile gloves and 1,200 plastic face shields to health care facilities in the states we serve.
We have dedicated internal and external websites to provide updates to our stakeholders as the situation progresses.
This includes recommendations on actions to prevent virus transmission, guidance for employees who may have
contracted or come into contact with someone with COVID-19 and resources for our customers, communities and
business partners. AEP’s Chairman, President and CEO, Nick Akins, communicated with employees through a series of
video messages committing to ensuring employees have the proper support and resources needed during this
unprecedented time.
ENTERPRISE RISK & RESILIENCY
AEP’s Enterprise Risk & Resiliency team works with business units and operating companies to proactively identify,
assess, mitigate and manage risks. The team, which is comprised of the Enterprise Risk Oversight (ERO), Crisis
Response and Enterprise Business Continuity & Resiliency (EBCR) teams, helps AEP better understand the full picture of
a risk and the disruptions it can cause.
ERO defines and oversees the consistent application of AEP’s risk management process in conjunction with our business
units and operating companies. Application of the risk management process helps us identify strategic, financial,
operational and regulatory risks, assess the threats and controls, evaluate the risk, plan mitigation strategies, and monitor
risks for changing conditions.
Risks are reported by business units or operating companies to ERO. The Chief Risk Officer reports a summary view of
risks to the Risk Executive Committee, which consists of senior leaders, to illustrate risk ranking and remediation dates
and, ultimately, gain consensus on an action plan. This summary is then discussed and reviewed by the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors.
AEP’s Crisis Response team is responsible for the ongoing development and maintenance of emergency response plansAEP’s new 10,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art Tier 3 data
center serves as the backup data center for disaster recovery.
and the associated strategies and actions to address our
response to an event. Well-planned and executed
responses can reduce the impacts to AEP and to our
customers, shareholders and communities we serve.
The EBCR team defines and oversees AEP’s business
continuity process and supports our business units and
operating companies in planning and preparation. This
support ensures our organization’s critical business
functions and core assets – our people, equipment,
technology, facilities and vendors – can continue to operate
in the event of an emergency or can recover to an
operational status within a defined timeframe. Plans are
developed and tested to continuously improve our ability to
effectively respond and recover in the event of an
emergency.
The risk of a cyberattack is an example of a risk that could interrupt business operations and affect several of our core
assets. In 2019, AEP strengthened its integrated cyber response plan, which defines various levels of an event and uses
an Incident Command System (ICS) structure to outline roles and responsibilities for response personnel. The plan brings
various business units from across the enterprise into a single, unified response and organizational reporting structure if a
cyber-incident were to occur. We have conducted exercises through enterprise tabletop incident simulations to test the
plan. The ICS structure is also used for other crisis events, including the coronavirus pandemic.
In 2020, AEP’s 10,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art Tier 3 data center became fully functional. This data center serves as
the backup data center for disaster recovery, ensuring flexibility and reliability for business-critical applications. It serves
as a critical component to AEP’s Cyber Security and Technology Reliability programs.
As we have seen through recent events in California, wildfires can represent a serious risk to the electric grid and
surrounding areas. AEP has evaluated this risk, and while our exposure is significantly lower given the location of our
service territory, we will continue to monitor it as part of our ongoing risk management process. In addition, AEP is
participating in the new CEO-led task force launched by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) to address the growing threat of
wildfires to the power sector.
Data Privacy & Protection
AEP believes that strong data security and privacy protections, utilizing technology and internal policies and practices, are
vital for effective and trusted interactions. To accomplish our objective, AEP is enhancing the protection of high-value data
through improved data inventory practices, security protocols, data lifecycle management and leadership accountability.
This aligns with AEP’s multi-year Personally Identifiable Information (PII) protection program that lays the foundation for
this new initiative.
AEP continues to drive down the volume of PII storage repositories, achieving a reduction of 9% in 2019. In mid-2019,
AEP completed a two-year project to deploy a Personal Data Portal to better protect the PII of incoming contractors. By
the end of 2019, the Portal protected over 16,500 individual pieces of PII during electronic transit and significantly reduced
the risk of unauthorized access, inappropriate use and accidental data loss.
AEP continues to leverage its Enterprise Data Privacy Governance Committee to revise our customer data privacy policy,
address third-party risk of sharing customer data with aligned business partners, and better coordinate data access and
privacy-related activities across our multiple jurisdictions. The Committee also monitors and coordinates our response to
the changing legislative and regulatory landscape regarding data access and consumer privacy at the local, state and
federal levels. The most consequential data access and privacy proceedings in 2019 were at the federal level, as well as
in Ohio, Michigan, Virginia and Arkansas. AEP believes it is our corporate responsibility to advocate for prudent policies
related to customer data access and consumer privacy regarding access, use, misuse, disclosure and loss.
The customer data privacy policy revision will incorporate a clearer commitment to customer privacy and data protection,
details about the types of data AEP collects from its customers and website visitors, and better transparency into how we
use customer data to provide electric power and related services. We remain committed to providing our customers with
information about how customer data is collected, stored, protected, used and disclosed.AEP recently engaged with a certified Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Institute Partner to facilitate a detailed
analysis of its current data management practices against the Data Management Maturity (DMM)
 Model. The analysis
provides precise measures and information about strengths and achievements, which can be leveraged. It also illustrates
gaps, challenges and a number of specific improvements, as well as a roadmap for rapid acceleration of capabilities. The
purpose is to improve and consolidate our data management practices so that we treat our data as an asset that supports
our business operations appropriately and is “fit for business.” AEP is the first electric power company in the world to
conduct a comprehensive evaluation of data management capabilities against the DMM, taking a leadership role in the
industry.
SMA CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE
The transition to a clean energy future is well underway, and AEP is making good progress. From diversifying our
resource portfolio, deploying technologies to mitigate risk, modernizing the grid and working with our industry peers to
achieve a low- to no-carbon future, we are at the forefront of this transformation. Climate change remains a significant risk
and opportunity for which we are preparing to ensure we can deliver the clean, safe, reliable and secure electricity our
customers expect from us, now and in the future.
We continue to monitor a variety of increasingly significant
issues, including climate change legislation, which might
receive consideration in the U.S. House and Senate after
the 2020 election.
We are engaging many different stakeholders to understand their concerns and address their questions about our plans.
In 2020, we are conducting a deeper analysis of how climate-related risks and opportunities may play out under different
scenarios, the potential impact they could have on our company, and the new business opportunities they may provide.
We expect to publish our findings by the end of the year.
In 2019, we revised our carbon emission reduction goals because we had already achieved significant emission
reductions ahead of schedule. Our new 2030 goal is to reduce CO
 emissions by 70% from a 2000 baseline. Through
2019, we achieved a 65% reduction in carbon emissions from our 2000 baseline. Our progress has been quicker than
expected primarily due to lower utilization of coal generation accelerated by falling energy prices caused by low natural
gas prices and the growth of subsidized renewables with zero fuel cost. We expect our 2050 goal to exceed 80%
reduction and achieve larger reductions – with an aspiration of zero emissions. We committed to our stakeholders that we
would review these goals annually as public policies, regulations, resource plans and advancing technologies change. Our
new goals reflect this, and we are confident in our ability to achieve them.
Often, we are asked about our schedule for phasing out all coal units. We have been very transparent about planned
retirements and sales of our coal units once they are confirmed. We believe it would be irresponsible and potentially
harmful to our customers, employees, communities and regulatory commissions to follow any other path. These actions
must occur in concert with our regulators and in the best interests of our customers. As we go through this process, our
intent is to work collaboratively with those affected by these decisions.
Since 2011, AEP has retired more than 8,600 MW of coal-fueled generation; by the end of 2020, an additional 1,111 MW
will be retired. Within the next 10 years, we plan to retire an additional 2,631 MW when we retire the Dolet Hills Station in
Louisiana, Northeastern Unit 3 in Oklahoma, Rockport Unit 1 in Indiana, and the Cardinal Plant in Ohio. At the same time,
we are continuing to grow our renewable portfolio. Our integrated resource plans suggest that this generation will include
approximately 8,000 MW of wind and solar and 1,600 MW of new natural gas in our regulated utilities by 2030. These
forecasted resource additions are ultimately subject to regulatory approval. Concurrent with this, we continue to grow our
competitive renewable portfolio across the country.
Managing Climate Risk
AEP governs climate change risk through our Enterprise Risk & Resilience process. In 2019, we added climate change
risk to the Material Risk Summary Watch List. Previously, we monitored climate change risks as part of our overall
environmental risks.
We provide updates to management several times per year. AEP’s Board of Directors also monitors climate risks and
reviews potential opportunities as part of its oversight role. Discussions about carbon and climate risks and opportunities
occur during Board meetings, strategic planning, and scenario planning and analysis sessions.
We monitor many types of climate-related risks. These range from the potential financial impact of earlier retirements of
legacy fossil fuel units to the possibility of future regulation that may put a price on carbon. To mitigate these risks, we are
optimizing the use of our remaining coal units and continuously evaluating their remaining useful lives. This process
2informs the decisions we make about how we offer our units for service, how we invest additional capital to keep them
operational or whether we choose to retire them.
Read more about AEP’s climate risk strategy in our 
2018 clean energy report
.
One misconception about AEP’s business is that we own and operate a natural gas distribution system similar to some of
our peers. This comes up in the context of greenhouse gas emissions from natural gas, most notably fugitive methane
emissions. AEP does not own or operate natural gas distribution, although we do use natural gas to generate electricity.
The direct fugitive emissions from this process are minimal for AEP. However, the electric and gas industries realize that
methane emissions are an important concern and have teamed up to include natural gas methane emissions in the annual
EEI ESG/Sustainability Report. Participating companies with electric and gas operations provide data for both.
Technology and Climate
While there are many uncertainties about the future and climate change, the fact that technology will play a vital role is
indisputable. Predicting which technologies will emerge as leaders is much more difficult. AEP is proactively seeking new
technologies that will enhance service to customers, improve efficiency and help us accelerate the transition to a clean
energy future. We are actively looking at battery storage technology as an enabler of future efficiencies for the grid,
including increased use of intermittent renewable resources. We are also monitoring more advanced technologies, such
as carbon capture and sequestration, hydrogen fuel cells and small modular nuclear reactors. These longer-term
technology developments could have promise for a carbon-free future. Our efforts to increase adoption of electric
transportation also provide substantial environmental and economic benefits. Learn more about these activities in the
Electric Transportation section of this report.
In addition, AEP is a founding member of the Electric Power Research Institute’s (EPRI) Low Carbon Resource Initiative.
This five-year research and development project will design pathways for the energy sector to advance low-carbon
technologies for large-scale deployment. 
The goal is to enable a risk-informed understanding of the options and
technologies we can use to facilitate significant economy-wide decarbonization. The partnership between utilities, EPRI
and the Gas Technology Institute will also explore global partnerships and demonstrations to accelerate the most
promising options.
In 2019, AEP received an EPRI Technology Transfer Award in recognition of our work on the Integrating Technical
Analyses of Climate-Related Science into Company Climate Risk Assessment, Planning, Greenhouse Gas Goal Setting
and Outreach project. This project provides a technical foundation to inform company decision-making and stakeholder
discussions regarding climate risk assessment and greenhouse gas emissions goal setting.
Learn more about AEP’s 
investment in and commitment to innovation and technology
.
Just Transition
The concept of Just Transition posits that climate change is not only an environmental disruption; it is a social and
economic disruption that affects those who are most vulnerable. It suggests that when a generation unit is retired in a
community, where it is often the largest taxpayer and employer, the decision should be accompanied by a plan to help the
community rebuild the social systems lost by the plant retirement. When AEP announces plans to retire generating units,
we work with our employees to help them find new jobs within AEP or provide outplacement services to help them find
new jobs if they cannot relocate. Our first concern is our people, and we are aware that plant closure decisions are life
changing for employees.
In addition, AEP has a long history of pursuing and attracting economic development to our communities. This became
more urgent when we started retiring coal plants during the past decade. Our economic development teams provide
training and resources to local officials, giving them the tools to independently grow and diversify their communities. We
also invest in local training and education programs that help people develop new skills needed in today’s workforce.
One of AEP’s most significant efforts is 
Appalachian Sky
, an initiative to attract the aviation and aerospace industry tocentral Appalachia. Since 2017, this program has been helping revitalize some of the communities hardest hit by changes
in the coal industry. A comprehensive workforce analysis found that coal industry workers have the skills that aerospace
and advanced manufacturing companies need. Through this effort, several counties in Kentucky and West Virginia are
certified as AEROready, meaning they are excellent locations for these types of businesses. AEP is making targeted
efforts to help revitalize these states and diversify their economies to attract new industry and jobs, and to empower local
leaders to take charge of rebuilding their communities.
In addition to economic development, AEP has a strong commitment to meeting basic human needs, such as hunger and
housing, access to broadband, and education. We address this through philanthropic giving and volunteerism. AEP’s
responsibility is to help build sustainable, vibrant communities and help them transition to a clean energy economy. When
they succeed, we succeed.
One way we check on our own compliance is through internal
audits which provide additional focus on controlling risks and
providing assurance.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
At AEP, noncompliance is not an option. We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental regulations
and being good stewards of natural resources. To help us achieve operational excellence, we push ourselves toward
prevention, accountability, engagement and continuous improvement.
The primary federal statutes we are subject to include the
Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, Endangered Species Act and Safe
Drinking Water Act. Environmental regulations developed
under these laws are revised periodically, and it is critical
that we stay current with changes to ensure we remain in
compliance. As the scope and stringency of environmental
regulations evolve, we face technical, operational and
financial challenges that are common for our industry. These
challenges include uncertainties with timing, scope and
magnitude of future environmental regulations, which
influence our decisions to upgrade or retire generating units.
They also affect the planning process for new generation
and transmission projects across our industry.
We actively participate in the development of regulations at
the federal, state and local levels to ensure that new
requirements are achievable, based on sound science,
consistent with statutory authority and balanced with other rulemakings. New requirements should also consider the cost of
compliance for customers and allow sufficient time for compliance.
For full disclosure on regulations affecting AEP, please 
read our 10-K
.
Long after we retire plants, our responsibility to environmental compliance continues for requirements that remain in effect
at AEP-owned properties. This includes many existing state environmental requirements, in particular those related to the
management of water and coal-combustion residuals. We continue to work closely with regulators and our local
communities as we move through the decommissioning process.
Environmental Compliance
Our facilities are subject to a variety of environmental, regulatory and permitting requirements at the federal, state and
local levels with which we must comply. Our goal is zero – zero violations of environmental regulations or laws and zero
enforcement actions. We are subject to routine environmental inspections of our facilities through scheduled and
unannounced visits. During these visits, regulators inspect physical facilities and monitor our compliance with regulatory
requirements, permit limits and recordkeeping obligations.Whenever agencies identify concerns, we work with them to address those issues in a timely fashion. This could include
identifying and implementing any corrective measures needed to mitigate future risks.
One way we check our own compliance is through internal environmental audits. Audits provide additional focus on
controlling risks and providing assurance that robust compliance processes are developed and implemented systemwide.
In 2019, we conducted internal audits of environmental programs at 54 locations.
Environmental audits reveal potential gaps in performance that are related to regulatory requirements and company
policies and that require remediation. These could include areas such as recordkeeping, inspection criteria, training
topics, and equipment configuration. Auditors also recognize practices that go beyond regulatory requirements to bring
about robust and sustained compliance. Although reports are site-specific, we aggregate and share results and best
practices across our entire system to improve performance throughout AEP.
Environmental Performance
AEP’s Generation business unit has long used metrics to encourage self-reporting of events and to improve
environmental performance. Our Environmental Performance Index (EPI) includes annual goals related to opacity, water
discharge permits and oil and chemical spills. The EPI helps to keep prevention front of mind, encourages sharing of best
practices and drives us to be more proactive in protecting the environment. Reinforcing its importance, we tie our
Generation group’s incentive compensation to EPI performance.
We set annual targets focusing on continuous improvement as we strive for zero enforcement actions and zero events. In
addition, AEP’s Generation organization instituted an Environmental Good Catch program, similar in manner to our Safety
and Health Good Catch program. A “Good Catch” is an observation or recognition of a condition that could lead to a
reportable environmental event and the subsequent actions taken by employees to correct the situation, preventing the
event from occurring. This demonstrates AEP’s commitment to an engaging and accountable culture – using knowledge
sharing and lessons learned to prevent future non-compliance events.
Environmental compliance is a high priority for the lifecycle of every project we undertake. In our Transmission business,
where a great deal of construction is taking place, project teams must complete a mandatory environmental compliance-
training program. Our environmental specialists and engineers also provide support to ensure we achieve full compliance
with environmental permit requirements. Our compliance record is excellent, especially given the scale of our business
operations and we are always striving to do better.
AEP has made, and continues to make, significant long-term investments in environmental controls to reduce the impact
of how we generate electricity. From 2000 through 2019, AEP invested approximately $9 billion in environmental controls,
primarily related to the Clean Air Act. These investments subsequently resulted in significant emissions reductions. Since
1990, AEP reduced its annual emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO
) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) by approximately 97% and
94%, respectively. Since 2001, AEP reduced its annual mercury emissions by approximately 97%.
Additional information about mercury is located within the 
Toxics Release Inventory program
. Read more information
about 
carbon emissions
.
2NEW SOURCE REVIEW
In 2019, AEP received approval for a modified agreement that will accelerate emission reductions from our remaining
coal-fueled power plants in the Midwest, eliminate a requirement to install high-cost environmental controls at the Rockport
Plant in Rockport, Indiana, and retire Rockport Unit 1 (1,310 MW) by the end of 2028. Learn more about this modification.
We report annually on our compliance with the consent decree requirements. The reports are available here:
2019 NSR Annual Report
2018 NSR Annual Report
2017 NSR Annual Report
2016 NSR Annual Report
2015 NSR Annual Report
2014 NSR Annual Report
2013 NSR Annual Report
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water is essential for the production of electricity. Currently, 91% of power generated by AEP requires water. Water is thefuel in our hydroelectric turbines and the steam electric process to produce steam and cool equipment, and is also used to
scrub flue gas and transport combustion residuals. We return most of the water we use to its original source. Water
consumption occurs when some of it is lost to evaporation or to a process, such as flue gas scrubbing, where it is
released as water vapor. Our coal and natural gas supply chains rely on water to mine the coal and extract the natural gas.
Since 2014, we have reduced our water use from 7,382 million gallons/day (MGD) to 3,980 MGD – a reduction of nearly
46%. During that same timeframe, we also reduced our water consumption by almost 46% from 223 MGD to 121 MGD.
We participate in collaborative industry water “footprint” research to find new ways to reduce the use and consumption of
water by power plants. A water “footprint” is the amount of water used in the production of the goods or services by a
business – for example, the amount of water needed to make a pair of jeans or to produce a kilowatt of electricity. We are
working with EPRI to test the application of a water footprint tool. This analysis will help us better understand how we use
water resources, which will support better water management, reporting, benchmarking and disclosure activities at AEP’s
generation facilities.
Water Use Reporting
Because we place a high value on the importance of
transparency, AEP extensively reports on our usage and
management of water throughout our system in different
forums. We do this through both required reporting, such as the U.S. Energy Information Administration, and through
voluntary reporting efforts. For example, we participate annually in the 
CDP Water Survey
 and provide extensive water
data in our 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report
.
Water Management in High-Risk Areas
AEP operates several power plants in drought-prone regions of the country that require careful management of water use.
Since 1999, the Texas Commission on Environmental Control has mandated that all Texas water rights holders implement
a water conservation plan. The plan must include voluntary, site-specific five-year and ten-year water conservation goals,
as well as cost-effective solutions to ensure adequate water supply for all users in their regions. We update these plans
every five years. In addition, we file annual updates with the Texas Water Development Board. We have comprehensive
water conservation plans in place for the Oklaunion, Pirkey, Welsh, Wilkes and Knox Lee Power Plants. In 2019, the plants
conserved an estimated 812 million gallons through these plans, demonstrating the effectiveness of this management
approach.
In addition, we have a Drought Contingency Plan for the Knox Lee Plant and must comply with Drought Contingency Plans
for three water providers who supply water to operate the plant.
AEP serves on the Texas Water Conservation Advisory Council, which makes recommendations to the state legislature
every two years regarding the status of water conservation in Texas. We also support the Northeast Texas Regional Water
Planning group.
Watershed Protection
Water is important to power production, but it is also essential for agriculture, drinking water and economic growth. In
addition to planning for water needs, the states of Texas and Arkansas have initiatives to protect watersheds, and AEP
participates in those. For example, in Texas, AEP participates in a state-mandated effort to quantify necessary
environmental flows for streams and rivers. Environmental flows are the properties of water flow that strengthen or support
aquatic ecosystems and human livelihood.
In addition, AEP participates in voluntary efforts to protect the watershed of Caddo Lake, a Ramsar Convention
designated wetland area. The Caddo Lake Ramsar wetlands is one of only 26 such sites in the United States. In
Arkansas, AEP remains involved in the Illinois River Watershed Partnership, which has increased its efforts to plant trees
and bushes to stabilize riverbanks. Recently, the AEP Foundation presented the Partnership with a $200,000 grant to
support environmental education through 2021. In 2020, AEP joined EPRI’s Ohio River Interest Group. This will enable
AEP to remain informed about Ohio River issues, such as invasive species, algal blooms, fish passage and endangered
species management.WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING
We manage many types of waste resulting from the process
of providing electricity, operating office buildings,
construction, and repairing and replacing equipment. We
continue to reduce and divert waste from landfills through
beneficial reuse or recycling to minimize our environmental
impacts caused by waste.
The amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-containing
equipment used across the company continues to decline.
PCBs, known to have adverse health effects, have not been
used in new electrical equipment in the U.S. since 1979 but
are present in some of our older transformers and other
pieces of electric equipment. We removed and recycled approximately 41,500 pieces of electrical equipment in 2019,
and more than 1,000 of those contained PCBs at regulated levels.
While we had approximately 1,400 transmission and distribution equipment oil spills in 2019, only two of the spills
contained greater than 500 parts per million (ppm) PCBs. Most spills occur due to severe weather events and public
vehicle accidents that damage our equipment. Regardless of the cause, we respond immediately to each spill, clean it up,
notify regulatory agencies where required and restore affected areas to pre-spill conditions.
AEP reports through the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) program, part of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-
Know Act (EPCRA). EPCRA requires companies with 10 or more employees, in certain industries, to collect and publicly
disclose information about how they manufacture, process or use any of nearly 650 chemicals on a special list developed
by the U.S. EPA. Read more on our 
TRI website
.
Coal Combustion Residuals
Coal ash and flue gas desulfurization material handling and disposal continues to be at the forefront of evolving federal
and state rulemaking focused on the handling, storage and disposal of coal combustion residuals (CCR). CCRs are the
solid material left over from the use of coal to generate electricity and represents AEP’s single largest waste stream.
Read more about AEP’s response to the Coal Combustion Residual Rule and Clean Water Act 
in our 10-K
.
AEP is in the midst of a multiyear plan to address the company’s use of coal ash disposal areas. Currently, AEP has
responsibility for 31 CCR ponds and landfills that fall under the CCR Rule. AEP remains committed to handling coal ash
disposal in a way that puts safety first while protecting the environment, minimizing impacts to the communities near our
facilities and managing our customers’ costs. This includes following proper closure methods or installing new equipment
to handle bottom ash.
Learn more about AEP’s coal ash management efforts at our dedicated 
CCR Rule Compliance website
.
In 2019, AEP received an EPRI Technology Transfer Award for our work on the Geotechnical Stability of Coal Ash Ponds
During and After Closure project. The project utilized a new approach to simulate what could occur following a pond
failure. This groundbreaking work will help us understand the stability of ponds as they age.
Beneficial Reuse
CCRs have long been approved for use in concrete, wallboard and a wide variety of construction materials. While this
benefits other industries, it also provides a source of financial and environmental benefits to AEP. By diverting CCRs to
beneficial uses, we are reducing the need for waste disposal sites.
In 2019, AEP generated more than 4.1 million tons of CCRs and was able to beneficially use more than 1.5 million tons, orAEP's current spent nuclear fuel cask storage facility can store
94 casks, or 3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies.
nearly 39% of the total produced. Beneficial use of CCRs (considered to be products if they are beneficially used)
avoided more than $21 million in disposal costs in 2019 and generated more than $13 million in revenues.
NUCLEAR WASTE MANAGEMENT
The U.S. Department of Energy oversees permanent
disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has charged
fees to plant owners for this disposal. However, following the
government’s decision to cease development of the Yucca
Mountain storage facility in Nevada, nuclear generators no
longer have a place for permanent disposal.
Like the rest of the nuclear industry, we face a significant
future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel.
We need a national solution for the long-term disposal of
spent nuclear fuel, which should be part of a national energy
plan.
The uncertainty associated with long-term storage places
the burden of interim storage on each nuclear facility. AEP
is addressing this issue through dry cask storage on the
assumption that a workable off-site solution will not exist
before the current operating licenses for both Donald C.
Cook nuclear units expire in 2034 and 2037.
In 2012, the Cook Plant in Bridgman, Michigan, began a program of loading spent nuclear fuel into dry casks. The latest
loading campaign took place in 2018, bringing the total to 44 dry casks that have been loaded into storage. The next
loading campaign will occur in 2021. The casks can withstand tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, sabotage, missiles,
aircraft and temperature extremes. Licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the casks meet all applicable
security, environmental and radiological requirements.
The current cask storage facility can store 94 casks, or 3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This would support the
operation of both units through their current operating licenses. Expansion of the pad is possible to facilitate removal of all
fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel pool and full decommissioning of both units.
Nuclear plant operators are required to maintain a plant-decommissioning trust fund to safely decommission and
decontaminate the plant upon closure. At the end of 2019, the trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately
$2.7 billion.
WILDLIFE PROTECTION
As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure across our service territory, such as transmission or renewable
generation facilities, we are mindful of the potential impacts we may have on wildlife. This includes species protected
under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act.
As committed stewards of the ecological richness of our geographies, we take steps to ensure wildlife and habitat
protection.
For example, the developer for AEP’s North Central Wind Energy Facilities project is conducting wildlife studies in
accordance with all applicable law and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines
and USFWS Eagle Conservation Plan Guidance for siting turbines. This is to minimize potential adverse impacts to
wildlife and other environmental resources.Avian Protection
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and others have
collaborated to understand why and how birds collide with or are electrocuted by power lines.
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company-specific Avian Protection Plans to mitigate the risks
associated with bird interactions with electric facilities. We completed our Plan in 2013.
We consider avian protection when we design and engineer new facilities. When birds interact with electrical equipment
and cause outages, it affects our customers, too. For example, a benefit of the design of the BOLD® transmission line is
fewer occurrences of nesting and reductions in both collisions and electrocutions because of the lower tower height, the
curved arm and the more compact design of the lines compared to traditional transmission lines and structures.
AEP manages interactions between birds and power lines through a systemwide plan across our 11-state service
territory. Today, our primary challenge is larger species, which are more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on
poles, or to collide with towers and lines.
The Plan has several key components:
Employee training and compliance
 – Educate and train employees on compliance requirements to proactively
prevent bird collisions and electrocutions.
Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures
 – Design new lines and facilities with bird
safety in mind.
Nest management and avian enhancement options
 – Adopt the use of safety tactics to keep birds away from
wires such as installing a de-energized pole for bird nesting.
Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies
 – Continuously improve our monitoring and
reporting capabilities.
Public education
 – Promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation, working cooperatively with
federal and state agencies and nonprofits.
In addition to our Avian Protection Plan, AEP is committed to adherence with all federal, state and local laws as they
pertain to responsibly siting, constructing and operating renewable energy technologies, whether developed by us or
purchased from another entity. This includes compliance with the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, as well as adherence to the USFWS’s voluntary Land-Based Wind Energy
Guidelines. As renewable energy continues to evolve and more is understood regarding potential unforeseen impacts to
the environment and wildlife, AEP will adapt to avoid and mitigate impacts.
Habitat Conservation Plans
AEP’s grid modernization program requires balancing business needs with environmental protection. With the magnitude
of our construction activities, it is conceivable that we will come into contact with, or potentially have an impact on, a range
of species. One way we are addressing this is by working with the USFWS to establish Habitat Conservation Plans
(HCP).
In 2019, we began implementing an HCP across several transmission regions for the American burying beetle, an
endangered insect with habitats across several states in our service territory. This multiyear HCP has allowed us to use
pre-approved practices through a regional, programmatic approach to minimize impacts to the beetle and its habitat and
to encourage its recovery. The HCP covers portions of Arkansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas where AEP currently has
operations or the potential for future development.
We also continued development of a 30-year, systemwide multispecies HCP. This HCP is important because it will not
only protect the covered species but also generate cost and time savings for our customers and AEP. Portions of the draft
HCP are currently under review by USFWS, and we have initiated the required third-party review under the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Administered by the USFWS, the HCP will enable transmission construction activities
that could impact listed species, such as the Indiana bat, to proceed without case-by-case agency consultation, as long asthe practices and mitigation methods described in the plan are followed. The plan will cover construction activities in our
11 states.
We are working closely with wildlife protection agencies in each of our states to ensure the HCP is consistent with their
goals and regulations and covers the species affected by our work. In 2020, we anticipate having a complete HCP ready
for public review.
Monarch Butterfly Conservation Plan
In August 2014, the USFWS received a petition to list the
monarch butterfly under the Endangered Species Act (ESA)
due to its notable decline in recent years. After finding it
appropriate to review whether the monarch butterfly needs
protection, a decision is due by the end of 2020 on listing it
as threatened or endangered.
During the summer, monarchs are found throughout the
United States, particularly in areas where milkweed, their
host plant, is available. Each year, monarchs undertake a
multi-generational migration of thousands of miles to and
from overwintering and breeding areas. These areas
significantly overlap AEP’s generation and transmission
network.
An ESA listing for the butterfly could affect our ability to build
new or replace old infrastructure, and affect our vegetation maintenance activities. We are well-positioned to participate in
an effort to manage habitat within our right-of-way (ROW) corridors to help the butterfly and avoid the impacts of a
possible listing.
As a result, we joined a conservation initiative with the USFWS to develop a Candidate Conservation Agreement with
Assurances (CCAA). A CCAA is a formal agreement between the USFWS and one or more parties to address the
conservation needs of a candidate species before the species becomes listed as endangered or threatened. Property
managers voluntarily commit to conservation actions that will help stabilize or restore the species and possibly avoid a
listing. AEP continues to coordinate with the University of Illinois-Chicago, as well as other power companies, oil and gas
companies and state departments of transportation on the development of the collaborative monarch CCAA, which was
finalized in April 2020.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
We value and practice environmental stewardship and conservation across our service territory. Whether through
reclaiming former industrial land for outdoor recreation areas such as nature trails and campsites or integrating
conservation measures into new and rebuilt transmission lines, AEP takes steps to preserve the natural ecosystem as we
grow our business.
Promoting & Protecting Pollinators
Pollinators provide vital support to our natural ecosystems,
including food production. The decline of pollinators has
become an emerging issue of concern in recent years. A
report by EPRI notes that globally, pollinators are in decline,with some scientists estimating that 40% of pollinator
species may be at risk of extinction in the coming decades.
At AEP, we are taking measures to protect pollinators and
promote their well-being. For example, in 2019 we joined
the EPRI Pollinator Program to stay informed about this
important issue.
During Pollinator Week (June 17-23), AEP joined other
power companies across the country to raise awareness about the crucial role of pollinators in flower and plant fertilization
and about our efforts to facilitate pollinator population growth through vegetation management. We highlighted Pollinator
Week through social and internal media and organized an educational lobby event at AEP’s headquarters. We provided
anecdotes, photos and information on how AEP supports pollinators throughout our 11-state service territory.
AEP’s work to protect pollinators goes beyond education to actual practice in the field. While working at a transmission
construction site in Columbus, Ohio, AEP employees and contractors discovered a large colony of honeybees had
created a hive inside a large coaxial cable spool. To eliminate the safety risks to our employees and preserve the hive, we
called an expert to safely remove and relocate the hive. Two AEP employees, who are also beekeepers, worked with the
apiary owner to safely capture and relocate an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 honeybees.
Right-of-Way Conservation
As with any construction project, AEP Transmission is responsible for the restoration of areas disturbed by project work,
such as within the right-of-way around pole installations and the land under work pads, as well as the removal of access
roads. This also includes planting permanent vegetation.
We are exploring the use of regionally specific native seed mixes for right-of-way applications in order to address permit
compliance, site stability and the inhibition of tree regrowth. These efforts may help to reduce maintenance costs and
foster good community relations.
The Native Seed Mix proof-of-concept project is a three-year evaluation that includes vegetation test plots (with regionally
specific blends) in existing AEP easements at Clear Creek Metro Park in Hocking County, Ohio, as well as regions in
Appalachian Power’s and Public Service of Oklahoma Company’s service territories. If sufficiently successful, native seed
mixes could be used in our restoration efforts, except for areas such as farmlands, lawns and wetlands.
AEP is also exploring the use of native plant seeds for post-construction site restoration on the campus of our New
Albany, Ohio, Transmission Headquarters. With help from local conservation organizations – such as the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, Audubon Society, National Wild Turkey Federation and Pheasants Forever – we
developed seed mixes to support birds, pollinators, deer or turkey on a demonstration right-of-way plot. One of the seed
mixes specifically supports solar sites, using plants that grow at a low height and reduce weed growth. As we expand our
solar portfolio, these practices are important.
Wetland and Stream Habitats
AEP’s Generation team completed three new conservation projects in 2019. In one instance, we worked with the
Arkansas State Game and Fish Commission to improve fish habitats in SWEPCO Lake at the Flint Creek Plant. The
team removed trees from overgrown sections of nearby woodland and secured them to the bottom of the lake to create
new habitats for fish.
In 2019, the construction of a new Transmission Service Center in Columbus, Ohio, near Big Walnut Creek, became part
of a local environmental restoration effort. The property was devoid of vegetation and had a stream that was rerouted,
culverted and severely incised, resulting in extremely low aquatic function. By working hand-in-hand with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and City of Columbus, we were able to make significant
improvements. The team restored approximately 1,800 linear feet of stream to a more natural condition, incorporated
native plant species on surrounding upland areas and permanently protected a portion of the property from futureApproximately 1,800 linear feet of stream was restored to a more
natural condition during the construction of a new Transmission
Service Center in Columbus, Ohio.
development. We are currently monitoring the project
mitigation success in accordance with our Army Corps
permit.
The AEP Foundation donated $35,000 to the City of Port
Aransas Joan & Scott Holt Paradise Pond to support the
restoration and expansion of the local wetland. Paradise
Pond is a freshwater wetland and important stop for
migratory birds traveling down the Gulf Coast. Saltwater
surge and high winds from Hurricane Harvey killed many
native trees and damaged the ecosystem. Restoration of
the site will give the community and tourists access to
engaging with nature along the boardwalk and observation
decks, which will be increasingly important as the
community recovers from Hurricane Harvey and the COVID-
19 pandemic.
WILDLIFE PROTECTION
As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure across our service territory, such as transmission or renewable
generation facilities, we are mindful of the potential impacts we may have on wildlife. This includes species protected
under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act.
As committed stewards of the ecological richness of our geographies, we take steps to ensure wildlife and habitat
protection.
For example, the developer for AEP’s North Central Wind Energy Facilities project is conducting wildlife studies in
accordance with all applicable law and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines
and USFWS Eagle Conservation Plan Guidance for siting turbines. This is to minimize potential adverse impacts to
wildlife and other environmental resources.
Avian Protection
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and others have
collaborated to understand why and how birds collide with or are electrocuted by power lines.
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company-specific Avian Protection Plans to mitigate the risks
associated with bird interactions with electric facilities. We completed our Plan in 2013.
We consider avian protection when we design and engineer new facilities. When birds interact with electrical equipment
and cause outages, it affects our customers, too. For example, a benefit of the design of the BOLD® transmission line is
fewer occurrences of nesting and reductions in both collisions and electrocutions because of the lower tower height, the
curved arm and the more compact design of the lines compared to traditional transmission lines and structures.
AEP manages interactions between birds and power lines through a systemwide plan across our 11-state service
territory. Today, our primary challenge is larger species, which are more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on
poles, or to collide with towers and lines.
The Plan has several key components:
Employee training and compliance
 – Educate and train employees on compliance requirements to proactively
prevent bird collisions and electrocutions.
Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures
 – Design new lines and facilities with bird
safety in mind.Nest management and avian enhancement options
 – Adopt the use of safety tactics to keep birds away from
wires such as installing a de-energized pole for bird nesting.
Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies
 – Continuously improve our monitoring and
reporting capabilities.
Public education
 – Promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation, working cooperatively with
federal and state agencies and nonprofits.
In addition to our Avian Protection Plan, AEP is committed to adherence with all federal, state and local laws as they
pertain to responsibly siting, constructing and operating renewable energy technologies, whether developed by us or
purchased from another entity. This includes compliance with the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, as well as adherence to the USFWS’s voluntary Land-Based Wind Energy
Guidelines. As renewable energy continues to evolve and more is understood regarding potential unforeseen impacts to
the environment and wildlife, AEP will adapt to avoid and mitigate impacts.
Habitat Conservation Plans
AEP’s grid modernization program requires balancing business needs with environmental protection. With the magnitude
of our construction activities, it is conceivable that we will come into contact with, or potentially have an impact on, a range
of species. One way we are addressing this is by working with the USFWS to establish Habitat Conservation Plans
(HCP).
In 2019, we began implementing an HCP across several transmission regions for the American burying beetle, an
endangered insect with habitats across several states in our service territory. This multiyear HCP has allowed us to use
pre-approved practices through a regional, programmatic approach to minimize impacts to the beetle and its habitat and
to encourage its recovery. The HCP covers portions of Arkansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas where AEP currently has
operations or the potential for future development.
We also continued development of a 30-year, systemwide multispecies HCP. This HCP is important because it will not
only protect the covered species but also generate cost and time savings for our customers and AEP. Portions of the draft
HCP are currently under review by USFWS, and we have initiated the required third-party review under the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Administered by the USFWS, the HCP will enable transmission construction activities
that could impact listed species, such as the Indiana bat, to proceed without case-by-case agency consultation, as long as
the practices and mitigation methods described in the plan are followed. The plan will cover construction activities in our
11 states.
We are working closely with wildlife protection agencies in each of our states to ensure the HCP is consistent with their
goals and regulations and covers the species affected by our work. In 2020, we anticipate having a complete HCP ready
for public review.
Monarch Butterfly Conservation Plan
In August 2014, the USFWS received a petition to list the monarch butterfly under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) due
to its notable decline in recent years. After finding it appropriate to review whether the monarch butterfly needs protection,
a decision is due by the end of 2020 on listing it as threatened or endangered.
During the summer, monarchs are found throughout the United States, particularly in areas where milkweed, their host
plant, is available. Each year, monarchs undertake a multi-generational migration of thousands of miles to and from
overwintering and breeding areas. These areas significantly overlap AEP’s generation and transmission network.
An ESA listing for the butterfly could affect our ability to build new or replace old infrastructure, and affect our vegetation
maintenance activities. We are well-positioned to participate in an effort to manage habitat within our right-of-way (ROW)
corridors to help the butterfly and avoid the impacts of a possible listing.
As a result, we joined a conservation initiative with the USFWS to develop a Candidate Conservation Agreement withAssurances (CCAA). A CCAA is a formal agreement
between the USFWS and one or more parties to address
the conservation needs of a candidate species before the
species becomes listed as endangered or threatened.
Property managers voluntarily commit to conservation
actions that will help stabilize or restore the species and
possibly avoid a listing. AEP continues to coordinate with
the University of Illinois-Chicago, as well as other power
companies, oil and gas companies and state departments
of transportation on the development of the collaborative
monarch CCAA, which was finalized in April 2020.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
We value and practice environmental stewardship and conservation across our service territory. Whether through
reclaiming former industrial land for outdoor recreation areas such as nature trails and campsites or integrating
conservation measures into new and rebuilt transmission lines, AEP takes steps to preserve the natural ecosystem as we
grow our business.
Promoting & Protecting Pollinators
Pollinators provide vital support to our natural ecosystems,
including food production. The decline of pollinators has
become an emerging issue of concern in recent years. A
report by EPRI notes that globally, pollinators are in decline,
with some scientists estimating that 40% of pollinator
species may be at risk of extinction in the coming decades.
At AEP, we are taking measures to protect pollinators and
promote their well-being. For example, in 2019 we joined
the EPRI Pollinator Program to stay informed about this
important issue.
During Pollinator Week (June 17-23), AEP joined other
power companies across the country to raise awareness about the crucial role of pollinators in flower and plant fertilization
and about our efforts to facilitate pollinator population growth through vegetation management. We highlighted Pollinator
Week through social and internal media and organized an educational lobby event at AEP’s headquarters. We provided
anecdotes, photos and information on how AEP supports pollinators throughout our 11-state service territory.
AEP’s work to protect pollinators goes beyond education to actual practice in the field. While working at a transmission
construction site in Columbus, Ohio, AEP employees and contractors discovered a large colony of honeybees had
created a hive inside a large coaxial cable spool. To eliminate the safety risks to our employees and preserve the hive, we
called an expert to safely remove and relocate the hive. Two AEP employees, who are also beekeepers, worked with the
apiary owner to safely capture and relocate an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 honeybees.
Right-of-Way Conservation
As with any construction project, AEP Transmission is responsible for the restoration of areas disturbed by project work,
such as within the right-of-way around pole installations and the land under work pads, as well as the removal of access
roads. This also includes planting permanent vegetation.Approximately 1,800 linear feet of stream was restored to a more
natural condition during the construction of a new Transmission
Service Center in Columbus, Ohio.
We are exploring the use of regionally specific native seed mixes for right-of-way applications in order to address permit
compliance, site stability and the inhibition of tree regrowth. These efforts may help to reduce maintenance costs and
foster good community relations.
The Native Seed Mix proof-of-concept project is a three-year evaluation that includes vegetation test plots (with regionally
specific blends) in existing AEP easements at Clear Creek Metro Park in Hocking County, Ohio, as well as regions in
Appalachian Power’s and Public Service of Oklahoma Company’s service territories. If sufficiently successful, native seed
mixes could be used in our restoration efforts, except for areas such as farmlands, lawns and wetlands.
AEP is also exploring the use of native plant seeds for post-construction site restoration on the campus of our New
Albany, Ohio, Transmission Headquarters. With help from local conservation organizations – such as the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, Audubon Society, National Wild Turkey Federation and Pheasants Forever – we
developed seed mixes to support birds, pollinators, deer or turkey on a demonstration right-of-way plot. One of the seed
mixes specifically supports solar sites, using plants that grow at a low height and reduce weed growth. As we expand our
solar portfolio, these practices are important.
Wetland and Stream Habitats
AEP’s Generation team completed three new conservation
projects in 2019. In one instance, we worked with the
Arkansas State Game and Fish Commission to improve
fish habitats in SWEPCO Lake at the Flint Creek Plant. The
team removed trees from overgrown sections of nearby
woodland and secured them to the bottom of the lake to
create new habitats for fish.
In 2019, the construction of a new Transmission Service
Center in Columbus, Ohio, near Big Walnut Creek, became
part of a local environmental restoration effort. The property
was devoid of vegetation and had a stream that was
rerouted, culverted and severely incised, resulting in
extremely low aquatic function. By working hand-in-hand with
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency and City of Columbus, we were able to
make significant improvements. The team restored
approximately 1,800 linear feet of stream to a more natural
condition, incorporated native plant species on surrounding upland areas and permanently protected a portion of the
property from future development. We are currently monitoring the project mitigation success in accordance with our Army
Corps permit.
The AEP Foundation donated $35,000 to the City of Port Aransas Joan & Scott Holt Paradise Pond to support the
restoration and expansion of the local wetland. Paradise Pond is a freshwater wetland and important stop for migratory
birds traveling down the Gulf Coast. Saltwater surge and high winds from Hurricane Harvey killed many native trees and
damaged the ecosystem. Restoration of the site will give the community and tourists access to engaging with nature along
the boardwalk and observation decks, which will be increasingly important as the community recovers from Hurricane
Harvey and the COVID-19 pandemic.
ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND HEALTH PHILOSOPHY
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony
with environmental protection.
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect people and theenvironment by committing to:
M
aintain compliance with all applicable Environment, Safety and Health (ES&H) requirements while pursuing the
spirit of ES&H stewardship.
E
nsure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into their
business functions.
S
upport continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention.
H
azard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety improvement.SUSTAINABLE ELECTRICITY
The energy industry is experiencing a profound transformation, driven by decarbonization of the global economy; new,
advanced technologies; and the growing electrification of energy demand. During the past decade, electric utilities have
been at the forefront of this transition, diversifying resources, delivering clean energy solutions to customers and investing
in a modern grid capable of optimizing all resources and technologies. The result is that customers have more control; in
some cases, they can “pay as they go,” choose special time-of-day-rates to reduce bills, and opt for cleaner options to
power their homes and businesses.
AEP has already made significant progress in reducing our carbon footprint. During the past decade, we retired, sold or
converted to natural gas 12,339 megawatts (MW) of coal-fueled generation, ramped up our clean energy portfolio with
more than 5,200 MW of total renewables, extended the life of our carbon-free nuclear units, and invested $31.4 billion to
modernize the transmission and distribution systems. In 2019, coal represented 45% of our generating capacity,
compared with 70% in 2005. Through 2019, AEP reduced its carbon emissions profile by 65%, putting us well on our way
to our goal of reducing our carbon footprint by 70% by 2030.
Looking ahead, we will continue to invest in clean energy solutions for customers. By 2030, our current integrated
resource plans for our regulated utilities include the addition of up to another 4,149 MW of solar, 3,935 MW of wind and
1,607 MW of natural gas. In addition, we are committed to investing $2.1 billion in contracted renewables from 2020
through 2024 across the U.S. Today, this competitive business manages a renewable portfolio of 1,572 MW across 11
states.
As we transition to a cleaner energy future, we will take steps to ensure we continue to provide the safe and reliable
electricity that is the backbone of our nation’s economy and powers our customers’ daily lives.
Integrated Resource Planning
As a regulated utility, we must provide our customers with reliable energy. To meet this demand in a cost-effective
manner, we use a long-term approach to resource planning. We determine our energy and capacity needs well into the
future to help us find the best mix of energy resources at reasonable costs to our customers. Achieving this requires
striking the right balance of renewable energy sources – such as solar, wind and hydro – and 24/7 sources such as natural
gas, nuclear and coal, as well as other advancements in resource technology that drive a more efficient grid.
Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) provide a snapshot of a potential future generating mix, based on today’s assumptions.An IRP is not a commitment to a specific course of action,
as the future is uncertain and decisions relating to AEP’s
generation resources are subject to regulatory approval.
Rather, it is a roadmap, showing the amount, timing, cost
and type of potential future resource additions. It must cover
both energy and capacity needs and do so at a reasonable
cost.
Our publicly filed IRPs use a planning horizon of 10 to 20
years. They demonstrate how we plan to meet customer
demands for reliable and affordable energy and allow us to
estimate future emissions from our generation resources.
We are entering the latter phases of our retirement of
generating units in many jurisdictions. This makes the
planning process extremely important as AEP transitions to
a cleaner energy future.
To develop our IRPs, we systematically evaluate and balance multiple issues, including the increasingly complex existing
and pending environmental regulations, technology advancements, changes in pricing fundamentals, load growth
forecasts, energy efficiency advancements, growth in customer-adopted distributed resources and other complexities.
Additionally, many IRP processes include stakeholder outreach.
IRPs are filed with state regulatory commissions. Regulatory proceedings and requirements for IRPs vary widely from
state to state. Some states require significant stakeholder engagement processes ahead of filing, and some have
significant testimony and discovery periods. Commission actions also vary: In some states IRPs are merely recognized,
while in others they are approved and found to be in the public interest.
New IRPs filed in 2019 by Appalachian Power (APCo), Indiana Michigan Power (I&M), Southwestern Electric Power
Company (SWEPCo) and Kentucky Power call for additions of renewable energy over their respective planning periods.
Based on the inputs and results of IRP analyses, the economic addition of renewables over these planning horizons would
lower costs to customers compared to other resource decisions.
Read about the details of these and other projects in our Renewables section
.
AEP Operating Company by State
Case Number/Docket
Southwestern Electric Power Company – Louisiana
SWEPCO LA I-33013
SWEPCO’s LA DRAFT 2019 IRP
Southwestern Electric Power Company – Arkansas
SWEPCO AR Doc.07-011-UPublic Service Company of Oklahoma - Oklahoma
Docketless Case
Kentucky Power Company 2016 IRP - Kentucky
Case NO. 2016-00413
Appalachian Power Company – Virginia
Case NO. PUE-2016-00050
Appalachian Power Company – West Virginia
Case 15-2003-E-IRP
Wheeling Power Company – West Virginia
Case 15-2004-E-IRP
Indiana Michigan Power - Indiana
Docketless Case
RENEWABLES
In 2019, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration (EIA), renewables accounted for 19% of the
nation’s electricity generating mix and are projected to grow
to 38% by 2050. The EIA forecasts that 76% of new
capacity additions in 2020 will be from solar and wind. The
EIA also projects that by 2021, electricity generation from
renewables will exceed that of coal and nuclear and will
overtake natural gas by 2045.
As renewable resources become more affordable due to
advances in technology and support from federal tax credits,
we see these clean options capturing larger and larger
shares of our integrated resource plans (IRPs). In addition,
AEP’s transition to a clean energy future is tied to our grid modernization investments.
Our goal, as outlined in our IRPs, is to increase regulated renewable energy on our system by approximately 8,000 MW by
2030. At the same time, we are expanding our renewable footprint beyond our traditional service territory. We plan to
invest $2.1 billion in contracted renewables from 2020 through 2024. Through our competitive operations, we offer low
cost of capital and energy project expertise to potential partners, creating attractive energy solutions for customers. This is
especially appealing to companies, universities and municipalities that often have their own renewable energy goals.
The North Central Wind Energy Facilities project and AEP Renewables, a subsidiary of AEP Energy Supply, are leading
the charge for our renewable energy strategy.
North Central Wind Energy Facilities Project
In 2019, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) filed
proposals to acquire and jointly own three wind generation facilities in north central Oklahoma. The North Central Wind
Energy Facilities (NCWEF) will provide 1,485 MW of new wind capacity, with 810 MW allocated to SWEPCO customers
across Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas and 675 MW to PSO customers in Oklahoma. The facilities are strategically
located to tap into the region’s wind resources and AEP’s existing transmission systems, which allows for easy
interconnection to the regional power grid.
In February 2020, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission unanimously approved a settlement agreement allowing PSO
to move forward with the project. Once the facilities are in operation, PSO’s use of wind energy will increase from 22% to
34%. In May 2020, SWEPCO received final approval in Arkansas by the Arkansas Public Service Commission.
SWEPCO continues to work through the regulatory process to gain approval in Louisiana and Texas.
The plan includes provisions for states to increase their portion of the project in the event another state decides not toAEP’s Investments in Renewables
In early 2020, I&M received approval from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission to build and operate its largest
solar generation facility in St. Joseph County, Indiana. I&M will collaborate on this 20 MW project with the University of
Notre Dame. This project also provides educational and research opportunities and supports I&M’s and Notre Dame’s
sustainability goals.
In early 2019, Appalachian Power’s proposal to provide its customers with the opportunity to purchase 100%
renewable energy was approved by the Virginia State Corporation Commission. The renewable energy will come from
APCo’s existing or planned renewable resources. Participants who use 1,000 kWh of energy per month will pay an
additional $4.25 per month.
In early 2020, APCo issued a Request for Proposals for up to 200 MW of solar energy resources located in Virginia
that will reduce customer costs and further diversify its electric generation mix. The RFP also gives developers the
option of including battery storage system with their proposals.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) is requesting proposals for PV Solar and Reciprocating Internal
Combustion Engine (RICE) resources for commercial operation. Both projects will be located at the Fort Sill Military
Base in Lawton, Oklahoma. The net minimum output of the PV Solar will be 10 MW to 14 MW. The net minimum output
of the RICE will be approximately 36 MW. The project, owned and operated by PSO, will provide power to PSO’s
system during normal operations. In the event of an outage or validated threat to the electric supply to Fort Sill, these
In July 2019, we completed the purchase of 75% stake of the
Santa Rita East Wind Project near San Angelo, Texas.
move forward with its share of the project.
If approved by the state regulatory commissions, the project would provide more than $3 billion in energy savings to our
customers in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas over the 30-year life of the facilities. In addition to lowering bills,
NCWEF will help insulate customers from energy price volatility over the life of the project. The project, which is eligible for
the federal Production Tax Credit once approved, is scheduled to come online in 2020 and 2021.
Competitive Renewables
AEP Renewables, a subsidiary of AEP Energy, develops,
owns and operates utility-scale wind and solar energy
generation projects throughout the United States. These
renewable energy facilities sell the energy they produce to
utilities, electric cooperatives, municipalities or corporate
customers.
2019 was a transformational year for 
AEP Renewables
, as
we invested $1.4 billion in contracted renewables, bringing
to 13 the number of projects we now have in 11 states. In
April 2019, we acquired Sempra Renewables, LLC and its
724 MW of operating wind generation, including a battery
storage asset. The deal included seven operating wind
farms in Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan,
Minnesota and Pennsylvania, all with long-term power
purchase agreements in place for 100% of the energy
produced.
In July 2019, we completed the purchase of 75% stake (227 MW) of the Santa Rita East Wind Project near San Angelo,
Texas. With the addition of these new projects, the AEP Renewables portfolio now includes 1,302 MW of renewable
generation.
Through these acquisitions, we now have a greater ability to expand our development of contracted renewable projects.
For example, AEP Renewables signed a long-term purchase agreement with Evergy to buy the energy from Flat Ridge 3,
a 128 MW wind farm that is currently under construction and expected to be operational by the end of 2020.assets will first be used to restore power to Fort Sill. This project is mutually beneficial as it simultaneously supports
PSO’s system and the Army’s goal of enhancing its energy resilience for its military installations.
OnSite Partners, an AEP competitive business, has a portfolio of distributed energy solutions that includes 59 projects
across 18 states, with a total investment of $322 million. Another four projects that are currently in various stages of
construction represent an additional investment of $41 million. The projects use a variety of technologies, such as
behind-the-meter solar, community solar, substations, batteries and a fuel cell.
AEP Energy was instrumental in powering the John Glenn International Airport in Columbus, Ohio, with 100% clean
energy. The Columbus Regional Airport Authority estimates the new deal will save nearly $13 million in energy costs.
Google broke ground on a $600 million data center in New Albany, Ohio, powered by 100% renewable energy
supplied by AEP Energy.
Today, approximately 11,900 MW of renewable generation is interconnected across the U.S. via AEP’s transmission
system.
Meeting Customer Demands
Our customers’ demand for clean energy is a key driver in the growth of our renewable energy portfolio. We listen to our
customers’ needs and develop solutions for them. We do this through surveys, one-on-one meetings and other channels of
engagement and we will continue to see further expansion of renewables and other technologies to address customer
preferences. What we have learned is that a strong majority of customers, especially large commercial and industrial
customers, want clean energy.
In our regulated jurisdictions, we need the support of our regulatory entities to be able to invest in clean energy resources.
Renewable resources are becoming more cost-competitive compared to other forms of generation and this has led to
increasing penetration of renewables within the Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs). As a result, RTOs have
been required to both clarify and reconsider some of their rules to take into consideration these increasing volumes of
intermittent generation. In some cases, this has led to market changes that reduce the value of renewable resources in the
market. Although these changes are intended to provide renewable resources the proper credit for the value they bring to
the market, the reductions work against our efforts to provide the low-cost renewable options that our customers expect.
In November 2019, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) found that there was no generation supply need for
AEP Ohio’s plan to develop 400 MW of solar power from two projects in the state’s Highland County. Through the plan,
AEP Ohio would have entered into long-term contracts with the project developers for the power. This proposal was part
of a 2016 commitment we made to pursue development of 900 MW of renewable resources in the state. If developed, this
project would have been the single largest clean energy commitment in Ohio history and would have doubled the state’s
renewable generation capacity. In addition, it would have created 4,000 construction jobs and 150 permanent jobs.
Despite this setback, we remain committed to supporting renewable energy projects that will improve our future
generation mix while adding tax revenue and reducing long-term electricity costs for our customers.In 2019, we completed our scheduled retirements of Conesville
Units 5 and 6, with a combined capacity of 820 MW.
TRADITIONAL GENERATION
Coal Fleet Optimization
According to the 2020 Sustainable Energy in America Factbook, coal met 45% of the U.S. demand in 2010 compared
with 23% in 2019. The abundance of low-cost natural gas, the near-doubling of renewable generating capacity in the U.S.,
and a decade of research and technological innovation have hastened the retirement of coal-fired generation.
The picture is similar for AEP’s coal fleet. At the end of
2019, coal represented 45% of AEP’s generating capacity,
compared with 70% in 2005. And, in the past decade, AEP
has sold, retired or converted to natural gas a total of 12,339
MW of coal-fueled generating capacity. By 2030, more than
half of AEP’s coal units will be within 10 years of reaching
the end of their depreciable life.
In 2019, we completed our scheduled retirements of
Conesville Units 5 and 6, with a combined capacity of 820
MW. In 2020, we plan to retire 1,111 MW of coal generating
facilities, including the 460 MW (AEP’s ownership)
Oklaunion Plant in Oklahoma and the 651 MW (AEP’s
ownership) Conesville Unit 4 in Ohio. AEP’s interest in the
Oklaunion Plant is co-owned by AEP Texas and Public
Service Company of Oklahoma.
In early 2020, Southwestern Electric Power Company
(SWEPCo) said in an Arkansas rate case settlement agreement that it would seek regulatory approval to retire the Dolet
Hills Power Station by the end of 2026. SWEPCo owns 40% of the facility, which generates 650 MW of power
(SWEPCo’s share is 257 MW). Cleco Corp. owns 50% and operates the facility located at Mansfield, Louisiana.
In April 2020, SWEPCo and Cleco jointly filed a letter notifying the Louisiana Public Service Commission that SWEPCosubsidiary Dolet Hills Lignite Company (DHLC) would cease lignite mining in June 2020. DHLC provides 100% of the fuel
supply to the plant from the Oxbow Mine, which is jointly owned by SWEPCo and Cleco. Based on the remaining
estimated fuel supply for Dolet Hills Power Station’s seasonal operations, SWEPCo revised the expected retirement date
of the plant to September 2021. The permanent mine closure and plant retirement require regulatory approvals.
If AEP’s plans are approved, we will retire more than 3,700 MW of coal generation from 2020 through 2030.
While our strategy is to invest in cleaner energy options, we are committed to mitigating risk around our current coal fleet
through this transition. That means we are managing our remaining coal fleet to reduce the need for capital investment
over time while continuing safe and reliable operation of the units. We will seek opportunities, as appropriate for our
customers and when approved by regulations, to accelerate retirement dates and associated accounting depreciation
rates. This has the potential to mitigate risk to both our customers and shareholders while providing a reliable source of
electricity.
Our remaining coal units are available to provide critical 24/7 energy and other services to the grid and are equipped with
environmental controls to assure compliance with current regulations. AEP expects to make additional investments in
future years in order to comply with air and water quality standards.
Although we have no plans to build another coal plant, we continue to monitor the development of new technologies,
including carbon capture and storage for both coal and natural gas. Should any of these technologies be demonstrated
commercially to improve the scalability, we would want to have those technology options available for consideration.
Learn more about AEP’s strategic vision for reducing carbon emissions
.
Natural Gas
Natural gas is a fundamental part of our portfolio, and we
expect that will continue into the future. High-efficiency
combined-cycle natural gas plants play a key role in a
diverse resource portfolio. As wind and solar generation capacity increase, natural gas gives us the flexibility needed to
ensure the grid operates uninterrupted when intermittent, renewable resources are unavailable.
Because natural gas facilities rely on a constant supply of fuel to operate, it is critical that we maintain a steady flow of
natural gas to our generation plants at all times. This is why several of our natural gas units are directly connected to
multiple pipelines, which offer differing degrees of flexibility. Another challenge we face is an aging and highly utilized
natural gas infrastructure, which sometimes affects our ability to receive natural gas to meet demand during peak periods.
Although pipeline operators are becoming more flexible in terms of offering rate schedules that are more conducive to
power generators, we continue managing risk when procuring and scheduling natural gas delivery for our units.Nuclear & Hydro
Nuclear energy is one of the most reliable carbon-free sources of electricity. The Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in
Bridgman, Michigan, can provide 2,288 MW of electricity when operating at full power. The plant’s two units are located
along Lake Michigan’s eastern shore, producing carbon-free electricity to serve our customers in Michigan and Indiana.
Cook’s two units originally were designed for a 40-year life, but, in 2005, the licenses were extended by 20 years to 2034
for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2. In 2019, the plant completed two refueling outages.
In addition to refueling the reactor and performing regular maintenance and testing activities, crews performed reactor
vessel inspections, replaced mechanical parts and made other repairs. The work inside the reactor was an important
milestone because it showed that previous efforts to maintain and protect the integrity and longevity of the reactor have
been successful.
The Cook Plant is part of an industrywide, multiyear strategy to transform the industry and ensure the plant’s long-term
viability. The strategy identifies efficiency measures, adopts best practices and applies new technology solutions that
improve operations, reduce costs and drive regulatory and market change to ensure nuclear energy facilities are fully
recognized for their value and don’t succumb to premature reactor retirements.
Another clean energy resource serving our customers for more than a century is hydroelectric power. AEP has 933 MW of
hydro and pumped storage on its system, serving customers in five states. In March 2020, AEP announced a study of 10
hydro plants, totaling approximately 113 MW, for potential sale. This is the result of our ongoing strategic evaluation of our
generating assets to ensure our investments are going to support infrastructure and the energy innovations that our
customers want and need. With all of our assets, we look at the possible risks and value they bring to AEP and what part
each plays in the portfolio of assets managed by the company.
If this study results in the sale of these facilities, there is the possibility for impacts to employees at the plants and in other
areas that support these facilities. As we have done before, we will work with our employees through this transition. Any
potential sale would not occur before late 2020 at the earliest.
Traditional Programs
For years, AEP has provided customers with a broad array of traditional energy efficiency and demand response
programs to help them use energy more efficiently. We have excelled in meeting the requirements and expectations of
legislators and regulators, worked cooperatively with a variety of interested stakeholders and delivered exceptional results
for our customers.
Today, we are increasingly applying the concept of beneficial electrification to achieve these objectives. Beneficial
electrification is the use of electricity to help customers replace fossil fuels to reduce overall emissions and energy costs,
improve local environmental conditions and optimize the use of the grid. Electric vehicles, voice-enabled home energy
management apps and high-tech industrial technologies are just a few of the many ways we are helping our customers to
achieve even better results.
Energy Efficiency Programs
We view energy efficiency as a readily deployable, competitively priced and clean resource that provides many benefits to
our customers and the environment. Today, AEP offers customers more than 120 programs across nearly all of our 11-
state service territory. In 2019, AEP’s energy efficiency programs resulted in more than 1 million MWh of energy reduction
and more than 300 MW of demand reduction. From 2008 through 2019, these programs have cumulatively reduced
annual consumption by over 9 million MWh and peak demand by approximately 2,900 MW.In 2019, the American Council for an Energy Efficient
Economy (ACEEE) recognized Southwestern Electric
Power Company (SWEPCo) with an Exemplary Program
Award based on its effectiveness and innovation in helping
Arkansas residential customers achieve greater levels of
energy efficiency.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
announced its 2020 ENERGY STAR® awards for
businesses and organizations that have made outstanding
contributions to protecting the environment through energy
efficiency. AEP Ohio, AEP Texas and SWEPCO were
named ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained
Excellence winners. Appalachian Power Company (APCo) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) were
recognized with an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Energy Efficiency Program Delivery award. In addition, AEP
Ohio was a joint recipient with JadeTrack and Columbia Gas for an Excellence in Data Collection award.
Within our own operations, we take measures to reduce energy consumption. We reduced our kilowatt-hour (kWh) usage,
normalized for weather, by approximately 32% in 2019, compared with the 2007 baseline, in more than 290 buildings.
This resulted in approximately $6 million in cost savings. We achieved these energy consumption reductions mostly
through equipment investments, such as new lighting, heating and cooling systems, along with employee education.
AEP has nine LEED-certified facilities across its service territory. The most recent certifications include our new
transmission center in Oklahoma and two service centers in Indiana.
Demand Response
AEP’s demand response programs lower costs and support the power grid by helping to reduce load in periods of peak
demand, such as during extreme hot and cold weather. Some programs include special rate structures that encourage our
customers to reduce their energy consumption during these peak demand periods. For some customers, we have
contracts that allow us to “interrupt” their power consumption during peak times in exchange for reduced rates.
Peak demand is the amount of power used at times of maximum power usage and varies across our service territory. For
example, Appalachian Power’s system peak generally occurs on winter weekday mornings, when electric heating and
appliance usage are happening at the same time that commercial equipment and industrial machinery are ramping up for
the workday. Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s system, on the other hand, typically peaks in the afternoon of a
summer weekday, as people get home from work or school and increase their use of air conditioners and fans while the
demand from commercial and industrial customers remains high.
Historically, as peak demand grew with the economy and population, new capacity was needed. In the future, the adoption
of new technologies, such as distributed resources may affect when peak demand occurs on the system. Therefore, AEP
considers the possibility of adding not only new generation resources, but also considers demand response programs as
an option for meeting customer peak needs.
Challenges
The successes of our energy efficiency and demand response programs have reduced overall electricity usage and
demand requirements across the power grid. A significant amount of this improvement has come from programs that
used low-cost incentives for our customers. However, as lighting and other appliance efficiency standards increase, these
cost-effective options are dwindling.
The next generation of energy efficiency options includes relatively expensive and more involved customer decisions, such
as improving home insulation or upgrading HVAC equipment. The incentives needed are much higher, making them less
cost-effective and putting them out of reach for many customers.
AEP also shares the concern that some legislators and regulators have expressed regarding the impact of higher
program costs, especially for our low- and moderate-income customers. We have seen this concern raised bypolicymakers in several states across our service territory. The key from a policymaking perspective is that capital can be
deployed efficiently to reduce customers’ bills and drive efficiency in delivering customer preferences for renewable
energy, energy efficiency, and energy management services.
Traditional Programs
For years, AEP has provided customers with a broad array of traditional energy efficiency and demand response
programs to help them use energy more efficiently. We have excelled in meeting the requirements and expectations of
legislators and regulators, worked cooperatively with a variety of interested stakeholders and delivered exceptional results
for our customers.
Today, we are increasingly applying the concept of beneficial electrification to achieve these objectives. Beneficial
electrification is the use of electricity to help customers replace fossil fuels to reduce overall emissions and energy costs,
improve local environmental conditions and optimize the use of the grid. Electric vehicles, voice-enabled home energy
management apps and high-tech industrial technologies are just a few of the many ways we are helping our customers to
achieve even better results.
Energy Efficiency Programs
We view energy efficiency as a readily deployable,
competitively priced and clean resource that provides many
benefits to our customers and the environment. Today, AEP
offers customers more than 120 programs across nearly all
of our 11-state service territory. In 2019, AEP’s energy
efficiency programs resulted in more than 1 million MWh of
energy reduction and more than 300 MW of demand
reduction. From 2008 through 2019, these programs have
cumulatively reduced annual consumption by over 9 million
MWh and peak demand by approximately 2,900 MW.
In 2019, the American Council for an Energy Efficient
Economy (ACEEE) recognized Southwestern Electric
Power Company (SWEPCo) with an Exemplary Program
Award based on its effectiveness and innovation in helping Arkansas residential customers achieve greater levels of
energy efficiency.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its 2020 ENERGY STAR® awards for businesses and
organizations that have made outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through energy efficiency. AEP
Ohio, AEP Texas and SWEPCO were named ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence winners.
Appalachian Power Company (APCo) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) were recognized with an
ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Energy Efficiency Program Delivery award. In addition, AEP Ohio was a joint
recipient with JadeTrack and Columbia Gas for an Excellence in Data Collection award.
Within our own operations, we take measures to reduce energy consumption. We reduced our kilowatt-hour (kWh) usage,
normalized for weather, by approximately 32% in 2019, compared with the 2007 baseline, in more than 290 buildings.
This resulted in approximately $6 million in cost savings. We achieved these energy consumption reductions mostly
through equipment investments, such as new lighting, heating and cooling systems, along with employee education.
AEP has nine LEED-certified facilities across its service territory. The most recent certifications include our new
transmission center in Oklahoma and two service centers in Indiana.Home Energy Management
Today’s technology makes it easier than ever to manage energy use, bills and services. Our customers have access to a
growing number of choices for home energy management, and they expect a personalized experience with product and
service offerings. To be their preferred choice, we have to give customers relevant and timely energy insights, as well as
tailored solutions to help them understand and control their energy use and bills. We offer these insights and solutions in a
manner that is consistent with their lifestyle while simultaneously managing the system for the benefit of all customers.
Home Energy Management (HEM) is a collection of integrated solutions that gives us the foundation to do all of these things.
The continued integration of smart meters throughout our service areas is a key driver of our HEM expansion, as it facilitates
enhanced data accuracy and increases our ability to provide personalized information for customers.
HEM is particularly beneficial to our low-income customers who are sensitive to fluctuations in their utility bills. Through HEM
solutions, we can deliver proactive alerts, including energy savings tips and links to energy efficiency programs. In addition,
we can help customers increase their ability to control monthly costs.
In 2019, AEP developed a strategy to implement a single HEM data portal enabling two-way data flow with our customers.
Customers will now have the ability to access their energy information through one platform instead of being directed to
Demand Response
AEP’s demand response programs lower costs and support the power grid by helping to reduce load in periods of peak
demand, such as during extreme hot and cold weather. Some programs include special rate structures that encourage our
customers to reduce their energy consumption during these peak demand periods. For some customers, we have
contracts that allow us to “interrupt” their power consumption during peak times in exchange for reduced rates.
Peak demand is the amount of power used at times of maximum power usage and varies across our service territory. For
example, Appalachian Power’s system peak generally occurs on winter weekday mornings, when electric heating and
appliance usage are happening at the same time that commercial equipment and industrial machinery are ramping up for
the workday. Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s system, on the other hand, typically peaks in the afternoon of a
summer weekday, as people get home from work or school and increase their use of air conditioners and fans while the
demand from commercial and industrial customers remains high.
Historically, as peak demand grew with the economy and population, new capacity was needed. In the future, the adoption
of new technologies, such as distributed resources may affect when peak demand occurs on the system. Therefore, AEP
considers the possibility of adding not only new generation resources, but also considers demand response programs as
an option for meeting customer peak needs.
Challenges
The successes of our energy efficiency and demand response programs have reduced overall electricity usage and
demand requirements across the power grid. A significant amount of this improvement has come from programs that
used low-cost incentives for our customers. However, as lighting and other appliance efficiency standards increase, these
cost-effective options are dwindling.
The next generation of energy efficiency options includes relatively expensive and more involved customer decisions, such
as improving home insulation or upgrading HVAC equipment. The incentives needed are much higher, making them less
cost-effective and putting them out of reach for many customers.
AEP also shares the concern that some legislators and regulators have expressed regarding the impact of higher
program costs, especially for our low- and moderate-income customers. We have seen this concern raised by
policymakers in several states across our service territory. The key from a policymaking perspective is that capital can be
deployed efficiently to reduce customers’ bills and drive efficiency in delivering customer preferences for renewable
energy, energy efficiency, and energy management services.several third-party portals or websites. The portal will integrate information from multiple digital channels (web, mobile, voice)
into one consistent platform for a better customer experience. This enhances our ability to deliver more personalized
information to our customers, such as bill comparisons, proactive alerts, personalized cost savings tips and usage
breakdown by appliance – giving the customer more insight and control over their energy usage while simultaneously
reducing costs. AEP was awarded the inaugural Strategic Vision award by Oracle for this project.
We also offer an HEM voice-assisted app that integrates with voice service devices. Through the app, customers can use
voice commands to access their account or energy use information using either platform. 
Learn more in Customer
Engagement
.
Residential customers of AEP Ohio who have smart meters can participate in a HEM program that allows them to manage
their energy use in real time through the It’s Your Power
 mobile app. This app allows customers to pinpoint what uses the
most electricity in their home so customers can make money-saving choices without sacrificing comfort. When paired with an
AEP Ohio Energy Bridge, It’s Your Power
 can also be used to control smart home devices, such as remotely adjust their
thermostat, set a budget goal for electricity usage, and pay their bill online.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s PowerHours program offers three options for customers to increase their energy
savings through the Time of Day program, the Direct Load Control program, or a combination of both.
Electrification of end-use technologies 
enables customers to be
more energy efficient through the use of more electricity while
replacing direct fossil fuel use.
Beneficial Electrification
Electrification of end-use technologies in industry, buildings
and the transportation sector, combined with cleaner
electricity from the grid, creates a clear pathway for a low-
carbon future. This enables customers to be more energy
efficient through the use of more electricity while replacing
direct fossil fuel use. This trend will continue as society looks
to replace fossil fuels with clean electricity to heat homes
and buildings, power vehicles and operate industrial
equipment. The road to beneficial electrification is complex
and challenging, but the long-term reward is significant for
the environment, society and business.
Increased adoption of electrification technologies such as
electric vehicles (EVs) require effective planning to ensure
infrastructure is in place to meet our customers’ needs and
the right policies and regulations to support them. Further,
we are working with technology and research partners,
customers, policymakers and other stakeholders to
understand the implications and opportunities of large-scale electrification as we transform to a digital economy. 
Through
this engagement, we can identify and support opportunities for strategic electrification, maximize benefits for all
customers and ensure development of policies and regulations that help our customers and communities.
In 2019, the West Virginia Public Service Commission expressed support to expand Appalachian Power’s (APCo)
Energy Efficiency (EE) program to include Beneficial Electrification (BE). This policy demonstrates an important shift in
expanding the focus of Energy Efficiency programs from simply a reduction in electricity consumption toward helping
customers achieve reductions in overall energy use, costs and environmental impacts. The EE stakeholder process will
be used to consider the appropriate BE applications to include in the program.
For more information about beneficial electrification technologies and resources, visit 
www.energyconversionhub.com
.
Electric Transportation
The electric mobility revolution continues to accelerate throughout the world and in our service territory. Electric vehicle
(EV) adoption provides substantial environmental and economic benefits for society. It will also have substantial impactson many major industries, including the electric utility industry.
According to the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), there are more than 1.3 million EVs on the road today in the U.S. By 2030,
the total number of EVs will climb above 18 million. 
Our objective is to increase adoption of electric transportation in our
service territory and provide charging options that optimize the use of the grid for the benefit of all customers. To increase
adoption of EVs in our service territory, AEP is helping raise awareness through education about the benefits of EVs with
customers. In 2019, we launched the Electric Car Education and Awareness campaign throughout most of the AEP
enterprise. The campaign, which continues through 2020, focuses on four key messages: affordable to buy, affordable to
maintain, easy to refuel and easy to get around. The web-based campaign includes event materials, social animations,
fleet case studies and a targeted three-month digital campaign. We are installing EV charging options where we park our
personal and company vehicles, and we are helping mature transportation corridors to enable long-distance electric travel
for all drivers.
We are seeing greater adoption – confirming our growth forecasts. At the end of 2019, there were nearly 14,000
registered EVs across our service territory, with nearly half of those in Ohio. By 2030, we estimate EVs to make up 1% to
3% of all vehicles in our service territory.
Our commitment to electrification includes providing tools and guidance to help customers better manage their vehicle
fleets, such as 
www.electriccarcalculator.com
. These tools show that replacing a vehicle with a similar EV can provide a
50% reduction in first-year fuel cost, as well as a 100% reduction in tailpipe emissions. When fleet managers understand
these benefits specific to their needs, they are empowered to make informed decisions about EVs that benefit their
businesses, customers and communities.
Across much of our service territory, we offer customers options and rates that encourage the efficient use of the grid and
make it affordable for customers to charge their EVs. For example, by offering rates that encourage overnight charging,
customers can save money because they are charging during off-peak periods. This also helps us better manage the
demand on the grid to ensure reliability, which benefits all of our customers. Such EV-friendly rates are the types of
initiatives that will enable quicker adoption.
We believe AEP is well-positioned to play an important role in supporting EV market development. We are actively
working with policymakers, automakers and customers to develop and implement incentive programs to jump-start and
support adoption of EVs in our service territories.
In 2019, AEP continued to expand the use of EVs throughout our own company, including integration of EVs into our fleet
of work vehicles.
2019 EV Accomplishments
We continued working on EV programs across several markets to achieve benefits for all customers and reduce charging
costs for drivers. In 2020, Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) successfully implemented new tariffs for its customers, while
APCo received approval in 2019 for a new EV tariff in Virginia.
EV program activities include:
In 2019, Oklahoma’s governor extended the state’s tax
credit for alternative fuel vehicles through 2027.
Oklahomans adopting EVs, or other “clean-burning”
vehicles, will receive a tax credit calculated according
to the vehicle’s weight.
We support the development of an electric vehicle
infrastructure that all communities can access. AEP
Ohio’s $10 million fund for charging infrastructure
includes deployment targets for priority segments,
such as multi-family housing, workplaces and
disadvantaged communities. The fund is nearly fully
subscribed.
In 2020, we will be actively involved in supportingIn 2019, I&M assisted Three Rivers Community Schools in
Michigan to develop the charging infrastructure for the school
district’s two new electric buses.
various EV tax credits at the state and federal levels.
The Ohio Senate is considering a tax credit for the
purchase of electric vehicles and charging stations for
either commercial or personal use. As the federal EV
tax credit expires for manufacturers such as Tesla and GM, which have sold over 200,000 EVs, we are working with
legislators and others to extend this program.
In Louisiana, SporTran, the City of Shreveport’s transportation system, debuted three new electric buses, bringing
its EV fleet to eight. 
Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) provided a $150,000 matching grant to
SporTran to purchase an EV charger for the city’s electric bus fleet. The new-generation charger will enable electric
buses to charge in just 30-45 minutes, compared to the four- to five-hour charge time required previously.
Shreveport’s electric bus fleet is the largest in Louisiana.
In 2019, I&M assisted Three Rivers Community Schools in Michigan to develop the charging infrastructure for the
school district’s two new electric buses. It required a transformer upgrade and identifying the best locations to install
the chargers. The new buses are quieter, cost less to maintain and provide health benefits by reducing exposure to
diesel exhaust fumes.
In Virginia, the residential off-peak rate schedule was approved in 2019. The rate schedule offers reduced cost
electricity for EV customers who choose to charge off-peak, while allowing them to keep their household on a
traditional rate schedule. Additional off-peak use reduces costs for other customers through better utilization of the
grid.
Approved in 2020, the IM PluggedIn Pilot is a robust program that plays an important role in encouraging plug-in
electric vehicle adoption and incenting off-peak charging behavior in a way that optimizes the overall electric
system. Under the pilot, I&M will provide residential and small commercial customers a rebate to offset wiring and
charger installation. Multi-family dwellings and other commercial and industrial customers will also be part of the pilot
program and eligible to take advantage of one of two incentive options to help offset charging infrastructure costs.
I&M is currently working to launch the program.
GRID RELIABILITY & RESILIENCE
Having a modern, reliable, resilient and secure grid is
critical to a clean energy future. From 2020 through 2024,
we plan to invest approximately $26 billion on transmission
and distribution infrastructure to expand, strengthen and
modernize our network. We are installing new equipment
and facilities that support and integrate renewable and
distributed energy resources, and we are using analytics
and other tools to monitor and predict potential reliability
and security risks. We are leveraging the convergence
between the electric utility and, system communications, and
transportation industries to modernize the grid and address
critical socio-economic needs. Through this, we are
providing customers with access to reliable, affordable and
cleaner energy options and opening access to broadband
opportunities in underserved areas.
Reliability Investments
Maintaining the approximately 260,000 miles in our transmission and distribution network comes with an array of
challenges even as we upgrade our infrastructure to meet modern-day needs. While our transmission and distribution
system is built to last, equipment naturally wears over time, which can increase the risk of failure, outages and efficiency
loss. It also affects the customer experience. Making investments to upgrade and replace our aging transmission and
distribution grid is essential to maintaining the highest levels of reliability, resilience and customer satisfaction.AEP works to maintain and expand our transmission system for the needs of our customers. However, at this point, much
of our system is nearing or past the end of its useful life. This is a situation being faced by AEP and other utilities across
the country. The Edison Electric Institute estimates that 30% of the U.S. transmission system is at, or near, the end of its
useful life. We proactively identify equipment that could be a risk to system reliability. We identified nearly 10,600 miles of
power lines and more than 360 transformers expected to exceed their design life in the next decade.
Although AEP actively maintains all infrastructure on our grid, there comes a time when replacement is more appropriate
than rehabilitation based on condition, performance and risk of failure. As equipment approaches the end of its useful life,
there are consequences to consider. Tower structures become weaker, other parts deteriorate and lines have a higher
risk of frequent and prolonged outages due to failure. These can also lead to safety considerations for workers and the
public. AEP wants to ensure our system remains strong, resilient and safe for generations to come. Therefore, we plan to
continue our investments to replace and upgrade equipment and facilities that have the most direct reliability benefit to
customers.
AEP’s distribution system is no exception. The average age of our distribution poles is 31 years, with more than 1 million
poles older than 45 years. Our Operating Companies utilize asset programs to replace and upgrade the aging
infrastructure on the distribution system. These programs include replacements of poles, small conductor, service
transformers, and protective and voltage regulator equipment. The replacements are planned based on the age and
condition of the assets and are prioritized into the overall Operating Company budget for reliability improvement.
To address these aging distribution infrastructure needs requires $2.7 billion in annual on-system capital investment
simply to maintain the current age profile of our system.
While our aggregate load growth is low across the system, there are pockets of higher load growth driven by mixtures of
industrial, commercial and residential development. We update annual load forecasts for substations and circuits and plan
necessary capacity additions to assure that the growing load can be served reliably. These capacity improvements
typically provide incremental reliability improvement by reducing the exposure of existing circuits, adding capacity for
recovery of customers during abnormal conditions, and strengthening the circuits both physically and electrically.
We also leverage data analytics and digital technology to reduce failures, increase safety, improve grid reliability and
reduce risks. For example, AEP’s Asset Health Center (AHC) provides proactive operational and predictive awareness
that allows us to make informed decisions about transmission assets that need maintenance or replacement. This helps
us reduce risk by identifying safety issues in real time and informs our capital investment strategy. Since 2012, we have
also installed and managed real-time performance monitors, saving the company up to $45 million by preventing
transformer failures. The deployment of monitoring and analytics to the grid have been a priority for AEP. These enhanced
tools will allow for us to better monitor the system, improve resilience and improve response times to outage conditions.
We are also developing data analytic and visibility tools that make it easier for our distribution engineers and operations
personnel to visualize where high-value reliability improvements can be implemented. More detailed reports to analyze
specific outage causes and locations are then utilized to develop and prioritize reliability improvement investments. Along
with traditional solutions, innovative solutions being considered to improve reliability include distributed generation, energy
storage and microgrids.
Vegetation Management
When it comes to vegetation management, AEP has some of the most challenging geography and terrain across the
nation. This makes prevention of outages and equipment failures from overgrown and/or fallen vegetation one of our
biggest and most expensive challenges. In addition to maintaining what is growing inside our rights-of-way (ROW), we
also evaluate the health of trees outside the ROW as part of our management process.
We manage vegetation growth immediately surrounding our power lines – within our defined easements for operational
integrity – with a combination of performance-based (such as targeting low-performing circuits) and cycle-based (regularly
scheduled) maintenance strategies. Executing an effective vegetation management program across our service area is a
significant expense that has a direct effect on service reliability and customer satisfaction. We carefully manage our
programs to ensure they are cost-effective, using a variety of tools and techniques. This includes helicopters for aerial
inspections, approved herbicide applications and tree trimming. We also continuously evaluate new, more efficientDrones are an effective means of inspecting power lines for
regular maintenance and surveying damage after storms.
equipment in the field while integrating artificial intelligence solutions into our planning process to maximize cost
efficiency.
Our operating companies work with state regulatory commissions for approval to implement more aggressive and
proactive cycle-based vegetation management programs. We have successfully done this in Ohio, Oklahoma, West
Virginia, Indiana and Kentucky.
Vegetation Management at AEP:
During the past five years, AEP has spent more than $1.89 billion on vegetation management, including $539
million in 2019.
Since 2010, Kentucky Power has cleared nearly 10,000 miles of overhead lines in its service territory, reducing
outages caused by trees inside the ROW by over 70%.
In 2019, falling trees accounted for approximately 29% of the total AEP customer minutes of interruption.
Leveraging Drone Technology
Drones are an effective means of inspecting power lines for regular maintenance and surveilling damage after storms.
Since 2017, we have tested and used camera-equipped drones for power line patrols and inspections. We also use
drones to conduct inspections of generation, transmission, system communications and distribution equipment. Our drone
governance structure ensures we comply with specific requirements regarding physical and cybersecurity, corporate risk
assessments and federal regulations.
The Advantages of Drones Include:
Cameras can capture images underneath
components on a structure, such as insulator
assemblies, while helicopter pilots and observers can
only look down.
Working conditions are safer because no one is
required to climb a tower or ride in a helicopter.
Drones can access hard-to-reach areas possibly not
accessible by helicopter.
Drones are quieter than helicopters, which is a benefit
when flying in populated areas.
Drones provide the ability to assess damage more
quickly after an outage.
In 2019, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO)
completed a second round of transmission line inspection
testing using drones and visual observers on land owned by the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (CNO). This collaboration
between PSO, CNO and AirXOS (part of GE Aviation) helped to prove the safety and effectiveness of drone flights using
Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) technology. This clears the way for future tests without visual observers as we
continue to study the feasibility of extending our use of drones.
Grid Assurance
While the nation has improved its ability to respond to the major disasters and power outages that result from
catastrophes, there are increasing threats that present new challenges for protecting and recovering quickly from a
catastrophic power outage. These include more frequent and extreme weather events and physical, cyber or
electromagnetic attacks. Maintaining an adequate inventory of vital equipment needed to replace critical infrastructure in
the case of such an event is one challenge to improving grid resiliency.In 2019, Southwestern Electric Power Company piloted the Helia
EDGE platform to better integrate DERs and improve the grid’s
resiliency.
Transmission components are expensive and often difficult to transport over long distances. In addition, the manufacturing
process itself is complex, with lead times for ordering new equipment often extending more than a year. As a result, it is
expensive for individual companies to purchase and keep a large quantity of spare transmission equipment on standby.
For this reason, in 2018, AEP joined seven other major utility companies in becoming founding subscribers of Grid
Assurance, LLC.
Grid Assurance helps members restore power more quickly following a high-impact, low-frequency event by providing a
cost-effective method of meeting the collective resilience needs of the transmission grid. The new company’s inventory of
long-lead-time critical transmission equipment, such as transformers and circuit breakers, is arriving at secure storage
facilities. The first assets arrived in late 2019, and arrivals will continue until the final assets are delivered in late 2020. As
a subscriber, AEP will have faster access to the equipment and logistical support necessary for prompt deployment after
a catastrophic event.
Distributed Energy Resources & Reliability
Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) have the potential to
provide society with increased energy reliability and security
while reducing our reliance on traditional large, centralized
generating stations. DERs include rooftop solar panels,
wind turbines, home energy management systems and
battery storage systems. As these decentralized, local
sources of energy generation and control become more
widespread, we need the infrastructure in place to integrate
them with the grid safely and efficiently.
As power from more alternative energy sources enters the
grid, we face some significant challenges, such as
maintaining grid reliability when voltage levels vary. This
includes balancing the load when excess power is
generated and flows back through the grid from DERs. We
need to understand and plan for these dramatic changes so
we can integrate them into our operation of the grid. We are
making progress to address these challenges.
Many of our large commercial and industrial (C&I) customers have been early adopters of private generation, such as
rooftop solar. These users want more control over their systems, as well as lower costs and increased reliability of the
power that drives their businesses and keeps them competitive. As the economics of DERs such as private solar
continues to improve, C&I customers are increasing their adoption rate.
DERs may be changing the way we view the electric power system, but they will not change our need for a resilient,
reliable system that provides customers with the energy and capacity they need all day, every day. All customers –
including those with installed private generation – require constant connection to the grid not only to export excess
generation to the utility but also to provide generation at all times when their consumption of energy exceeds their ability to
generate for themselves. AEP’s investments in our transmission and distribution systems are preparing the grid for this –
a dynamic grid where the direction and magnitude of energy flows looks very different than has historically been the case.
In 2019, Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCo) piloted the Helia EDGE platform, developed by Helia
Technologies, Inc., in Shreveport, Louisiana, to better integrate DERs and improve the grid’s resiliency. The Helia
platform aides in voltage support and corrects power factor (PF) through DERs. The pilot project allows for SWEPCo to
call on customer owned DERs 
to support the grid for voltage, frequency, energy, and power factor support during extreme
weather events, such as heat waves. With the Helia platform and distribution system working together, customers
connected to the circuit do not experience low voltage under high-load circumstances.
AEP supports a customer’s right to install their own generating equipment, but it is imperative that the company continues
to pursue rates for those customers that reflect the true cost to serve them. Rate structures like traditional net metering,
which shifts costs from customers with generation to non-generating customers, must be addressed to more fairlycompensate the benefits private generation provides to the grid.
NERC Compliance
We have a responsibility to our customers to keep their lights on 24/7. The growing reality of cyber and physical threats to
our industry’s infrastructure is raising concerns with regulators and customers alike. As a result, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) is driving the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) to develop
unparalleled regulations for our industry. These regulations protect the grid and keep it safe, reliable and secure. Our
challenge is that the regulations are constantly evolving and new rules are being developed. NERC’s Critical Infrastructure
Protection (CIP) Standards reflect the increased focus on protecting the grid from cyber threats.
Today, there are approximately 900 continually evolving requirements in effect within the NERC Standards. AEP must
meet each of these requirements to remain in full compliance and avoid harsh financial penalties, often in the millions of
dollars. To manage the risk of non-compliance, AEP is increasing the number and sophistication of proactive controls as
one of several methods we are developing to track, manage and prioritize the ever-growing list of NERC obligations. Due
to the increased number and complexity of the NERC Standards, along with AEP’s significant geographic footprint, we
are continually in the process of completing or preparing for compliance audits. We must maintain a constant state of
audit readiness across AEP. To prepare, we maintain a strong focus on outreach efforts across AEP to communicate
new changes and requirements to the NERC Standards.
AEP’s NERC compliance governance structure was developed specifically to respond to the current compliance
environment and provides the direction, agility and organizational support needed to implement an industry-leading NERC
compliance program. This governance structure, in collaboration with regulators and industry leaders, has resulted in the
implementation of a three-year strategic plan for achieving operational excellence in NERC compliance. In addition,
AEP’s safety culture provides a strong foundation for ensuring that compliance is one of the essential elements of the
program’s strategic plan. Every employee at AEP has a role in delivering reliable, safe, secure electricity to all of our
customers, and compliance plays a critical role in achieving this goal.
TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION
From generation to transmission and distribution, we are taking bold steps to create new solutions for our customers. We
are leveraging the power of data analytics to better understand our infrastructure and machine learning and artificial
intelligence to integrate and optimize our assets. We are partnering with our communities and entrepreneurial businesses
and using next-generation tools, including virtual and augmented realities, robots and more, to propel our solutions
forward.
In May 2020, we named our first Chief Information and Technology officer, who will lead technology initiatives across AEP.
This includes information technology, innovation, digital initiatives and telecommunications. We believe AEP is well-
positioned to leverage our scale, industry experience and skilled workforce to achieve our goal of being the energy
company of the future. While we have come a long way in our innovation journey, we remain committed to leading the
energy industry and providing customers with innovations that will power their 21st century needs.
A Culture of Innovation
At AEP, innovation has been part of the fabric of our culture for more than a century. Today, our sights are set on the next
100 years. AEP has dedicated teams working to identify, create and execute on opportunities at local and global levels.
Our Focus
Our Innovation and Technology operating model focuses on scouting new technologies, validating them fast, partneringCharge refactored its 3D printers to produce 1,200 face shields
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
with AEP business units to demonstrate their benefits to customers and policymakers, securing timely regulatory support
or contractual approvals and deploying them at scale.
We currently use three technology accelerator programs to cost-effectively scout for start-up technologies in the U.S. and
internationally and to validate the benefits of their technologies. Validation is achieved through short-term pilots, in
collaboration with practitioners and experts in AEP operating companies and business units.
Our main focus on innovation is to create cost-effective benefits for customers, such as piloting microgrids. AEP Ohio
installed a microgrid at the Columbus Zoo and received regulatory support for this first-of-its-kind technology. We believe
that microgrids eventually can help increase the resiliency of energy systems by maintaining power in areas where critical
public service facilities, such as police and fire stations, medical facilities and emergency shelters, are located.
AEP Charge
AEP Charge leverages transformative technologies in order to deliver timely, cost-reducing innovative capabilities for our
customers and employees. Charge engages the business at large, ranks opportunities against an established
prioritization framework, and rapidly creates technologies for immediate consideration and implementation. Once a
solution is successfully rolled out and benefits realized, Charge partners with IT to scale the solution for broader
consumption.
Charge’s goal is to achieve $200 million in savings for AEP by 2023. Through 2019, Charge has delivered more than $40
million in estimated value across the Company. Some of the Charge projects in 2019 included:
CircuitSafe™
 – A new desktop and mobile app for AEP dispatchers and line workers that improves the safety and
efficiency of Distribution log on/off activity. The app uses direct web portal access and GPS to allow line workers to
quickly and safely do their work. This application has been deployed to our Distribution dispatchers and line workers
across the entire AEP footprint.
Digital Commissioning Checklist
 – A comprehensive checklist that summarizes the required tasks for testing and
commissioning substation assets. The new digital checklist provides enhanced transparency and more effective
process controls to ensure assets are documented and tested, driving grid reliability and safety. The digital checklist
enhances communication between construction teams, and it drives efficiency by reducing oversight and possible
rework.
Safety & Health Dashboard
 – A new tool that enhances the visibility of analytics following a safety incident. This
dashboard helps us identify proactive safety actions and training opportunities in support of Zero Harm.
In the wake of COVID-19, the Charge team piloted several
products to help AEP and others efficiently handle the
impacts and threats of the virus. In response to
recommendations that business owners check the
temperature of workers before they arrive at work, the
Charge team researched and launched a pilot on wearable
technologies that enable essential workers to self-monitor
their temperature. This eliminates the need for them to come
into a central location, risking exposure to others.
To help supply critical medical supplies for front-line
workers, Charge refactored its 3D printers to produce 1,200
face shields that were distributed throughout our service
territory. Charge also helped with business continuity
planning by creating and updating digital tools to survey and
document business issues impacted by the COVID-19
outbreak. This included developing an app, logic and
analytics for business leaders to manage multiple scenarios across multiple business units, helping to ensure work could
continue.
Charge is continually seeking to develop internally generated intellectual property and to build collaborative partnerships inthe Columbus, Ohio area to potentially co-author new technology offerings. We are also investigating ways of sharing the
solutions we develop with others in our industry and beyond. New technology offerings may present new pathways to
generate revenue for AEP. As our need for digital advancement evolves, the Charge team will continue to develop or
recruit the talent needed to apply new advancements in areas such as artificial intelligence, machine learning and data
analytics.
Global Innovation
The CEOs of AEP, Enel (Italy) and Hydro-Québec (Canada) formed the International Energy Innovators Consortium to co-
develop technologies that are not currently available. This collaboration of technology experts in microgrids, big data
analytical tools and e-mobility yields joint initiatives with the potential to serve the customers of all three companies.
We are also partnering with Enel-X (Italy), Innogy (Germany), ESB (Ireland), China Light and Power (Hong Kong), Hydro-
Québec and other international utilities to identify opportunities to co-validate, co-develop and co-invest in new
technologies.
In addition, the CEO-led Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership provides access to a global information hub for
innovative technologies, business models and public policies that are enabling development and deployment of new
technologies. AEP has been a member since the 1990s and gains valuable insights from other international CEOs on
how they are solving similar challenges to those facing our customers.
Smart Columbus
AEP was a foundational partner with Columbus, Ohio, in the city’s successful bid for the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) Smart City Challenge grant in 2016. The Smart Columbus project has helped community leaders
and organizations take a fresh approach to mobility, local economic growth and fostering a sustainable community. The
goals of the program align with AEP’s efforts to increase the electrification of the transportation system and make the
electric grid smarter and more efficient.
AEP Ohio, the local utility serving Columbus and communities in 61 of Ohio’s 88 counties, in 2018 launched an electric
vehicle (EV) charging station rebate program that provided $9.5 million in incentives to install charging stations for public
use, at workplaces, in multi-family housing units and in low-income areas throughout the service territory.
In the two years the program has been active, more than 300 chargers have been installed, including approximately 290
level 2 chargers and 25 DC fast charging stations. Applications to reach the original target of 375 total chargers have
outpaced the outstanding available funds, with more than 200 projects in the pipeline.
Data collected about charger utilization will help Columbus and other cities around the nation make better decisions about
where to place charging infrastructure. While EV adoption is on the rise, many drivers point to charging station availability
and “range anxiety” as barriers to making the switch to an EV. Through data collection, analytics and collaborative efforts,
we can ensure that investments in EV charging occur in the right places from a system and customer perspective.
Learn more in the 
Grid Modernization section
.
TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION
From generation to transmission and distribution, we are taking bold steps to create new solutions for our customers. We
are leveraging the power of data analytics to better understand our infrastructure and machine learning and artificial
intelligence to integrate and optimize our assets. We are partnering with our communities and entrepreneurial businesses
and using next-generation tools, including virtual and augmented realities, robots and more, to propel our solutions
forward.In May 2020, we named our first Chief Information and Technology officer, who will lead technology initiatives across AEP.
This includes information technology, innovation, digital initiatives and telecommunications. We believe AEP is well-
positioned to leverage our scale, industry experience and skilled workforce to achieve our goal of being the energy
company of the future. While we have come a long way in our innovation journey, we remain committed to leading the
energy industry and providing customers with innovations that will power their 21st century needs.
A Culture of Innovation
At AEP, innovation has been part of the fabric of our culture for more than a century. Today, our sights are set on the next
100 years. AEP has dedicated teams working to identify, create and execute on opportunities at local and global levels.
Our Focus
Our Innovation and Technology operating model focuses on scouting new technologies, validating them fast, partnering
with AEP business units to demonstrate their benefits to customers and policymakers, securing timely regulatory support
or contractual approvals and deploying them at scale.
We currently use three technology accelerator programs to cost-effectively scout for start-up technologies in the U.S. and
internationally and to validate the benefits of their technologies. Validation is achieved through short-term pilots, in
collaboration with practitioners and experts in AEP operating companies and business units.
Our main focus on innovation is to create cost-effective benefits for customers, such as piloting microgrids. AEP Ohio
installed a microgrid at the Columbus Zoo and received regulatory support for this first-of-its-kind technology. We believe
that microgrids eventually can help increase the resiliency of energy systems by maintaining power in areas where critical
public service facilities, such as police and fire stations, medical facilities and emergency shelters, are located.
AEP Charge
AEP Charge leverages transformative technologies in order to deliver timely, cost-reducing innovative capabilities for our
customers and employees. Charge engages the business at large, ranks opportunities against an established
prioritization framework, and rapidly creates technologies for immediate consideration and implementation. Once a
solution is successfully rolled out and benefits realized, Charge partners with IT to scale the solution for broader
consumption.
Charge’s goal is to achieve $200 million in savings for AEP by 2023. Through 2019, Charge has delivered more than $40
million in estimated value across the Company. Some of the Charge projects in 2019 included:
CircuitSafe™
 – A new desktop and mobile app for AEP dispatchers and line workers that improves the safety and
efficiency of Distribution log on/off activity. The app uses direct web portal access and GPS to allow line workers to
quickly and safely do their work. This application has been deployed to our Distribution dispatchers and line workers
across the entire AEP footprint.
Digital Commissioning Checklist
 – A comprehensive checklist that summarizes the required tasks for testing and
commissioning substation assets. The new digital checklist provides enhanced transparency and more effective
process controls to ensure assets are documented and tested, driving grid reliability and safety. The digital checklist
enhances communication between construction teams, and it drives efficiency by reducing oversight and possible
rework.
Safety & Health Dashboard
 – A new tool that enhances the visibility of analytics following a safety incident. This
dashboard helps us identify proactive safety actions and training opportunities in support of Zero Harm.
In the wake of COVID-19, the Charge team piloted several products to help AEP and others efficiently handle the impacts
and threats of the virus. In response to recommendations that business owners check the temperature of workers before
they arrive at work, the Charge team researched and launched a pilot on wearable technologies that enable essential
workers to self-monitor their temperature. This eliminates the need for them to come into a central location, riskingCharge refactored its 3D printers to produce 1,200 face shields
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
exposure to others.
To help supply critical medical supplies for front-line
workers, Charge refactored its 3D printers to produce 1,200
face shields that were distributed throughout our service
territory. Charge also helped with business continuity
planning by creating and updating digital tools to survey and
document business issues impacted by the COVID-19
outbreak. This included developing an app, logic and
analytics for business leaders to manage multiple scenarios
across multiple business units, helping to ensure work could
continue.
Charge is continually seeking to develop internally
generated intellectual property and to build collaborative
partnerships in the Columbus, Ohio area to potentially co-
author new technology offerings. We are also investigating
ways of sharing the solutions we develop with others in our industry and beyond. New technology offerings may present
new pathways to generate revenue for AEP. As our need for digital advancement evolves, the Charge team will continue
to develop or recruit the talent needed to apply new advancements in areas such as artificial intelligence, machine
learning and data analytics.
Global Innovation
The CEOs of AEP, Enel (Italy) and Hydro-Québec (Canada) formed the International Energy Innovators Consortium to co-
develop technologies that are not currently available. This collaboration of technology experts in microgrids, big data
analytical tools and e-mobility yields joint initiatives with the potential to serve the customers of all three companies.
We are also partnering with Enel-X (Italy), Innogy (Germany), ESB (Ireland), China Light and Power (Hong Kong), Hydro-
Québec and other international utilities to identify opportunities to co-validate, co-develop and co-invest in new
technologies.
In addition, the CEO-led Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership provides access to a global information hub for
innovative technologies, business models and public policies that are enabling development and deployment of new
technologies. AEP has been a member since the 1990s and gains valuable insights from other international CEOs on
how they are solving similar challenges to those facing our customers.
Smart Columbus
AEP was a foundational partner with Columbus, Ohio, in the city’s successful bid for the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) Smart City Challenge grant in 2016. The Smart Columbus project has helped community leaders
and organizations take a fresh approach to mobility, local economic growth and fostering a sustainable community. The
goals of the program align with AEP’s efforts to increase the electrification of the transportation system and make the
electric grid smarter and more efficient.
AEP Ohio, the local utility serving Columbus and communities in 61 of Ohio’s 88 counties, in 2018 launched an electric
vehicle (EV) charging station rebate program that provided $9.5 million in incentives to install charging stations for public
use, at workplaces, in multi-family housing units and in low-income areas throughout the service territory.
In the two years the program has been active, more than 300 chargers have been installed, including approximately 290
level 2 chargers and 25 DC fast charging stations. Applications to reach the original target of 375 total chargers have
outpaced the outstanding available funds, with more than 200 projects in the pipeline.
Data collected about charger utilization will help Columbus and other cities around the nation make better decisions aboutwhere to place charging infrastructure. While EV adoption is on the rise, many drivers point to charging station availability
and “range anxiety” as barriers to making the switch to an EV. Through data collection, analytics and collaborative efforts,
we can ensure that investments in EV charging occur in the right places from a system and customer perspective.
Learn more in the 
Grid Modernization section
.
We strive to find the right mix of projects and technologies that
modernize and optimize the grid while maintaining affordability for
our customers.
GRID MODERNIZATION
The radical shift in resources to generate electricity, evolving
uses of distribution systems, societal expectations,
consumer demand for clean energy, and changing markets
are driving the need for major capital investments in the
electric grid. At AEP, we are making these investments to
create a smarter, more sophisticated system, providing
universal access to cleaner, cost-effective power, and
tailored energy solutions.
Data Analytics
Technology advancements in analytics are making things
possible today that were unimaginable not so long ago. At
AEP, we are using these advancements to reinvent what it
means to be modern energy company.
We are using data and analytics to solve problems, optimize
processes and discover new business opportunities. As we
continue to improve data management across AEP, we will be able to expand our use of analytics. Already, we have
completed several initiatives that provide monitoring, prediction and optimization capabilities that did not previously exist.
These efforts are enabling us to enhance safety, reliability and customer value.
As we learn and advance our expertise in this space, we are using data analytics and artificial intelligence to make
recommendations to our customers based on their preferences identified through their interactions with us. Currently, our
customer interactions are largely transactional, such as paying a bill or turning power on and off. Having this new
functionality gives us more information to target our offerings to meet customer expectations. Learn more about how we
are leveraging analytics to improve the customer experience in the Customer Engagement section.
MODERNIZING DISTRIBUTION
As we integrate new tools and technologies into the grid, the distribution system becomes more complex and an
increasingly important resource. For example, advanced planning tools help us better understand how changing energy
resources will affect our distribution system so that we can adapt or change course. We are also coordinating with
transmission planning to understand how the changes in distribution affect the transmission grid.
Smart Metering
Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), or smart metering, is a foundational technology of the modern power grid that
enables other technologies, including integration of distributed energy resources (DERs). With AMI meters, customers
have access to both historical and real-time usage data. This gives them more knowledge of their energy consumption
and helps them identify ways to save money through more efficient energy use.
AMI meters also continuously capture data across many metrics, including energy usage, voltage and temperature. These
data points enable a wide range of customer engagement programs, as well as other service enhancements. This
includes quickly initiating or reconnecting service remotely, sharing energy use habits with customers, and accuratelyAMI, or smart metering, is a foundational technology of the
modern power grid.
billing customers’ electricity usage every month. AMI meters
also provide significant savings and improve worker safety
across our service territories because it reduces or
eliminates fieldwork. Through year-end 2019, AEP
deployed over 3.15 million AMI meters, equipping a total of
56% of our electric customers with a smart meter. We have
plans to deploy an additional 1.4 million over the next
several years.
Smart Circuits
Distribution Automation Circuit Reconfiguration (DACR) is an electrical process that detects faults in line sections and can
reconfigure circuits to quickly restore power to customers on another section of the circuit. Using this “self-healing”
technology, we can strategically reroute electricity, reducing the number of customers affected during an outage while
AEP crews make repairs. Since 2010, DACR technology has been applied to approximately 360 circuits.
Another technology we are installing is Volt/VAR Optimization (VVO). This technology automatically controls voltage levels
on distribution circuits to more closely match the voltages demanded by our customers. Using VVO helps both the
distribution system and our customers achieve greater energy efficiency while ensuring the same customer experience. In
addition, the technology helps the power grid balance the capacity coming from DERs, improving grid adaptability. Since
2010, VVO technology has been applied to more than 260 circuits.
As we continue to digitize our substations and other grid components to be compatible with new technologies such as
DACR, we are also shortening the lengths of circuits on our system. By reducing the number of AEP customers exposed
on a single circuit, we can lessen the impact of outages on the grid when they occur.
Smart Grid Command Center
Network disruptions can happen at any time of the day or night. For this reason, our experts must be available quickly to
identify and resolve issues whenever they occur. Our Smart Grid Command Center in Ohio offers 24/7 service monitoring
for our entire network communications between AMI, DACR, VVO and underground network vaults.
What does this mean for our customers? More reliable service through faster identification and resolution of issues. If a
router fails on a utility pole in Texas, the first to know about it will be our Smart Grid Command Center. The Command
Center will identify the problem and resolve it remotely, if possible, or dispatch a local work crew to the site to make the
repair.
Underground Network Monitoring
Underground Network (UGN) monitoring changes the way we collect, communicate and use information and data to
support the Operations, Engineering, and Planning functions of our critical UGN systems.
With sensors and state-of-the-art telecom technology, we can see the underground system as we never have before,
allowing us to proactively manage the system. The insights we get from this real-time monitoring also provides line crewsmore information about the facilities before they enter and as they prepare to perform their work, making it a safer work
environment. Having this data supports our ability to predict and prevent failures.
In 2019, SWEPCo completed a five-year, $15 million Underground Network Risk Mitigation project to improve the
underground electric network in downtown Shreveport, Louisiana. This project comes on the heels of AEP completing a
multiyear, $84 million initiative across our operating companies to modernize and reinforce our underground electrical
networks.
MODERNIZING TRANSMISSION
AEP continues to make significant investments to modernize the transmission grid, replace aging facilities, target poorly
performing assets such as outdated substations and utility poles, and improve grid security. These improvements help
reduce our future costs to maintain the electric power system and ensure the continued reliability of the grid for our
customers.
A large portion of AEP’s investment focuses on replacing or upgrading facilities identified as underperforming or
obsolete. Replacing them reduces maintenance costs while improving efficiency and reliability performance. In addition,
our investments are enhancing grid security and modernizing the telecommunications network that supports the electric
system. This enables us to locate, diagnose and respond more quickly when reliability issues occur.
AEP’s planned transmission investments are determined by four key drivers, as shown in the diagram below. The value
and benefits of the investments are outlined in a 2020 comprehensive study completed by Guidehouse Inc., which
supports AEP’s thoughtful transmission planning.
BOLD is an example of groundbreaking innovation designed to
improve reliability, grid resilience and services for customers.
BOLD® Advantages
AEP’s Breakthrough Overhead Line Design® (BOLD®)
technology is an example of groundbreaking innovation
designed to improve reliability, grid resilience and services
for customers. BOLD features lower tower profiles and
increase capacity within the same right-of-way. This makes
it an attractive design option in dense areas and a
conscientious response to public objections to taller and
more conspicuous traditional towers. In addition, the single-
pole design provides important environmental benefits,
including fewer line losses and avian interactions.
Highlights of BOLD projects in 2019 that addressed the
need for higher transmission capacity in congested areas
include:
The Deer Creek-to-Sorenson rebuild in Fort Wayne,
Indiana, which includes replacement of 35 miles of 90-
year old 138-kV double-circuit line with modern
infrastructure as part of the ongoing asset renewal for the benefit of customers.
The Jug Street Corridor rebuild that featured more than 6 miles of 345-kV double-circuit line rebuild in New Albany,
Ohio, to address a need to add capacity to an existing corridor.
Prefabricated Transmission
Since 2015, AEP has worked with prefabricated technology to build transmission substations more efficiently, safely and
less expensively. In addition to efficiency gains, prefabrication can reduce the length of construction-related outages,
speed up installation, improve safety by minimizing risk exposure and minimize waste. There were 14 prefabricated
conductor assembly or structural assembly installations in 2018, with an additional 34 projects in 2019 and 37 more
projected for installation in 2020.
In July 2019, AEP Transmission installed its first 345-kV prefabricated Rural Bay structure at Princess Station in
Cannonsburg, Kentucky. At 21 feet assembled, it is the widest component ever transported on the AEP system. A second
structure was installed at the West Carroll Station in Hillsville, Virginia, in August.
In addition, 98 prefabricated foundations were installed in 2019. We were able to combine prefabricated foundations with
prefabricated structural assemblies twice, first at West Carroll in Virginia and second at Causeway in Texas. It is our intent
to make these foundations the standard, rather than the exception, as cost savings and time efficiencies grow.
Extended Reality
The thread that connects the legacy analog power grid of the past with the modern, digital grid of the future may lie in the
three-dimensional and colorful world of augmented and virtual reality, or extended reality (XR). We are using XR and its
wearable technologies to help us bridge the real and digital worlds, saving us money and time while enhancing safety and
training efforts.
AEP has used XR since 2017, when we first used it as a potential tool for conducting virtual site visits of field operations.
Today, we use XR for a multitude of purposes, including training, construction and more. A single employee equipped with
XR goggles can conduct a virtual site visit, entering a station and interacting with stakeholders remotely through web
streaming. A new employee can also use XR to train for fieldwork without leaving the safety of an office setting.
Additionally, safety training can effectively use XR to provide virtual scenarios for seldom occurring events.We have developed several new projects around this exciting technology:
New station engineering design standards models are using the XR technology to conduct virtual site visits, as the
design develops, to quickly identify errors within the models that may have been overlooked using traditional 2D or
3D models. Based on the early success of this pilot program, we updated our Station Engineering Design
Standards to include XR review of all design models going forward. We also released updates that improve how
engineers can visually collaborate on a single design remotely.
In response to the success of our Station Standards VR efforts last year, we realized that VR provides an excellent
opportunity for immersive training. We created a VR learning platform with several training experiences centering on
safety, including fire extinguisher and qualified observer educational modules.
Having the proper infrastructure in place to support our evolving
telecommunication needs to meet both current and future
operational demands is imperative.
MODERNIZING TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Although we are an energy company, we cannot do any part
of our jobs without a robust telecommunications network
operating behind the scenes. Our ability to capture and
communicate the vast amounts of data coming through the
devices, equipment, facilities, networks and applications of
our smart grid is essential to every single one of our
business activities – and our telecommunications needs are
growing every day.
It is imperative we have the proper infrastructure in place to
support our evolving telecommunications needs and meet
both current and future operational demands to deliver high-
quality customer service. Much like the aging grid, our
telecommunications system is undergoing a significant
transformation.
AEP operates one of the largest private fiber optics
networks belonging to of any energy company in the U.S.
From collecting and transmitting outage updates to
customers via our mobile apps to downloading real-time grid data in the field, this network supports everything we do. We
are expanding it to meet the data needs of an increasingly digital smart grid, our operations and our customers’ needs.
Our investments also support opportunities for the dual use of fiber for grid modernization and enabling Internet Service
Providers to make the final connection to areas that lack broadband coverage. This is critical to the economic
development and social well-being of our communities. Learn more in the Regulatory section of this report.
In 2017, we began a 10-year, $694 million initiative to modernize our fiber optics system that serves as the backbone of
the power grid and our business operations. Our initial phase, the $521 million Telecom Transmission Modernization
Program, will continue through 2021. The focus during this initial phase has been to upgrade major fiber optic routes and
expand telecom networks to our substations. Through 2019, we have installed more than 2,300 miles of fiber optic cable,
with another approximately 1,680 miles currently in process through 2020.
ENERGY STORAGE
As we introduce more renewable generation into our energy mix, the need to invest in energy storage grows. Energy
storage can help smooth the flow of power as generation from intermittent resources such as wind and solar varies.
The recent reduction in cost of commercially available energy storage technologies, particularly those leveraging Lithium-
ion technology, has created an increased interest across our industry for proposed deployments of energy storage in the
grid. AEP has seen a significant increase in project proposals from developers to pair renewable energy generation
(solar or wind) with energy storage and connect to the AEP Transmission system.Applications of Distributed Energy Storage
Reliability improvements
 - AEP has more than a decade of experience with battery storage, which can provide
back-up power in case of an outage. During that time we installed three 2-MW NaS (sodium sulfur) batteries in
Appalachian Power, AEP Ohio and Indiana Michigan Power.
Frequency regulation
 - Batteries have the ability to rapidly respond to balance load and generation in real time on
the grid. Regional transmission organizations (RTOs) are recognizing the need for greater amounts of frequency
regulation to maintain system stability with the increased integration of variable generation resources.
Firming of renewables
 - Wind and solar often have points in time where they do not produce electricity. Deploying
batteries to combine with wind and/or solar energy can allow for better use and management of variable renewable
energy sources.
Peak shaving
 - Batteries can provide power during peak demand times to meet customer demand while alleviating
strain on the power grid. APCo’s current RFPs for solar energy resources include a battery storage option.
Power quality
 - Batteries are capable of conditioning the flow of power to protect sensitive electronic equipment.
We are also investigating and actively pursuing the application of Bulk Energy Storage Systems as transmission assets in
situations where they can help to cost-effectively maintain or improve the reliability of the transmission system, compared
to traditional options of building new transmission lines or stations. An example of this is the proposed installation of a 2
MW storage device adjacent to the Middle Creek station in Kentucky, to effectively take the place of a transmission line
rebuild. Energy storage projects are being considered on the distribution system as well.
Storage technology supports local reliability and demand response for our customers, and it is integrated into our
distribution and resource planning processes. For example, batteries are a relatively flexible solution that can be
mobilized and relocated to meet changing demand in the system. We have pilot projects in AEP Ohio to help improve the
reliability of sections of circuits. We are evaluating similar projects throughout most of our operating companies.
We make use of energy storage across our generation portfolio, such as in the Byllesby Hydroelectric Plant in Virginia,
operated by Appalachian Power (APCo). The Byllesby facility is paired with 4 MW of battery storage, which enhances the
flexibility of the 100-year-old plant so it can respond rapidly to changes in grid demand. The battery system also provides
an additional revenue stream to AEP.
Another type of storage – pumped storage – has been serving customers of APCo since the mid-1960s. The Smith
Mountain Pumped Storage Project can generate 585 MW of electricity for up to 11 hours or can be used for short periods
to meet peak energy needs.
New energy storage projects may allow solar power to be delivered past sunset and into evening peak demand periods.
We continue to explore opportunities to leverage the unique aspects of energy storage resources for expanded use in
transmission, distribution and wholesale applications. Policymaking on these issues is extremely important to our ability to
enable new technology and deploy it on the transmission and distribution grid.SAFETY & HEALTH AT AEP
No aspect of our work is more important than safety and
health, whether it is for an AEP employee, a contractor or a
member of the community. Zero Harm is core to our values
and at the heart of everything we do. It means we believe all
occupational illnesses and injuries are preventable Because
We Care that everyone goes home in the same or better
condition than when they came to work. We Care about our
people, our customers and our communities. This includes
AEP’s efforts to take proactive and necessary measure to
address the COVID-19 pandemic, keeping health and
safety as our top priorities. Read more about 
AEP’s
response to COVID-19
.
Sadly, one of our employees did not make it home in 2019
due to fatal injuries sustained on the job. An AEP employee
died when his vehicle rolled over a hill due to road erosion. In response, we took immediate action to refocus our
workforce by taking time to pause and adding new steps to mitigate risks. The impact of this loss to family, friends and
coworkers is profound. We remain committed to doing all we can to prevent events like this from happening again.
Zero Harm means achieving zero injuries, zero occupational illnesses and zero fatalities. Getting to Zero Harm means
reflecting on our past, with an understanding of how much we stand to lose with a single shortcut. AEP is deeply
committed to a safety culture where employees not only believe Zero Harm can be achieved but also demonstrate it every
day as well. Although we experienced a slight increase in injury events in 2019, 83% of our reporting work locations
across the company did not experience a DART (Days Away, Restricted or Job Transfer) event.
In our fourth year of our Zero Harm
transformation, we are focusing more on
learning from events and developing leading
indicators. We have created tools, training and
processes that allow our employees to better
use information from events and leading
indicators to change behaviors. We are also
improving the way leaders communicate safety
to cultivate accountability, employee
engagement and oversight. This requires a
learning-centric safety culture, where events are
viewed objectively and used as opportunities to
prevent future harm while we learn from those
who do it well. It takes our safety culture to a
new level with a focus on communicating, learning and continuously improving. Our efforts include:
Standardizing Processes:
 Creating standards for our work puts our best practices into play and enables our
teams to avoid unnecessary risk.
Identifying & Addressing Hazards:
 The work we do is challenging, and hazards are present at every job. Having
strategies to identify, understand and control hazards is a fundamental part of our safety culture.
Sharing Information:
 Sharing lessons learned from injuries and leading indicators such as Good Catches makes
our employees and contractors safer. This creates awareness about potential risks and actions that can prevent
injuries. We use this information to make better decisions about how we do our work.
Internal audits of our safety and health management system and compliance processes are part of our quest for Zero
Harm. The audits flag potential hazards that could lead to harm, allowing us to take proactive corrective and preventive
action. In 2019, we audited safety and health programs at 27 locations. We share the audit results with business unit
leaders and safety professionals across the company to leverage best practices and lessons learned. In addition, the
Audit Committee of the board receives the results.The Good Catch program encourages employees to proactively
share information about unsafe conditions or events where there
was no resulting harm or damage.
SAFETY & HEALTH INITIATIVES
The safety and health of our employees, contractors and the public is our highest priority. We continue to make significant
progress; however, we still have work to do to get to Zero.
We take every opportunity to get better at what we do and
learn how to work safer. Continually assessing our
performance enables prioritization, immediate attention to
at-risk behaviors and identification of supporting best
practices. During 2019, we continued implementing new
technologies, processes and systems to help us better
understand our performance. Through these processes, we
identified slips, trips, falls and stepped-in-hole injuries, as
well as overexertion (strains and sprains), as the most
common injuries among employees. We are strengthening
our programs around these injury types to encourage hazard
recognition and risk mitigation.
The actions we take to keep our employees safe extend to
our contractor workforce. We are working with our
contractors to ensure that new team members learn the right
and wrong way to complete a job and that they understand
our commitment to Zero Harm. For example, in addition to
contractor training, AEP Ohio’s largest tree-trimming contractor gives green hard hats to all of its entry-level crew
members. It is a way for everyone to identify the newest person on a job site and watch out for them. It gives everyone a
clear, visible indication of who may need attention and to check and adjust their understanding of safety expectations.
Standardizing Processes
In 2019, more than 1,800 contractor companies worked over 36 million hours on our behalf. Having a standardized and
common set of systems and processes across AEP is foundational to providing our contractors clear and consistent
expectations. We aim to have a common onboarding program to provide a common work experience across AEP’s
territory so they know what we expect of them.
During 2019, we began implementation of a new systemwide contractor safety data management system, which will
centralize contractor safety event information across all of our businesses. This new system houses contractor
qualifications and tracks hours worked. When fully implemented in 2020, the system will simplify communication with
contractors and serve as a resource and communication center. Users will be able to find AEP’s Supplemental Safety and
Health Terms and Conditions, templates and videos. It can also push safety updates to contractors, keeping them
informed of the latest safety information and news.
Additionally in 2019, we issued new Supplemental Safety and Health Terms and Conditions for use in all contracts,
standardizing this important information across all of AEP. It also makes it easier for contractors to understand AEP’s
requirements. We are doing this in collaboration with contractors to ensure understanding and to set clear expectations.
We also recognize the need for different focus areas for AEP employees and our contractor workforce. Our contractors
have different needs and, starting in 2020, we are providing clarity on what is expected of our employees and contractors,
together and separately, in achieving Zero Harm.
Identifying & Addressing Hazards
The work we do is challenging, and every job has hazards that require focused attention to prevent harm. Having
strategies to identify, understand and control hazards is a fundamental part of our safety culture. Increasingly, we are using
the number of CORE visits conducted or Good Catches logged, to identify hazards before injuries occur. By identifyingpatterns in at-risk behaviors, we are able to better adapt training programs and safety governance processes, further
reducing risk.
CORE Visits
Coaching through Observation, Recognition and Engagement (CORE) is a leadership tool used to assess a variety of
activities. The visits connect employees with their leaders in a two-way dialogue to improve engagement and
performance. In 2019, leaders documented more than 28,700 CORE visits. We use this information to identify trends and
areas for improvement.
In 2019, AEP Texas piloted a standard CORE visit framework that helps improve understanding of how employees in the
field can work safer. It identifies both successes and opportunities associated with knowledge gaps and employees’ use
of safety controls. Having this information helps employees identify hazards before those hazards turn into events. Starting
in 2020, all business units will use this framework to conduct targeted assessments of high-risk activities.
Good Catch Program
AEP’s Good Catch program encourages proactive sharing of information about unsafe conditions or events that resulted
in no harm or damage. Through the program, situations are reported and corrected, and learnings are communicated
across the organization. In 2019, employees reported more than 6,500 Good Catches, an increase of 32% compared
with 2018. We continue to see the quantity and quality of Good Catches improve. Beginning in 2020, we are capturing
more Good Catches for the most common injury types – slips, trips, falls, stepped-in-hole and overexertion (strains and
sprains). We are also capturing the number of times a job is stopped to encourage crew members to ask questions when
unsure or something seems unsafe.
Preventing Overexertion
Approximately 30% of employee DART (Days Away, Restricted or Job Transfer) injuries are caused by overexertion. To
reduce these types of injuries, we developed four key recommendations for prevention: improve lifting and weight
awareness; create instructional videos on how to provide feedback about safety issues; incorporate ergonomics into tool
selection criteria; and develop role-specific stretching and flexibility plans for employees.
For example, we are adding labels on materials and equipment to indicate their weight and provide the appropriate lifting
strategy to avoid injury. We continuously seek opportunities to reduce exposure to overexertion injuries. In 2020, we will
deploy a micro-learning course to help employees make better decisions about what materials they lift and how they
should lift materials. Employees will learn about ergonomics, lifting techniques and risk factors. The lessons build on each
other and provide opportunities for interaction.
Sharing Information
Sharing lessons learned from injuries and Good Catches helps our employees work safer. It creates awareness about
potential risks and actions that can prevent injuries and enables us to make better decisions about how we do our work.
To be effective in communicating important safety and health information, we must have the proper tools, analytics and
communication channels in place.
To maintain our focus on safety and health throughout the year, we communicate key safety events, Good Catches and
policy updates across AEP. These include safety alerts, web-based tools such as a safety and health dashboard, a
private Facebook page and a safety and health video channel.Data Analytics
Data analytics provides us with insight into patterns and trends so that we can identify underlying causes of common
safety and health events. Analytics can also help improve our prevention efforts. One example of this is the installation of
in-cab camera technology across our entire fleet. This technology has been installed in more than 6,900 vehicles to-date.
Driving is a critical task for many people at AEP. Our employees collectively drove more than 95 million miles behind the
wheel for work in 2019. Telematics equipment monitors speed, idling, braking, driving, seat belt use and other vehicle
data. The information gathered helps us learn about how we drive and identify risky driving behaviors. Our drivers’ skills
are improving through publishing tailored safe driving best practices and providing guidance to supervisors on a monthly
basis so they can have safe driving conversations with their teams. This is an example of where we are using information
to improve behaviors.
We are constantly seeking better ways to communicate safety
information to our neighbors, public contractors and first
responders who may come in contact with our electrical facilities.
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC
Our commitment to safety extends beyond AEP’s
employees and contractors to our communities. We are
constantly improving ways to communicate safety
information to our neighbors, public contractors and first
responders who are at risk of coming into contact with our
electrical facilities. We use multiple communication
channels, including advertising, videos, direct mail, in-
person training, social media campaigns and school
education programs.
Unfortunately, despite our education and outreach efforts,
four public fatalities occurred in the AEP service territory in
2019 due to electrical contact. In response, we increased
our public safety efforts to increase public education and
awareness for staying safe near electrical facilities.
During 2019, AEP nearly doubled the number of published
published nearly 2,000 safety messages to approximately
2,000 messages shared across our social media platforms
– Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn. We have found weekly #SafetySaturday posts and posts with photos, links or
infographics to be the most successful at increasing public safety awareness and engagement. We also engage with the
public through promotion of 
“Call Before You Dig,”
 electrical safety awareness events and school safety programs.
In 2019, AEP Ohio built a new educational “live-line trailer” equipped with an array of innovative displays that demonstrate
the potential dangers of electricity. The trailer travels to schools, safety conventions and county fairs. Visitors get to
witness demonstrations of dangerous situations, such as a car crash or fallen tree, to learn how to protect themselves in
these situations.
Because first responders may be the first to encounter a downed power line, we conduct outreach and education with
them to ensure they stay safe when responding to an emergency. In 2019, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO)
offered specialized training to teach first responders how to deal with a downed power line, how to safely exit a vehicle in
contact with a power line, how electric system circuit protection works and other electrical safety best practices.
We continue to develop our public safety education programs, including participating in an Edison Electric Institute (EEI)
working group that is developing common public safety messaging for all electric utilities. Once complete, this will provide
a stronger, more consistent message about public safety across our industry.Protecting Our Employees During the COVID-19 Pandemic
When prospective employees are considering their career options, they are looking for companies that share
their values, offer competitive wages and benefits, provides opportunities for learning new skills and achieving
career advancement, and allow flexibility to balance work and personal interests. During the COVID-19
While in the field or in the office, we believe every employee
should come to work feeling safe and secure.
WORKFORCE SAFETY & SECURITY
AEP’s quest for Zero Harm reaches beyond occupational
safety and health to include employee security and
protecting against workplace aggression. While in the field
or in the office, we believe every employee should come to
work feeling safe and secure. In response, AEP has
developed policies, procedures and training to increase
employees’ ability to recognize, report and respond to
workplace aggression.
While we take great measures to ensure our employees’
physical security at work – such as identification badges,
secured turnstile entrances, and physical security desks and
personnel – we stress the need for situational awareness at
all times. We offer several workplace safety training
initiatives to teach our employees to think about safety not
just at work but at home and in public as well.
AEP Workplace Training Initiatives:
Active Shooter Response training:
 An interactive walk-about exercise that takes place in the employee’s actual
workplace to build situational awareness of their surroundings.
Customer Threat and Aggressive Behavior training:
 For our field employees, this includes de-escalation
techniques when someone threatens the safety of our employees.
How to Recognize Workplace Aggression training:
 Employees learn how to identify workplace aggression
warning signs and behavioral indicators, and what to do if someone displays these signs.
Throughout 2020, we are providing all managers and supervisors with training on prevention techniques, such as
understanding the warning signs of an event. If we see employees are struggling emotionally, we want to be able to
identify the behavior and provide any help and support that we can. By putting these efforts in place, we stay true to our
commitment to providing a safe working environment for all employees.
OUR WORKFORCE
We are transforming the way we do our work. The skills we need and the expectations of new generations who are fast
becoming the majority of our workforce are rapidly changing and now are a primary focus area. Technology is playing a
pivotal role in how this unfolds. According to the World Economic Forum, 65% of children entering primary school today
will hold jobs that do not currently exist. Digital platforms and artificial intelligence (AI) are creating greater efficiencies,
cost savings and new career opportunities. Access to enormous amounts of data are informing how we act, invest and
engage.
While we will still have a significant need to hire new talent, we are reorganizing many of our traditional job roles and
reassessing how we will perform our work in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic also brought forward thinking about
where the work is done. Our business units are preparing to integrate new technologies into existing workflows while
identifying new work processes that can better leverage our changing workforce.During the COVID-19 pandemic, AEP took significant steps to
keep our employees healthy while ensuring our ability to serve
our customers.
pandemic, AEP took significant steps to keep our
employees healthy while ensuring our ability to
serve our customers. We instructed all employees
who were able to work from home to do so to help
prevent the spread of the virus, closed all AEP
facilities to outside visitors and curtailed all non-
essential travel and participation in face-to-face
meetings.
In addition, as employees grappled with
unprecedented challenges and personal demands
arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, AEP worked
to develop a comprehensive set of pay and leave
programs to support employees across a wide
range of situations. This was guided by a goal to
protect and provide fair continuation of wages and
benefits while limiting exposure risk to protect the
health of employees and their families.
We also made several enhancements to AEP’s Medical Plan and Retirement Savings 401(k) Plan for employees
impacted by COVID-19. The AEP Medical Plan changes align with new federal requirements and provides
temporary enhancements to employees and their families with flexible options, many with no cost, when seeking
health care. AEP’s 401(k) changes provide hardship relief through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic
Security (CARES) Act, which provides options for accessing funds from 401(k) accounts due to financial
hardship related to the coronavirus.
Learn more in COVID-19
.
As we seek to attract and retain the top talent for jobs that range from line workers to data scientists to digital experts,
AEP knows the competition is fierce. We are committed to providing a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace and an
engaged culture. Here are some of the many benefits offered to our employees:
AEP Employee Benefits
Medical (includes same-sex partner benefits)
Dental
Vision
Critical illness plans
Accidental death insurance
Health care flexible spending account
Life insurance (and supplemental)
Long-term disability insurance
Training programs
Legal services
Vacation purchase program
401(k)
Wellness program
Employee Assistance Program
Financial planning
Adoption assistance
Education assistance
Retirement benefitsDigital Transformation
Across society, consumers are increasingly integrating mobile digital technology into their daily lives, from online
shopping and operating their home security systems to remotely turning lights on and off and adjusting thermostats. At
AEP, we are integrating digital into the way we organize, behave and operate to remain competitive, better serve our
customers and create sustainable value. This operating model gives us a place to test insights and develop valuable
products, services and solutions quickly for customers and become more efficient ourselves.
As we continue our digital transformation, we are creating opportunities for employees to remain open to test new ideas.
We are encouraging a collaborative mindset that sparks curiosity and creativity – staying true to our heritage of innovation.
Our employees must be agile, willing to challenge the status quo to test new ideas and insights, and able to accept failure
as part of success.
For example, we are leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) to help solve some of our key business challenges. In 2019, we
began a demonstration called “AI Olympics,” where we encouraged a group of forward-looking employees to submit
ideas that can showcase AI as viable solutions. The goal is to create awareness about the capabilities of AI and the kinds
of challenges it can help solve.
The Future of Work
At AEP, we are in the midst of the disruption and change that comes with the need to adapt to an evolving landscape. We
now have a multigenerational workforce that increasingly prefers alternative work styles and work environments beyond
the traditional office environment. The rise of mobile and wearable technology, artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things
(IoT), virtual and augmented reality, drones and networks powered by 5G are among the transformational changes
reshaping the workplace.
While the work is changing, the technical and physical skills required to maintain and operate the grid remain critical.
Merging these different needs requires a core mindset of continuous learning and continuous improvement. We must
transform our workforce by helping employees develop the skills needed to accomplish their work using these new digital
platforms.
The workplace as we know it today must also transform to accommodate the work of the future. We are rethinking where
we do our work by assessing options such as virtual or remote work, and we are exploring new ways to get work done.
We are learning a lot about remote working as approximately 12,000 of our employees, including over 80% of call center
employees, are working from home in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We are also adapting offices and other
facilities to accommodate new technology and enable our employees to be more productive and collaborative.
We are working with our business units to identify the changes they anticipate to their operations over the next several
years. We are conducting extensive research and analysis to understand our current workflows and the way our
employees currently do their work. We are also asking ourselves whether it is more effective and efficient to hire
contractors, to engage third parties or to use process automation. This allows us to be more flexible as business needs
and skillsets change as well as to become more efficient.
WORKFORCE PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Although our annual employee turnover rate remains steadily low at approximately 8.7%, we anticipate that about 4,500
employees will leave or retire from 2020 through 2024. Many of these employees are highly experienced and have
significant institutional knowledge of the company, our operations and systems. When competition for top talent is fierce,
we must be more deliberate and strategic in seeking individuals with the right mix of talent and experience.
We see this level of turnover across our workforce as an opportunity to identify our future talent needs within AEP. Ourdigital transformation requires our employees to have
skillsets that merge analytics with traditional job functions.
This need spans our entire business, from our facility
maintenance staff and our line workers to our customer
service teams. Sometimes, a new technology simply
requires a quick update of existing equipment or skills.
Other times, it requires a more thorough examination of the
staffing capabilities needed to manage new equipment, new
processes or new software. Developing employees with
these new skillsets is critical to becoming a modern energy
company.
Another challenge we must address is the shortage of
skilled labor, such as line mechanics. In our Transmission
and Distribution departments, we have two Line Mechanic
Apprentice training programs registered with the
Department of Labor. We grant journeyman status to all
program graduates. In addition, eligible veterans may apply
their GI Bill benefits while in the apprenticeship program.
We currently have more than 800 apprentices, with more
than 50 using their GI Bill benefits. If successful, this new
training method can be effective in helping reduce this
skilled labor shortage.
We also tap into our pool of retired employees to address
labor shortages. For example, when we take a power plant
offline, many employees leave prior to the plant’s closure to
pursue other jobs or accept new positions within AEP. This
often results in a temporary shortage of labor to operate the
plant until its scheduled closure. At our coal plant in
Conesville, Ohio, more than 10 retirees came back to work
to help operate the facility until its scheduled closure in May
2020. This helped ensure the plant operated safely while keeping the lights on for our customers.
We are collaborating with the Business Roundtable (BRT), the Ohio BRT, the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, and universities and community colleges throughout our operating regions to meet our future business needs.
Together we are working to implement educational programs to provide students, as well as current and future AEP
employees, with the tools to transition into these new skillsets.
Preparing Our Future Talent Pipeline
Amid this change, we must be proactive in creating a talent pool that meets our future business needs. At AEP, we are
preparing our workforce for the future by providing opportunities to learn new skills and engaging higher education
institutions to better prepare the next generation with the skills that we will need. We are also building a pipeline of future
talent by investing in our 
Credits Count
 STEM education
 program. And we are investing in our talent recruiting efforts to
become more effective at connecting our new, cutting-edge work roles with today’s top candidates.
AEP has training alliances with several community colleges, universities and vocational and technical schools across our
11-state service territory. We work with these institutions to develop academic programs that will prepare employees for
upward mobility opportunities and to attract external job seekers interested in careers in our industry. Our education
partners include The Ohio State University, Columbus State Community College, Mid-East Career & Technical Centers,
Texas State Technical College, Prairie View A&M University, Morgan State University, Tennessee State University,
Bridge Valley Community & Technical College and Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology, among many
others.
In collaboration with AEP and several other businesses, educators and community leaders, Columbus State Community
SMCollege launched the Office of Talent Strategy in late 2019. The new office is working to ensure a larger talent pipeline
exists with the skills and training to fill in-demand jobs in areas such as data analytics, cybersecurity and cloud
technologies. The Office will also utilize research and data to forecast workforce needs and facilitate policies that
strengthen the talent pool of the future.
In 2019, AEP joined with the BRT, the Ohio BRT and Columbus State to submit an application to the Department of
Education to take part in Columbus State’s federal work-study (FWS) program. Under this experimental program, AEP
may hire eligible Columbus State students as interns for part-time Information Technology (IT) positions while they are
attending school. These positions offer students the ability to use FWS funding to help pay for their educational expenses
while obtaining valuable practical work experience in the field of information technology. Our participation in the
Department of Education's FWS experimental site program will also provide AEP with access to a larger IT talent pipeline
when these students finish school.
AEP also has robust co-op and internship programs across a variety of business units. For example, during the summer
of 2019, we hired 41 college co-op students and interns and three high school interns at our transmission business. In
Appalachian Power, we worked with The Education Alliance to bring three high school students to work as paid interns
learning technical as well as professional skills.
In 2019, AEP teamed up with students from the South-Western Career Academy in Grove City, Ohio, to construct a new
learning lab at an AEP training facility. The students, currently studying electrical trades, got firsthand field experience as
they assisted AEP workers in tasks such as adding secondary voltage and underground conductors. Based on the
success of this program, AEP will continue to explore new opportunities to engage students as they prepare for electrical
trade careers.
Developing our Employees
Transformational change requires a more progressive and thoughtful approach in how we train, develop and retain our
employees. Our goal is to prepare our company and workforce for the skillsets needed to align with our future strategy.
AEP provides a broad range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition development. This is
especially important as we move closer toward a digital future that requires a more flexible, innovative and diverse
workforce.
We have robust processes to achieve this, including ongoing performance coaching; operational skills training; resources
to support our commitment to environment, safety and health; job progression training; tuition assistance; and other forms
of training that help employees improve their skills and become better leaders. In 2019, AEP employees completed
approximately 1.1 million hours of training in programs for which we track participation and supported more than 1,000
employees with education reimbursement.
AEP provides development opportunities for employees at every level, whether through informal professional
development opportunities or formal development programs. Several of AEP’s Employee Resource Groups and utility
professional groups, such as Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP), sponsor programs and
events that focus on employee education, career advancement and personal and professional development.
CULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT
A strong and healthy culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long-term success. An engaged,
collaborative and empowered workforce not only improves morale and performance but also fuels innovation, sparks
ingenuity and drives continuous improvement. We need a culture that supports agility to succeed in a fast-paced,
changing work environment. This includes building on our commitment to customers, safety, operational excellence and
innovation. Our focus on culture is deliberate and unwavering, and we are making good progress toward achieving the
high-performing culture we seek.
To measure our engagement progress, AEP conducts an annual employee culture survey through Gallup, Inc. In 2019,AEP achieved notable improvement in nearly every survey question. AEP’s grand mean engagement score is in the 87th
percentile, compared to Gallup’s overall company database. This represents a substantial increase from the 12th
percentile in 2014 when we first conducted the survey. Our progress is noteworthy and is the result of an engaged and
committed workforce at all levels.
We also saw a slight improvement in our Well-Being score from 4.06 in 2018 to 4.16 in 2019. 
Well-being is an important
indicator of employee engagement. It follows that companies that build a culture of well-being position their employees to
perform at their best. Today, we provide a wide range of programs that support employees’ well-being. These include a
wellness program, financial planning and advice experts, mental health benefits, adoption assistance and many other
benefits that support employees in their personal and professional lives.
In 2019, we introduced new questions to begin measuring
our focus on innovation. The responses to these questions
give us insights into AEP’s encouragement of idea
generation and forward thinking along with areas for
improvement.
In early 2020, AEP was recognized for its culture journey
with the annual Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award. AEP
was one of 38 companies recognized, and one of two
electric companies who made the list. We are very proud of
this prestigious award.
Having a high-performing, highly engaged workforce
requires equipping people the tools they need to be
successful and to contribute in meaningful ways. One way
we do this is through our Power up & Lead culture
leadership workshop. In these interactive sessions, new
AEP employees learn about our common cultural language
and better understand how daily behaviors affect their work environment. Employees leave these sessions with the
knowledge, tools and resources to be more collaborative, effective and engaged.
In addition, AEP launched a best practice forum for leaders to share research, insights and lessons learned. We also
provide coaching opportunities for leaders and teams to better support them through their culture journey.
SUPPORTING OUR VETERANS
AEP actively supports, recruits and hires military veterans and educates, trains and prepares them to successfully
transition into rewarding energy industry jobs. Our talent acquisition team builds direct relationships with military bases
across the country to provide veterans with a pipeline to careers at AEP. We invest in attracting veterans because they
have the technical training, experience and personal characteristics that make them a great fit for careers in the energy
industry. They also bring a mindset of safety, which is a core value of AEP’s business, making them attractive recruits for
our company.
We hold open houses for veterans so they can learn about skilled craft positions within the company, watch live
demonstrations of line mechanic work and learn about technologies used to operate the grid. We encourage veterans to
actively seek and apply for jobs at AEP that match their training and skills. We also partner with external initiatives that aredesigned to provide veterans with mentoring services,
career development opportunities or skills matching
services.
Our partnerships include:
U.S. Army Partnership for Youth Success (PaYS)
Troops to Energy Jobs
Overwatch Partnership
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) received
recognition in 2019, for the second straight year, as a
Veteran Employer Champion for its efforts in hiring and
supporting military veterans.
LABOR RELATIONS
Nearly one fourth of AEP’s workforce is represented by
labor unions. We value the relationships we have with our
unionized employees and believe in a trusting, collaborative
and respectful partnership. We are working with our labor
partners to strengthen these relationships to ensure we have
a culture that attracts and supports employees who can
adapt to the rapid changes occurring in our company and
industry. Our partnership with labor unions is critical to
meeting the growing expectations of our customers and
adapting to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.
We also have multiyear contracts in place with our union
partners to enhance continuity for both the company and our workforce.
Our relationship often goes beyond the confines of a contract. Together, we are expanding our focus on safety and culture
while enhancing productivity. We are also working with labor leaders to support infrastructure development across the
nation while developing the talent pipeline and skills needed for the future. We share many common interests on the policy
front and collaborate on issues important to each of us. Our labor-management relationship continues to strengthen as our
workforce becomes more flexible, creative and engaged. Our partnership with organized labor is instrumental with
regulatory, legislative and rate-related issues.
AEP continues to be a leader in the planning and organizing of the annual National Labor and Management Public Affairs
Committee (LAMPAC) meeting. This collaborative effort of labor and management is designed to bring together energy
company executives and leaders from IBEW to advance the common objectives of the electric power industry and IBEW
members.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
At AEP, we value a supportive, inclusive business environment for our employees that reflects the diversity of the
communities where we live, work and operate. We are committed to providing opportunities for all employees to advance
and unlock the power of perspectives to better serve our customers, drive innovation and generate sustainable growth for
our company.
Diversity and inclusion are key components to our business strategy. We believe a commitment to diversity and inclusionallows us to remain competitive and to attract and retain the best talent. A diverse, inclusive and highly engaged workforce
not only improves organizational performance but also improves company culture – creating an environment that
welcomes different experiences, beliefs, ideas, backgrounds and thoughts.
Our Diversity & Inclusion Vision:
 We are committed to a culture where differences are valued and recognized as a
significant, positive influence on AEP’s ability to serve and support our employees, customers, suppliers and other key
stakeholders.
Learn more about our progress in our 2020 Sustainability Goals Progress Report
.
Partnerships for Success
We fuel our diversity efforts through a number of internal and
external initiatives, programs and partnerships. Through
educational institutions, professional associations,
community organizations, employee resource groups
(ERGs) and leadership development forums, we focus on
building and fostering partnerships that give us greater
access to diverse talent.
We are proud to support and participate in a number of
partnerships, including Paradigm for Parity®, the CEO
Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge and the Columbus
Commitment: Achieving Pay Equity. We also have
relationships with many other diverse organizations such as
the National Society of Black Engineers, Prospanica and Human Rights Campaign (HRC). These partnerships expose
AEP to more diverse talent and help us become a recognized partner and leader among potential employees. We also
have alliances with several colleges and universities that broaden our access to diverse candidates.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION INITIATIVES AT AEP
Diversity & Inclusion Advisory Council
AEP’s Diversity & Inclusion Advisory Council reinforces our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce. AEP is adynamic and growing energy company that serves an
increasingly diverse workforce, community and customer
base. This requires AEP to have a long-term diversity and
inclusion strategy that sustains market and industry
relevancy, growth, innovation and long-term success.The
Council’s role is to ensure alignment of our initiatives,
monitor our progress and provide guidance companywide.
Listening Tour
Now in its second year, the AEP Diversity & Inclusion
Listening Tour is a process for hearing firsthand the state of
diversity and inclusion across our company. The listening
tour provides employees with a safe place to talk about
diversity within AEP, to engage leaders and to discuss ways
to take ownership by cultivating a culture of inclusion. In total,
we held 24 sessions at 22 locations across AEP, engaging
more than 700 employees.
D&I Employee Town Hall
In August 2019, we hosted a Diversity and Inclusion
Employee Town Hall webcast, in which a panel of six
employees – including Chairman, President and CEO Nick
Akins – shared their personal stories, experiences and
journey as they related to matters of diversity and inclusion.
D&I Liaisons
In early 2020, AEP tapped 19 employees representing
many business units across the enterprise, to serve as
Diversity & Inclusion liaisons. The liaisons will work with their
business unit leaders and AEP’s Chief Diversity & Inclusion
officer, to communicate and promote D&I awareness. A key
focus will be consistent, ongoing communications about the
value of having a diverse and inclusive work environment.
Inclusive Leadership Education & Awareness
In 2019, AEP rolled out a new Inclusive Leadership workshop as part of our strategic initiatives to demonstrate our
commitment to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge. During these interactive sessions, we discuss common
unconscious biases, how they may appear at AEP and their potential impact in the workplace. We met our goal of 90%
leadership attendance. Managers and supervisors can then develop action plans to better manage their teams, including
hiring and recruiting, career development and interacting with customers.
Employee Resource Groups
One of the best ways for AEP to demonstrate our commitment to a trusting and inclusive work environment is to empower
employees to form and participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs reflect the diverse makeup of our
workforce and enable us to gain valuable insight into the diverse communities we serve. They also help increase
engagement across the company by providing employees with a safe space to discuss work-related issues and to
develop innovative solutions. ERG members are active community volunteers supporting efforts such as Project Mentor
and Make a Difference Day. ERGs also play an active role in AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts, including recruitment of
new employees. 
View a full list of ERGs at AEP
.
Multicultural Holiday
In keeping with our intentional focus of fostering an inclusive culture, employees have the option annually to select a daythat reflects a religious observance, a cultural celebration or a federal holiday not currently observed by the company.
LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY
Diversity matters at all levels. Having employees, leaders
and board members who represent different experiences,
thought processes, generations, genders, and races and
ethnic backgrounds gives us a broader perspective on
business issues, challenges and solutions. It advances us to
a place of viewing differences as strengths. It also solidifies
our commitment to building a high-performing workforce that
reflects the diverse communities we serve.
In 2019, the AEP Women’s Leadership Series launched a
new program called Lead with Confidence and Courage to
Thrive. This interactive leadership program helps women
discover ways to build confidence, relationships, and a
leadership brand to create career opportunities. It provides a pathway for employees to advance and unlock the power of
perspectives to better serve our customers, drive innovation and generate sustainable growth for our company. It also
creates a foundation for long-term success planning and career mobilization for emerging leaders.
In 2020, AEP was recognized by 
2020 Women on Boards
 as a Winning “W” Company for the third consecutive year. The
recognition is for Russell 3000 companies whose boards have 20% or more seats held by women. AEP’s 13-member
board includes four women, or 31%. Leadership diversity lays the foundation for enabling a more inclusive workforce that
breaks down silos and creates a trusting, engaging and collaborative work environment. While we are making progress,
this is a journey, and we still have a long way to go.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts extend beyond our workforce to the customers and communities we serve, including
our supplier base. Small and diverse suppliers enable innovation, increase competition, improve savings and enhance the
AEP brand. We want our pool of suppliers and business partners to align to the diversity of our communities by making it
easier for diverse suppliers to do business with us.
The Supplier Diversity Program focuses on maximizing opportunities for diverse businesses, which include those owned
by women, minorities (including Hispanic, African American, Asian American, and Native American), veterans, LGBTQ,
HUBZone and service-disabled veterans. Our goal is to develop a pool of diverse, strategic suppliers and business
partners that mirror the customers we serve, and we set a target of 13% diverse spend by 2023 [includes Tier 1 (prime)
and Tier 2 (subcontractors) suppliers]. In 2019, we increased our diverse spend to 7.4% of the spend managed through
Procurement.
We continue to improve our Tier 2 supplier program, which allows us to understand the impact of our diverse supplier
spend through our direct suppliers. The Tier 2 program demonstrates the importance we place in understanding how our
spend trickles down through our supply chain to affect the communities we serve.
In 2019, we updated our supplier terms and conditions in an effort to better inform and engage suppliers about our
expectations. Suppliers must now adhere to standardized data collection and reporting practices. We also focused our
efforts on increasing the number of qualified, diverse Tier 2 suppliers. One challenge we face is that many qualifying
enterprises are small-scale operations, which are often unable to devote the resources necessary to become an AEP
supplier. We will continue to work with our suppliers to develop new strategies around this issue moving forward.
In 2019, we began implementing a new supplier diversity champion program. Over the next year, we will educate and
prepare these champions to create awareness of our supplier diversity goals both inside and out of our business.Darla King, chief executive officer of King Business Interiors.
AEP's Partnership With Connecting The Dots
Giving back to our communities is fundamental to AEP’s vision of powering a new and brighter future for our customers
and communities. This includes working with small and diverse suppliers, such as King Business Interiors – a woman-
owned, small business focused on environmental and community stewardship.
Darla King, chief executive officer of King Business
Interiors, created a gently used furniture bank called
Connecting the Dots. The program works with 50
companies to collect the surplus of unwanted, slightly
used furniture that they donate to 200 non-profit
organizations across central Ohio. King recognized an
opportunity to connect corporations like AEP with non-
profits and start-ups, who were in need of free furniture.
AEP has been in partnership with Connecting the Dots
for 22 years.
AEP recently donated two floors of office furniture to
Connecting the Dots after a remodel project. The
donation supported Pilot Dogs, a non-profit organization
that provides guide dogs to the legally blind. AEP’s
donation helped Pilot Dogs furnish its newly expanded
headquarters – allowing the organization to focus more on its mission and less on the financial burden of buying new
furniture.
“Connecting the Dots enables organizations to spend their limited money on more important aspects of their business,”
said King. “When new companies and charities are trying to grow, the last thing they need to spend money on is office
furniture.”
In addition to helping nonprofits, Connecting the Dots is beneficial for the environment – giving used items a second
purpose while reducing landfill waste and the need for natural resources to make new furniture.Our dedicated Social Media Center helps us better meet our
customers needs in the communication channel of their choice.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
At AEP, our goal is to provide world-class service while
creating positive, lasting relationships with our customers.
We are doing this by meeting our customers in the
communication channel of their choice while providing
tailored solutions that make it simple, fast and convenient to
do business with us. Our multiyear customer experience
strategy focuses on developing people, processes,
technology and customer-driven insights to help us exceed
our customers’ growing expectations and changing needs,
especially during crisis situations like the COVID-19
pandemic.
Being mindful of the financial hardships and concerns our
customers may have been facing, we temporarily
suspended all service disconnections for nonpayment. We
worked with our customers to arrange payment options and
communicated with them about potential scams that were
emerging during this time. In addition, to ensure the safety and health of our call center representatives, more than 80% of
AEP’s customer care agents worked from home so they could provide continued service and support for our customers.
Learn more about 
AEP’s response to COVID-19
.
From first contact to delivery of service, changes in service and even how we can best serve our customers during crisis
situations, we are studying each touchpoint with our customers to understand and improve their overall experience and
satisfaction.
Giving customers multiple channels to engage with us is critical
to the AEP customer experience.
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT AT AEP
Across AEP, many factors influence our customers’ overall
experience with us. From initial communication and account
management to billing, payment history and social media
posts, their experience with each connection forms their
opinion about AEP. Giving customers multiple channels to
engage with us is critical to the AEP customer experience.
Customers drive the channels through which we
communicate, and we work diligently to ensure every
channel yields a positive solution. When we engage with a
customer, we want to communicate about the topics that
matter to them. As we integrate new customer relationship
management tools, we are enhancing our capabilities to
respond to customers’ individual needs more efficiently and
cost-effectively.
In 2020, more than 80% of our customer care agents
worked from home to support our small business customers
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, we created a web-based resource center with information on federal aid made
available to our customers. In addition, we trained a group of our call center representatives to provide dedicated support
for small businesses that want to apply for federal Small Business Administration (SBA) programs. We also created
resource pages for our residential customers on each of our Operating Company websites. 
Learn more about our efforts
to support our customers.
Social MediaOur customers are increasingly using a variety of social
media platforms to connect with us. In today’s digital world,
customers expect immediate response from us, day or
night. This is especially true during outages, when
customers expect real-time, accurate information about
restoration efforts. AEP manages several social media
channels including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn through
our Social Media Center. Recognized by J.D. Power as a
best practice, we staff our Social Media Center with
customer care agents seven days a week, ensuring that, on
average, a customer who reaches out through Facebook or
Twitter can expect a response within minutes.
Having a dedicated Social Media Center and social media
strategy helps us make a significant impact on our customer
sentiment, improve our overall customer satisfaction,
provide new marketing channels and enhance our company’s reputation. Social media gives us a near-real-time snapshot
of our overall customer satisfaction levels.
Customer Perceptions & Expectations
In 2019, we began the rollout of a new, centralized customer relationship management (CRM) system, giving us better
information about what our customers want, their perceptions and expectations of AEP and how they want to engage with
us.
In 2019, we expanded the Voice of the Customer Program through an enhanced post-call survey for customers who
contact our Customer Operations Centers. The survey measures customer satisfaction and ease of doing business with
AEP for phone and digital channels in real time, giving us important information about what caused the customers’
concerns and at what point it occurred. We share these survey results with call center employees and other internal
stakeholders to learn from them, so we can deliver a better experience in the future.
In addition to direct customer feedback, we couple data from the J.D. Power Customer Satisfaction Survey and other
research firms to compare our performance with that of our utility peers and other industries, such as banking,
telecommunications and retail. This gives us a more complete picture of a customer’s experience with AEP, including any
feedback they provide and preferences they may have. Having this information allows us to improve service to our
customers with the tailored energy solutions they want.
AEP Ohio was designated a Customer Champion in the 2019 
Cogent Syndicated Utility Trusted Brand & Customer
Engagement™ Residential study for the second year in a row. The report was based on a survey of more than 67,000
residential customers of the nation’s 140 largest utility companies. AEP Ohio was one of 40 utilities to earn this award.
In 2019, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) was named a Utility Customer Champion in the Cogent Syndicated
Utility Trusted Brand & Customer Engagement™: Residential study from Escalent, a top human behavior and analytics
firm. The award honors utilities that exhibit exceptional performance on Brand Trust, Service Satisfaction and Product
Experience.
Supporting Our Wholesale, Transmission Owner
and Generation Customers
When we think about customers, we generally think about the retail customers of local distribution companies. However,
AEP also serves large-scale non-affiliate customers who directly connect to our transmission grid and have different
needs. Our transmission customers include wholesale (electric co-operatives and municipalities) and other transmissionowners and generation interconnections (independent power producers).
Power quality and reliability is a priority for these customers. In general, as AEP and customers continue to modernize
their equipment, their systems become more sensitive to power quality issues such as voltage variations and momentary
power outages. By acting on customers’ needs for power or infrastructure change, we can provide additional transparency
about energy use and deliver targeted solutions to meet their energy needs of tomorrow.
By providing support to our electrically interconnected partners through communications and stakeholder engagement
meetings, we proactively identify customer pain points, load criticality and other infrastructure concerns, so that we can
resolve issues prior to a problem occurring.
Customer Digital Assistant Channel
The new voice channel (via voice service devices, such as Amazon’s Alexa) allows customers to access information
within their and other AEP digital customer applications, such as the mobile app. They can also get answers to questions,
such as “How can I save energy?” or “How much is my average bill?” During 2019, the top three questions asked by
customers were “What is my bill?” (39%), “What is my energy usage?” (12%) and “What is my daily average energy
usage?”(9%). Customers are just beginning to interact with these devices on things beyond music and entertainment.
Paperless customers are now able to pay bills via voice service devices. We plan to add new features, including the
ability for customers to report an outage or enroll in an AEP program or service.
Keeping Customers Informed
AEP’s mobile app makes it easier for customers to do business with us, including the ability to pay their bill, monitor their
energy use and report or check on the status of an outage. AEP’s customer mobile app has been downloaded over
570,000 times and, on average, has over 165,000 active devices per day. We continually work to update and improve the
app, and in 2019, we added new features, including historical weather data and in-app surveys.
In 2019, Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) launched the WattsUp Energy Portal enabling customers to review their energy
use when it is convenient for them. The portal program also sends automated emails to participating customers showing
their energy cost mid-way through their billing cycle, as well as an estimate of their bill based on their to-date usage that
month.
Estimated Wait Times
Improving the interaction customers have with AEP is better for them and for us. This is especially true when customers
are on hold waiting for assistance. In late 2019, we provided all customers with an estimated wait time and implemented
an automated callback feature. Customers can opt-in for a return call rather than wait on hold. This feature proved valuable
– especially during heavy call volumes – and we achieved a 96% rate in callbacks.
Speech-to-Text
Our roadmap for continuously improving the customer experience includes leveraging more advanced technologies and
customer input to enable data-driven decisions and to optimize customer engagement. In 2020, we will begin a speech-
to-text program that converts customer calls into transcripts. Digitally analyzing these transcripts will provide more granular
information on why customers are calling and the issues they are experiencing. This will enable us to be more effective in
resolving customers’ inquiries.CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE & PAYMENT OPTIONS
Sometimes our customers experience financial hardships
and need help paying their energy bills. These hardships
can put customers in a tough situation where they have to
choose between electricity and other basic human needs.
This problem is not limited to just a few people. Within
AEP’s service territory, the median income is 20% below
the U.S. average and 96% of our customers live in counties
where the median income is below the national average.
AEP has several initiatives and resources to help customers
manage their energy bills, including monthly payment plans
and energy assistance grants and programs. We also offer
programs and resources to help our customers lower their
electric bills and reduce their energy consumption, such as
energy efficiency programs, rebates and incentives. Learn more about some of the many energy assistance programs
offered across AEP’s service territory:
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)
Appalachian Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
AEP Ohio: 
Community Assistance Program
, 
Neighbor to Neighbor Program
, 
Ohio PIPP Plus
Kentucky Power: 
Home Energy Assistance in Reduce Temperatures program
, 
Temporary Heating Assistance in
Winter program
Indiana Michigan Power: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
, Energy Share
Public Service Company of Oklahoma: 
Light A Life Fund
Southwestern Electric Power Company: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
The funding available to support our energy assistance programs comes from a variety of sources, including the
government, social service agencies and voluntary customer contributions. Income guidelines determine eligibility.
Government-sponsored energy assistance programs provided approximately $65 million in federal and private energy
assistance in 2019. We also received more than 24,200 pledges totaling more than $6.6 million in energy assistance
from our self-serve agency websites.
Flexible Payment Options
A top pain point for our customers is their billing and payment experience. Our customers want simple and secure
payment options through multiple digital channels. In response, we are continuing to simplify the payment process through
creative mechanisms, such as working with regulators to implement rate structures that absorb or recover credit card fees
rather than having customers pay them, as well as more flexible payment options.
The Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) PowerPay program allows customers to pre-pay for their electricity. On
a daily basis, PSO charges customers for their electricity usage. We notify customers of their current balance, including
how much energy they used the previous day and approximately the number of days that remain in their account.
PowerPay customers in arrears are able to keep the lights on while paying off their past due balance.
In Indiana, qualified I&M residential and small commercial customers can sign up for an EZ Bill Plan. Each customer
receives a custom rate based on the location’s previous 12 months of energy use and expected weather in the coming
year. This gives customers predictability of their monthly bills, as long as they remain enrolled in the program.
Read about AEP’s efforts to support our customers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
COMMUNITYAEP Community Connections Reports
Giving back to our communities is fundamental to our vision
of powering a new and brighter future. Through volunteerism
and corporate giving, AEP proudly supports the vibrancy
and resilience of the communities we serve – as an energy
provider and a system of community support. In 2019, AEP
and the American Electric Power Foundation donated
nearly $30 million to support more than 1,800 community
organizations.
We focus our corporate giving on education, especially
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math)
programs, and basic human needs, such as the elimination
of hunger, emergency shelter and affordable housing. We
are committed to working with the public and private sectors
to help those students and their families gain access to
nutritious food and a secure, safe place to live. We also
support many cultural and community initiatives important to
our customers.
The need to support our local communities was never more
prevalent than during the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, the
AEP Foundation committed to donating $3 million in
emergency funds to support basic human needs and address the hardships faced by customers and communities. Grants
have been made to nonprofit organizations across the AEP service area. We recognized the importance of providing our
local communities with these additional funds to support their efforts in providing food and shelter to families in need.
Investing in Education
AEP’s most significant area of philanthropic giving is STEM education, with programs ranging from pre-kindergarten
through higher education. Focusing on STEM provides a pathway out of poverty for urban and rural youth. Many 21st
century jobs will require proficiency in STEM courses, and these jobs have a high likelihood of delivering a living wage.
Credits Count
, the signature program of the AEP Foundation, addresses the issues of college preparedness and
affordability for underserved urban and rural students who seek to explore STEM careers and gain college credit toward a
professional credential or an associate’s degree while still in high school.
The Credits Count program, funded by the AEP Foundation in partnership with local community colleges and public
school districts, now operates in all seven AEP operating companies. Since the program’s creation in 2014, the AEP
Foundation has committed more than $14 million across our service territory. It has reached more than 56,000 students
through college readiness testing, middle school STEM exploration opportunities, summer and in-school support to
enhance science, math and language proficiency, tuition and materials, as well as earned credits toward college and
college scholarship awards for those who continue in a degree or credentialed field of study.
Credits Count Student Success
“The AEP Credits Count Program helped accelerate my education and gave me a huge advantage that I am
thankful for now more than ever.”
Christopher Gardner, a 2018 graduate of both Northwood High School and Bossier Parish Community
College (BPCC) in Louisiana. He earned 42 BPCC college credits—all of which transferred to Louisiana
Tech University, where he enrolled in the Mechanical Engineering program.
“Credits Count gave me confidence to take college classes.”
Youmna Yasser graduated from Whetstone High School (Columbus, OH) in 2018 with 21 college credits from
SMYoumna Yasser (on the left), a 2018 graduate from Whetstone
High School (Columbus, OH).
Columbus State Community College. She plans
to study Computer Engineering at The Ohio
State University.
A $450,000 grant from the AEP Foundation targeted
two county school systems in rural West Virginia with a
comprehensive STEM learning program and outreach
plan to engage families. One element was a
computer-based supplemental math curriculum
provided to all elementary students in Lincoln and
Logan counties. Over the first two years of the
program, the number of Logan County students
scoring at the “proficient” math performance level
increased by 18%, and the number of Lincoln County
students scoring at the “far below basic” math performance level decreased by 21%.
Gathering Place is a nearly 100-acre waterfront park in Tulsa, Oklahoma, designed to be a welcoming, natural space
where a diverse community can come together to explore, learn and play. In 2019, the AEP Foundation provided a five-
year, $1.25 million grant to provide resources for field trip programs at Gathering Place. Each school year, more than
15,000 students will participate in experiential learning through this grant. The funding supports curriculum that is
dedicated primarily for students in low-income communities and Title I schools.
In 2019, The AEP Foundation provided a $100,000 grant to the Power and Energy Center (PEC) at The Bradley
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, at Virginia Tech. PEC is important because of its dedicated work in
the engineering field of electric power systems. The power industry in the U.S. is undergoing an unprecedented
transformation to integrate distributed energy resources, including renewable energy, microgrids and advanced
technologies. This grant helps advance technology for the future power grid while developing the next generation of power
engineers.
Additional Educational Investments
The AEP Foundation awarded Texas A&M University – Kingsville’s Frank H. Dotterweich College of Engineering a
$100,000 grant in 2019 to enhance and expand instructional and research laboratory facilities.
In 2019, the AEP Foundation awarded the Potawatomi Zoological Society in South Bend, Indiana a $216,000 grant
to provide camps, classes and scout activities to students.
A $100,000 grant to Northwest Arkansas Community College for their Improving Lives and Community Landscapes
through Skilled Trades’ Workforce Training, Safety, Resources, and Placement program. The program creates
opportunities for safe, well-trained workers to enter skilled trades in the state and beyond.
Virginia ED Strategies received a $25,000 grant to fund the Rural Math Innovation Network, which will help prepare
4,500 rural Virginia students for STEM careers, including increasing success on college and career math readiness
tests and reducing achievement gaps among rural students.
Investing in Basic Human Needs
Community organizations play a pivotal role in the well-being of individual community members as well as the social fabric
of the community. These organizations provide assistance for housing, food, education, skills training and more. Investing
in the resources of community organizations helps to bridge the gap between the potential of an individual to be
independent and the obstacles to success that person might face. When we elevate and invest in our communities, we are
helping to build a brighter future.
For example, the AEP Foundation awarded a $50,000 grant to Foster Angels of South Texas. Foster Angels meets the
needs of foster children in emergency housing when traditional resources have been exhausted. The organizationprovides support through educational assistance, help
acquiring adoption certificates, transportation and food.
In 2019, Appalachian Power provided $50,000 to food
banks across West Virginia, Virginia and Tennessee. In
addition, the AEP Foundation provided a $25,000 grant to
the Mountaineer Food Bank for its program providing fresh
fruits and vegetables throughout southern West Virginia,
along with a $15,000 grant to Kanawha Valley Senior
Services in West Virginia to support its meal delivery
program.
In 2018, our employees gave more than $20,000 in special relief
donations to The Salvation Army through the AEP Emergency
Disaster Fund.
VOLUNTEERISM AT AEP
Supporting community projects and programs requires more than financial support. It requires time and labor to make
progress possible. Every year, AEP employees from around our service territory give their time, talent and financial
donations to a variety of organizations in the communities where we live and work. Our employees are a force of voices,
hands and hearts caring together to make our communities stronger and better for us all. Most importantly, our employees
are consistent in their efforts, both when times are good and when hardship strikes.
The value of employee volunteerism to our communities and
to AEP is long lasting and impactful. It helps to enhance the
quality of life, advance and expand education opportunities
for underserved populations, and create shared social and
economic benefits. Through the collective efforts of our
employee volunteers, we are strengthening the social fabric
of our communities.
In 2019, AEP launched a corporate-wide Caring Together
volunteer program to encourage employees to get involved
in our communities. The program provides the opportunity
for employees to coordinate volunteer efforts, sign up to
volunteer and report hours committed to such efforts. Within
six months of the program launch, more than 1,600
associates reported getting involved in activities to make
their communities better.
During 2019, Kentucky Power launched 100 Acts of
Appreciation, a campaign to celebrate its 100th
anniversary. Throughout the year, employees fanned out across eastern Kentucky to volunteer while the company awarded
grants to local organizations to show appreciation for the social support they provide to our communities. Acts of
Appreciation included large events such as Read to Me Day, Tree Day and the Power Up the Pantry food drive, as well as
employee-led coat drives. The campaign culminated with a $100,000 grant from the AEP Foundation to sponsor a multi-
use theater at the Highlands Museum & Discovery Center.
Examples of Employee Volunteer Efforts in 2019
More than $1.4 million in employee giving and company/AEP Foundation matching has been provided
through the AEP Emergency Disaster Relief Fund since 2004. This supports employees and families
who suffer losses following disasters and personal tragedies, and victims of natural disasters
domestically and around the world.
Since 2001, Appalachian Power has reached more than 275,000 students and donated 6,500 books toAEP's Commitment to Our Customers
AEP was recognized by Platt’s as one of 12 worldwide finalists in the category “Award of Excellence– Power.”
In 2019, AEP, in partnership with Edison Electric Institute and World Resource Institute, created a Customer Energy &
Emissions report to provide our customers with their specific greenhouse gas emissions rates based on their location,
which can be used to calculate emissions associated with our customers’ energy use. Following a successful pilot, the
report will be available annually for customers to access starting in 2020.
local schools participating in Read to Me Day.
AEP Texas employee volunteers have helped deliver more than 16,000 meals in San Angelo through the
Meals for the Elderly since 1993.
In 2019, 125 employees from Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) volunteered for the Fresh
Paint Days project, part of the statewide nonprofit Keep Oklahoma Beautiful. Employees painted 15
structures – improving buildings and parks across PSO’s service territory.
ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Building strong, vibrant and sustainable communities requires innovation, investment and collaboration among state,
regional and local business partners. AEP’s Economic & Business Development (E&BD) team puts its expertise and
partnerships to work supporting economic development and growth within our local communities. Through training,
education and financial support, we work to strengthen the economic vitality of our communities to attract people and jobs,
which in turn, builds a stronger social safety net for all.
Our National Customers team manages corporate relationships with many of our largest customers to provide customized
solutions to meet their energy needs. For instance, when a Colgate-Palmolive facility in Ohio had a catastrophic
transformer failure and fire on their electrical facilities, our E&BD team, AEP Ohio, and AEP Transmission combined
efforts to provide an immediate response and economical solution. We provided a mobile transformer and new
switchgear to avoid plant closure and the need for expensive generators. AEP’s comprehensive, customer-centric
response coupled with its flexibility and attention to detail were major drivers in bringing Colgate-Palmolive’s operation
back on line in a manner that defied the clock and paved the way for the plant’s single greatest month of production in
history.
In 2019, the E&BD team facilitated, partnered with and supported 155 projects that will bring more than 21,000 jobs to the
local economies across our 11-state service territory. Economic development helps our communities in several ways,
including increasing the tax base, job development, economic diversification and capacity-building for long-term
sustainability. AEP actively works to support industries experiencing high growth.
For example, Steel Dynamics Incorporated (SDI) announced plans to build a mill within the AEP Texas footprint. The
E&BD team worked collaboratively with AEP Texas and AEP Transmission to address SDI’s needs regarding energy
delivery. The industrial project consists of an approximately $1.9 billion steel mill with energy delivery requirements equal
to the combined demand of 400 Walmart Supercenters. The facility will create approximately 600 jobs with an average
annual salary of $76,000. With construction beginning in 2020, SDI anticipates beginning operations in 2021.
AEP remains committed to increasing grid capacity in Central Ohio, paving the way for large-scale data centerdevelopment. As a result, the region has become a leader in the industry with more than $600 million invested by Google,
$1.3 billion by Amazon and over $750 million invested by Facebook – excluding a 500,000-square-foot expansion
announced in 2019. Additionally, AEP Energy partnered with Google to power its newest data center with 100%
renewable energy. Over time, the agreement enables AEP Energy to build up to 100 MW of new wind and solar in the
region to meet the center’s demand.
Location Advisory Services
AEP provides comprehensive location advisory services to companies looking to expand or locate new operations in our
service territory. AEP’s Quality Sites Program identifies sites that have infrastructure and utilities in place and have
completed due diligence studies to help growing businesses minimize overall site location risk, save time and reduce
development costs. This includes property searches and screening, custom community and site analysis, and
introductions to local economic development partners and industry resources. 
Learn more about this program
 and the
location of quality sites in AEP’s service territory.
Beyond our current customers, AEP proactively identifies and manages business relationships with prospective
customers in target industry sectors to secure investment in new facilities across the AEP system. In addition to pursuing
domestic companies, our efforts include recruiting foreign direct investment (FDI) to our service territory, which is a key
source of capital, job creation and innovation.
In January 2020, Volvo Mack Trucks and the nation's largest medicinal tea producer, Traditional Medicinals, each
announced plans to invest millions and create hundreds of new jobs in southwest Virginia. Volvo Mack Trucks chose to
locate in an existing manufacturing building in Roanoke County, which will result in 250 high-paying jobs. The company
expects to begin manufacturing medium-duty trucks from start to finish this summer. Traditional Medicinals is in the
process of building an East Coast manufacturing and distribution center in Franklin County. The company announced it
picked the Franklin County location out of roughly 50 prospects through a process that took about two years. Traditional
Medicinals’ $29.7 million investment will create 56 jobs.AEP remains committed to attracting new industry and jobs and
empowering local leaders to take the lead in rebuilding their
communities.
Supporting the Federal Sector
The federal government and military are an important customer segment and growth area for AEP. We provide electric
service through our regulated utilities to over 3,500 federal accounts. Our team works to help our federal and military
customers meet their sustainability and resiliency goals. The federal government has a comprehensive framework for
action through 2020 that calls for using resources more efficiently and acquiring more energy from renewable resources.
To support that initiative, we help the federal government mitigate the effects of climate change on military operations,
installations and national security while enhancing the reliability of their service.
In February 2020, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Huntsville awarded Southwestern Electric Power Company a Utility
Energy Service Contract (UESC) for Red River Army Depot at Texarkana, Texas. The projected size of this project is
approximately $92 million, and it is the first UESC contract awarded to AEP in over 20 years.
Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) is requesting proposals for PV Solar and Reciprocating Internal
Combustion Engine (RICE) resources for commercial operation. Both projects will be located at the Fort Sill Military Base
in Lawton, Oklahoma. The project will be owned and operated by PSO and will provide power to PSO’s system during
normal operations. In the event of an outage or validated threat to the electric supply to Fort Sill, these assets will first be
used to restore power to Fort Sill. This project is mutually beneficial as it simultaneously supports PSO’s system and the
Army’s goal of enhancing energy resilience.
Supporting Appalachian Communities
AEP is building stronger partnerships with our local
communities to help revitalize some of the areas hit hardest
by the changes in the coal industry. In the heart of
Appalachia, the states particularly affected by this are
Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia. These states
have experienced the loss of jobs, tax revenue to support
local public services, and the loss of indirect economic
benefits from having a locally employed workforce. To help
these states make the transition and diversify their
economies, AEP remains committed to attracting new
industry and jobs and empowering local leaders to take the
lead in rebuilding their communities.
In Kentucky, we began by conducting a comprehensive
regional workforce analysis of AEP’s Kentucky territory.
Among the findings is that coal industry workers, many of
whom lost their jobs due to mine and coal plant closings,
have the skills that aerospace and advanced manufacturing
companies need. For example, the region has eight times the national average of metalworkers, which are skills the
aerospace industry is looking for.
Equipped with the study’s findings, AEP and our regional economic development partners launched Appalachian Sky –
an initiative to attract the aerospace and aviation industry to AEP’s central Appalachia service region. AEP
commissioned a leading aerospace consultancy to determine the viability of developing the aerospace industry in
Appalachia’s coal and steel country. Thirty counties in the region, which includes Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, are
now certified AEROreadyTM, a certification that assures aerospace companies that the certified regions, sites and
communities are suitable for their operations.
In 2019, the seven-county region surrounding Raleigh County Memorial Regional Airport and the six-county region around
Yeager Airport in Charleston, both in West Virginia, received AEROready certification, meaning a total of 21 counties and
four commercial airports have the coveted certification. Appalachian Power’s West Virginia Advantage Plan, a funding
source of $3.4 million for site readiness projects, small business trainings and other economic development projects,provided funding for these certifications. In addition, the AEP Foundation awarded Marshall University a $750,000 grant to
establish an aviation program at the school and Yeager Airport.
In addition to counties in Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, AEP-served counties have been independently validated as
AEROready™ in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Indiana.
Other efforts include the Kentucky Power Coal Plus Program that helps reopen struggling coal businesses to put miners
back to work in Eastern Kentucky. Coal Plus gives Kentucky Power the flexibility to offer special contracts with coal
companies and coal processing businesses. For example, companies can receive a discount for operating under a
special rate. In 2019, the Kentucky Public Service Commission renewed the Coal Plus Program for 2020.
Appalachian Power is partnering with Marshall University’s Robert C. Byrd Institute and the U.S. Economic Development
Administration to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the skills and abilities of workers in 23 additional West Virginia
counties. The study, which will identify opportunities to diversify the state’s economy, is funded by a grant from the U.S.
Economic Development Administration and matching funds from Appalachian Power. APCo is also undertaking a
comprehensive business sites gap analysis study in its West Virginia service territory. This project will evaluate more than
30 sites in order to provide comprehensive plans to allow localities to prepare the sites for future industry.Environmental, Social & Governance Data
At AEP, we understand the importance of providing clear, accurate and consistent data and information in a timely
manner. AEP's ESG Data Center reflects our commitment to transparency by proactively sharing data and information
about our sustainability goals, strategy and environmental, social and governance performance. This demonstrates that
we are listening to our stakeholders and addressing issues that are most relevant for our business.
We also map our sustainability performance to several frameworks, including: TCFD, SASB, CDP and GRI Reports.
ESG Reports
The metrics and data points for the ESG Data Center are gathered from several sources, including GRI, CDP and EEI
ESG/Sustainability Report. The quality control and assurance process for the data center differs from that of the 2020 Corporate
Accountability Report, and is not included in the scope of the internal audit process. 
ESG Data Center
ESG Data
ESG Data Glossary
Energy
Owned and Firm PPA Nameplate Generation Capacity (MW)
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity (MW)
28,804
28,462
28,431
Coal
14,506
14,056
13,230
Natural Gas
7,853
7,809
7,678
Nuclear
2,278
2,278
2,288
Total Renewable Energy Resources
4,167
4,319
5,235
Hydroelectric
964
933
933
Solar
26
200
239
Wind
3,177
3,186
4,063
 
Generation (MWh) 
2017
2018
2019
Net Generation for the Data Year
108,631,253
104,375,491
92,519,718
Coal
69,405,395
63,001,348
52,275,891
Natural Gas
11,959,828
13,318,616
13,953,693
Nuclear
17,592,001
17,610,815
16,157,850
Petroleum
20,335
0
0
Total Renewable Generation
9,653,694
10,444,712
10,132,284
Hydro
775,636
1,160,659
1,018,253
Solar
37,828
33,795
31,975
Wind
8,840,230
9,250,258
9,082,056
 
AEP Facility Performance (non-utility power generation facilities)
 
2017
2018
2019
AEP facility energy consumption (KWh)
126,441,222
151,853,197
135,853,591
Emissions
Scope 1 Emissions Breakdown
 
2017
2018
2019
CO
 (MT)
72,344,128
68,732,609
58,447,520
Mercury (Lbs)
432
395
311
Mercury (kg)
196
179
140.9
SO
 (Lbs)
151,352,543
137,291,386
104,466,589
SO
 (MT)
68,652
62,274
47,385
2
2
2NO
 (Lbs)
104,980,269
99,830,243
78,809,057
NO
 (MT)
47,618
45,282
35,747
 
Emissions CO
e
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Scope 1 emissions CO
e (MT)
78,760,420
75,361,246
64,776,307
CO
 (MT)
78,001,430
74,661,649
64,157,262
CH
 (MT CO
e)
239,428
225,741
190,755
N
O (MT CO
e)
329,753
310,447
262,141
SF
 (MT CO
e)
189,810
163,408
166,149
Total Scope 2 Emissions CO
e (MT)
21,228,781
30,218,937
27,238,737
Location Based
12,957,602
15,739,423
14,514,119
Market Based
8,271,179
14,479,514
12,724,618
Total Scope 3 CO
e (MT)
5,840,762
4,656,228
3,902,207
 
Emission Intensity
 
2017
2018
2019
Scope 1 and 2 intensity (MT CO
e/total revenue $)
0.005956
0.005623
0.005914
Scope 1 and 2 intensity (MT CO
e/MWh generated)
0.8029
0.8293
0.9945
Water
Water Withdrawal
Water withdrawals for facilities wholly owned and operated by AEP, excluding water supplied to the Comanche Plant by the city of
Lawton and groundwater withdrawals.
x
x
2
2
2
4
2
2
2
6
2
2
2
2
2 
2017
2018
2019
Total Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons per day)
4,914.56
4,172.84
3,980.19
Total Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/ year)
1,793,814
1,523,087
1,452,769
Total Water Withdrawal (Liters/year)
6,790
Billion
5,766
Billion
5,499
Billion
Total Water Withdrawal (m3/year)
6,790
Million
5,766
Million
5,499
Million
 
Water Withdrawal by Source Breakdown
 
2017
2018
2019
Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons per day)
Surface water withdrawal that
excludes groundwater and Comanche Plant
4,913
4,171
3,979
Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/ year)
1,793,300
1,522,685
1,452,470
Surface Water Withdrawal (m3/year)
Fresh surface water only
6,788
Million
5,764
Million
5,498
Million
Groundwater (m3/year) 
Not measured prior to 2018
NA
7,306,941
6,984,231
Other (m3/year)
Represents Comanche Plant
1,951,140
1,525,092
1,138,772
 
Water Discharge
Water discharge is surface water only. Water discharge data is estimates derived from plant water balance diagrams and water
withdrawal information
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons per day)
4,781
4,065
3,881
Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons/ year)
1,745,039
1,483,816
1,416,383
Total Water Discharge (Billions of Liters/year)
6,606
5,617
5,362
Total Water Discharge(m3/year)
6,605,690
5,616,853
5,361,588
Total Water Discharge (Mega liters/year)
6,605,690
5,616,853
5,361,588 
Water Consumption
All water consumption is freshwater. Water consumption data is estimates derived from plant water balance diagrams and water
withdrawal information.
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons per day)
157.61
132.06
121.18
Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons/ year)
57,528
48,202
44,230
Total Water Consumption (Billions of Liters/year)
218
182
167
Total Water Consumption (m3/year)
218 Million
182 Million
167 Million
 
Water Intensity
Water intensity data is an average value across our steam electric system. AEP does not include renewable MWhs in intensity
metrics because renewables require no water consumption.
 
2017
2018
2019
Consumptive Water use intensity (gallons/Net MWh)
908
579
851
Consumptive Water use intensity (Billions of liters/Net MWh)
0.0000034
0.0000022
0.0000032
Non- Consumptive Water use intensity (gallons/Net MWh)
65,224
55,718
58,350.06
Non- Consumptive Water use intensity (Billions of liters/Net MWh)
0.0002469
0.0002109
0.0002209
Waste
Coal Combustion Products
 
2017
2018
2019
Total CCPs Generated (Tons)
6,240,397
4,846,451
4,123,466
Total CCPs Diverted from Landfill (Tons)
2,556,315
1,865,401
1,593,164Total CCP Diverted from Landfill Percent
41%
38%
39%
 
Other Waste Data
 
2017
2018
2019
Recycled Paper and Office Waste (Lbs)
512,500
382,000
159,300
Recycled Scrap Metal Waste (Lbs)
33,500,000
50,500,000
28,950,000
Batteries Recycled (Lbs)
334,000
216,000
169,000
Electronic Waste Recycled( Lbs)
27,000
234,000
430,000
Light Bulbs Recycled (Lbs)
37,000
40,200
44,500
Recycled used Oil (Gallons)
423,600
400,500
725,500
Grid Reliability & Energy Efficiency
Grid Overview
 
2017
2018
2019
Transmission Lines (miles)
~40,000
~40,000
~40,001
Distribution Lines (miles)
~219,000
~220,000
~221,000
 
Reliability
 
2017
2018
2019
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) (Minutes)
215
256.6
228.8
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) - Number of interruptions
1.389
1.531
1.406
Customer Average Interruption Duration index (CAIDI) (Minutes)
154.8
167.7
162.8
Customer Average Interruption Frequency (CAIFI) (Minutes)
2.04
2.16
1.996
Average System Availability Index (ASAI)
99.96%
99.95%
99.96% 
EE Programs & Smart Meters
 
2017
2018
2019
Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from Energy Efficiency Measures (MWh)
1,032,000
1,022,257
1,098,444
Annual Demand Savings (MW)
286
273
302
Avoided CO2 Emissions (MT)
886,000
525,189
527,212
Percent of total Electric Customers with smart meters (at end of year)
34%
47%
56%
Safety & Health and Workforce
Safety & Health
 
2017
2018
2019
Employee DART Rate
0.445
0.393
0.412
Contractor DART Rate
0.582
0.507
0.544
Employee and Contractor DART Rate
0.507
0.446
0.477
Total Employee Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
0.804
0.672
0.673
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
0.316
0.310
0.329
Employee Fatalities
0
1
1
Public Fatalities due to electrical contacts
5
6
4
 
Workforce
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Number of Employees 
Does not include AEP subsidaries, Co-Ops, interns, AEP
Energy employees or employees on unpaid leave-of-absence.
17,666
17,582
17,408
Number of full-time Employees
17,691
17,537
17,458Number of part-time Employees
26
28
29
Total Number of Represented Employees
4,476
4,417
4,133
Total Number of Veteran Employees
1,839
1,814
1,742
Total number of Professionals 
Does not include AEP subsidiaries, AEP Energy
employees or employees on unpaid leave-of-absence.
5,413
5,598
5,743
Total number of Officials and Managers 
Aligns with 2019 EEO-1 Report. Data as of
October 2019
3,228
3,288
3,326
Total number of executive/senior level officials 
Aligns with 2019 EEO-1 Report. Data
as of October 2019
218
225
234
 
Workforce Diversity
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Female Employees 
Does not include AEP subsidaries, Co-Ops, interns, AEP
Energy employees or employees on unpaid leave-of-absence
3,299
3,409
3,454
Number of Female Professionals
1,433
1,503
1,578
Number of Female Officials and Managers
457
494
543
Number of Female employees in an Executive/Senior level position 
Aligns with 2019
EEO-1 Report. Data as of October 2019
36
36
40
Total Minority Employees 
Does not include AEP subsidaries, Co-Ops, interns, AEP
Energy employees or employees on unpaid leave-of-absence
3,014
3,127
3,233
Number of Minority Professionals
995
1,062
1,128
Number of Minority Officials and Managers
363
384
419
Number of minority employees in an Executive/Senior level position 
Aligns with 2019
EEO-1 Report. Data as of October 2019.
17
22
25
 
Workforce Planning
 
2017
2018
2019Planned Employee Leave or Retirement over the next 5 years
/
3,859
4,533
Employee Turnover
6%
6.80%
8.68%
Workforce Demographics 
The Workforce Demographics are based on Pew Research
Traditionalists (1945 and Before)
<1%
<1%
<1%
Baby Boomers (1946-1964)
39%
35.76%
30.84%
Generation X (1965-1980)
35%
35.36%
36.16%
Millennials (1981-1996)
25%
28.23%
31.78%
Generation Z (1997 and Beyond)
<1%
<1%
<1%
 
Employee Education Enhancements/Education Reimbursements
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Hours of Employee Training (Hours)
985,686
1,007,153
1,130,628
Amount spent on Tuition Assistance
$1,915,561
$2,043,839
$2,063,794
Total number of career development advancements
1,261
1,241
1,227
Number of development advancements for female employees
262
288
250
Number of development advancements for minority employees
216
192
244
Customer, Community and Economic Impact
Customers
 
2017
2018
2019
Residential
4,618,785
4,649,514
4,661,713
Commercial
705,104
709,606
712,800
Industrial
47,996
47,957
47,676
Other
29,604
30,304
30,177Total Customers
5,401,489
5,437,381
5,452,366
 
Customer Assistance
 
2017
2018
2019
Number of residential customers participating in an energy affordability
program
468,140
401,280
428,057
Energy Assistance Funds Provided to Low-Income Customers
$62.8 Million
$56.3 Million
$64.9 Million
 
Charitable Giving
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Charitable giving (Corporate & AEP Foundation)
$16.8 Million
$25.5 Million
$29.6 Million
Percent of Charitable Giving by area of Focus
Education
40%
32%
31%
Community
14%
17%
19%
Hunger and Housing
10%
12%
14%
Safety and Health
11%
11%
13%
Arts and Culture
7%
7%
6%
Youth
8%
9%
5%
Other
10%
12%
11%
 
Suppliers
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Supplier Spend
$7 Billion
$6.9 Billion
$6.8 Billion
Diverse Supplier Spend
$849.5
Million
$365 Million
$401 MillionLocally-Based Supplier Spend
$3.1 Billion
$3.4 Billion
$3.3 Billion
Small Business Supplier Spend
/
$971 Million
$882 Million
 
Economic
 
2017
2018
2019
Total Revenue
$15.42 Billion
$16.2 Billion
$15.56 Billion
Total Assets
$64.7 Billion
$68.8 Billion
$75.9 Billion
Total Annual Capital Expenditures/investments (nominal dollars)
$6,045
Million
$5,964
Million
$7,567 Million
Economic Development Contributions
$621,000
$1,323,038
$2,597,874
Estimated Jobs Supported by AEP's Economic and Business Development
18,000
14,700
21,000
Total Spend on employee Wages
$2.3 Billion
$2.3 Billion
$1.9 Billion
 
Financial Performance
 
2017
2018
2019
Earnings per Share
$3.89
$3.90
$3.89
Cash Dividends per Common Share
$2.39
$2.53
$2.71
Book Value Per share
$37.17
$38.58
$39.73
AEP 10K Report Links (by year released)
2016 Report
2017 Report
2018 Report
 
Taxes Paid
 
2017
2018
2019
Local and State
$1,170
Million
$1,166
Million
$1,220 MillionFederal
$198 Million
$80 Million
$118 Million
 
Lobbying and Political Contributions
 
2017
2018
2019
Corporate Political Contributions
$479,600
$419,600
$642,600
Internal and External Lobbying Expenses
$6.4 Million
$6.7 Million
$7.4 Million
Total Lobbying or political Portion of Trade Association Dues/Payments
1.3 Million
$1.6 Million
$1.5 Million
Total Contributions made by AEP's 5 PACs
/
$516,750
$439,950
Governance
Governance Overview
 
2017
2018
2019
Board Meetings Held
7
7
7
Average Board attendance
98%
97%
97%
Total number on the Board of Directors
12
13
13
Director Gender
Men
9
9
9
Woman
3
4
4
Director Age
50s
2
2
3
60s
8
9
7
70s
2
2
4
Board Average Age
64.2
65.2
65.5
Director Tenure0-5 years
4
4
3
6-10 years
4
4
6
11-15 years
4
4
4
Average years of Tenure
8
9
8
Director Ethnic Diversity
White
10
11
11
Hispanic
1
1
2
African American
1
1
0
Other
0
0
0
Governance Disclosures
AEP's Principles of Corporate Governance
AEP Director Independence Standards
AEP Bylaws
AEP's Certificate of Incorporation
AEP Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Criteria for Evaluating Directors
AEP Principles of Business Conduct
Policy and Disclosures
Publically Available Policies
Environment, Safety and Health Policy
Corporate Political Contributions Policy
Shareholder Approval of Future Executive Severance Agreements Policy
AEP's Insider Trading Policy
Related Person Transaction Approval Policy
Internal Policies
Sexual Harassment Policy
Anti-Discrimination Policy
AEP's PII Data Privacy Protection Policy
AEP's Prohibition Against Pornography and Offensive Material Policy
AEP's Whistle Blower Protection Policy
AEP's Anti Fraud Policy
AEP's Social Media Policy
Policy development & Maintenance Policy
Policy against RetaliationTo help ensure employee safety and security, many AEP policies are internal policies only. All employees have access to
all policies through the AEP intranet database.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
2020 Message from the Chairman brochure
The 2020 Corporate Accountability Report marks AEP’s 11th
integrated report and 14th year of reporting on our
environmental, social, governance (ESG) and economic
performance. This report gives a comprehensive view of AEP’s progress as a business and community partner to build a
brighter and sustainable future together. This report reflects AEP’s longstanding commitment to transparency and is a
robust representation of AEP’s past performance and future strategy. AEP’s 2020 Corporate Accountability Report has
been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
In 2020, AEP is also mapping our disclosure to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, which
are a broader ESG set of metrics used by some of our stakeholders in the financial community. For the second year, we
are also mapping our disclosure to the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), which is a framework
also used by many stakeholders and is solely climate-focused.
Build Your Own PDF
Check off the sections below that you would like to combine into one easy to read PDF document.
Past Reports
2019
 
2018
 
2017
 
2016
2015
 
2014
 
2013
 
20122011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
2006
STATEMENT OF AEP’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports from management about the company’s sustainability initiatives
and financial reporting, policy matters, and environment, social and governance (ESG) performance. These issues are the
subject of active discussion at Board meetings and Board committee meetings.
The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s ESG/sustainability initiatives to the
Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance (the Committee). This report provides a comprehensive
account of AEP’s performance, integrating financial with ESG/sustainability reporting. Stakeholders have expressed
approval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting, as well as the
company’s commitment to transparency and engagement. The Committee fully supports this approach.
The Committee and company management regularly review and discuss AEP’s ESG/sustainability initiatives and
performance. Management and the Board recognize the role of ESG performance in creating long-term value for our
shareholders and our disclosure reflects our commitment to transparency of these issues. With this year’s report, the
company is launching a new ESG Data Center to facilitate easier access to this information for investors and other
stakeholders.
The 2020 Corporate Accountability Report provides robust disclosure about AEP’s 2019 performance, as well as a
forward look of the company’s strategy. The report describes AEP’s ongoing transition to a clean energy future, including
progress toward achieving carbon dioxide emissions reduction goals. The report also expresses the company’s intent to
update its clean energy report later this year. In addition, the report provides information about the company’s efforts to
support its employees, customers and communities as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold.
The Committee believes this document provides a clear presentation of AEP’s strategy and its ESG performance. The
Board has emphasized that management will continue to be evaluated by its success in executing the company’s
strategic plan, including its ability to respond to changing circumstances like the one we are seeing with the current public
health crisis.
Thomas E. HoaglinLead Director of the AEP Board of Directors and Chairman of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
May 2020
2020 AUDIT STATEMENT
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of selected company performance statements within the 2020 AEP
Corporate Accountability Report that were deemed to have reputational, financial, or compliance aspects. Financial
information was reconciled with AEP's audited financial statements and other sources as deemed appropriate.
Nonfinancial statements were substantiated with press releases, internal communications, or source data from the
business units. Forward-looking information was verified as consistent with public information disclosed by AEP.
Based upon our limited review, we believe the performance information contained within the report is appropriately stated,
and that the processes followed in accumulating the financial and nonfinancial information were reasonable.
Andrew Reis
Vice President Audit Services
May 15, 2020
2019 Sustainability Goals Report
2018 Sustainability Goals Report
AEP'S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
AEP’s sustainability goals reflect our corporate strategy and
Strategic Framework for Sustainable Development. Our
goals map to the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) and this marks our first report showing the
linkage between AEP’s performance and the SDG targets.
This connection demonstrates how AEP contributes to
creating shared value for our business and society.
AEP’S Strategy for Sustainable
Development
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure that the
production and delivery of energy enables positive social
and economic change for our customers, employees and
communities as we collaboratively shape our future. We are
grounded by our culture of safety, continuous improvement
and customer focus. We commit to aggressively support
economic development, develop innovative solutions,
champion education and make smart infrastructure investments that power our communities and improve lives. AEP will
lead by example by setting strategic performance targets and goals, and we will be guided by these key principles:
BE A CATALYST FOR CHANGE
 – We use our knowledge, voice, skills and relationships to enable innovation,
bring new technologies to market, modernize the grid to optimize all resources and technologies, and develop a
diverse, inclusive workforce for the 21st century.
ADVANCE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
 – We continuously seek to improve operations across our
business to reduce, mitigate or eliminate the resulting impacts on the environment. We are committed to reducing
our carbon footprint.
HELP TO BUILD STRONG LOCAL COMMUNITIES
 – Create shared value for our customers, employees and the
communities we serve. Through philanthropy, we support basic human needs, including affordable housing and food
2020 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
UPDATE
Download Reportsecurity. Through our economic development activities, we help our communities to be sustainable by expanding
economic opportunities.
DEVELOP A BRIGHTER ENERGY FUTURE
 – Work with our customers and communities to define and develop
a clean energy future, giving them choices and timely information while providing safe, reliable, affordable electricity.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
This year marks AEP’s first year mapping our disclosure to the SASB Standards for Electric Utilities & Power
Generators. Our response reflects year-end 2019 performance. Our SASB report is mapped to our comprehensive 2020
Corporate Accountability Report and ESG Data Center – which serves as our foundation for all sustainability and ESG-
related reporting.
AEP's 2020 SASB Report
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) is a voluntary reporting framework to provide decision-
useful information to investors about climate risks, opportunities and governance. This is AEP’s second year of mapping
our overall disclosure to the TCFD framework and covers calendar year 2019 data. The data presented is from our 2020
Corporate Accountability Report, Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future Report, and ESG Data Center – which
serves as our foundation for all sustainability and ESG-related reporting.
AEP's 2020 TCFD Report
 
AEP's 2019 TCFD Report
Customer Emissions Report
American Electric Power is excited to announce the launch of the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) Electric Company
Carbon Emissions and Electricity Mix Reporting Template for Customers. This template was created in collaboration
between EEI member electric utility companies, corporate customers, World Resource Institute and EEI. The purpose of
this effort is to provide customers with consistent, timely and relevant data that customer can then use for their reporting
efforts or strategy development. EEI’s template provides the following quantitative and qualitative information for 2018 and
2019 year data:
Electricity delivered by operating company (MWh)
Carbon Emissions Intensity Rates (lbs CO2/MWh)
Utility Average
Utility Specific Residual Mix
Resource Mix (%)
Third-party certification/verification.
Qualitative narrative describing reported carbon emissions, resource mix, and clean energy goals.
Notes section for electric companies to disclose whether and how RECs are accounted for in the emission intensity
rates.
Customers can 
access the template here
, which also includes instructions and details about the template.
AEP’s 2018 Customer Energy & Carbon Report
AEP’s 2018 Supplemental GHG Emissions Data
EEI ESG/Sustainability Reports
AEP participates in an EEI-led ESG/Sustainability Committee, composed of electric utilities and financial industryspecialists. The effort encourages voluntary reporting of ESG/sustainability information in both quantitative and qualitative
formats; it was the first industry-focused and investor-driven ESG reporting framework. AEP is a founding member of this
group and issues this report every year.
AEP’s 2020 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP’s 2019 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP’s 2018 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
AEP’s 2017 EEI ESG/Sustainability Report
GRI Reports
AEP’s 2020 Corporate Accountability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The
GRI Standards provide a voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for
sustainability reporting. We are also using the Electric Utility Sector Supplement for reporting on industry-specific
information.
AEP's 2020 GRI Report
AEP's 2019 GRI Report
AEP's 2018 GRI Report
AEP's 2017 GRI Report
AEP's 2016 GRI Report
AEP's 2015 GRI Report
CDP Reports
AEP’s commitment to transparency includes responding annually to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
surveys on carbon, water and supply chain. We have been reporting to CDP for almost a decade on the carbon survey
and have participated in the water survey since it began. These surveys are important to our stakeholders, particularly
investors.
2019:
CDP Climate Report – AEP’s 2019 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Report – AEP’s 2019 Response
 (PDF)
2018:
Carbon Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2018 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2018 Response
 (PDF)
2017:
Carbon Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project – AEP’s 2017 Response
 (PDF)© 2020 American Electric Power.